The city of Anyburg decides its traffic situation has gotten out of hand, so it puts the automobile on trial. The trial (conducted in rhyme) starts with a car that was in a hit-and-run accident, followed by a sports car whose sins are peeling rubber and general hot-rodding, followed by a heap, on trial for lack of safety. Next, a number of safety equipment designers testify that, despite their best efforts, the accident rate keeps rising. Through all this, the defense lawyer declines to ask questions. A highway designer bemoans the problems on his beautiful roads. At last, defense. He shows a number of scenarios, pointing out that the real problem isn't the car but the driver. Everyone left the courtroom, declaring the car not guilty, and drove politely again, for a little while.
In the United States, the problem with traffic accidents has risen dangerously high. The levels of such issues have now caused the citizens of Anyburg to place the automobile on trial.The prosecuting attorney talks to three different automobiles. His first is a nervous car accused of speeding and then crashing into a restaurant. The second is a red sports car who has no qualms about guzzling gasoline and burning rubber. The third is a decrepit old wreck, who does not appear at all road-worthy.After the parade of automobiles, the prosecutor then questions people in the automobile industry. The jury hears testimony from the vehicle manufacturers, persons who create safety features for vehicles, and even from a man who designs super-highways.The prosecutor gives the defense attorney ample opportunity to cross-examine each of the witnesses, but the attorney declines each time. When it is finally his turn, the defense attorney then shows the jury something the prosecutor missed. What causes the accidents isn't the automobile, but the person who is behind the wheel. The defense attorney's 'startling revelation' causes the jury to dismiss the case.And so, vehicle drivers begin to take more responsibility, and the roads are safe once again...well, for a little while.
