An aspiring journalist's story of his aged uncle doctor leads to the uncle's life being profiled on TV.
As the fiercely dedicated general practitioner who tries to help the sick, the poor and the unfortunate in his decrepit neighborhood, Paul Muni is the testy old man who faces life without compromise and David Wayne is the troubled television producer fighting to preserve his career.
Woodrow Thrasher of the Federated Television Network is the producer of a new television show called "Americans, USA" which is being sponsored by Gattling Drugs. Lyman Gattling doesn't like the show treatment and threatens to pull the plug even before the show begins filming, which if he does would means Woody's job and sending him and his family back to the run down inner city from their nice comfortable suburban home. But Woody thinks he can save his job when he comes across a human interest piece in the newspaper about a good Samaritan doctor, sixty-eight year old Sam Abelman, who lives and works in a slum neighborhood of Brooklyn. Woody feels that Abelman's story -- he whose paramount interest is serving his patients as best he can, even if they can't pay, which is most of them -- and him being a doctor (a suitable tie-in to a drug company sponsor) are perfect for the show. Gattling believes so as well. Woody later learns that Abelman's sacrifices haven't even allowed him to buy the very modest house he's wanted for 20 years. After much coercion, Woody, with the help of many in Abelman's life, is able to convince Abelman to appear in the live broadcast. But the show is threatened by many competing factors, all which Woody have to balance. They include: Abelman's strict moral principles, especially against who he calls "galoots" (anyone who does what he does solely for money against the welfare of others), from which he will not budge; Gattling wanting a show that will promote his company favorably; and Woody's boss Ben Loomer's desire to please Gattling at any cost, with Woody taking the fall if Loomer thinks Gattling isn't happy. But another issue may be real life, especially as Abelman tries to help a troubled black youth named Josh Quincy by finding out the reason for his involuntary convulsions, which is made all the more difficult since Josh doesn't want his help.

