A Southern California girl befriends three furry aliens after their spaceship lands in her swimming pool.
Three furry (and funny) aliens travel around the universe in a spaceship and receive a broadcast showing human females. They are fascinated by these shapely creatures and discover that the broadcast came from Southern California on Earth. Meanwhile, Valley girl Valerie Gail feels her cold fiancé Dr. Ted Gallagher is slipping away and decides to seduce him. Instead, she catches him cheating on her with a nurse, throws him out, smashes his things and refuses to see him again. The aliens' spaceship crash lands in Valerie's swimming pool - putting a decided damper on her future wedding plans in Las Vegas. She brings them into her home; and the aliens prove to be quick learners and absorb American popular culture and language through television.
Three furry aliens at the helm - the blue Mac (Jeff Goldblum), the golden Zeebo (Jim Carrey), and the crimson Wiploc (Damon Wayans) - are traveling in a spaceship. It's been a long time since they each have had a female companion, and they receive a broadcast showing human females. They are fascinated by these hairless, shapely creatures, and when they discover that the broadcast came from Earth, they set off and land in Southern California.Valley girl Valerie Gale (Geena Davis) is a manicurist at the "Curl Up &amp; Dye" hair salon. When she becomes dissatisfied with the lack of sexual affection from her cold fiancé, medical doctor Ted Gallagher (Charles Rocket), she decides to seduce him by dressing up in a white corset, suspenders, underwear, stockings and pink high heels. Instead, she catches him cheating on her with a nurse. She kicks him out of her house and refuses to see him again. The next day, she is sunbathing when the aliens' spaceship crash lands in her swimming pool. She befriends them and calls her friend Woody (Michael McKean) to come drain the pool so the aliens can work on their spaceship and get her flying again. Meanwhile, she brings them into her home; and though there is a language barrier at first, the aliens prove to be quick learners and absorb American popular culture and language by watching television.Wanting to blend them into their surroundings, Valerie takes them to her friend Candy Pink (Julie Brown) at the salon. After shaving off the aliens' fur, they turn out to be human looking and attractive. They all go out; and party at Los Angeles nightclubs where their looks and athleticism, and incredibly long tongues soon make them the envy of every female in the place. Valerie and Mac begin to fall for each other and go back at Valerie's house. There, they find out that they are anatomically compatible and make love. The next day, the pool is drained, and Zeebo and Wiploc are working on their spaceship when Woody stops by and offers to take them to the beach. They agree; and after holding up a convenience store by accident, Zeebo and Wiploc are soon driving down the L.A. freeway the wrong way, in reverse, with the police in pursuit. Mac finds out his crewmates are in trouble and goes to help and gets arrested along with Woody in a case of mistaken identity. Valerie smashes the police vehicle so she can also get arrested and go with Mac.The police pursuit ends in a crash, and Zeebo and Wiploc are taken to the emergency room. There they are examined by Ted, who discovers they have two hearts. While he is envisioning achieving fame and fortune for his discovery, Valerie and Mac elude the police and enter the emergency room disguised as a doctor and a nurse; they managed to convince Ted he is delusional. Then they escape back at Valerie's house where work continues on the spaceship. Meanwhile, Valerie and Ted reconcile and plan to go to Las Vegas and get married immediately. Mac is heartbroken and prepares the spaceship for take-off. Valerie comes out to say goodbye, followed by Ted, who discovers the spaceship. While she is struggling to prevent him from calling the authorities, Valerie comes to the realization that Mac is the one she truly loves. She get into the spaceship, and they take off into outer space.
