A young girl begins seeing the ghost of her sister who died in an accident a year earlier.
A young girl (Mary) and her family move into a new home along with her Grandmother. The Family have recently been recovering from the loss of their daughter (Jennifer). The family Members are; The mother- Laura, The father-Philip, The little Girl- Mary, The little Boy- Kevin and their Grandmother.
A young girl (Mary) and her family move into a new home along with her Grandmother. The Family have recently been recovering from the loss of their daughter (Jennifer). During the family's stay, They are attacked by the spirit of Jennifer, mostly taunting Mary. The family are subject to Mary being under the influence of Jennifer and are slowly picked off one by one.
A family is moving to grandmother's home for a while. The father, Phillip (Dennis Weaver) is not good fun. He likes kitchen electric appliances and is the one who is driving. The mother, Laura (Valerie Harper) is worried about living with her own mother, but she hopes that this will be the opportunity to forget Jennifer's death. There are also two children, the sensitive Mary (Robin Ignico), who as soon as she arrives to the house feels it calling her name, and stupid naughty boy Kevin (Oliver Robins), who enjoys scaring his sister, e.g. while they are travelling towards the house, he ties a huge spider to a stick with some sewing thread, scaring the hell out of Mary.Grandmother Bernice (Ruth Gordon) talks defiantly to Kevin when he tells her off because she was going to smoke inside the home. Bernice likes doing whatever she pleases and won't listen to her daughter. Laura says good night to Mary, and then she takes some lab tubes from Kevin, who angrily wants them back. After sending the children to sleep, Laura tells Bernice off in person, as soon as she catches her smoking - which is bad for her health.That night, Mary is woken up by the noises outside her bedroom window. There are stange noises and shadows, and her dolls begin to move or be moved a little bit. Mary screams, and when her parents rescue her, her bedroom is on fire. Mary cannot breath because of her panic. Nobody believes Mary when she says that she heard something under her bed. Bernice appears upstairs, smoking again.Kevin doesn't want his sister to sleep with him for the night, and in spite of his slamming of his bedroom door, that's is said and done. Kev is nice to Mary, letting her play with his toys to calm her down. The parents are worried, because they thought that Mary had got over her monster-under-the-bed phase some time ago. Laura is worried, but Phillip think that it's natural for children to have a strong imagination. Some time later, Mary was screaming in her sleep, and even hits Kevin while he's trying to wake her up. When Kevin wakes his parents up, Mary is deeply sleeping, quiet and relaxed. The parents tell Kevin to sleep as well, as nothing is the matter.Later in the night, Kevin plays a trick on Mary. He turns on a recording tape machine and puts in under their bulk beds. Mary cries out for help. Both parents tend to her, but Phil starts saying that he is fed-up, and he doesn't want Mary running into their bedroom every two minutes.The next day, Bernice and Laura have a conversation. Bernice looks at a photograph of Jennifer (Kristin Cumming) and repeats to herself that her death was nobody's fault. Bernice accuses Laura of behaving as if Jennifer was not there, and Laura says that Jennifer is now dead, so that the rest of the family have to go on living their lives.Next time that Mary screams for help - the room is calling at her again - Kevin refrains from waking up his parents. Bernice asks him what happens, and he says that Mary is acting weird again. Meanwhile, Mary is alone in her bedroom. She can't take the situation anymore so she goes under her bed saying "kill me, kill me". Turning around, she faces smiling Jennifer - exactly as in Bernice's photograph.When Laura does tend to Mary, she finds her staring at nothing on the wall under her bed. Laura picks her up. Laura tells Mary that Jennifer is in heaven, so she can't have seen her, but Mary insists.Next day, while her parents are painting the walls, Mary is making some flower garlands. Mary falls sleep. She wakes up to see Jennifer. Mary runs away but stumbles down, giving the opportunity to Jennifer of putting on her head the garland. Jennifer tells Mary that she always loved her little sister best, and that her parents didn't use to love her so much. Mary promises not to forget about her again.Philip insists on Mary not seeing a psychiatrist. Jennifer tells Mary to keep everything a secret, and that Kevin will tell on her at first opportunity. Jennifer will take care of Kevin. So, that night, while Mary is at the bathroom, a toy falls down and hurts Kevin on his head. Kevin won't tell what happened to his parents.Later, Bernice tells Philip to ckeck on the children, but he tells her to do it herself. However, Bernice can't walk very well. On TV, Sarah (Marilyn Coleman) is giving out the news of some boys being lost. Philip has drunk a martini too many, and Bernice says so, which causes him to behave like a snorting children. Philip blames Bernice for pushing the martinis. Bernice goes up the stairs and looks at Jennifer's photo, and mutters: "It was not my fault" with tears in her eyes.Jennifer and Mary want to be together forever. They will use Kevin to get to grandma, they decide merrily. That night, somebody puts Kev's lizard onto a bed. It comes alive and the police and ambulance have to be called. It's Bernice, who can't breath and suffers a heart attack. Kevin and Mary argue about the lizard and grandma's death. Laura grounds Kev, even when he says it was Mary who started the argument.Mary is worried about the psychiatrist she's going to see, but Jennifer will help her, and she will also take care of Kevin. The shrink, Dr Cole (Robert Webber) shows Mary some figures, but Mary gets impacient. Mary says that Kev can be a jerk when he wants. Mary says that she doesn't believe that Jennifer is alive: it was only a dream.Later, Kev and Mary are playing with a frisbee. Mary thrust it onto the roof. Kevin goes to pick it up and he succeeds. When he's coming back, the window opens, pushing Kevin out of the slated roof onto the floor. He is buried. Laura cries at the funeral; Mary and Philip don't. Mary keeps on talking with Cole. She is rude to him, and says that she has gone over her brother's death. Laura tells Philip not to drink too much. They argue about the grief they're going through: it's too much for them. They feed the lizard together.Meanwhile, Mary and Jennifer are reading together. Jennifer scares Mary into thinking that she's going to a nuthouse because Dr Cole doesn't believe her, and her parents are going to move to a smaller house. Laura asks Mary who she was talking to. She suspects it was to Jennifer. Laura cries in front of Jennifer.Dr Cole wants to talk with the three family members at the same time. But, as usual, Philip refuses the idea. He is not worried about Mary, as she is the one who has taken it the best. Laura looks at him as though he doesn't know what he's saying.Later, dad is having a bath while listening to the radio and drinking some martinis. He talks with Mary while she is drying her hair. Mary leaves and it somebody - probably Jennifer - pulls the cable. The radio falls onto the bath. Philip dies instantly.Mary goes to the kitchen happy as ever. Laura has just brought some pizza. She is going upstairs to tell Phil that the pizza is ready while Mary is left in the kitchen cutting the pizza with a pizza cutter. When Laura realises what has happened, she runs away, terrified by Mary, who follows her with the pizza cutter on her hand, calling her "Mommy?, Mommy?" On her way out, Mary falls down the stairs. She manages to get to her feet, get into her car and drive away.At the Community hospital, Mary is on a wheelchair talking to Dr Cole, who says that Dr Robin Smaul (Claudette Nevins), one of the best specialists in the country, is going to take care of Mary.Back home, a nurse is going to sleep in the nearest room to Laura. She takes a sleeping pill to be able to sleep.Meanwhile, Dr Smaul is talking to Mary, the child on a restraining tight jacket. They talks about the night of Jennifer's death. The three children to to Bernice's home. Jennifer picks on Mary and hugs Kevin. They had just left grandma's home. Mary is pissed of at Jennifer, so when Kevin and Jennifer are sleeping on the back seat, Mary ties Jennifer's shoelaces so that she can's get out of the car. Phil is driving too fast, and suddenly the car has no brakes. They crash. Phil rescues Laura, and the two other children leave the car by themselves. When Phil goes to rescue Jennifer, the car explodes onto a million pieces.Mary seems to pass out after confessing everything. Dr Smaul keeps talking to her, and the child says that she is Jennifer, that it was Mary who died in the car accident. Dr Smaul says that she was told that it was otherwise. Suddenly, Jennifer leaves. Mary says that she doesn't want Jennifer to leave as she loves her.Back at the home, the nurse talks to Laura for a second to check that she's all right. The nurse leaves. Before she can doze off onto sleep, Laura sees a figure: it's Jennifer's cruel face who says "hello, mommy".Laura screams.Fade to black.---Written by KrystelClaire
