In order to help her smuggler kinsmen, a sultry gypsy seduces and corrupts an officer of the Civil Guard turning him into a traitor and murderer.
A group of gypsy smugglers are frustrated in their attempts to bring their contraband into the city by Don Jose, an incorruptible officer in the Civil Guard. In order to help her kinsmen, the sultry Carmen seduces him, persuading him to abandon his post and look the other way. When his infatuation leads him to kill a fellow guardsman in order to prevent her arrest, he becomes a wanted fugitive. The capricious, fickle Carmen resents his possessiveness and leaves him for a famous toreador in Seville. Obsessed and frustrated, a distraught Don Jose follows her to the bullring with tragic consequences.
Carmen is a half-wild, fascinating creature, a gypsy by birth, and living with a band of smugglers in the mountains near the coast of Spain. The smugglers are foiled in their attempt to get their illegal goods into the little town by Don Jose, an officer in the regiment stationed there. Carmen is sent by Pastia, the leader of the smugglers and the local tavern keeper, to fascinate Don Jose and make him forget his duties and give the smugglers an opportunity to bring their goods into the city. Carmen secures work in a tobacco factory near the city wall, to account for her presence near Don Jose, and it is also announced that she will dance at the tavern in the evenings. The night Carmen dances in the tavern, she is the center of attraction. She is wooed unsuccessfully by Morales, a brother officer of Don Jose's, and also by Escamillo, a young toreador on his way to Seville to enter the bullring there. Escamillo has loved Carmen for a long time, but she, while attracted to him, has clung to her liberty. Escamillo asks Carmen to accompany him to Seville, and she is tempted to listen to him, but Pastia reminds her that her beauty is at present for Don Jose and she must carry through their plans. Don Jose, after Carmen's wild, sensuous dance, loses his heart to her, and that night when she passes by the breach in the wall where he is on guard, he follows her off while the smugglers enter the city. The following morning Carmen gets into an altercation at the tobacco factory and cuts one of the girls after a fight in which the whole factory is involved. The soldiers are called, and Don Jose and some of his men arrest Carmen and start to lead her away. As they pass the tavern, Carmen persuades Jose to let her have a word with Pastia before she goes to prison, and Jose, leaving the soldiers outside, accompanies her in the tavern. Morales, who is drinking, makes some insulting remarks to Jose, and the two men fight. Jose, aided by Carmen, manages to kill Morales, and Carmen escapes through the window and starts for the mountains, followed shortly after by Jose, whom the smugglers have taken under their protection. Carmen sends for Escamillo, and decides to accompany him to Seville. Escamillo and Carmen arrive in Seville the day of the great bullfight. They are the center of all eyes. The young Toreador enters the bull ring, and instantly receives the favor of the crowd by his bravery. Jose, however, has followed the two to the arena. One of the smugglers warns Carmen that Jose is waiting for her, but she, fearless as ever, goes to confront him and tell him plainly that she does not care for him and that she has cast her lot with Escamillo. Maddened by her refusal of his love after she has led him to do so much for her and overcome with jealousy, Jose kills her. She dies at the gates of the arena, as the crowd proclaims Escamillos' victory.

