An ambitious factory girl meets a handsome, wealthy lawyer, but he's interested in her as a mistress, not a wife.
Marion is a factory worker who hopes to trade the assembly line, for a beautiful penthouse apartment. Mark Whitney, a wealthy and influential lawyer can make her dreams come true, but there is only one problem, he will give her everything but a marriage proposal. Will this affair ever lead to marriage?
Wealthy New York lawyer Mark Whitney and wealthy divorced socialite Marian Moreland are constant companions in a romantic relationship. The few in the know are aware that Marian is really Marian Martin, a factory girl from Erie PA, who Mark met three years earlier. Marian came to New York on a chance and was up front with Mark that her goal was to marry a rich man to get her out of her poverty. Back at home, Marian had been dating fellow factory worker Al Manning, who wanted to marry her. She turned down his several marriage proposals since she didn't want to get stuck in a life of poverty. Mark was attracted to her beauty and her forthrightness with him. As such, he provided her with all the material wealth she now has as well as opportunity to become well bred on the surface. But stung once by marriage, Mark has no plans ever to marry Marian. The made up back story of she being a divorcée living comfortably on alimony was devised by Mark to give her some respectability. Regardless, they are in love with each other. Their stable life changes when Al, now making his mark in the world, comes to New York for work. Al would still like to marry Marian, he knowing nothing about Marian and Mark's arrangement. She knowing Mark is a benefit for him as Mark is able to provide Al a foot in the door for the work project in question. A further obstacle in Marian and Mark's relationship is that he is asked to run for governor. The truth about Marian being his kept woman would kibosh any chance of an election win.
The ambitious box factory worker Marian lives in the countryside and dreams on having a luxury lifestyle, with a comfortable apartment, jewels and money. When her friend and also worker Al Manning proposes to marry her, she goes to the train station and meets the millionaire Wally that invites Marian to go to New York. On the arrival, she meets the prominent lawyer and aspirant to politician Mark Whitney and becomes his mistress. Three years later, Marian has become a refined woman and her dream has come true, but she falls in love with Whitney. When Manning visits her, he has become a self-made man and he believes that Marion has married a wealthy man. Soon Marian realizes that she is only the perfect mistress but not Whitney's wife. When he runs to governor, Marion sacrifices her relationship with Whitney to avoid a scandal that could damage his image in the elections.
Small town girl Marian goes to the big city for excitement. She becomes mistress to wealthy attorney Mark Whitney whose political ambitions can't support a divorce scandal. Marian becomes his mistress, posing as the divorced Mrs. Moreland. Her old small town friend Al Manning, now a well off businessman, asks her to marry. She turns him down, Whitney's private life is exposed, and she and Whitney discover that true love is important after all.

