Incompetent police Detective Frank Drebin must foil an attempt to assassinate Queen Elizabeth II.
A rerun of many of the gags from the television series Police Squad! (1982). An Airplane! (1980)-type spoof, this time with the an incompetent Lieutenant Frank Drebin, who always "gets his man". Visual gags come thick and fast, and it's impossible to catch them all with one viewing. The plot: Queen Elizabeth II of England is coming to town, and Vincent Ludwig has plans to assassinate her using a brainwashed baseball player.
Lieutenant Frank Drebin and his Police Squad! are put in charge of security when it's announced that Queen Elizabeth II will be visiting Los Angeles, California. Frank visits the event organizer, rich developer Vincent Ludwig, who is also reputed to be a criminal mastermind, who may also be responsible for putting one of Drebin's men, Nordberg, in the hospital. Stopping the plot to assassinate the Queen, solving the attack on Nordberg, and romancing Jane Spencer are all in a day's work for Drebin, along with several laughs along the way.
With the imminent arrival of Her Majesty The Queen Elizabeth II to Los Angeles, the bumbling police lieutenant, Frank Drebin, has his work cut out for him. Already entangled in a difficult case of heroin smuggling and the brutal murder attempt of a fellow officer, Drebin will find himself under the spell of Jane Spencer--the sensuous assistant of the ultra-suave criminal mastermind, Vincent Ludwig. Someone has set his sights on assassinating the prestigious visitor in front of thousands of spectators during an important baseball game; however, not on Drebin's watch. Can Drebin and his naked gun save the day?
Lieutenant Frank Drebin is a clumsy police detective of Police Squad!, a division of the Los Angeles Police Department. Frank returns home to Los Angeles from a mission in Beirut, when his partner and best friend, Detective Nordberg is gunned down in a undercover operation. Frank's investigation into Nordberg's attempted murder leads Frank to become suspicious of well-respected businessman Vincent Ludwig, and discovers Ludwig plans to brainwash a baseball player with mind controlling device, and assassinate Queen Elizabeth II, who is visiting Los Angeles on her American tour.
Police Squad!'s own granite-jawed, rock-brained cop, Lieutenant Frank Drebin, bumbles across a mind-control scheme to assassinate Queen Elizabeth II. Detective Nordberg, Jane Spencer, a stuffed beaver, two baseball teams, and an odd assortment of others joining the wacko goings-on.
The story revolves around Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielson), a comical cop who thinks highly of himself. The film starts with Frank kicking the shit out of a group of heads of state who plan a terrorist act against USA. These heads closely resemble Gorbachev, Khadaffi or Gadaffi or whatever they call him, the ayatollah Khomeini, Idi Amin, Araffat, Castro etc.At the same time his friend and partner Nordberg (O. J. Simpson) was nearly murdered while investigating suspicious activities in a boat named "I Love You". Meanwhile, Frank returns to the USA and visits him. Frank, after few misunderstandings and unintentionally hurting Nordberg, learns about the ship's name, although at first he takes the name as a love declaration from Nordberg. Frank visits the ship's owner, Mr. Vincent Ludwig (Ricardo Montalbán). There he kills his $15,000 worth of fighter fish and a rare unbreakable pen. He is then attracted to Ludwig's secretary, Jane Spencer (Priscilla Beaulieu Presley). Frank asks her out for dinner which Jane politely refuses. Ludwig asks his secretary to pry on Frank and tell her what the police know about the company. He assures her that this is only for the benefit of the shareholders of the company.Ludwig then meets with a suspicious person and demands $20 million in return for assassinating the British Queen Elizabeth II (Jeannette Charles) who is visiting LA. He demonstrates a mind control device that can turn any person into a assassin. Jane visits Frank later that night and they both fall in love and make out.After a failed assassination attempt on Nordberg, Frank investigates Ludwig's office and finds out he has planned to assassinate the queen. He also accidentally sets fire to his office and while escaping fondles a booby lady. Next day he is warned by mayor for breaking into Ludwig's office and also blamed for arson and sexual harassment.Frank tries to save Queen's life in a press meeting, and ends up on top of her in the dinner table. Photos of his encounter is published in the newspapers and he gets sacked. Frank blames Jane for helping Ludwig, a thing which she strongly denies. She then leaks to Frank that Ludwig has planned to assassinate the queen during a baseball match and the assassin is one of the players.Frank visits the game and he first disguises as an opera singer and then as an umpire. Later he tries to delay the game by refusing to declare the last player as out. Players and other umpires start to argue and fight and in the confusion Ludwig sets his mind control device on one of the players. But Frank stops him. Ludwig kidnaps Jane but Frank stops him and Ludwig gets killed. A mind control device on Jane automatically sets on and she tries to kill Frank. But Frank delivers a mind blowing speech which brings the entire audience to tears and Jane come out of hypnotism. Nordberg comes to the stadium and Frank accidentally pushes him from the upper deck.
