Despite his musical talent, Joe Bonaparte wants to be a boxer.
Joe Bonaparte's father wants him to pursue his musical talent; but Joe wants to be a boxer. Persuading near-bankrupt manager Tom Moody to give him a chance, Joe quickly rises in his new profession. When he has second thoughts Moody's girl Lorna uses feminine wiles to keep him boxing. But when tough gangster Eddie Fuseli wants to "buy a piece" of Joe, Lorna herself begins to have second thoughts...for that and other reasons. Is it too late?
Joe Bonaparte (William Holden) is a young boxer who has spent his days training around town in different gyms in New York and grabs an opportunity to take his first public fight when he meets Tom Moody (Adolphe Menjou) who manages one of the fighters from a local gym. Moodys mistress Lorna Moon (Barbara Stanwyck) is also his secretary of sorts and convinces Moody to give Joe a chance allowing him a night in the ring giving him his first taste of competition. Joe is also a gifted and accomplished violinist and his father played by Lee J. Cobb has bought an excellent violin which he plans to give to Joe that night in celebration of his birthday. Joe loves his music but is torn by inner conflict as to whether he wants to follow his pugilistic tendencies or musical bent as is his father who exhibits overwrought angst at the knowledge that Joe may hurt his hands while boxing. Moody realizes that Joe has real boxing talent, a combination of mental acuity and genuine punching technique but Joe seems to want to pull away from the fight game. Moody convinces Lorna to seduce Joe into staying in the ring and fighting with dedication and Lorna complies but falls in love with the boy. Joe wants a title shot in Madison Square Garden and turns to local boxing gangster Eddie Fuseli (Joseph Calleia) to make a deal, something that Lorna and Moody warn him not to do because of the underworld connections that Fuseli holds. Joe gets his title shot and during the fight breaks his hand when he accidentally kills the other boxer in the ring with a punch to the head. Left to choose between boxing and his music Joe walks off with Lorna by his side.
