Courtney Bates, the younger sister of Valerie, and her friends go to their condo for a weekend getaway, but Courtney can't get rid of the haunting feeling that a supernatural rockabilly driller killer is coming to murder them all.
Courtney, the younger sister of the "new girl across the street" in the first film is all grown up now, but suffers from nightmares about the Big Wet Incident. She and the other members of her female rock group go to a condo for the weekend to play music and have fun with their boyfriends. Courtney's dreams are of her sister, who is in a mental institution, warning her of having sex, and the dreams begin to spill into real life, threatening Courtney and her friends as they begin experiencing an attrition problem.
High school student Courtney Bates (Crystal Bernard) has recurring dreams about the "Driller Killer" (Atanas Ilitch) using his electric drill to kill the people she cares about. Courtney's mother (Jennifer Rhodes) tells her it is perfectly normal to have dreams of frightening experiences. Mrs. Bates realizes that the incident when Courtney was 12-years old and the Driller Killer attacked her sister, Valerie (Cynthia Eilbacher), certainly qualifies as a frightening experience, and offers to take her to a psychiatrist. However, Courtney declines, assuring her mother that she will be alright.Valerie has been a patient at a mental institution since the Driller Killer incident, but Courtney is too ashamed to tell her friends, so she lies and says that Valerie is at college in Northern California. Courtney is still a virgin and has never dated anyone seriously, but she is drawn to Matt Arbicost (Patrick Lowe), a handsome boy at school, and invites him to the rehearsal of her all-girl band. Matt is impressed by their sound and afterward kisses Courtney.Mrs. Bates agrees to let Courtney spend her 17th birthday weekend with her friends at a Desert Springs, California, condominium owned by band mate Shelia Barrington's father. Before leaving for the condo, Courtney has another nightmare about the Driller Killer, and of her sister, Valerie, warning her not to have sex.When the girls arrive at the condo, Courtney, Amy (Kimberly McArthur), Sally Burns (Heidi Kozak), and Shelia (Juliette Cummings) find the complex is still under construction. Few of the condos have been completed and only a handful are occupied. Nonetheless, they try to make the best of the weekend and break into the liquor cabinet. As they drink, they talk about becoming a successful band with a hit song. Eventually, the girls take off their bras and get into a pillow fight, as two of their friends, Jeff and T. J. (Scott Westmoreland and Joel Hoffman), watch from outside.That night, Courtney has a dream of the Driller Killer murdering her sister, Valerie, and proclaiming he wants to make love to her. The next day, Courtney has strange visions of things attacking her, which her friends dismiss as a hangover. When she takes a bath, she sees that blood is coming out of the faucet and flooding the bathroom. She rushes to get Sally, who shows her that it is merely water overflowing the tub, not blood. However, when Sally notices a pimple on her face, Courtney sees Sally's face explode. Matt and Jeff accuse T. J. of giving Courtney drugs, but he denies it. Courtney becomes nervous when Sally is missing and they hear a crunching sound in the trash compactor and fear it is Sally's body. They telephone the police who arrive moments before Sally returns to the condo from buying acne cream. Police warn them against making any more prank calls.Later, Matt brings Courtney a birthday cake and lights the candles. He knows about the incident with the Driller Killer and how upsetting that must have been to witness. They start kissing, but Courtney gets nervous, saying she has never had sex before. She imagines the Driller Killer running his electric drill through Matt. Courtney runs downstairs to get help and the Driller Killer follows. This time it is not Courtney's imagination; the killer is real and Matt is really dead.The Driller Killer wears a black leather ensemble and fancies himself a rock and roll musician, carrying a large guitar with an electric drill on the handle. The killer runs his drill through Sally, and cuts the phone line. The others run out of the house in different directions. However, Amy, Jeff, and Courtney go back to get the car keys and discover Sally's body. They rush to the car and drive away, but the Driller Killer is hiding in the back seat and drills through Jeff. The girls run back to the house. Meanwhile, T. J. and Amy go to the only other house that seems to be occupied, begging for help. However, before the owner can answer the door, the killer murders T. J.Courtney gets to another telephone and calls police, who think it is another prank call and warn them not to phone again. The killer drills through Shelia, then drills through the bedroom door to get to Amy and Courtney, who climb onto the roof to get away. He catches Amy and comes after Courtney. With a blow torch, she lights the Driller Killer on fire. He falls from the roof and is killed.When daylight comes, police and ambulances arrive to take away the dead, but then Courtney wakes up in bed beside Matt. However, a moment later she has another dream about the Driller Killer.
