Paola is a young, beautiful woman married to a wealthy entrepreneur. She meets her former lover Guido after seven years, but their relationship is marked by tragic events.
Paola (Lucia Bose) is the beautiful and jealously-guarded younger wife of a shady factory owner, Enrico Fontana (Ferdinando Sarmi). In order to investigate her romantic history he hires a private detective, which ironically brings Paola back into contact with former lover Guido (Massimo Girotti), with whom she resurrects a lost passion. Dogged by the suspicions of their respective mates, they are drawn closer to each other in the face of adversity, and begin to plot Enrico's demise. But when the challenge of being together falls away, will the passion start to wane? A masterpiece of intensity and finely-wrought emotion.
Carloni, a middle-aged detective gets a new mission from his boss: to find out as much as he can about the past of a beautiful young woman called Paola. The orderer is her husband, a wealthy upper-class managing director who has been married to Paola for only a year. The director gets jealous after finding a couple of old photographs of his wife and he wants to find out if she still meets one of her old fiancés.
In Milano, when the wealthy and jealous entrepreneur Enrico Fontana discovers hidden photos of his gorgeous twenty-seven year-old wife, Paola Molon Fontana, he hires a Neapolitan detective agency to investigate her past. Enrico, who owns twenty companies, married Paola during the war in March 1943 and her past is unknown to him. Detective Morale Carloni is assigned by his boss to head to Ferrara, where Paola studied at the technical school after leaving her hometown in Rovigo. During his investigation, Carloni discovers that Paola, when she was a teenager, dated many youngsters and her best friends were Matilda Calvani and Giovanna Carlini, who died seven years ago two days before her wedding with Guido. He gets the address of Guido with Matilda's father but his wife sends a letter to Guido advising him that the police was investigating him. Guido travels to Milano, where he meets Paola after seven years to show the letter. When they see each other, their old passion reignites; but Carloni is still chasing the truth about the tragic accident with Giovanna.

