A spoiled heiress defies her father by running off to marry her lover. However, Daddy has a few tricks up his sleeve.
A spoilt rich girl leads a life of luxury on the profits from her father's champagne business. To bring her back down to earth he tells her that all the money has been lost so she goes to seek her fortune.
Betty, rebellious daughter of a millionaire, decides to marry the pennyless Jean, against her father's will. She runs away to France and she starts living a life of luxury on the profits from her father's business. The rich man decides to put a stop to her behavior by pretending his business crashed. Betty now has to find money by herself, and gets a job in a night club.
'Father'(Gordon Harker), a rich American businessman, reads angrily news about his daughter 'Girl' (Betty: Betty Balfour) taking his plane to meet her lover 'Boy' on an ocean liner.The plane lands in the sea and is salvaged by a lifeboat. Betty goes aboard. Besides 'Boy' (who easily gets sea-sick - Jean Bradin), there's also a mysterious mustached 'Man' (Ferdinand von Alten) she frequently runs into.As 'Boy' and Betty develop some quarrel, she goes to Paris without him and enters a luxurious life with fashion-shopping, cocktail-mixing, and partying.The party (where 'Boy' and 'Man' both appear) is over when her father arrives and tells her that his fortune was lost on Wall Street. Betty offers to sell her jewellery, but on the way it is stolen from her bag.Betty and her father move into a cheap room. Betty starts to learn cooking and baking, not with much success, as well as making beds.
'Boy' visits them in the room and, appalled by the poverty, offers to find a better place for Betty. She insists that she would never leave her father back, and there's such a thing as pride. She decides to search a job, and finds an ad where models for toothpaste advertising are wanted.At the model agency, she says she came because of "Teeth!", but is told they are only interested in legs (amply demonstrated), and refer her to a cabaret.There she is hired as flower girl (to present flowers to gentlemen in evening dress), and later meets both the 'Man' and the 'Boy'. The 'Boy' is terrified by her situation and goes to call the father. When both return, Betty quarrels with them and leaves, remembering a note that the 'Man' gave to her in which he promised to be a friend in need.At the 'Man's place, he is surprised and tells her that he is going back to America the next morning. Betty implores him to take her home.
They go by train to Cherbourg (presumably), while the 'Boy' chases them in an open car.On the ship, the 'Man' locks Betty in their cabin. She arms herself with a metal towel-hanger, and when the door opens, beats the 'Boy' on his head. Enter the 'Man', shortly followed by the father. After some short wrestling between 'Boy' and 'Man', they are separated and informed that the father sent the 'Man' to keep an eye on Betty.The father agrees to the marriage, and the man looks through his champagne glass as Betty and the 'Boy' start quarreling about the modalities...
