Based on the Profumo Scandal of 1963, an affair between an exotic dancer and the Minister of War shakes up the British government.
An English bon-vivant osteopath is enchanted with a young exotic dancer and invites her to live with him. He serves as friend and mentor, and through his contacts and parties she and her friend meet and date members of the Conservative Party. Eventually a scandal occurs when her affair with the Minister of War goes public, threatening their lifestyles and their freedom. Based on the real Profumo scandal of 1963.
London, England, U.K. 1959Osteopath Dr. Stephen Ward (John Hurt) visits a local burlesque club where he spots Christine Keeler (Joann Walley-Kilmer), a gorgeous underage nightclub performer, and unsuccessfully attempts to get her telephone number.One week later, Christine is visiting her working class family in the countryside when Stephen drives up in his sports car and takes her to a large Tudor style cottage on the grounds of Lord William Astor's (Leslie Phillips) estate. Stephen explains that 'Bill' Astor lets him rent the cottage for only one British pound per year because he lets Astor cheat him at bridge. As Stephen gives Christine a tour of Cliveden, the large Astor manor, he explains that only people born to wealth and nobility, or the very beautiful, are invited to mingle with high society. He offers to tutor her for such a life.Soon, Stephen takes control of Christine's look, turning her from a peroxide blonde to a brunette, and changing her clothes from "SoHo chic" to "Covent Garden sexy." One night a few months later in October, after a party celebrating the Conservative Party winning Britain's general election, Stephen invites a few politicians to his apartment for an orgy. After getting over her initial shock, Christine joins in.The next night, Christine enters the nightclub dressing room to find Mandy Rice-Davies (Bridget Fonda), a cool blonde, sitting in her makeup chair. Christine orders her to move, but Mandy refuses until the other girls gang up on her. Later, the girls dress as "Indians" for a dance number. Someone steals Mandy's top, but Christine observes that the girl is so slight, no one will notice. During the number, a frustrated Mandy appears topless, upstaging Christine. After the show, Christine overhears Mandy lying to her mother over the phone about how exciting the nightclub is. When Mandy hangs up, Christine asks her out for a drink and the two of them become close friends.Afterward, Christine is helping Mandy sneak her possessions out of her apartment when they are caught by the landlady. Christine runs outside, where Lord Astor is waiting in his Rolls Royce. Pretending to cry, Christine embarrasses Astor into giving Mandy 40 pounds to keep the landlady from calling the police. Mandy moves in with Christine and Stephen at his row-house, who parades the two girls before his wealthy friends.At one party, Stephen introduces Christine and Mandy to Eugene Ivanov (Jeroen Krabbe), a military attache for the Soviet embassy. On another night, the girls go to "Club 21." There, they meet an American "Matinee Idol" (Trevor Eve) (loosely based on actor Douglas Fairbanks Jr.; one of Christine and Mandy's many clients). After pantomiming lesbian sex, they engage in a menage à trois with the Matinee Idol.In July 1961, Stephen's friendship with Ivanov catches the attention of a certain "Mr. Woods" (Oliver Ford Davies), a member of British Military Intelligence (MI5), who asks Stephen to keep an eye on the Soviet attache. Stephen invites Ivanov to Cliveden, where Christine can be seen diving into the swimming pool. When Lord Astor leads his dinner guest, Minister of War John Profumo (Ian McKellan), to the cottage, they find Christine dancing naked for Stephen and Ivanov. Christine tries to run inside the house, but Profumo catches her. They stare at each other in silence until flood lights are turned on to reveal Lady Astor, Valerie Profumo, and others of Astor's party guests. Mrs. Profumo wraps a towel around Christine and separates the girl from her husband.Throughout the summer, Stephen throws parties at his cottage at which Ivanov and Profumo vie for Christine's attentions. One day in October, Stephen arranges for Ivanov to drive Christine to London to his row-house, and the two end up in bed. When Stephen finds out, he calls Mr. Woods at MI5. The next day, Profumo arrives and takes Christine on a drive. Stephen is disappointed when Christine reports back that Profumo was a complete gentleman, but lightens up when she predicts he will call her soon.That night, Stephen and a friend drive Christine to a Jamaican club in East London to procure marijuana. Fearing he looks too much like someone from "Scotland Yard," Stephen sends Christine to talk to Lucky Gordon (Leon Herbert), a tall Jamaican. Lucky only agrees to the sale if Christine accompanies him inside the club. As Stephen and his friend smoke marijuana, Christine dances with Lucky. That night, she makes love to him in his flat.Some time later, Christine has her first sexual encounter with Profumo. During one of their trysts, Lucky telephones and asks to see Christine, but she hangs up and tells Profumo it is the nightclub owner asking about the show. Over the next several months in 1962, Christine is happy balancing her affairs with Ivanov, Profumo, and a few other men. However, Profumo worries he will be recognized going to Stephen's house. He tells Christine she cannot trust Stephen, so unless she finds another apartment, their affair is over.In October 1962, insisting that Stephen cannot live without her, Christine breaks off the affair with Profumo. When she informs Stephen, he tells her she made a mistake, as Profumo will be Prime Minister someday. Irate, Christine yells that she is sick and tired of being given to old men, then takes Mandy for a night out at the Jamaican club. There, she seduces a Jamaican gangster named Johnnie Edgecombe (Roland Gift), but when they wind up in bed, Lucky appears and attacks the other man. Johnnie pulls out a razor blade and gashes Lucky's cheek. Terrified, Christine rushes back to Stephen's row-house. She is amused to find Mandy in Stephen's bed.On December 14, 1962, Johnnie appears outside Stephen's row-house one day, demanding Christine run away with him before Lucky can take his revenge. When Christine refuses, Johnnie pulls out a revolver and shoots at the door. After he leaves, Christine is brought to the police station for questioning. Stephen meets her there. He tells her she is out of control with her behavior and urges her to move out before she destroys his reputation. Christine counters that Stephen brought her to the Jamaican club, the orgies and sex parties; therefore, she is what he made her. Stephen refuses to take responsibility for her actions and leaves her standing outside in the evening rain. A reporter named Kevin (Keith Allen) approaches and asks her to accompany him for a cup of tea. The distraught Christine admits to the Profumo affair, insisting it was Stephen's fault. Kevin calls his editor at the Sunday Pictorial to let him know he has stumbled onto a huge story. The next day, Christine's picture is on the front page of every London newspaper as part of the developing story.In January 1963, Stephen privately meets with Ivanov, who tells Stephen that he is being recalled to the Soviet Union. Ivanov warns Stephen that he will be made the scapegoat for all this, but Stephen laughs it off and predicts the whole affair will be forgotten in a week.At Mandy's urging, Christine signs a news contract to sell her story. In March, to counter the rumors, Profumo makes a personal statement, assuring the House of Commons that there was no "impropriety" in his relationship with Christine. To control the situation, Lord Hailsham (Iain Cuthbertson), a Conservative Party leader, contacts Scotland Yard to investigate Stephen. Soon, friends and acquaintances are being detained and questioned.Stephen meets with Hailsham at his office and appeals to call off the "witch-hunt", warning that he will be forced to defend his reputation by revealing the truth (implying that Hailsham was also involved in the sex and drug orgies that Stephen had set up). Unfazed, Hailsham warns him that it is illegal to blackmail the government. Stephen telephones Mr. Woods at MI5 for assistance, but the man refuses his calls. Later, Lord Astor asks Stephen to move out of the cottage.Christine is interrogated by police who accuse her of being a prostitute with Stephen as her pimp. She argues that Stephen is the only man she ever loved, and they are both innocent. Over the next several months, more revelations of sexual deviations of the rich and powerful are aired in the UK press. Questions of national security are raised when it is discovered that Christine was sleeping with both the Minister of War and a Soviet "spy." Profumo is forced to resign on June 5, 1963 after he publicly admits to his sexual affair with Christine.Weeks later in July, Christine visits the distraught Stephen at his row-house, and he confesses he always feared that someday his friends would betray him and that Ivanov was right about the British government making him a scapegoat for all this. He promises to drag down everyone if they come after him. Stephen is charged with procuring and living off immoral earnings and brought to a highly publicized trial. Although Christine and Mandy testify they were not prostitutes, nor did they give Stephen money other than rent, the prosecution insists he lived off their "wages of sin." Later, Stephen's defense attorney cross-examines Christine and accuses her of using Stephen so she could sell her memoirs. Stephen disrupts the trial by yelling out "that's not fair!" Afterwords, Christine leaves the courthouse and is swarmed by mobs of reporters and photographers. In contrast, Mandy basks in her fame and notoriety before the press as a "harlot", despite having never met or ever had sexual relations with Ivanov or Profumo.Later that evening on July 30, 1963, Stephen commits suicide by taking an overdose of barbiturates. In his suicide note, he states he would rather "get" himself than be gotten by the "vultures."The film closes with a series of texts which read:Stephen Ward was found guilty in his absence of living off the immoral earnings of prostitution. He died a few days later in a hospital on August 3 without regaining consciousness at age 50. His body was immediately cremated and memorial services for him were held on August 10, 1963. Nobody came.Christine Keeler was convicted of perjury in a related trial to Johnny Edgecombe's assault on her. She entered Holloway Prison on December 6, 1963. She was released the following year after serving four-in-a-half out of nine months. After two failed marriages, she currently lives alone in a London housing project and avoids the media spotlight.Mandy Rice-Davies married an Israeli businessman and settled in Israel in 1966 where she became a cabaret singer and film actress. She later opened a string of successful nightclubs in Israel, the UK and the USA. They are called 'Mandy's'. Recently married for the third time (as of 1988), she now resides in London and Florida.John Profumo left politics and dedicated his life to charity work. In October 1975, Queen Elizabeth II awarded him one of England's highest civilian honors; Commander of the British Empire.On October 18, 1963, Prime Minister Harold Macmillan resigned due to health reasons and his moral credibility irreversibly damaged after his belated and ineffective attempts at damage control to the 'Profumo Affair'. The following year, after a nearly decade in power, the entire Conservative government fell... exhausted by the scandal.
