A crime-busting lawyer and his initially reluctant attorney father take on the forces that run gambling and prostitution in their small Southern town.
In this semidocumentary, an Alabama town is run by a crime syndicate that's grown fat on prostitution and crooked gambling, directed at soldiers from Fort Benning across the river. Lawyer John Patterson, back from the army, is triggered by what he sees to join the reformers with a plan: to run his father Albert for state attorney general. The syndicate responds with escalating violence: is no one safe? Credits preceded by a "newscast" containing spoilers.
Phenix City, Alabama lawyer Albert L. Patterson has big plans for his son John and his family when they return home after his military service in Germany. Phenix City is one of the most corrupt cities in the U.S. and is often referred to as the Sin City of the South. If you're looking for booze, gambling or girls then 14th street is your destination. John is surprised at how so little has changed since he's been away but his father assures him that if you just mind your own business, you won't even know the mob is running things. That's proves hard to and John is severely beaten when he tries stop two members of a civic reform from being harmed by mob thugs. Albert comes to realize that you can't simply look away all of the other time and obtains the nomination to run as State Attorney General. When the mob kills him in cold blood, John takes on the cause. Based on a true story.
In the 1940s and 1950s in Alabama, the notorious Phenix City is a town ruled by the organized crime and prostitution and gambling are the main economical activities. The police department is corrupt and the criminal Rhett Tanner is the big boss. When the famous lawyer Albert "Pat" L. Patterson welcomes his son John Patterson that has just returned from Germany with his wife and children, he intends to keep his calm life in a neutral position and work with his son. However, there are serious and violent incidents and Albert Patterson accepts to run the elections to become the Attorney General of Alabama to clean Phenix City. He wins the election but is shot when he is leaving his office and dies. Now John seeks revenge but using the law instead of violence.

