A United States Navy destroyer escort participates in a Navy "invisibility" experiment that inadvertently sends two sailors forty years into the future.
In 1943, the United States tests an anti-radar system to make the U.S. Navy ships invisible to the enemy. Dr. James Longstreet uses his experiment in the destroyer escort USS Eldridge that disappears from Philadelphia. The sailors David Herdeg and his best friend Jim Parker are projected to 1984, where they meet Allison Hayes. They unsuccessfully try to contact their base and out of the blue Jimmy disappears in a hospital. Allison helps David to visit Jimmy's wife Pamela, but Jimmy refuses to see him. Now David's only hope is meeting Dr. James Longstreet to learn what to do. Will he be well succeeded?
Reportedly based on a true incident during World War II involving an anti-radar or invisibility experiment that caused the U.S. Navy destroyer escort USS Eldridge to disappear from Philadelphia Harbor. Two of the ship's sailors finds themselves thrown 40 years into the future to 1984.
During World War II, the government was trying to develop a way to render their naval vessels undetectable to radar. When the scientists in charge of it think they have done it, they try it out on one of the ships in the Philadelphia harbor. When they turn it on, the ship disappears. Two of the ship's sailors find themselves in 1984. While they try to find out what's going on. The scientist who developed the technology in 1943, is now involved with a project that somehow brought the two sailors to 1984. And it seems that a black hole has emerged and he thinks the sailors can help. So he tries to get them.
In 1943, US Army experimented with the electro magnetic fields to make dissapear a ship hoping to win World War II. In the ship are two friends, David Herdeg and Jim Parker, they are send to the future when experiment causes a break in the continuum space time, arriving to 1984. Located in a world strange for them, a nurse called Allison Hayes helps them, but military forces pursues them due Dr. James Longstreet, creator of the original experiment, that recreated it in a town that missed. Running from the soldiers, Herdeg and Allison see impotent like a sudden rays impact against Parker, that finally misses in fron their eyes, coming back to 1943. Although Herdeg and Allison don't understand the happening, both discover that Jim Parker still alive and they travel to meet him, meeting an 'old' Parker instead, a man that tries to forget a hard past lived time ago. Seeing that it's impossible to talk with him, Herdeg and Allison go away, and are catched by the soldiers. Finally they meet with Longstreet in the Control Center of the new experiment, who says that the new experiment connected with the original, creating a vortex between two times and that only Herdeg can to stop it. He refuses, but Longstreet tells that he spoke with the survivors of the 1943's experiment and that they told that was the own Herdeg who finished it destroying the generator power. Astonished, he understands that there's no option, and he accepts the mission, being send again to the vortex and to the Eldridge. There he meets again with the young Parker, saving him and the rest of the ship when the energy turns down, but before that the Eldridge re-appears in 1943 Herdeg jumps out of it, standing him in 1984 to stay with his beloved Allison.
