Fran walks into a piano bar for pizza. She comes back home with Joe, the piano player. Joe plans on winning $5,000 and leaving Las Vegas. Fran waits for something else. Meanwhile, he moves in with her.
While waiting in vain for her married lover to get a divorce, Fran Walker, a lonely chorus girl approaching middle age, falls for Joe Grady, a frustrated musician and compulsive gambler who dreams of escaping Las Vegas for fame and fortune in New York City.
Fran Walker is an aging Vegas chorus girl. She has given her wealthy San Francisco-based married lover Tom Lockwood, who she has not seen in six months, ultimatum after ultimatum in leaving his wife, Fran always ending back in his arms despite he not having succumbed to her ultimata. Fran continually tells herself that Tom will one day come through, regardless of if she truly believes it. She, who wants to remain financially independent in asking and taking nothing from Tom in terms of financial support or lavish material gifts, only stays in Vegas out of inertia. Joe Grady is a Vegas lounge pianist. Unlike Fran, Joe hates Vegas, he who is trying to amass $5,000, which he requires to set up a professional life as a pianist in New York. While he outwardly states that he dabbles in gambling, he truly is an addict, he going on the occasional gambling binge which has led to him not being able to save the money he needs to leave Vegas. Fran and Joe meet when she walks into Tony's, the bar where he works, for a late night dinner. The two end up going home together that evening in their mutual attraction and in Fran's loneliness, and, able to get over their inherent differences in temperament, have what each believes will be a one-night stand. However, they end up having a no-strings relationship in each helping the other achieve his or her current life goals. This situation has the potential to fall apart either if one or the other is unable to fulfill the other's needs - Joe who is supposed to stop Fran from falling back into Tom's arms if he doesn't come through, and Fran who will keep and hide Joe's money so that he doesn't gamble it away until he reaches the $5,000 mark - or if one or the other ends up falling in love with the other.

