A group of fashion models disturb the tomb of a mummy and revive an ancient curse. Along with the mummy rising, slaves who were buried in the desert thousands of years before, also rise, with a craving for human flesh.
In the opening scene in Egypt, in the year 3,000 B.C., five servants are carrying urns into a crypt. The High Priestess (Laila Nasr) chants: "Accept in paradise this poor Seferaman who awaits entrance. Don't listen to who waits, to those who say he was a cruel man, the way of Seferaman is sacred." The servant begins to cut the dead man open. "Hear me oh Egypt, should the riches of Seferaman be stolen, all Egypt will tremble and Seferaman will rise and kill. His armies will rise and kill!" The guts of the warlord are put into urns. "It is done" says the High Priestess after the ceremony is finished. She then says "All who know the burial place of Seferaman must die. They will arise when he arises. Kill when he kills." She then says: "He who enters the tomb after it has been sealed will die from the Dawn of the Mummy!"Present DayThe tomb's entrance is blown up and the entrance way appears. An old woman (Laila Nasr) comes running and says they must not enter... she warns them not to break the curse. Rick (George Peck) shoots a gun at the old woman and she runs away. Rick leaves two guards at the tomb. The old woman runs into three men on camels and tells them that the tomb is open and they must help because of the curse. The men on the camels say that the "crazy American" must be mad. The three camel men sneak past the guards and enter the tomb. Two of the men get their faces burned with acid caused by the poisoned air leaking from the tomb.A TWA jet flies to Egypt. A group of four young American fashion models disembark. They and their crew board two jeeps to drive them to the desert outside Cairo at the Pyramid complex at Giza for a photo shoot. One of the models, Melinda (Ellen Faison), is worried about her toe nails being chipped. One of the jeeps has a flat tire and Gary (John Salvo) just sits on a rock watching the tire being changed. One of the models finds a decapitated head in the sand. Meanwhile at the tomb, Rick's guide Karib (Ibraham Khan) is disappointed - he doesn't find any treasure in the tomb. The group makes a campfire with the tomb raiding gang at night.The next day, the photographer Bill (Barry Sattels) wants to "shoot" his models in the hills. Rick blows up a wall and his "gang" finds a sarcophagus. They open it and find a mummy. Karib shoots at the models and the photographer. The team go to where the tomb raider Rick was. Jenny (Joan Levy) is the first one in the tomb, then the others follow. Bill says that he wants his shoot in the tomb. The hot lights resurrect the mummy. Black stuff and gas comes from the mummy's body unnoticed. Everyone is happy with the shoot. Rick cuts the light cord and everything goes dark. Jenny finds guts and they burn her hand like acid.When he is alone, Karib takes gold from the mummy then a wall opens up. Karib dies as he is crushed by a wall and someone pulls his body back into the other chamber. The mummy oozes more black stuff and gas then moves. When the team departs, the mummy sits up.At another campfire that night, the group of models sing along. The team finds the bodies of the two Bedouin whose heads are mush. Rick arrives and tells the team they should leave. Bill says he needs one more day to shoot and then they will leave. Rick and one of the models make out. The old woman goes into the tomb and finds the mummy gone. She finds the mummy and he kills the old woman. At dawn, Seferaman's army rises out of the sand.The next day, Bill is still taking pictures. Bill says they need 48 hours more to shoot. One of the models gets lost in the tomb and she calls out. Meanwhile, Gary and Ahmed to go town. Omar (Ahmed Rateb) gives Jenny and Gary a "smoke". Jenny goes shopping and sees Rick. Jenny sees the mummy and gets hysterical and runs to Gary, but when he looks, the mummy is gone.Back at the tomb, the mummy chops one of the tomb raiders in the head. At the nearby oasis, two models, Lisa and Melinda, take a swim. One leaves and the other one runs from the mummy. She runs, the mummy walks and one of his "soldiers" bites Melinda and tears out the side of her neck with his teeth, killing her.The next day, Rick finds Tarak (Ali Gohar) dead and freaks out and drives away. Rick goes to the tomb and calls for the God of the Sun. A wall slides back and Rick finds the treasure. He screams in in delight and the mummy comes and kills Rick.Bill and Gary go to town to see Omar. Omar is celebrating his wedding. Gary gives Omar his western cowboy hat and Omar gives Gary his golden head covering. A woman in red is dancing in the street as the camera pans closer to her breasts. Bill looks for Rick.Back at the camp, Lisa looks around the tomb. Bill finds the gold in the tomb and calls out. A severed head falls from the ceiling and lands in Bill's arms. He screams and flees back to the camp. Bill runs from the mummy's "soldiers." Jenny sees the mummy and freaks out. Bill shoots the mummy with a gun, but to no effect. The mummy strangles and tears off Bill's head. The models run and scream. Jenny gets torn apart and eaten alive by the mummy's "soldiers" while the models flee in a jeep.Back at the wedding celebration in town, there is dancing in the streets and the mummy's "soldiers" are seen eating a female guest in a tent. At this point, carnage ensues as everyone runs and the mummy soldiers grab and bite and tear into the guests. Total mayhem and gore in the streets. The mummy is standing in the street looking at the carnage.The two surviving models, Lisa and June, try a stick of dynamite on the mummy. Nothing happens. The models go into a shack, spread gasoline, light a fuse in a box of dynamite and blow up the shack with the mummy in it. Lisa and June celebrate with Gary and they all walk away. But in the final shot, the mummy's hand rises from the rubble.
