SILSILA is a love story, thwarted by society's demands, which reappears as adultery but can it survive in the face of society?
Amit (Amitabh Bachchan) a poet decides to bury his past life along with his love for Chandni (Rekha) when he meets Shobha (Jaya Bachchan). Shobha's life has come to a standstill after her fiancé and Amit's brother Shekhar (Shashi Kapoor) dies in a plane crash. Amit had only come to mourn the death of his brother with Shobha but ends up sacrificing his own love and life in an attempt to give Shobha a new lease of life. When fate brings Amit and Chandni face to face again, both are married to different people - but neither can ignore their feelings for each other. SILSILA is a story, thwarted by society's demands, which reappear as adultery but can it survive in the face of society?
Far away from suspicions and self-love, somewhere close, very close to trust. Heart woke up with a mirage that she loves me.Is it love or a dream?Amit's dream - the sequence of dreams, the sequence of love. One face, one hope, one smile. A search, a poignancy, a happiness, the world, a voice, a song. One dream, one illusion, one faith.Everything merged into a face - a face called Chandni. Chandni and Amit, between them flowered an eloquent love - the music vibrated. Both set out step by step on a journey as co-travellers, but the idyll did not last.Amit approached Shobha to wipe her tears, gave up all his happiness. Now he had nothing except live embers of memories. Every heart beat of Amit was coaxing him to remember some and forget the others. Shobha had stepped into his life. Shobha - silence personified, a summit, a worship. She was not a dream but a reality - truth, a faith.Amit, Shobha and Chandni were not just three names - but three directions, three human beings bound by love - three facets of love. Dreams of these three were scattered by the mists of life.What does it matter if some dream ends in a calamity?Time cannot minimise the intensity of feelings, distance does not strangle self-awareness. Down memory lane, the happenings of the past, on deserted paths, the forgotten promises. How can one recall?The sequence of memories began pulsating in one's veins. Each one now lived a cloistered life - some for himself, some for others. Their decisions were dwarfed by high walls of rumination. Society imposed its own barriers. Time brooding between the past and future stood up on uncertain legs and the three of them became aware of man's insignificance- in keeping with the world's negation from beginning to end.Only love implies mutual trust.It is a never-ending sequence
