A serial killer is on the loose. His victims are unfaithful wives and he always leaves compromising photographs at the crime scene.
Inspector Capuana investigates serial murders where the victims of unfaithful wives were get killed as they were having sex with their husbands. A naked woman is found murdered and mutilated in a prosperous small province town in Southern Italy. But who is murdering her? After a while, the killer who wears black fedora, gloves, and trench coat starts photographing unfaithful wives as they start having sex with their lovers and also killing them.
In a prosperous small provincial town in Southern Italy, a naked woman is discovered murdered and mutilated. By her body are a number of photographs of her having sex with her lover, his face having been cut out. At the morgue, the chief pathologist suggests to the detective in charge of the case, Inspector Capuano, that the victim was killed almost instantly by a from an open blade razor to the neck, the subsequent blows being the result of a homicidal fury. A fellow police officer is of the opinion that, due to the circumstances surrounding the murder, especially the presence of the photographs, they are dealing with a maniac. Capuano considers having the pictures of the lover blown up so that all his physical details can be logged, but rejects the idea as impractical, not least because the victims husband is a general with very powerful political connections, meaning that any investigation must be handled very delicately. It is decided in the meantime to arrest members of the local criminal fraternity and determine any links, no matter how tenuous, with the case. Despite intensive questioning of suspects, no new information is yielded and so Capuano returns home to his wife. She is worried about the effect his latest investigation is having on him, while he complains about the wall of silence surrounding the case, meaning that he cannot perform his duties properly. He also believes that the killer is very likely to strike again. Out in the countryside, a woman cavorting with her lover is covertly photographed by a figure whose features are obscured by gloves, a hat and heavy overcoat. Later, at a secret hideaway, the couple finish having sex. The lover bemoans having to leave, but is reminded that the woman must also leave so that she can host a bridge game organised by her husband. Shortly after he leaves, and she begins to dress, the villa is plunged into darkness and an attack is launched by the figure seen photographing the couple earlier. The woman manages to escape her assailant and makes it onto a nearby beach, before succumbing and being hacked to death by a razor. The killer scatters photographs over her body. The next morning her boyfriend is reassured by his lawyer that he has nothing to fear from the resulting police investigation, since his face had been removed from the photos. He is advised that because of the victims powerful husband, the police will not pursue the case too forcefully and that he should continue with his life as normal. Detective Capulano and the pathologist discuss the connection between the two murders and mull over possible motives for the crimes, including jealousy and psychosis brought about by impotence or homosexual rage. The detective hears strange laughter coming from the morgue and is taken inside by the pathologist. There they encounter, Gastoni, the morgue assistant who takes a strong pride in his work as an embalmer and whose laughter is the result of perfectly restoring a corpses former beauty. As they leave, the assistant is heard muttering something about forgiveness for sins. The next day, the police mount a surveillance operation on the latest victims funeral, filming those present. Nothing untoward is found. The following day, in a beauty salon, some of the well-to-do women of the town discuss recent events, and are concerned as to who could be the next victim. At a meeting with the Police Commissioner, Capuano admits that he has hit a dead end with the investigation, since the only suspects that he has are considered untouchable because of their social standing and political connections. He decides to continue the case nevertheless, convinced that the killer will strike again and possibly make a mistake. He is warned to tread carefully by his superior. Meanwhile, in a wooded area, two lovers are photographed as they make love in a car
