A young British punk and roadie for The Clash navigates life in socially torn 1970s England.
Rude Boy is a semi-documentary, part character study, part 'rockumentary', featuring a British punk band, The Clash. The script includes the story of a fictional fan juxtposed with actual public events of the day, including political demonstrations and Clash concerts. Filmed over a period of years, the written dialog takes on the appearance of improvisation.
Rude Boy is part documentary and part short film centering on punk band, The Clash and one of their "roadies"(he's really more of a tag along as he is somewhat lazy and doesnt appear to have any technical knowledge on setting up or fixing sound or music equipment.) by the name of Ray Gange, who is actually one of the writers and directors of the film. The film takes place between the bands release of their explosive debut album and its follow up, the very underrated, "Give 'Em Enough Rope"(an album that has largly been cast aside solely because of its more radio friendly production brought about by Sandy Pearlman who was seen as unfit to work with a a punk band because he had previously worked with bands such as Blue Oyster Cult.)
Ray the roadie plays the foil by being somewhat dim and spouting off knee jerk conservative statements to which the rest of the band, in particular, Joe Strummer, can respond and react to. The film captures the tension on the streets of London in the late 70s as economic disaster seems to loom overhead and many begin to look for scapegoats in the form of non white immigrants. The conservative political group, the National Front takes this cue to fan the fires of race war in the streets and groups like The Clash both observed and addressed these issues in their music at a time when no other bands would outside of the punk music scene. The film features live footage from some very legendary shows such as the rock against racism rally held in Victoria Park and attended by over 100,000 people. The Clash is seen on camera at its peak and the film offers some rare opportunities to see the band in a more candid setting than on stage or in a planned interview. a must see for fans of punk rock and really music in general.
