A crashed plane that had a shrunken head aboard is the only clue to a mystery involving a secret code.
Based on the "I Love a Mystery" radio program (where most of the stories were told in serial fashion over several episodes): Searching through the wreckage of a crashed airline, the police find five shrunken human heads, and one of them is a white man with red hair. The head belonged to an explorer, deemed lost on an expedition to South America, and is tagged as a victim of jungle savagery. His daughter thinks otherwise, and suspects foul-play outside the jungle. She hires a team of private detectives to investigate, and points them in the direction of her stepmother and a colleague of her father, who appears to be more than a colleague of the stepmother. The detective, however, also looks in another direction and vocation for the killer.
Louise Mitchell is the widow of Quentin Mitchell, the former curator of the local museum, he who went missing on an expedition into the jungles of South America and was never found. Louise hires the renowned private detective team of Jack Packard and Doc Long as she believes that a man named Rex Kennedy, her eighteen year old stepdaughter Janet Mitchell's current companion, is trying to kill her. Louise does not know if what she believes Rex's plans are of his own doing out of love for Janet or on Janet's direction. Janet and Louise do not get along, Janet who believes Louise may have killed her father, or at least had been cavorting with Arthur Logan, an associate of Quentin's at the museum, behind her father's back. During the detectives' investigation, an incident at the Mitchell house leads to Janet questioning all of her allegiances, except to taxidermist Leon Hartman, her father's closest friend, she who has always called him Uncle Leon despite they not being blood relations. Many of Leon's stuffed animals are on display at the museum. Through the investigation, Jack discovers that all the answers - what happened to Quentin Mitchell, and if Rex and/or Janet are indeed trying to kill Louise - can be discovered through a shrunken head that was being illegally shipped back to South America on a cargo plane that crashed, its source and ultimate destination unknown as the packing information was destroyed in the crash, but which had been sent to the museum for safekeeping until such information is discovered.

