A somewhat vulgar but dedicated painter searches for the perfect realization of his artistic vision, much to the chagrin of others.
Gulley Jimson is broke, difficult, conniving, uncouth, and a welcher, but an artist. The visions in his head may not really satisfy him when realized, but the quest continues, for the perfect wall. The Beeders leave for six weeks of vacation, and return to find a seven thousand pound committment, and the wall of their living room a national treasure, even though living with a wall mural of feet is not their cup of tea. Then, in a bombed out church scheduled for demolition, THE wall that can become his vision.
Gulley Jimson is a British artist with a modicum of local renown, great talent and passion, but no money to show for any of it, he living, albeit happily, on a dilapidated houseboat on the London docks. He also has no sense of propriety, most noticeable when it impedes he being able to create art, especially when he has an artistic vision, which is often, or impedes he being able to get the occasional pint in his stomach for which he usually can't pay. The only person who seemingly appreciates him is Nosey Barbon, a young man who wants to study under him, while Gulley sees him solely as a nuisance. Gulley sees most of his current problems centering around a number of associated issues. He has received a letter from A.W. Alabaster on behalf of his employers, Lord and Lady Beeder, who want to purchase one of his earlier works for a handsome sum, one that is in the same style as one painting with which they are familiar. Gulley no longer has any of those early paintings, all nineteen which were taken by his now remarried ex-wife, Sarah Monday, once his muse. While Gulley would say she stole them, she would counter that she used them to pay off some of their debts to Mr. Hickson. Gulley continually bothering Hickson to get the paintings back has already landed him jail once, Hickson not hesitant to call the police again if the harassment, as he sees what Gulley is doing, continues. Through it all, Gulley continues to do what Gulley does best, which is have his artistic visions which he feels he has to carry out at whatever cost to himself and to others.

