Three more bone-chilling tales that include a vengeful wooden Native American, a monstrous blob in a lake, and a hitchhiker who wants revenge and will not die.
"Creepshow 2" is divided into three stories, conducted by a leading segment where a boy that loves the horror comic book Creepshow buys seeds of carnivorous plant and is bullied by four teenagers. Meanwhile the Creep tells the tales of Creepshow: (1) "Old Chief Wood'nhead" - The elders Ray (George Kennedy) and Martha Spruce (Dorothy Lamour) have lived their whole life and raised their family with their small store in an Arizona town. Now the town is economically decadent and Ray gives credit to his costumers including the Indians of Ben Whitemoon's tribe. When Ray is repairing the wooden statue of an old chief in the front door, Ben (Frank Salsedo) arrives and asks him to keep the jewels of his tribe as a guarantee for their debts. However, Ben's nephew Sam (Holt McCallany) unexpectedly arrives with two other punks to steal Ray, and he kills the elders. They expect to travel to Hollywood, but the Old Chief Wood'nhead will not let them go. (2) "The Raft" - The teenagers Deke (Paul Satterfield) and Randy (Daniel Beer) travel with Laverne (Jeremy Green) and Rachel (Page Hannah) to a lake expecting to smoke weed, swim and get laid. They swim to a raft that is floating in the middle of the lake, but they discover a carnivorous blob in the lake that is hungry. (3) "The Hitchhiker" - In Maine, the unfaithful Annie Lansing (Lois Chiles) stays too long having sex with her escort and is late to meet her husband in the airport. She drives her Mercedes Benz in a hurry and loses control on the road. Annie runs over a hitchhiker, but she does not help the man and hit-and-run, questioning whether she can live with the situation. She discovers that the hitchhiker will not leave her.
EC Comics-inspired weirdness returns with three tales. In the first, a wooden statue of a Native American comes to life...to exact vengeance on the murderer of his elderly owners. In the second, four teens are stranded on a raft on a lake with a blob that is hungry. And in the third, a hit and run woman is terrorized by the hitchhiker she accidentally killed...or did she really kill him?
Three more stories told from a comic book are presented by the Creep. The first is about a dime-store Native American that seeks vengeance on those who killed the store's owners. The second is about a carnivorous mass of pond scum that attacks four people on a raft. The final tale is about a rich woman who accidentally kills a hitchhiker while speeding home from an affair with a male prostitute.
PrologueA delivery truck pulls up to a newsstand in a small town where a young boy named Billy (a character from the first Creepshow movie) arrives eagerly waiting for it. The truck's back shutter opens to reveal a sinister figure (Tom Savini) who drops off a package onto the sidewalk: the latest issue of Creepshow, much to Billy's delight. As the package opens of its own accord, Billy begins to read and the delivery man reveals his true identity as the Creepshow Creep."Old Chief Wooden Head"An elderly couple, named Ray and Martha Spruce (George Kennedy and Dorothy Lamour), living in a small Arizona silver mining town, oversee a general goods store with a cigar store Indian named "Old Chief Wooden Head" who adorns the front porch and are humbled to see their old, run-down town coming to a bitter end.The Spruces are then visited by a Native American elder named Benjamin Whitemoon (Frank Salsedo) from a local tribe who gives them turquoise jewellery, which are his tribe's sacred treasures, as collateral for the debt the tribe has incurred. The elder bids them farewell and returns to his tribe.When Spruces go back inside their store, the couple are then subject to a vicious robbery led by Benjamin's nephew, Sam (armed with a shotgun) and his two friends. After ransacking the store, Sam demands that Ray hand over the turquoise. Ray resists, and as a result, the Spruces are then shot and killed by Sam. The three thugs then leave in their car and begin preparations to run away to Hollywood, California. Old Chief Wooden Head then comes to life and goes out on a warpath to kill Sam and his friends and avenge the murdered Spruces.Old Chief Wooden Head brutally kills Sam's two friends. He attacks the first thug by shooting arrows through the first thug's trailer, killing him. The wooden Indian then kills the second one by hacking him apart in his garage. Then, the wooden Indian then corners Sam in his trailer. Sam, confronted by the living walking Indian, sees that he is unable to fight back as the shells from his shotgun have no effect on his wooden assailant. Sam attempts to lock himself in his bathroom but Old Chief Wooden Head breaks through the wall and scalps Sam alive as he screams in terror.The next morning, Benjamin Whitemoon wakes up in the morning he finds the bag containing the turquoise jewellery by his side. He visits the Spruce's general store to find Old Chief Wooden Head back on his pedestal, holding his nephew's scalp. Now aware of what has happened, Benjamin wishes the dead Spruces a peaceful afterlife as well as peace for Old Chief Wooden Head now that his revenge quest has been completed. Whitemoon then drives away.Animated Interlude #1Billy is seen at the town post office, receiving a package from when he sent a product ad from his copy of the Creepshow magazine. Incensed by the skeptical clerk's dismissal of paying $9.99 for a toy from the "funny papers," Billy reveals that the package actually contains the bulb for a carnivorous Venus Flytrap. The clerk doubts the actuality of the package and Billy sets off for home."The Raft"Four college students, Deke, Laverne, Randy, and Rachel decide to go swimming in a desolate lake far away from civilization. As they make their way to a wooden raft in the middle of the lake, they realize that they are being terrorized by floating black blob when it grabs a hold of Rachel and consumes her.The frightened students begin to panic and mourn the loss of Rachel. Deke then contemplates quickly swimming to shore so he can bring back help as he is a fast swimmer. But before he can carry out his plan, the blob seeps through the raft's cracks and pulls Deke through the raft, killing him in the process. Randy and Laverne manage to evade the creature long enough to where it gives up trying to grab them from under the raft as well.Randy and Laverne spend the entire night on the raft, afraid to fall asleep in fear that the creature will attack them while they sleep. They do manage to fall asleep and Randy is the first to wake up in the morning, relieved to find that Laverne and himself made it through the night. With Laverne still sleeping, he begins caressing her body and fondling her breasts. She soon awakes screaming in agony as the creature has seeped through the cracks and has a hold of her face, much to Randy's horror.As the oil-like blob pulls her off the raft and begins consuming her, Randy uses the opportunity to jump off the raft and swim to shore. He ultimately makes it, barely escaping the creature and yells "I beat you!" However, the oil creature rises up from the water like a wave and engulfs Randy.The oil blob returns to the lake, with no evidence of the four students even visiting the lake other than their car which was left running the whole time. The camera pans out to reveal a "No Swimming" sign barely visible from behind some growth.Animated Interlude #2On his way back home from the post office, Billy is ambushed by a gang of neighborhood bullies, who harass him and take his package from him. The gang's leader then opens the package, finding the Venus Flytrap bulb, and throws it on the ground, crushing it with his foot. In retaliation, Billy kicks the bully in the groin and flees, with the bully and his gang in hot pursuit."The Hitchhiker"An adulterous businesswoman named Annie Lansing (Lois Chiles) gets up from bed after sleeping with her extramarital lover (who is a gigolo), realizing that she has to get home before her wealthy attorney husband to avoid suspicion. Annie hops into her Mercedes-Benz and makes way for home several miles away.On the way, she accidentally kills an innocent hitchhiker (Tom Wright) as a result of her speeding down the dark road, eager to beat her husband to the house. Seeing that no one witnessed the incident, Annie takes off without much thought. Shortly after Annie takes off, the area of the incident is crowded by passersby, with many reporting the hit-and-run to the police.Miles away from the scene, Annie stops along the road and begins thinking about what she has done and the consequences involved, but she ultimately concludes that no one has anything on her and thinks everything will be fine. Before she can continue, however, the hitchhiker she killed suddenly appears outside her window and utters "Thanks for the ride, lady." (A line repeated by the hitchhiker throughout the story).The frightened Annie then speeds off in terror, but everywhere she goes, the hitchhiker always reappears and becomes her tormentor throughout the trip as she repeatedly runs him over, hurls off the top of her car, slams his body into trees, etc. as he only gets more and more battered and bloody without dying. Annie eventually loses control of her car in which she drives off the road and down a hill and into a tree, knocking herself out.She awakes a short while later, not seeing the hitchhiker anywhere in sight, believing it to be a bad dream. She gets back on the road and drives home, succeeding in getting there before her husband. As she begins to step out of her car, the hitchhiker appears from under her car, completely mangled from the trip, still uttering "Thanks for the ride, lady," as he was made or programed to do by the forces of Hell. The hitchhiker begins attacking her as she vainly attempts to fight him off.Later, Annie's husband finally arrives home to find his wife's dead body in her car, dead from carbon monoxide poisoning caused from the still running car, with the hitchhiker's sign lying beside her showing his targeted destination (reading: DOVER).EpilogueStill being chased by the bullies, Billy leads his pursuers into a vacant lot swarming with out of control plant growth. As he rides into what seems to be a dead end, the bullies move in to pummel him only to learn that the bulb they smashed was not the first one Billy had ordered, as a quintet of Giant Flytraps emerge from the surrounding weeds and devour the thugs one by one. The spectacle is witnessed by the Creep himself, who cackles in glee as he drives off in his delivery truck to deliver the latest issue of Creepshow to another town.
