Three American women working in Rome, Italy, share a spacious apartment and the desire to find love and marriage, each experiencing a few bumps in their journeys to romance.
Three American women, rooming together while working abroad in Rome, Italy, hope for romance and marriage. Frances, oldest of the three, has been fifteen years a secretary to novelist John Frederick Shadwell, a man whom she loves but whose reclusive nature prompts most people to believe him long since dead. Anita, one week away from returning to America (under the claim of getting married), finally bucks company rules (and gets caught) by finally accepting an invitation from an Italian co-worker to visit his family's farm for his sister's wedding. Newly arrived Maria soon sets her generally innocent eyes on Dino di Cessi, an actual prince with a reputation for womanizing, and makes a play for him by making herself his perfect match.
American girls dream of finding romance in Rome, but there is none for secretaries. That's what Anita tells her replacement at the USDA, but newly arrived Maria soon meets Prince Dino de Cessi at a party, who invites her to fly to Venice in his private plane. Frances, who has been in Rome for fifteen years as the secretary of a successful American writer (who talks a lot like George Bernard Shaw and is just as elusive as Professor Henry Higgins in "My Fair Lady"), tells her at first to say "no" but then decides that together they can handle the man nicknamed the predatory prince. Coins tossed in the Trevi Fountain can indeed work magic.
Three American roommates working in Italy wish for the man of their dreams after throwing coins into Rome's magnificent Trevi Fountain. Frances, a secretary at a government agency, sets out to win the heart of her smooth-talking novelist employer; Anita, her co-worker, defies office regulations by romancing an Italian who works at the agency; and, office newcomer Maria meets a real Italian Prince Charming and falls madly in love. Now the only thing the three hopeful ladies need to do is seal their fate.

