An insane hunter arranges for a ship to be wrecked on an island where he can indulge in some sort of hunting and killing of the passengers.
After their luxury cabin cruiser crashes on a reef, Bob Rainsford finds himself washed ashore on a remote island. He finds a fortress-like house and the owner, Count Zaroff, seems to be quite welcoming. Apart from Zaroff's servant Ivan, the only other people present are Eve Trowbridge and her brother Martin, also survivors of their own shipwreck. Other survivors are missing however and Rainsford soon learns why. Zaroff releases them into his jungle island and then hunts them down in his grisly "outdoor chess" game! Then after Martin disappears, Bob realizes that he and Eve are to be the next "pawns" in Zaroff's deadly game.
Joel McCrea plays Bob a renowned big game hunter and author whose ship sinks off a small island. Bob as sole survivor makes his way across the island to a castle seeking refuge. There he is greeted by master of the castle Count Zaroff played by Leslie Banks. Zaroff offers Bob his hospitality and soon he is introduced to Martin and Eve who explain they were also recently shipwrecked along with two sailors in their party. When an opportunity arises to speak privately with Bob, Eve conveys her suspicions that all is not right. It appears that after being given a tour of the Count's mysterious locked trophy room, the two sailors went out hunting but have not returned. As Count Zaroff regales the group with his hunting exploits he reveals an insatiable need to hunt more and more challenging game. He claims he was bored until he discovered "the most dangerous game" on his island. It does not take long before Eve and Bob discover exactly what the most dangerous game is-humans, who the Count hunts on the island, hanging their heads in his trophy room. They find themselves the prey in a contest to see if they can survive the night and thereby win their freedom and safe passage off the island. What ensues is a fast-paced thriller in which Bob and Eve must keep themselves alive among the elements of the island-dense jungle, impenetrable fog, perilous cliffs, dangerous waterfalls, treacherous bog-while on the run from their hunter and his pack of vicious dogs. The hunt is an edge-of-your-seat nail-biter. In the end, Bob truly understands what it is to be the hunted rather than the hunter, and it changes his perspective forever.
A cabin cruiser is shipwrecked off the coast of a remote island, and its three passengers manage to reach the island safely. The island is owned by a strange and enigmatic count who invites them to stay. But he has an underlying motive for his apparent generosity: Count Zaroff enjoys hunting--and he only hunts the most dangerous game: humans!
After surviving a shipwreck in reefs not signalized in the maritime charts, the famous hunter Rober "Bob" Rainsford is lodged by the Russian hunter Count Zaroff in his castle in an isolated island. Bob meets Eve Trowbridge and her brother Martin Trowbridge, also survivors of another wrecked vessel and hosted by Zaroff. Soon, Bob and Eve find that they are part of a hunting game plotted by the insane Zarof where they are the prey, and they have to escape and survive until the next morning to Zaroff and his hounds.

