A woman takes revenge on the man who invades her home and tries to rape her.
An intended rape victim manages to escape from her attacker but leaves her purse behind. Worried that he may visit her house and finish what he has started, she contacts the police but they are unable to help, saying that she has no proof. "If he calls, let us know and we'll send a man round!" A fat load of good that would be. Her worst fears are realised when, alone one day in the house, her attacker visits and attempts again to rape her. Circumstances allow her not only to resist the attack but to turn the tables and lock him away. And that is where her dilemma really starts. Does she release him and risk another attack? Does she go to the police and risk being called a liar? Or does she kill him - and become as low as him?
In Los Angeles, the gorgeous Marjorie stops her car after-hours in a parking area to buy an ice-cream. However the store has just closed and when she returns to her car, a masked stranger attacks and attempts to rape her using a knife. Marjorie succeeds to flee, but the man keeps her purse with her documents. She goes to the police to report the assault but the female officer tells her that there is no evidence and no case since it is her word against the rapist's word. A couple of days later, the rapist breaks in Marjorie's house while her roommates Patricia and Terry are not at home. The cynical Joe submits Marjories to sadistic abuses and humiliations preparing to rape her. Out of the blue, Marjorie sprays insecticide in Joe's eyes, reverting the situation dominating Joe and then she ties him up. She decides to bury Joe alive in a grave in her garden since she does not have evidence to keep him in prison and he had promised to return to kill her. But Terry and Patty arrive and try to convince Marjorie to call the police and think about the consequence of her intention. What will she do?
After losing her purse during a late-night sexual assault at an empty parking lot and barely managing to escape, young Marjorie, a single museum employee, reports the incident to the police only to discover that she is virtually unprotected against her unknown assailant. As a result, it is not long before the hapless woman will face again her ruthless rapist in the privacy of her home, however, when Marjorie manages to turn the tables, by the time her two housemates return, the battered pursuer will be tied up in the fireplace. Now that the humiliated and abused Marjorie has the upper hand, who knows to what extremes she will be pushed to get her retribution.

