Donald visits Daisy. When he can't open a window, he flies into a rage and practically destroys her house. She won't see him again until he takes care of that temper. He orders a mail-order insult machine, which promises that if Donald can endure 10 minutes of abuse without losing his temper, he'll be cured. It proceeds to deliver physical and verbal abuse, and Donald is cured. He goes back and Daisy tests him on the balky window.
Donald decides to visit Daisy at her home. Politely, she asks him to open a window for her. Donald struggles and strains, but in the end, the window won't budge. Furious at this, he smashes the glass, and ends up wrecking the entire room. Daisy is appalled at his behavior and shows Donald that he just needed to turn the little knob atop the frame to open it. Upset at how easily he lost his temper, she orders Donald to leave until he can control his temper.While trudging through the streets, Donald sees an ad in a newspaper, from the Tootsberry Institute, promising a way to cure temper issues. The machine they send Donald promises that if Donald can take it's taunts for 10 minutes, and still control his temper, he'll be cured forever. The machine abuses Donald in numerous ways, from punching him, clipping the buttons off his sailor suit, pummeling his feet with a brick, and even blaring loud sounds into his ear. After 10 minutes, Donald is still standing, and has not lost his temper. At this point, the machine declares that he's done it!Donald eagerly races back to Daisy's, to tell her that he's changed. She decides to test this by having him open the window. Donald manages to turn the little knob atop the window, but still struggles to get it open. Just when it seems he's succeeded, the glass in the window pane falls out and smashes over his head. But even though this happens, Donald still remains in good spirits. Daisy is pleased, and decides to go out with Donald.She rushes upstairs, and returns wearing a strange-looking hat for their date. Donald laughs at her hat, only to have her lose her temper, and start beating him with her purse.
