Unfounded suspicions lead a married couple to begin divorce proceedings, whereupon they start undermining each other's attempts to find new romance.
Before their divorce becomes final, Jerry and Lucy Warriner both do their best to ruin each other's plans for remarriage, Jerry to haughty socialite Barbara Vance, she to oil-rich bumpkin Daniel Leeson. Among their strategies: Jerry's court-decreed visitation rights with Mr. Smith, their pet fox terrier, and Lucy doing her most flamboyant Dixie Belle Lee impersonation as Jerry's brassy "sister" before his prospective bride's scandalized family.
Married couple Lucy and Jerry Warriner both suspect the other of cheating and find themselves in divorce court. The divorce is granted - the only point of contention is who gets their dog, Mr. Smith. They soon have significant others. Lucy starts seeing her neighbor from across the hall, Daniel Leeson while Jerry is seeing Barbara Vance. The two are soon going out of their way to sabotage the other's relationship. Having succeeded, Jerry and Lucy find themselves alone in her aunt's country house realizing the mistake they've made.
Although they still seem to love each other, New York sophisticates Lucy and Jerry Warriner don't feel they can trust the other any more based on what appears on the surface of their marriage, despite each vowing that what they state, contrary to appearance, is the truth. As such, they decide to get a divorce, they, however, still needing to see each other based on visitation rights for Mr. Smith, aka Smitty, their pet terrier. With two months to go before the divorce becomes final, Lucy doesn't seem too anxious to replace Jerry with any other man, until she meets Dan Leeson, an Oklahoma oil baron, who she agrees to marry, largely as he represents the antithesis of Jerry. And based on that mistrust in their marriage, Jerry gets engaged to snobbish socialite Barbara Vance. However, each eventually comes to the conclusion that they still love each other and try, without directly saying so and without the other knowing, to get back together. The questions become whether they will come to this conclusion at the same time, and if so if it will happen before they are no longer man and wife in sixty days.
Jerry and Lucy are a married couple who doubt each other's fidelity: Jerry suspects Lucy and her music teacher of spending an evening together, and Lucy is convinced Jerry lied about a business trip. When the jealous pair file for divorce, both rush into new relationships, but quickly realize their love never died. The soon-to-be-divorced husband and wife then both scramble to spoil each other's chances for newfound romance.
Jerry and Lucy Warriner lead madcap screwball high society lives in New York City. Despite being very happy, they start to doubt each other's fidelity. Finally they decide to divorce. Lucy wins custody of the dog but Jerry secures visitation rights. Before their divorce is final they both become engaged to other people. She meets Dan Leeson, a rich but boring Oklahoma oil man who travels with his mother. Jerry courts Barbara Vance, debutante and heiress. Each does their best to foil the other's plans, with hilarious results.

