To escape a gender war, a girl flees to a remote farmhouse and becomes part of an extensive family's unusual, perhaps even supernatural, lifestyle.
There is a war in the world between the men and the women. A young girl tries to escape this reality and comes to a hidden place where a strange unicorn lives with a family: Sister, Brother, many children and an old woman that never leaves her bed but stays in contact with the world through her radio. Since the content of this picture is not as important as the pictures and allegories, the simple plot can not be described further.
In a dystopian future, a mid-teen named Lily is trying to escape the bloodshed associated with the war between the sexes, she barely getting away from a group of men that have just assassinated a group of women. Lily is able to take "fantasy" refuge on a farmhouse property, which is inhabited by among others: an old bedridden woman, who speaks largely in some foreign tongue, speaks to others over a wireless radio, has a rat named Humphrey as a friend, and receives her nourishment in an unconventional manner for a person her age; a non-speaking brother and sister both also named Lily (although his is spelled differently), who she assumes are the bedridden woman's children, and the brother who communicates through touch; a group of naked children shepherds; and a talking unicorn. Although Lily's relationships with the others are not always in harmony, especially with the elderly woman, she tries to find her rightful place there in light of the alternative.
After enjoying critical and commercial successes with Murmur of the Heart and Lacombe, Lucien, Malle decided to go for something much more experimental and free-form. Always a great fan of myth and fantasy, and especially of the work of Lewis Carroll, Malle tries to create the special, charged atmosphere of a world in which actions, objects and creatures are never quite what they seem. The film begins when the teenaged Lily (Harrison) has a road accident and discovers she's landed smack in the middle of some kind of civil war. Fleeing into a nearby field, she comes upon a lonely mansion inhabited by an old lady (Giehse) who knows how to talk to animals. Shot by the great Sven Nykvist, Black Moon offers a distinctively different approach to the theme of adolescent self-realization that has been a frequent concern in Malle's work.
