Two sidewalk salesman enlist in the army in order to avoid jail, only to find that their drill instructor is the police officer who tried having them imprisoned.
Bud and Lou enlist in the army in order to escape being hauled off to jail, and soon find themselves in basic training. To their dismay, the company's drill instructor is none other than the cop who was all set to run them off to the hoosegow in the first place! The boys end up having a whale of a time getting under the skin of their humourless nemesis.
Outside a movie theater that has been converted into a U.S. Army Recruiting Headquarters, confidence men Slicker "Smithy" Smith (Bud Abbott) and Herbie Brown (Lou Costello) sell their ten-cent "silk" ties. Inside, playboy Randolph Parker III (Lee Bowman) tells Captain Johnson that his being drafted is a mistake, as he has made plans to work for his industrialist father in Washington. His chauffeur, Bob Martin (Alan Curtis), is the first man selected in the draft, and he gladly accepts his new role, especially as it means getting away from Randolph. After being chased inside the building by the police, Slicker and Herbie mistakenly volunteer themselves for the draft. Herbie thinks he can get out of the army because he is overweight, but Slicker turns on a heater beneath Herbie, causing him to lose enough weight to pass the physical by a few ounces. After their induction into the Army, Bob and Randolph have words, and Bob punches the playboy. The new soldiers are later met at a railway station by a group of USO hostesses, and both Randolph and Bob take immediate fancies to hostess Judy Gray (Jane Frazee), but she has little use for either of them. Meanwhile, Slicker and Herbie set up a dice game, with Slicker winning everyone's money, including Herbie's. Arriving at boot camp, Randolph, Bob, Slicker and Herbie are assigned to "K" Company, which is supervised by Sergeant Michael Collins, an ex-policeman who had earlier chased Slicker and Herbie. Randolph's father arrives at the camp as training begins, but rather than remove Randolph, he fully supports his son's new occupation, hoping the Army can make a man out of the playboy. While Herbie is a complete flop as a soldier, Randolph shows great dexterity, especially on the rifle range. Sergeant Collins arranges a shooting contest, and the entire company, except Randolph, bets their money on the outcome. Learning that Bob is the team alternate, Randolph pretends to be injured, so that he can spend that time alone with Judy. The company loses the contest, and Randolph is ostracized by all, including Judy. The company manages to get their money back, however, when Herbie wins a wild boxing match against a hulking veteran boxer. During army test maneuvers, Randolph, Bob, Slicker and Herbie are sent on patrol to blow up a block house. Randolph then saves Bob's life when he loses his footing while climbing a mountain. Once over the mountain, Randolph and Bob discover that they are outnumbered by a Blue army patrol. Randolph then acts as a diversion as Bob sneaks around the patrol and blows up the target. That night, Randolph is informed that he is being sent to officers' training school, not based on influence, but on merit. Later, at the "victory" dance, Randolph is congratulated by all, as Bob has told everyone of his bravery. He and Judy make up, and he proudly tells her of his new appointment. Randolph then learns that Bob has been accepted into officers' training school as well. While the two young officers continue their pursuit of Judy, Herbie gets Sergeant Collins into a dice game. In the end, Herbie winds up in a barrel instead of his pants.
