A man and his girlfriend driving in their car have an accident. The man gets amnesia and wanders away from the accident. He is taken in by a traveling preacher, and several years later returns to his hometown as the Rev. Tad Morgan, still unaware of his previous life there. His girlfriend, who was injured in the accident and is now an ex-convict living with her crook boyfriend in a sleazy apartment, decides to take her revenge on the now-respectable preacher.
Ted Matthews (Jonathan Kidd) and his girlfriend, Terry James (Lyn Statten) celebrate a little too much on their date and have a car accident on the highway, and Ted thinks he has killed the driver of the other car and the shock leaves him with amnesia. The next morning, Ted is picked up by Noah Turnbull (Frank Arvidson), a traveling tent-show evangelist , and under Noah's tutelage Ted, as Tad Morgan, the name he took on after his amnesia, becomes a world-famed evangelist. Terry, having gone through a lot of wear-and-tear, learns that Tad Morgan is really Ted Matthews, and she and her lover, Pete (John Harmon), decide to blackmail the young evangelist and she confronts Tad and his memory returns. She discovers that he still thinks he killed the other driver who, actually only been knocked unconscious. Not satisfied with just blackmail, Terry uses what feminine charms she has left to force Tad/Ted into a drunken stupor and marries him in a phony ceremony. When he awakens the next morning and learns about the marriage. Terry insists that he take her to his home or she will "sing" to his congregation. Driven to near madness by this new predicament, Tad tries to murder Terry by throwing her over a bridge. He returns to his congregation, thankful he is free of her. But Terry survives and returns to her apartment where she has been staying with Tad. On the bed in the darkness, her lover Pete, wearing Tad's bathrobe, is sleeping in a drunken stupor. Thinking he is Tad, Terry pulls out her pistol and shoots and kills Pete. Terry discovers her horrible mistake, and she rushes to Tad's home obsessed with the idea of murdering him. However, when she arrives, Tad, now Ted again, wrests the gun from her and strangles her to death. In her purse he finds a newspaper clipping and learns for the first time he didn't kill the man in the car crash. Tad goes to his tabernacle and kneels on the steps and begs God to show him the way out of his dilemma. Then he feels a stab of pain that tells him he is having a fatal heart attack.

