Intrigue at the Roman Emperor's court prior to its destruction by Vesuvius.
In 79 AD the Roman city of Herculaneum was destroyed by the eruption of Vesuvius. The film spends a lot of time and money, with numerous extras, on the political intrigues at the court of the emperor Titus Flavius, but the actual eruption is underplayed.
General Marcus Tiberius, the nephew of Emperor Titus Flavius, returns to Rome in triumph and finds it in turmoil. More and more people are being murdered on the streets and the community of Christians are being blamed. However Tiberius accuses Tercius, the emperor's unscrupulous advisor, of using the Christians as a scapegoat for everything that is going on. Titus Flavius tells Tiberius that the Christians are gathering together for a celebration at Heraculum and orders him to go there and await further orders. Tercius is says that the Christians are "the enemies of Rome and should all be destroyed." Tiberius goes to Heraculum and confronts the Christian leader. Lepidus, Tiberius, faithful centurion, recognises him as a man he has followed for 20 years and tells Tiberius that he is a good man. Convinced that the Christians bear no threat to Rome, he lets them all go back to their homes. When he returns to Rome and explains to Titus Flavius what he has done, the emperor strips him of all his titles and sent into exile to the Roman province of Illyia. However Tiberius is determined to investigate the matter himself. Not as a soldier, but as the nephew of Titus Flavius, Emperor of Rome. Amidst all of the love, passion and intrigue going on at the court of Titus Flavius in AD 79, a disaster is looming. In the shadow of the volcano, Mount Vesuvius, the city is about to be destroyed.
Don't you think you should change the name of this movie to A D 79 The Destruction of Herculaneum aka Anno 79 La Distruzione di Ercolano (1962) so that viewers know it is also available with an English dialogue. If you search for the movie using its English name it comes up "nothing found," which defeats the object.

