An agent must search for a new personality to replace a popular singer who refuses to renew his radio contract. He finds one in the form of a single mother, but complications soon occur.
Conceited singer Garry Mitchell refuses to renew his radio contract, so agent Doug Blake decides to find a new personality to replace Garry. In New York, he finds Martha Gibson, a single mother with a great voice. He arranges for her to move to Hollywood, but then has a problem trying to sell her to the show's sponsor. Doug tries every trick he can think of to make Martha a star, and as the two work more closely, he falls in love with her. Complicating matters further is when Martha meets and becomes attracted to Garry.
Gary Mitchell is the singing star of the national radio program "The Hour of Enchantment", sponsored by Felix Hofer's House of Beauty. Hofer is happy as he likes Gary's singing - as popular music goes - and his products are selling. Gary was just an up and comer when he got this gig with the help of his talent agency and his agent Doug Blake. But when his contract comes up for renewal, Gary, who believes his star power can get him bigger and better singing gigs, decides not to re-sign. Doug, hurt by Gary's move since he knows Gary would be nothing without him or the agency, decides to find a new, fresh and exciting replacement singer to outshine Gary. Traveling to New York from Hollywood on this quest, Doug thinks he's found the voice when he meets single mother and aspiring singer Martha Gibson. When Doug brings Martha to Hollywood to audition for Hofer, Hofer rejects her as the replacement, he not liking her upbeat and cutesy style of music. Doug knows that Martha is talented, and with the help of the agency's trusty assistant Vivian Martin, Doug does whatever he can to sell Martha as the next big singing sensation. One person who does take an interest in Martha is Gary, his interest being primarily in her romantically and only if she severs her ties with Doug. Through the ups and downs of trying to make a career from her singing, Martha has to decide if her allegiances and true feelings lie with Doug or Gary, especially as Doug too admits that he is falling in love with her. A move by Doug and a subsequent move by Gary show her what her answer is.

