Nine months after they split up Bob and Mary meet at his New York apartment to sort out some tax matters. He's getting married to healthy-eating Tiffany as soon as the divorce becomes final, and she is attracted by fellow tenant Dirk Winston, a Hollywood star and - according to Bob - between Bob and Mary. He's frightened to be alone with her for a start.
Beyond his imminent marriage to much younger hyper-health conscious socialite Tiffany Richards, Bob McKellaway, who owns and operates his own small struggling New York publishing house, is having a string of bad luck. What he thought was going to be the success of his latest book has turned out to be a critical failure. He has received a manuscript of the memoirs of an old acquaintance, suave Hollywood actor Dirk Winsten, who he does not know how to tell gracefully that the manuscript, beyond being poorly written, is the type of trash he doesn't want to publish. But probably worst of all, the IRS is auditing him, questioning $6,000 worth of what he had claimed as business expenses. His longtime friend Oscar Nelson is acting as his tax attorney. As Bob's memory about any of the questioned receipts is sketchy at best, Oscar calls in from Philadelphia Bob's soon-to-be ex-wife Mary McKellaway to help clarify some of those receipts, Oscar who is and was as close friends with Mary as he is with Bob. Oscar asking Mary does not sit well with Bob, who has not seen Mary in nine months as the break-up was somewhat acrimonious. As the five descend at various times on Bob's New York apartment to deal with their issues with Bob over an approximate twenty-four hour period, complications ensue from various aspects of their interrelationships. The soon-to-be former and future Mmes. McKellaway have never met and can't help but want to compare notes. Romantic sparks may fly between any one of two beautiful women and a suave movie star. And despite their acrimonious breakup, Mary can't help but walk into Bob's apartment - what was their love nest - for the first time and still not have feelings for him, regardless of negative implications of how he made and makes her feel as a human being, while Bob, who also still has feelings for Mary, believes the fact that she drives him crazy should take precedent. The question between the still husband and wife is if they can recognize and get over their marital differences before it's too late.

