Fighting over an inheritance, one Pyncheon brother frames the other for murder.
In 1828, the bankrupt Pyncheon family fight over Seven Gables, the ancestral mansion. To obtain the house, Jaffrey Pyncheon obtains his brother Clifford's false conviction for murder. Hepzibah, Clifford's sweet fiancée, patiently waits twenty years for his release, whereupon Clifford and his former cellmate, abolitionist Matthew, have a certain scheme in mind.
The House of Seven Gables has been in the Pyncheon family for many generations. Colonel Jaffrey Pyncheon stole the land from Matthew Maule, who put a curse on the family. Colonel Pyncheon and many of his male descendants died by choking on their own blood during a sudden seizure.On a rainy night in 1828, the current Jaffrey Pyncheon arrives at Seven Gables. His father, Gerald, has summoned him from his legal practice in Boston. He is greeted by Hepzibah Pyncheon, a distant cousin who is engaged to his brother Clifford. When the family is assembled, Gerald gives Jaffrey the unwelcome news that Seven Gables is to be sold the next day. The family fortune is gone because of Gerald's poor management and he is deeply in debt. Clifford is in agreement that the house must be sold. He plans to use his share of the profits to marry Hepzibah and move to New York.After everyone is in bed, Jaffrey sneaks up to the attic. He opens an old trunk and rummages through the papers inside. Clifford catches him and asks what he is doing. Jaffrey is looking for a paper signed by King Charles II that gave the Pyncheon family a huge land grant in what is now Maine. Excitedly he tells Clifford that if he will change his mind and stand firm against the sale, they can search for the paper. If they find it, the government will have to reimburse them. But Clifford says that is just one of many legends about the family, including the one about half a million in gold hidden somewhere in the house. None of them are true.The next morning, Clifford avoids Jaffrey and his father. He and Hepzibah discuss their plans for the future. Then Jaffrey appears and tells Clifford their father wants to see him. Clifford learns that the sale is off. Gerald has a few securities left and Jaffrey has persuaded his father to let him invest the money. Clifford angrily says that the money will be lost and insists that the sale go ahead. The windows are open and passers-by hear the quarrel. Gerald tells Clifford that he is no longer his son and to get out. He picks up a paperweight to throw at Clifford but instead has a seizure. He collapses with blood dripping from his mouth. Jaffrey and Hepzibah rush in but it is too late. Jaffrey seizes his chance and calls Clifford a murderer because of the paperweight by Gerald's body, which has blood on it. Jaffrey is arrested and charged with murdering his father.Even though the evidence is circumstantial, Clifford is found guilty and sentenced to life in prison. Hepzibah is preparing to leave Seven Gables when Mr. Barton, the family lawyer, drops by. Jaffrey is full of plans to tear the house down board by board, hoping to find hidden gold. He is shocked at the contents of his father's will. To avoid having the house seized by creditors, Gerald had earlier signed it over to Hepzibah. His life insurance will cover the debts and leave enough money for Hepzibah to live on. She begins laughing in a maniacal sort of way and throws Jaffrey out of the house. She then closes all the shutters and closes herself away from the world.Clifford and Hepzibah exchange letters for 20 years. She and Mr. Barton are trying to have his sentence commuted. Then a young man is put in Clifford's prison cell. He is a political activist who wants to abolish slavery. Having been arrested for disturbing the peace, he is furious at being put away for ten days. Clifford introduces himself and the young man bursts out laughing. His name is Matthew Maule, a descendant of the original Maule. They strike up an instant friendship and begin making plans.Hepzibah has let Seven Gables run down. She summons Mr. Barton to tell him that she can no longer live on her income. In addition to having a lodger, one Mr. Holgrave, she intends to convert the front room into a cent shop. Mr. Barton is shocked that a gentlewoman would engage in trade. A distant cousin, Phoebe Pyncheon, is coming to stay and Hepzibah intends to let her help with the shop. Mr. Barton offers to loan her money but Hepzibah feels she has already accepted too many favors from him. Before leaving, Mr. Barton pronounces her very stubborn and obstinate.Mr. Holgrave, who is a photographer, is actually Matthew Maule. He engaged a room at Seven Gables at Clifford's request, unknown to Hepzibah.Phoebe Pyncheon proves to be an attractive, friendly young woman who takes over the running of the cent shop. Her cheerful manner draws many customers. It is clear that Mr. Holgrave is attracted to her.Mr. Barton brings news that Clifford is to be released. Hepzibah decides that instead of a grand welcome home celebration, Clifford's return should be quiet, as if he has simply returned from a long journey. She finds a dress she wore when they were young but the fabric is rotted. She fears he will find her old and unattractive.Late one rainy night, Clifford steps through the front door of Seven Gables. Hepzibah has left a lamp burning for him. His room is just as he left it. But when he puts on a coat from the closet, he discovers it is moth-eaten.After an awkward start, Clifford and Hepzibah find they are as much in love as ever. He commends her for waiting all these years in such a cold, dreary house. Hepzibah is dismayed to learn that Clifford intends to see Jaffrey. She warns him that his brother is rich and influential now. But Clifford has a score to settle.Mr. Holgrave is part of an abolitionist movement that meets in secret. Money to fund the group's activities has been entrusted to Deacon Foster until it is needed. He assures the group that the money is safely hidden. However, in his greed he loaned it to Jaffrey Pyncheon, who promised that Foster could double his investment. Time is running out and soon Foster will be required to produce the money.Jaffrey is disgusted that Hepzibah has disgraced the family name by engaging in trade. He pays her a visit but she orders him away. As he climbs into his carriage, he is approached by Deacon Foster about the money. Jaffrey assures him he will have it soon.Mr. Holgrave spreads word about town that Clifford is searching for half a million dollars in gold hidden at Seven Gables by the Pyncheon ancestors. Apparently while Clifford was in prison he studied a lot of old documents, including the original architect's plans. He has just discovered a secret staircase in the house. The newspaper runs a story on this and Jaffrey summons Holgrave to his house. Holgrave says there is no harm in looking for the gold and Clifford is tearing the house apart plank by plank. Jaffrey pretends to be disinterested but he believes the story. He begins making plans to have Clifford declared insane and sent to an asylum.Deacon Foster continues to pester Jaffrey about the money. He asks Jaffrey to replace it himself, but Jaffrey is broke. Why else would he borrow money from Foster?Jaffrey pays another visit to Seven Gables but Hester will not let him see Clifford. Jaffrey says that his brother is clearly insane since he is tearing the house apart. Hester says the newspaper story is not true. At that moment a hammering sound is heard from the basement. Jaffrey leaves after threatening to have Clifford committed. Hepzibah and Phoebe discover Mr. Holgrave swinging at a beam with a hammer. He cannot explain his actions so Hepzibah asks him to find new lodgings. This upsets Phoebe, who realizes she is in love with Holgrave.After a week Mr. Holgrave still has not left. Hepzibah decides to evict him at once. She goes to his room and begins packing his belongings. Phoebe rushes in and says if he is to leave that she will leave with him. Then Hepzibah finds a packet of letters addressed to Matthew Maule. Very fearful, she goes to Clifford and begs that they leave immediately. Clifford soothes her and admits that he and Matthew are working together to clear his name. That is the condition on which he was released from prison. Until that is accomplished, he has no civil rights and they cannot marry. Hepzibah still wants to leave but Clifford has more to tell her.Meanwhile, Deacon Foster is called to account for the money. He goes to Jaffrey's house and says he must have it at once. Jaffrey says it is gone forever, as the slave ship it financed sank off the coast of Africa. Foster is horrified to think that a slave ship was paid for with abolitionist money.Jaffrey decides it is time to get rid of Clifford once and for all. He goes to Seven Gables with a letter from the superintendent of the state insane asylum, ordering Clifford to report for an examination. Instead, Clifford hands him a paper to sign. It states that Jaffrey made a mistake in his testimony and Gerald Pyncheon's death was an accident. If Jaffrey signs it, he can have the house. Jaffrey at first refuses. Then Deacon Foster bursts in, just ahead of the men who are looking for him. Once more he begs Jaffrey for the money but Jaffrey turns him away. Foster goes into the hall and shoots himself. Jaffrey realizes the truth will come out now and he will be arrested. Hepzibah and Clifford watch in amazement as he begs them to help him. Hester calls him a murderer. Jaffrey signs the paper and implores them to hide him in the secret staircase. Clifford says there is no secret staircase and no gold. There is no Holgrave, his real name is Matthew Maule. Just as the men burst into the room, Jaffrey chokes on his own blood and falls dead to the floor.Several months later, the two couples are married at Seven Gables, which is for sale. As they prepare to leave, Mr. Barton says he sees Hepzibah and Clifford as they were when they were young. He always knew it would work out for them.
