1183 A.D.: King Henry II's three sons all want to inherit the throne, but he won't commit to a choice. They and his wife variously plot to force him.
It's Christmas 1183, and King Henry II (Peter O'Toole) is planning to announce his successor to the throne. The jockeying for the crown, though, is complex. Henry has three sons and wants his boy Prince John (Nigel Terry) to take over. Henry's wife, Queen Eleanor (Katharine Hepburn), has other ideas. She believes their son Prince Richard (Sir Anthony Hopkins) should be King. As the family and various schemers gather for the holiday, each tries to make the indecisive King choose his or her option.
Christmas 1183: An aging and conniving King Henry II (Peter O'Toole) plans a reunion where he hopes to name his successor. He summons the following people for the holiday: his scheming but imprisoned wife, Queen Eleanor of Aquitaine (Katharine Hepburn); his mistress, Princess Alais (Jane Merrow), whom he wishes to marry; his three sons, Richard (Sir Anthony Hopkins), Geoffrey (John Castle), and John (Nigel Terry), all of whom desire the throne; and the young, but crafty, King Philip of France (Timothy Dalton) (who is also Alais' brother). With the fate of Henry's empire at stake, everybody engages in his or her own brand of deception and treachery to stake his or her claim.
Henry II (Peter O'Toole) and Eleanor (Katharine Hepburn) meet with their three surviving sons at Christmas to decide which of them should become the new King after Henry's death. Originally a stage play, the action is mostly in the speeches the people make. Each of the sons has some flaw that makes the decision difficult, but the pair have spent their lives fighting for position, and even at the end can't possibly stop.
In 1183, Henry II (Peter O'Toole) summoned his sons Richard (Sir Anthony Hopkins), John (Nigel Terry), and Geoffrey (John Castle) to join him and his prison-bound wife Eleanor (Katharine Hepburn) at Chinon for a family Christmas, along with King Philip II of France (Timothy Dalton) and his sister Alais (Jane Merrow), Henry's mistress. Philip is insisting Alais now marries John as agreed years before, else he wants her dowry, the lands of the Vexen, back. As Eleanor has already given the province of Aquitaine to Richard, the outcome of this may decide the future of England. Everyone present except perhaps Alais are masters of double-dealing and deceit, so it could be a lively Yuletide.

