An inventor needs cash to develop his big idea. His wife, who loves him, decides to raise it for him by divorcing him and marrying a millionaire.
Gerry and Tom Jeffers are finding married life hard. Tom is an inventor/ architect and there is little money for them to live on. They are about to be thrown out of their apartment when Gerry meets rich businessman being shown around as a prospective tenant. He gives Gerry $700 to start life afresh but Tom refuses to believe her story and they quarrel. Gerry decides the marriage is over and heads to Palm Beach for a quick divorce but Tom has plans to stop her.
In New York, Gerry and Tom Jeffers are about to be evicted from their apartment for lack of payment after five years of marriage. Tom is an architect and has developed the design of a suspended airport, but can not find an investor and is completely bankrupt. When the aspirant tenant meets Gerry, he says that he is a wealthy businessman from Texas that became rich with his sausage business and he gives US$ 700 to Gerry to pay her debts and start a new life. Tom does not believe that the old man gave the money to Gerry without sex and they have an argument, and Gerry concludes that she is a burden in the life of Tom. On the next morning, she decides to travel to Palm Beach to get a divorce, and marry again with a millionaire to help Tom in his project. She boards a train to Palm Beach, where she is helped by J.D. Hackensacker III. They leave the train and she leans that Hackensacker is one of the richest men in the world. They travel to Palm Beach in his yacht and Gerry meets his sister, Princess Centimillia. But Tom has followed Gerry and she introduces him as if he were her brother. Soon Hackensacker falls in love with Gerry and the Princess with Tom. But a zipper and twins help to solve the situation.
Tim and Gerry Jeffers have been married for about 5 years and live in a lovely Fifth Avenue duplex apartment. The problem is that they don't have much money and are behind in their rent. Salvation comes in the form of Wienie King of Texas who is thinking of renting their apartment. Instead, he takes a liking to Gerry and gives her $700 to pay their bills. When Tim hears of it, he doesn't take kindly to his wife taking money from another man but it's Gerry who decides they have no future together. She decides to head to Florida, marry a millionaire and then finance Tim's big airport project. Aboard the train going south, she meets the very rich J.D. Hackensacker III and the possible solution to her problem. When Tim flies down to Florida, mayhem ensues.
Struggling architect Tom Jeffers and lovely wife Geraldine are at odds because she hates being broke and he won't let her use her sex appeal for his benefit. Exasperation comes to a head when a "Wienie King" slips Gerry $700, and she leaves on a screwball train trip to Florida for a divorce; Tom follows, determined to reclaim her. Enter eccentric millionaire John D. Hackensacker III and his man-hungry sister, to whom Gerry introduces Tom as her brother Captain McGlue...
Married New Yorkers Tom and Geraldine Jeffers love each other, but money, or lack thereof, is causing problems in their marriage. Tom, an ideas man, needs $99,000 to finance his latest project - the working model of a suspended airport - money which no one is willing to provide. Gerry is feeling like a burden around her husband's neck as she, self-professed, has no marketable economic skills beyond her feminine wiles. So Gerry decides unilaterally to run off to Palm Beach, Florida and give Tom a divorce. Without money, she uses those feminine wiles to finesse her way to Palm Beach via train and yacht. One of those that assists her on her journey is extremely wealthy, single and straight-laced John D. Hackensacker III. Gerry thinks that John may be the answer to Tom's financial backing worries. So when Tom follows Gerry down to Palm Beach, she introduces him to John not as her soon to be ex-husband but rather her single brother, Captain McGlew, who John renames Mac. But with Mac being single and handsome, John's flamboyant and man-hungry sister Maude, also known as the Princess Centimillia, thinks she's found her next husband, just as John thinks he's found his future wife.
This story begins with the wedding of Gerry (Claudette Colbert) and Tom Jeffers (Joel McCrea), and the wedding follows with the caption, "And they lived happily ever after... or did they?" Time then flashes forward about four years to the Jeffers apartment where the Wienie King (Robert Dudley) is touring the Jeffers apartment as a likely rental because the Jeffers aren't able to make their bills. While the Wienie King and his wife tour the apartment, an embarrassed Gerry hides in closets and the bathroom, ducking away from touring eyes. The Wienie King happens upon Gerry hiding in the bathtub behind a shower curtain and takes an immediate liking to her so much that he decides not to take her apartment and gives Gerry $700 to pay her bills.Meantime, Tom is meeting with a hopeful investor to discuss his idea of building an airport that stretches over the city. The investor doesn't seem very keen on Tom's idea. When Tom gets home and finds out that Gerry has taken money from a stranger, he's upset. Gerry calms him down, but then suggests that they get a divorce because she feels as a single woman she can get him the money he needs to build his airport.Gerry takes Tom out to dinner with the last 14 dollars they have after she finished paying the bills that day, and they both get pretty drunk. When they get home, Gerry is still discussing divorce, but discussions stop as Tom helps Gerry remove her dress.The next morning, Gerry packs her suitcase and writes Tom a good-bye letter. She tries to pin the letter to the blanket but accidentally pokes Tom waking him up. Tom chases Gerry to the streets, but a penniless Gerry manages to get away in a taxi and thanks to the kindness of strangers, in this case the members of the Ale and Quail Club, she manages to get a ticket and a private car on a train to Palm Beach. The Ale and Quail Club get a bit drunk and decide to shoot up their train car, so Gerry sneaks away for some peace. She climbs into a berth which happens to be the berth above the berth of millionaire John D.Hackensacker III (Rudy Vallee) who comes to Gerry's rescue with loads of clothes, jewelry, etc., after Gerry loses her belongings due to the fact that the Ale and Quail Club train car has been disconnected from the train and abandoned. Gerry and John decide to abandon the train themselves and take John's yacht to Palm Beach.As this is happening Tom meets the Wienie King who has decided to take a different apartment in the building. The Wienie King gives Tom money to catch a plane to Palm Beach to stop Gerry from getting a divorce. When Tom meets the train, he finds out that Gerry has dumped the train for a yacht. Tom then waits for Gerry at the dock. Tom then meets John and John's sister the Princess Centimillia (Mary Astor) who takes an immediately liking to Tom. Gerry introduces Tom to everyone as her brother, and a slightly disagreeable Tom goes along with this plan solely to get time to convince Gerry to come to her senses.Gerry talks John into investing in Tom's airport. The Princess wants to marry Tom and John wants to marry Gerry. In the end, Gerry and Tom realize that they love each other and can't divorce. They both confess to the Princess and John. John decides to invest in Tom's airport anyway even though he loves Gerry. John then says, "If only you had a sister." Gerry says, "I do. A twin sister." As they express surprise over this revelation, Tom further reveals that he also has a twin brother. The movie then ends with Gerry and Tom standing side by side at the wedding of their twin siblings to the respective Hackensacker siblings where the movie ends as it begins, "And they lived happily ever after... or did they?"
