Domestic and professional tensions mount when a husband and wife work as opposing lawyers in a case involving a woman who shot her husband.
When a woman attempts to kill her uncaring husband, prosecutor Adam Bonner gets the case. Unfortunately for him his wife Amanda (who happens to be a lawyer too) decides to defend the woman in court. Amanda uses everything she can to win the case and Adam gets mad about it. As a result, their perfect marriage is disturbed by everyday quarrels...
Happily married lawyers Adam and Amanda Bonner find themselves on opposite sides in the courtroom after Doris Attinger is charged with the attempted murder of her philandering husband Warren. For Adam, an assistant district attorney, it's a straightforward case: the facts aren't in dispute and Doris took a shot at her husband after she caught him with his girlfriend. Amanda on the other hand takes a different view arguing that women are treated differently than men in the courts and that Doris should be set free. They do their best to keep their courtroom battles in the court and not at home but it eventually leads to a raucous family situation.
Married lawyers Adam and Amanda Bonner find themselves on opposite sides of the courtroom in this comedy. Adam is prosecuting a high-profile case in which a woman is accused of trying to murder her philandering husband. Amanda acts as her defense attorney, and the sparring begins.
Assistant District Attorney Adam Bonner is assigned to prosecute a woman who tries to shoot her unfaithful husband. The DA and Bonner both expect a quick win. But neither planned on Bonner's wife and fellow attorney, Amanda Bonner, of defending the woman on the basis of "equal rights under the law," which Ms. Bonner insists would vindicate a man who would try to kill the lover of his unfaithful wife. Ms. Bonner shows throughout the court case that the law and society treat women different from men, and that any person would resort to violence if pushed sufficiently far. Mr. Bonner insists that regardless, no individual can take the law into his or her own hands, or chaos would ensue.
