A French little town, at the end of the twenties. Julien Davenne is a journalist whose wife Julie died a decade ago. He gathered in the green room all Julie's objects. When a fire destroys the room, he renovates a little chapel and devotes it to Julie and his other dead persons.
It's a decade after the conclusion of WWI in a French provincial town. A largely private and secretive man, Julien Davenne is surrounded by death in his life, whether it be the thoughts of his fallen comrades in the war while he came out without a scratch, or the virtuosity with which he writes about the dead in his job as a journalist at the Globe newspaper. But arguably the biggest effect of death in his life is the passing of his wife Julie Davenne shortly after they got married after the war. To preserve not so much her memory but her place in his life, he has created a shrine to Julie in a room in the house he shares with Mme. Rambaud, his housekeeper, and her young deaf charge, Georges. The place of not only Julie but others that have meant something to him in combination with the betrayal he has felt by the living, most specifically his childhood best friend, public figure Paul Massigny, has led to Julien having a greater affinity to the dead than to the living, those passed who have meant something to him who he believes he cannot replace not only in them as people but their specific place in his life. As such, he will never remarry. Out of circumstance, he embarks on creating a space for all those that have passed that have meant something to him, that space including a lit candle for each and every one never to be extinguished to represent they still being alive to him. He believes he has found a like-minded soul in reconnecting with Cecilia Mandel, the daughter of a long deceased acquaintance, she who he hopes will maintain this shrine with him. The singularity in his focus against anything outside this very narrow view may tear him and Cecilia apart despite what they mean to each other in life.
Eleven years after the end of World War I, in a small village in the East of France, the journalist Julien Davenne still grieves the death of his beloved wife Julie ten years ago. He worships Julie in a green room in his house decorated with her pictures and belongings. When he meets auctioneer's assistant Cecilia Mandel in an auction house, they see that they have in common the obsession for death and become close to each other. When a fire destroys his green room, Julien convinces the bishop to restore the local chapel and prepare it as a sanctuary for Julie and his dead friends to preserve their memories, while Cecilia falls in love for him, but Julien is dead inside.

