Brutish, fortune-hunting scoundrel Petruchio (Richard Burton) tames his wealthy, shrewish wife, Katharina (Dame Elizabeth Taylor).
Baptista (Sir Michael Hordern), a rich Paduan merchant, announces that his fair young daughter, Bianca (Natasha Pyne), will remain unwed until her older sister, Katharina (Dame Elizabeth Taylor), a hellish shrew, has wed. Lucentio (Michael York), a student and the son of a wealthy Pisan merchant, has fallen in love with Bianca. He poses as a tutor of music and poetry to gain entrance to the Baptista household and to be near Bianca. Meanwhile, Petruchio (Richard Burton), a fortune-hunting scoundrel from Verona, arrives in Padua, hoping to capture a wealthy wife. Hortensio (Victor Spinetti), another suitor of Bianca, directs Petruchio's attention to Katharina. When Hortensio warns him about Katharina's scolding tongue and fiery temper, Petruchio is challenged and resolves to capture her love. Hortensio and another suitor of Bianca, Gremio (Alan Webb), agree to cover Petruchio's costs as he pursues Katharina.
Set in one of the Bards favorite countries, Italy, The Taming of the Shrew is set in Padua in the late 1500s. Two daughters of a local rich merchant Baptista (Michael Horden) are the focus of the story. Shy Bianca (Natasha Pyne) is courted by a number of good-looking and well-to-do young men, but Baptista announces that she cannot marry until the older daughter Katharine (Elizabeth Taylor) is wed. As Katharine is out-spoken and far from demure, none of the men in the town want to marry her, so Bianca remains unwed even though many suitors hover to woo her. When Lucentio (Michael York) arrives in Padua he sees the competition and poses as a servant, getting a job in the house where Bianca lives so he can be near to her and figure out to wed and bed the beauty. When Petruchio (Richard Burton) a rough-and-ready land owner comes to Padua shopping for a rich wife and lays eyes on Katharine, he falls in love with the fiery femme, and after a furious, aggressive, and combative courtship they marry, and move to Petruchios rustic mansion where their combative relationship continues challenging Katharines sense of honor. Back in Padua Lucentio confesses to Bianca that he is not a student but the son of one of the most respected men in town, and the couple decides to marry with Baptistas blessing. At the wedding all the couples and folks from the town arrive and Katharine, humbled from a new-found wisdom from her honeymoon with Petruchio gives advice to Bianca on how to be a successful wife.
