Needing money, the last of the Frankensteins leases his castle out to a film company as he tries to complete his ancestor's gruesome experiments at creating life.
Baron Victor Von Frankenstein has fallen on hard times; he was tortured at the hands of the Nazis for not cooperating with them during World War II and he is now badly disfigured. As his family's wealth begins to run out, the Baron is forced to allow a TV crew shooting a documentary on his monster-making ancestors to film at his castle in Germany. However, the Baron has some ideas of his own: using the money from the crew's rent he buys an atomic reactor and uses it to create a hulking monster, transplanting his butler's brain into the thing and using it to kill off the crew for more spare parts.
Title and credits roll over a mist covered lake with a tree in the foreground. We open with a woman, Carolyn Hayes (Jana Lund) running towards the camera. She is being chased by a man, Hans Himmler (Mike Lane). She stops, looks back, screams, and then continues running. We only see the man from the waist down as he plods along with a limp. The woman is cornered, now at the same location where the titles and credits were shot. The creature approaches as the woman walks backwards into the lake. The monster grabs the girl, then holds her under water. The director, Douglas Row (Don Red Barry) calls, "Cut!" The actor playing the monster does not speak English, so Shuter (Norbert Schiller) must translate. Morgan Haley (John Dennis), the cameraman, confirms that the scene was ok. Doug checks the length of the scene with Judy Stevens (Charlotte Austin). Doug and Judy are divorced and things are still a little frosty in their relationship. He tells her, "Jealousy, jealousy, lover. Don't blame me because you're no longer an ingénue. Well, I keep you on the payroll, you'll have to admit I'm loyal." She tartly replies, "Oh yes, you're loyal to wives number one through four inclusive." Carolyn is helped from the water. She tells Mike Shaw (Tom Duggan) that this movie scene is to celebrate the 230th anniversary of Frankenstein.Inside the castle, Baron Victor von Frankenstein (Boris Karloff) berates his old friend Wilhelm Gottfried (Rudolph Anders), "How could you inflict these people upon me Gottfried?" Gottfried reminds the Baron that he agreed to let the film crew use his castle for the money he needed to purchase a reactor for his experiments. He adds, "I've been wanting to talk to you about this Victor. You have been spending money and money. You have been buying equipment as though you were a government." Gottfried has been handling the Baron's finances and has sold most of his art treasures. The discussion turns to the past. The Baron was tortured during the past and is bitter and scarred. He sports a long scar that runs from his left eye to the corner of his mouth. It is apparent that his nose was severely broken. He was forced to perform medical experiments. The Baron is the last of the House of Frankenstein. The film cast and crew return to the castle. Doug Row briefs the Baron on his upcoming performance. Doug is pushy and obnoxious. The Baron is having reservations about involvement in this exploitation of his family history, but he wants that atomic reactor badly and reluctantly cooperates with Row. He has contempt for all but one. He is strangely attracted to Carolyn Hayes and tells her so, "That could be my pleasure with you as my leading lady, Miss Hayes." He takes her hand and kisses it. She recoils slightly, repelled by the Baron's clumsy advances. Turning back to the director, the Baron tells him, "Mr. Row, I'm becoming reconciled to your presence here. Your coming here may be the solution to all my problems." The Baron laughs maniacally then limps away. He seats himself at an organ and plays a melancholy tune.It is rehearsal day in the basement of the castle. The Baron reads an inscription on the tomb of an ancestor. "I, Frankenstein, began my work in the year 1740 and with all good intentions and humane thoughts to the high purpose of probing the secrets of life itself - with but one end - the betterment of mankind." He explains his ancestor's work, as he limps around the basement, and what went wrong. The scene is disrupted when Carolyn screams as the Baron appears ready to stab the corpse on the slab. Hans tells Shuter he is finished and will no longer work at the castle. Row's cash payment convinces Hans to remain. The Baron was off script, as Judy reminds her ex-husband, but Doug loved it anyway.The cast and crew are relaxing in the great room of the castle. Mike is on the phone. Carolyn, Gottfried, and Judy are relaxing and having coffee. The Baron is playing the organ. Judy presents Shuter with a gift, a plaid scarf. She wraps it around his neck, then gives him a friendly kiss on the cheek. The Baron is not amused. He confronts his servant, "Shuter. You are richly endowed to have one as lovely as Miss Hayes bestow gifts upon you." Row enters the room with script changes, then exits with Carolyn under the pretext of going over her new scene. Gottfried confronts the Baron with his concerns. It seems that the Baron has been working with the Director of the Morgue. "Are you interested in corpses?" He asks the Baron. The Baron makes his friend uneasy with his menacing demeanor. The Baron lights a candle, douses the lights in the Great Room, then descends the stairs to the basement crypt. He twists the head on a statue. A stone crypt lid slides open. The Baron climbs inside and descends the stairs to his secret lab below. A large modern lab is revealed. The walls are covered with electronic equipment and the centerpiece is a nuclear reactor. The Baron listens in on his guests with hidden microphones in their rooms. Studying an old picture of himself, he admires a clay bust - still a work in progress. He opens the reactor door and a gurney of a bandaged figure emerges. The head is just a skull. The Baron dons a lab apron, and washes his hands. Shuter is upstairs securing the castle. The Baron returns to his creature, another work in progress. He removes the bandages on the arm. He records his observations on a reel to reel tape machine. Shuter walks downstairs to the crypt area, securing it for the night. He activates the crypt door by accident. He investigates the open sarcophagus, walks down the hidden stairs, and encounters the Baron. The Baron is sorry to see his old friend and trusted servant has discovered his secret, "Shuter. Ah, my poor Shuter. Why did it have to be you?" He becons his servant to approach the body and promises that he will live again. He hypnotizes Shuter. The Baron harvests Shuter's heart for his creation.The next morning Carolyn is fixing breakfast. She notes that Shuter is absent. Judy calls for Shuter, but he is gone. The Baron explains that Shuter is away visiting relatives and may be away for some time. The Baron returns to his lab. He notes that Shuter's brain is now in the skull of his creature. He prepares to install the eyes. He retrieves a pair, in a glass jar, from the lab refrigerator. The closing door bumps his arm and he drops the container. The eyes are destroyed.Sometime later, Gottfried is reviewing some papers in the library as the Baron plays his organ. Carolyn enters and joins the Baron at the organ. He turns to ogle his guest, "You seem rather disturbed my dear." She tells the Baron that organ music reminds her of death. The Baron notices Carolyn has Shuter's scarf. She tells him she found it down in the basement. The Baron takes the scarf from Carolyn, places it around his own neck, and then resumes playing his creepy tune. Gottfried enters and asks where Shuter has gone. He notes Shuter has no relatives and a quick search of his room revealed all his clothes are still there. The Baron threatens to tell Gottfried the tale of the inquisitive Commandant of the prison camp. The Baron delights in recounting the tale telling Gottfried that one day his tormentor was found without a tongue. He is gleeful, "Imagine the irony of it Gottfried. Oh, I know, I was called in to examine the poor wretch. A beautiful piece of surgery, if I do say so myself. Beautiful." Gottfried seems to get the message and leaves the room.In the lab, the Baron moves his creature back into the reactor and closes the door. He starts the reactor, and steam wafts from the machine. The demand for power causes the lights in the castle to dim. An alarm bill signals the completion of the process. The body is brought out of the reactor. The Baron's intercom allows him to hear Doug's unsuccessful attempt to gain access to Carolyn's locked room. The Baron examines his creation. Judy types in her room, while Mike sleeps fitfully in his. The Baron's creation is now standing, still strapped to the gurney. He attempts to contact the mind of Shuter, now encased in his creation. Finally the EEG shows a reaction. He orders Shuter to raise each arm, the creature follows the instructions. The last order of business is to secure a pair of eyes. Mike visits Judy in her room. He has a bottle and glass. Mike kisses Judy, then pours and downs a glass of liquor. He tries another pass, but gets thrown out of Judy's room. She locks him out and tells him to go to bed. A subsequent knock at the door brings Judy back to scold Mike. When she opens the door the creature is there. She screams and faints. It carries her to the lab, but the Baron chastises his creation. He wanted Row's eyes. Her eyes were unsuitable and the Baron puts them in a disposal device.Doug and Mike argue over Judy's sudden disappearance. Doug is skeptical considering she left without an alimony check. The Baron claims to know nothing about it. Row suggests using the Baron's lab as a setting for the TV show. The Baron asks, "Gottfried, is the laboratory included in the contract with Mr. Row?" The answer is no, which prompts the Baron to reply, "Then you cannot use it." When pressed, the Baron is adamant -- the answer is NO!Morgan and Carolyn go to the basement crypt to set up shots. Carolyn practices her moves, unaware the creature is behind her in shadow. Carolyn leaves and Morgan remains to line up a few more shots. He looks through his lens and pans around the room. The creature comes into frame and approaches the cinematographer. Back in the lab the Baron examines the eyeballs, but declares them unsuitable due to blood type mismatch. Another pair of eyes are disposed. Inspector Raab (Irwin Berke) takes a missing persons report from Doug Row. The Baron tells the policeman that Judy was married to Mr. Row, so she must have been emotionally disturbed and Morgan went to Frankfurt to get a special lens. Carolyn tells Raab she last saw Morgan in the basement. The Baron volunteers to escort Raab to see for himself. While all are down in the basement looking for Morgan, the Baron sees the sarcophagus lid swing open. He closes it. Finding nothing, Raab apologizes to the Baron for the intrusion.Gottfried comments to the Baron on all the disappearances. The not so subtle reminders to those who question him gone unheeded, the Baron finally agrees to satisfy Gottfried's curiosity. They descend into the crypt. The Baron opens the sarcophagus entrance to his lab. The creature stares at his next victim through opening in the bandages where eyes should be. The Baron kills his old friend and installs the eyes in his creation. He disposes of Gottfried's clothes in the disposal. Doug and Mike examine the crypt area for clues. Doug finds Morgan's view finder. He tells Mike he intends to report this to Inspector Raab. The Baron uses a coin from his collection to hypnotize Mike Shaw. He questions Mike about Row. He directs Mike to get Carolyn at a designated time. Row meets with Raab. He convinces Raab that Judy, Shuter, and Morgan never left the castle. At the designated time Mike fetches Carolyn from her room. Carolyn is confronted by the still bandaged creature. As Raab and Row drive back to the castle, the creature carries Carolyn down to the Baron's lab. She wakes and screams. Carolyn pleads with Shuter to bring her back upstairs. He is conflicted between his affection for Carolyn and the Baron's orders. The Baron fires up his machine. Shuter enters the lab without Carolyn and trashes the place. He walks towards the Baron and is overcome by the atomic steam.The charred remains of the Baron's creation is prone on the floor. A man in a radiation suit takes readings. He allows Raab to enter the lab. Two police officers, Row and Mike also walk in. Raab peels back the bandages on the face of the creature. A younger, unscarred Baron's face is shown. Row plays back the tape and hears, "I made you in my image so the name of Frankenstein could survive. I gave you eyes, ears, a heart, a brain and." The voice fades out. We close with a close-up of the creature's head with the face of the Baron.
