On the trail of a singer who killed the man she loved in Honolulu, Charlie finds her stabbed to death when he ultimately catches up to her in Rio.
Charlie and son Jimmy visit an exotic Rio nightclub in the company of local police chief Suoto in order to arrest nightclub chanteuse Lola Dean, whom Charlie believes killed her paramour a year earlier in Honolulu after discovering that he was married. Rather than cause a public scene, the always discreet Chan decides to wait until she gets home. By the time the minions of the law arrive, they find the singer has been stabbed to death, her jewels stolen, and a bevy of clues seemingly planted at the crime scene. Among the suspects are the singer's companion, an ex-husband, a Dean friend along with her boyfriend, an amateur sleuth, her rich playboy fiancée, a rival for his affections, a mind-reading mystic, and, of course, the butler.
Charlie and son Jimmy are guests of Chief Souto, Captain of Police, Rio de Janeiro at the Carioca Casino and Joan and Ken Reynolds are at a nearby table with Grace Ellis and Bill Kellogg. Joan jumps at Grace with some abusive remarks concerning the marquee-name hostess, Lola Dean. Ken has had enough of Joan's tongue, he excuses himself for the bar, Joan claim's Lola is Ken's ex-sweetheart. Grace tries to reason with Joan, but it is all for naught, between the cocktails she has already consumed, and time of day, there is no stopping the remarks. Joan leaves in a huff, dropping her purse after running into someone, having Charlie pick it up, hand it to her, she says thanks, and vanishes. Chief Souto explains to Chan Joan Reynolds is a frequent club patron. The samba dance performed by Lola Dean with Jimmy enjoying her performance, but was unaware it was Rio's national dance. Jimmy exhibited his immaturity in front of his father and the Captain, not knowing the samba origin and addressing the Police Captain informally.Clark Denton pins a large broach on Lola, requesting her hand in marriage. She accepts his proposal, but time is of the essence for the nuptials. Armando knocks on Lola's dressing room door, enters, telling her, she is on next. Lola gets the blessing of her Secretary Helen and that of her maid, Lily. Lola wants Clark to invite some friends over to her place afterward. Clark has second thoughts, but Lola expresses feelings of how Grace will be full of envy, seeing her new broach. Ken comes back to the table to tell Bill and Grace they are all invited to Lola's, and he wonders where Joan disappeared. Ken shares the news of the engagement party Lola and Clark are giving. Grace shows signs of stress with the news, Bill is happy for the couple. Ken is happy too, he explains to Bill, with Lola to be married, Joan will stop swinging that tomahawk. Grace pulls Bill home to freshen up, while Lola begins her song for the club audience.Chief Souto mentions to Charlie, if we are going to arrest her, we have better get back to her dressing room. Charlie retorts, too big of a scandal to arrest her here, we shall wait until Miss Dean arrives at home to perform the unpleasant duty. Lola is accused of murdering her lover in Honolulu, and Charlie is there to assist with the proceedings. Helen is delivering flowers to Lola while she is kissing Clark in her dressing room. The gift is from Paul Wagner, a feverish fan, according to Lola, who cannot see Paul at any time; she attests having never met him previously. Lola requests Helen phone Paul, telling him she cannot meet him. Helen reminds Lola she has to make a stop at the Continental Hotel before she goes home to meet with her physic Marana. He offers her a cigarette with coffee, she passes out after inhaling the cigarette and sipping the coffee. She is in a trance, with Marana questioning her, while he holds a microphone in his hand, recording her responses. She admits her real name is Lola Wagner, when asked by Marana. She continues to answer his inquiries, coming from New York, in Rio for a year. She professes living in New York for six months and before that, Honolulu. She left because she killed a man, named Manuel Cardozo, whom she was in love, but he was married and she knew it. I wanted him to divorce his wife and marry me, but he refused. Her entire admission is recorded by Marana. He wakes Lola, explaining she was given a coffee and a cigarette to induce the temporary sleep. She is offended by his actions, but he threatens her because of what she just revealed, saying it could be most unfortunate for her. He reveals she spoke of killing a man in Honolulu, a Manuel Cardozo. She denies the crime, saying she has never been to Honolulu. Marana then tells Lola, anything he learns is treated confidential. Clark is at the door, Lola compliments Marana of his readings to Clark, they leave. Clark gifts Lola with an orchid corsage getting into the limo. Lola insists they elope tonight, in the States.She sends Clark home to pack a bag, excuses Lily, suggesting she help Margo, and is greeted by Rice, her butler, requesting he retrieve her airplane luggage. Maid Lily, Margo the cook, and Rice are in the kitchen preparing for the invited guests. Lily is gushing over the handsome Clark Denton, Margo cautions Rice not to be drinking, and Rice dismisses Margo's comments, reminding her, he is still in charge. Ken arrives stag, no Joan, he runs into Helen, and then greets Grace and Bill playing cards, all are waiting on Lola. Helen announces to the three guests, Lola and Clark are eloping tonight. Helen, then announces some uninvited guests have arrived, the police, and they wish to see Lola, according to Rice. Helen is greeted by Souto, Charlie, Jimmy and two policemen. They request Lola Dean to be present for their questions. Lily goes to Lola's bedroom to see if she is finished dressing, Lily shrieks, calling out, Miss Helen, Miss Helen. The light is off in the bedroom, Helen turns it on to find Lola face down on the floor. Charlie sees she has been stabbed to death. Chan takes charge with Chief Souto's permission. The Chief immediately orders the coroner and fingerprint experts. Chan calms Helen by sitting her in a chair while Jimmy proposes the victim committed suicide. Charlie contradicts his son, by saying she was stabbed in the back. Jimmy's next theory is just as far-fetched, robbery. Charlie quizzes Helen Ashby about Lola's personal belongings. Helen checks the wall safe, finding the contents of the jewelry box empty. Robbery is unlikely, because the criminal would have taken the box with contents. Charlie grills Lily, convincing himself of her innocence, saying to her, it is a matter of routine to interrogate everybody. Helen tells the three guests present, Lola has been murdered, separating them, Charlie has a private meeting with Helen, while the Captain speaks with the two men and woman guests. Helen talked to Paul Wagner on the phone, explaining Lola didn't want to see him, she was getting married, but Paul insisted on the phone and hung up. Souto comes into the room, the coroner has given his report, Helen left before hearing the news. Miss Dean was stabbed by a thin instrument. The angle of the stab wound indicated Lola was possibly bending over and unaware of the murderer in the room. Chan adds perhaps the murderer was known to Lola, maybe a friend. Fingerprints were all smudged similar to the remaining clues carefully arranged for the police to find. Charlie requests Souto get Wagner and Marana to be present here for questioning.Jimmy is reviewing the case with Lily, trying to score points with the pretty maid. They step out into the garden for Lily to show Jimmy the samba, when an inebriated Joan Reynolds enters the garden area, asking for the location of Lola Dean's residence. Jimmy states you are here. Lily and Jimmy inform Joan, Miss Dean has been killed. She remarks, someone beat her to it, and she knows who did it. Jimmy informs Joan, he and his father are from Honolulu, now she thinks she is in Honolulu. Joan follows Jimmy and Lily into the house. The guests are gathered in the living room for questioning. Grace Ellis is being interrogated by Charlie, while Souto stands nearby. Joan makes her entrance, thinking she is in Honolulu, embraces Ken, then approaches Grace, accusing her of the murder. Joan has definitely been drinking based on her speech pattern. Joan says she was married to a cop once, before she met Ken; he has her sit. Jimmy whispers something to his father, who in turn, confronts Joan about saying she wanted to kill Lola, but somebody beat her to it, referring to Grace. Joan talks about coming there to fill Lola full of lead, or even shoot Grace, pulling out a small caliber gun. Joan shows the gun to Chan, where he confirms it was recently fired, giving Charlie incentive to have a ballistic expert examine the weapon, comparing bullet found in victim's body. Joan says maybe I shot her and don't know it. Jimmy tells Charlie in Chinese, the victim was stabbed, not shot. Charlie tells Jimmy in Chinese, to put the gun in his pocket for now. Charlie explains Jimmy's behavior to the guests for his bad manners, saying he lapses into ancient language when excited.Rice informs Charlie, Paul Wagner has arrived with Marana. Chan solicits Rice to bring strong drink for charming ex-wife of policeman; coffee. Charlie questions Wagner on why he wanted to leave Rio. Wagner says he never wanted to see Lola again. Chan tells Wagner, Lola is dead. Wagner tells Chan, Lola was his wife, divorced three years ago, yet he carried a torch for her ever since. Wagner tried one more time to win her back, he states he entered through the garden doors, which is why Lily did not see him come inside. He knew he would be rejected at the front door. Wagner learned Lola was going to elope, so he remained only a few moments, and knowing it was hopeless for a reconciliation, he left. As Rice entered the room with Lola's luggage, he allowed Wagner to exit through the front door, with the order from Miss Dean. Rice confirms letting Paul out the door. Charlie asks Wagner to remain, but apologizes for delaying his journey.Marana requests Chan check with the floor clerk at his hotel, where he would be able to confirm he has not left the building since ten thirty. Next, Marana pleads his case, requesting usage of the phonograph, playing the recorded information Lola provided while under his personal sedation. Caffeine laden coffee and a natural herb in the cigarette was used to secure the information from Miss Dean, explains Marana. Chan identifies Marana as the brother of the man Lola killed; Alfredo Cardozo is his real name, determined by Charlie's professional ability of detective work. Marana explains to Charlie, despite what the Honolulu police thought, he was convinced his brother did not commit suicide, but he was murdered. Charlie agrees with Marana about the nature of his brother's demise. He spent over a year hunting down clues pointing to Lola Wagner or Miss Dean. Miss Ashby was one of his first patients, compelling her to have Miss Dean come to see him. Miss Ashby allowed Alfredo to follow up with Lola, after Helen was so obliging, under his spell. Chan questioned Marana when police called upon him at his hotel, did they tell you Miss Dean was murdered? He answers no. He does confide in Charlie after working for so long gathering the information, he was not going to leave the recording in a hotel room; that is why he brought it.Jimmy doesn't believe Marana's methods of extracting information, and Marana receives Charlie's permission to demonstrate how he performs his method. Jimmy is willing to disprove him. Rice gets coffee as Jimmy lights and inhales one of the cigarettes. The herb takes effect, Jimmy is seated showing signs of fainting, Marana assures Charlie that Jimmy will have no harmful effects from this. Charlie is asked to begin questioning his son. Jimmy explains bent fender of parent's car before they left Honolulu was caused by him hitting a fireplug, after telling his parents he did not use car that day. Jimmy says he was lying. Failure in college mathematics class is due to being too lazy to get up for the eight o'clock class. Largest interest in present investigation is Miss Lily, she sure is cute. Charlie wakes his son from the drugged state by gently slapping his cheeks. Charlie chastises his son, vindicating Marana or Mr. Cardozo in the process. Jimmy apologizes to Alfredo, Charlie entreats Helen to bring the guests refreshments while he consults with Chief Souto.Charlie looks over the evidence in Lola's room with Chief Souto watching. The tip of the broach has been broken off and judging from the scratches in the wooden floor, the killer crushed the broach, breaking off the tip in his shoe. The long shot clue leads both policemen to the dining room, where the guests have eaten and departed for another room, with the doors closed, the wood floor has Charlie suggest Chief Souto help him examine the area under the dining table for scratches. Jimmy is outside with a flashlight searching the ground, overhearing a conversation between Rice and Lily, with Rice clutching Lily's arm, while telling her to be silent about what she saw him carry into his room. Rice lets her arm go, she exits, as Jimmy watches. Charlie has a small magnifying glass in hand as he examines the dining room floor under the table. Charlie tells Chief Souto patience is needed as they look for floor scratches. Jimmy is upstairs checking for evidence based on the conversation he just heard between the maid and butler. Charlie finds some pin scratches, handing Chief Souto the magnifying glass for verification; he agrees, definitely pin scratches.Jimmy enters a dark room upstairs, looks out the window, turns on light, begins looking in a dresser drawer. He hears someone coming up the stairs, he shuts off the light, ducking behind a curtain, while Rice enters the same room. Rice begins filling a travel bag with some articles, Jimmy points the gun at Rice, ordering him to stick up his hands, Rice kicks the gun away from Jimmy, a fight begins between them. The lamp is broken making the room dark once again, as the two wrestle on the bedroom floor. Rice slugs Jimmy, pushing him backward, breaking the window glass, Rice gets the gun off the floor, as he escapes out the dark room, with Jimmy in pursuit. They move swiftly to the first floor, where Jimmy gets the drop on him, knocking the gun from his hand, having the policeman help him collar Rice. Jimmy shows Chief Souto the bag contents Rice was escaping with, full of Miss Dean's jewelry. Jimmy tells Charlie the butler is your man. Charlie says the bag contents is not proof of murder. Rice admits the jewels are Miss Dean's, he says he did not kill her, but he did enter the room after she was stabbed. The lights go out, a shot is fired, the lights go back on, Rice is declared dead by Chief Souto. Helen explains the lights for the room are controlled by different switches. Helen points to another switch across the way and another across the room; three switches for the same light fixture.Grace Ellis is complaining how inconvenient it is for her. Chief Souto is sorry for the inconvenience, but two people have been murdered here tonight, quite possible it was the same person committing both crimes, and that person is here tonight, in this very room. Chief Souto gets louder, looking directly at Grace Ellis, to prevent Rice from telling who killed Miss Dean, one of you turned out the lights from one of three switches, the same person took the gun from Jimmy's pocket and shot the butler. Charlie announces he and Souto have discovered a method of trapping the murderer. Putting the perpetrator on guard by disclosing a trap is set is precisely what is occurring, as Charlie replies to Bill Kellogg's inquiry, while the others listen. Alfredo proposes Charlie divulge the trap. Charlie consents, inviting everyone into the dining room, taking the same chairs as before the killing of Mr. Rice. Charlie discloses there are freshly made floor scratches in both Miss Dean's room and in this room. The scratches were likely caused by the pin piece broken off from Miss Dean's broach, and imbedded in the shoe of the murderer. When asked by Joan to disclose which chair, Charlie stops at Helen Ashby. Explaining to Helen, scratches were found near this chair, and I would like to examine your shoes. Helen's shoe has the broken pin in the sole. Helen said she was in Lola's room, her shoe could have picked it up. Helen consents to Chan's suggestion by answering questions under the influence of Mr. Cardozo's coffee and cigarette. Chief Souto asks Helen did you kill Lola Dean? No, is Helen's response. But you did kill Rice, the butler? No, is her response. Do you have any knowledge of who might have killed them? No, again, is her response.Charlie wishes to be the next one smoking the cigarette and drinking the coffee. Charlie repeatedly inhales from the cigarette used by Helen, but there is no effect. Cardozo confesses he killed Lola Dean, and is secured by Souto's policemen. Knowing Helen smoked the same cigarette as Charlie, Miss Ashby merely pretended the cigarette affected her. Helen knew she would not be given potent cigarette from Alfredo. Bill Kellogg concludes Helen must be Alfredo Marana's accomplice. Marana tells everyone he killed Miss Dean to avenge his brother's death; the butler caught me in the act, so I had to kill him from exposing me. Chan tells Alfredo it is very noble of you to defend wife of dead brother, Mrs. Barbara Cardozo, pointing at Helen Ashby. Helen admits to killing Lola and Rice. Helen breaks her silence, after Lola left Alfredo's tonight, he telephoned me about her confession. He said he was going to turn her over to the authorities in the morning. Helen goes on with her story, when she got home, Lola was packing, going to elope with Clark. She asked Lola why the change of plans? Lola said Alfredo had advised it. Helen knew Lola was lying. Why the change of plans, Helen asked her. She told Helen she might not hear from her for some time. Helen detected something in Lola's voice she might not hear from her ever again. Rice walked in on Helen arranging the clues after she killed Lola. Rice was rewarded with Lola's jewels for his silence. When he was caught with the jewels, she shot him, fearing he would expose her. Chief Souto says Alfredo is free to go, arrest Helen Ashby. Alfredo escorts her out with the policemen close behind them.
