A brain surgeon marries a femme fatale, causing his life to turn upside down. Things go more awry when he falls in love with a talking brain.
Recently widowed Doctor Michael Hfuhruhurr, the world's greatest neurosurgeon, injures Dolores Benedict in a car accident. He operates on her and saves her life using a technique of his own invention: cranial screw-top brain entry. As Benedict recovers, Hfuhruhurr falls in love with her and they are soon married. However, Benedict is only interested in Hfuhruhurr's money and Hfuhruhurr still yearns for his previous wife. They travel to Vienna to attend a medical conference where Hfuhruhurr finally divorces Dolores, meets a mysterious Doctor Alfred Necessiter and becomes entangled in a series of murders committed by The Elevator Killer.
The narcissist Dr. Michael Hfuhruhurr is one of the greatest neurosurgeons of the world that has developed a cranial screw-top brain entry technique for his successful surgeries. He grieves and has not recovered from the loss of his beloved wife Rebecca. Dr. Hfuhruhurr gives an interview about his career to a reporter while driving home in his car. Meanwhile the vixen gold-digger Dolores Benedict has an argument with her husband and untimely leaves the real estate. Dr. Hfuhruhurr accidentally hits Dolores and operates her saving her life. While recovering in the hospital, Dolores seduces Dr. Hfuhruhurr and they get married. However, the hot Dolores always refuses to have sex with her husband, claiming that she is not feeling well while shags with several men. Dr. Hfuhruhurr decides to travel in honeymoon with Dolores to Vienna and attend a medical conference. Howeve, after an incident, Dr. Hfuhruhurr decides to divorce Dolores. Out of the blue, Dolores receives a phone call from his lawyer telling that Dr. Hfuhruhurr has inherited 50 million dollars and she changes her behavior toward him. Meanwhile Dr. Hfuhruhurr meets his colleague Dr. Alfred Necessiter that collects brains alive for his experiments, most of them victims of the notorious The Elevator Killer. Soon Dr. Hfuhruhurr has a telepathic connection with one of the brains that belonged to Anne Uumellmahaye (Sissy Spacek voice) and they fall in love with each other. When Dr. Hfuhruhurr learns the reason why Dolores changed he behavior, she revenges putting Anne's brain in the oven. Now Dr. Hfuhruhurr needs to find a body to save the life of his beloved Anne.
A scheming woman only marries for money and her latest catch is a revered brain surgeon. He is driven to distraction as she endlessly pleads a headache whenever he gets amorous - though this doesn't seem to stop her with other men. On a trip to Vienna, city of the elevator serial killer, the doctor visits a laboratory and strikes up an odd friendship with something - or someone - he finds there. The result is that as he grows increasingly suspicious of his stunning wife, he develops a meaningful - but of necessity platonic - relationship with a bottled brain.

