Shakespeare's powerful tale of the wicked deformed King and his conquests, both on the battlefield and in the boudoir.
Richard's military skills have helped to put his older brother Edward on the throne of England. But jealousy and resentment cause Richard to seek the crown for himself, and he conceives a lengthy and carefully calculated plan using deception, manipulation, and outright murder to achieve his goal. His plotting soon has tumultuous consequences, both for himself and for England.
The deformed Richrd of Gloucester cuts a bloody path to the throne in Shakespeare's historical tragedy. Determined to seize the English throne from his brother Edward IV, he rouses Edward's hatred from their brother Clarence, who is arrested and murdered while imprisoned. The cunning Richard woos Anne, widow of Henry VI's son whose death he has arranged. Following the death of the king from natural causes, Richard has the little princes murdered in the Tower. The vicious Gloucester removes all who stand between him and the crown. Henry of Richmond raises a army against Richard, drawing supporters from all over England. The two armies meet at Bosworth Field. Richard's horse is killed beneath him. Defiant and savagely brave, he cries out, "A horse! A horse! My kingdom for a horse!" and is struck down by the attacking force of Richmond.
The London Films logo, featuring Big Ben, is displayed, and the great clock rings out the hour with its bells.The opening titles, shown on a parchment that scrolls up to reveal the cast, tells that "The history of the world, like letters without poetry, flowers without perfume, or thought without imagination, would be a dry matter indeed without its legends, and many of these, though scorned by proof a hundred times, seem worth preserving for their own familiar sakes. The following begins in the latter half of the 15th Century in England, at the end of a long period of strife set about by rival factions for the English crown, known as the Wars of the Roses. The Red Rose being the emblem for The House of Lancaster. The White for The House of York. This White Rose of York was in its final flowering at the beginning of the Story as it inspired William Shakespeare..."The scroll dissolves into the image of the English crown, suspended high over the coronation throne. Below, Edward IV (Cedric Hardwicke) is being crowned, with his siblings and court in full attendance. Richard, Duke of Gloucester (Laurence Olivier), his brother, exchanges looks with the Duke of Buckingham (Ralph Richardson), his cousin, and proceeds to follow the new king into the throne room. There, Richard and his other brother, George, Duke of Clarence (John Gielgud) display their affection towards Edward's children (Paul Huson and Andy Shine), in sight of Queen Elizabeth (Mary Kerridge). The entire court, save Richard, follow Edward out of the throne room and into the streets, where he goes on parade for the peasants. Richard however, stays in the throne room, and muses, directly to the audience, about his situation.
