Noted gunman Black Jack and his friends arrive and take jobs on the Allen ranch. Allen's hands have quit and his cattle are being rustled. When one of Black Jack's friends is killed by the rustlers, he finds the killer and when they fight his Marshal's badge drops out and Ruby, the leader of the rustlers, picks it up. With his identity now known she sets a trap for him.
Black Jack has joined three devil-may-care bandits with larceny in their hearts, Lavender Joe, Whiskey Bill and Blinky, who have plans to hold up a stagecoach but find it already in the process of being robbed. They chase off the bandits and then learn that the stage is only carrying U.S. Mail and a tenderfoot named Emory. The four bandoleros ride to town, but their reputation has preceded them and they are asked to leave. That night, at their campfire after Lavender Joe has plunked out a song on his guitar, they are approached by Betty Allen, who asks them to take work as cowhands for her father at their "Bar A"ranch. The smaller ranchers are being squeezed out by a widow named Ruby Sherman, whose "Circle S" gunmen are feared and hated by the ranchers. There is reason to believe that Ruby did not become a widow because her husband died a natural death, All of the local cowhands have been frightned into leaving the valley or going to work at the "Circle S." The Allens figure to fight fire with fire by hiring some hardcases of their own. Jack convinces the other three to accept the offer for the promise of danger it holds.His companions also haven't overlooked the prospect of coining some dinero out of it and, during a roundup for the Allen cattle, Joe, Bill and Pete get creative and also roundup some of the "Circle S" cattle. Jack orders them to return their "found cattle". When they do, they are fired on by the Sherman riders, and foreman Kirk Tracy(Tom London) brutally shoots Whiskey Bill in the back. Jack vows revenge and, in town, taunts Tracy into drawing his gun.Tracy backs down and Jack beats him into submission. This impresses Marie, and she ostensibly fires Tracy and offers Jack his job but Jack refuses. When she offers the job again a few days later, Jack agrees, packs his gear, is accused of duplicity by Betty and her father, and then rides for the Sherman ranch. There, he finds an armed Tracy and Ruby awaiting him, Ruby reveals that she has learned that Jack is really a deputy with the Texas Cattleman's Association. Jack makes a break, is pursued,feigns being shot and rolls over the edge of a cliff. (Actually, stuntman Yakima Canutt does it for him). Believing Jack to be dead, Tracy and the Sherman henchmen ride out for a midnight attack on the Allen herd. Jack, Joe and Blinky manage to trap the rustlers between the milling herd and an on-coming posse summoned by Betty. Ruby Sherman is taken into custody by the tenderfoot Emory who turns out to be a range detective. Learning they have been riding with a lawman, Joe and Blinky decide to vacate and ride, but Jack tells them he will forget their past if they will help him on future cases.

