A young Englishwoman spends twenty years to make whatever kind of life for herself, at the expense of others around her, in post-World War II England.
Susan Traherne has been irreparably changed by her wartime experiences as a Resistance fighter. She sets out in the post-war world to make her way to what she wants, no matter who is hurt, or how.
In 1943 in German-occupied France during World War II, 18-year-old British courier Susan Traherne (Meryl Streep) waits in the woods for a message to be dropped by parachute from a British plane. After experiencing airplane trouble, a fellow British operative named Lazar (Sam Neill) parachutes down, and Susan explains how things are run at her post. When they are nearly caught by German troops, Susans tough exterior cracks, and she cries on Lazar's shoulder. Soon after, the couple returns to Susan's home and make love.Two years later, after the war ends in 1945, while traveling through Europe with Susan, a man named Tony Radley drops dead of a heart attack in a hotel lobby in Brussels, Belgium. Raymond Brock (Charles Dance) from the British Embassy arrives to oversee Radley's funeral, and consoles his widow, Susan. Sometime later at the embassy, Susan confesses to Raymond that she and Radley were not really married, but only posed so during the war, and asks him to tell Radley's real wife that the man died while traveling alone.After returning to England for the first time in two years, Susan and Raymond begin a relationship, and he travels from his post in Belgium to visit her in England every weekend. Susan takes a job as a clerk in a small shipping firm in the East End. Susan's friend and co-worker, the spunky 18-year-old Alice Park (Tracey Ullman), moves in with her, and they engage in a bohemian lifestyle, visiting nightclubs together. Susan is restless in her post-war life, and expresses frustration with her job at the shipping office. During the winter of 1945-1946, she quarrels with Raymond, and suggests they separate for the winter.Skipping forward to 1953, Susan is now working as a member of Queen Elizabeth's coronation committee. She has moved into a larger apartment, and Alice is still her roommate. One day, Susan asks one of Alice's former boyfriends and a fellow working-class lover, Mick (Sting), to father her child. He reluctantly agrees to conceive a child with her, but is discouraged that she would want to raise the baby without him.When her job in the coronation committee is done, Susan begins working in advertising, but leaves within months, finding the work unsatisfying. Over time, Mick tries to court Susan, but she refuses to consider having a real relationship with him. After eighteen months of trying and failing to become pregnant, Susan ends their involvement which leads to a confrontation between her and Mick in her apartment which ends with Susan firing a gun above Mick's head to make him leave.Alice telephones Susan's former boyfriend, Raymond (who is still working in the diplomatic corps), to report that Susan has suffered a nervous breakdown. He arrives to visit her in the hospital, and in time, Raymond and Susan get married.In a jump-forward to November 1956, Susan remains frustrated with her life despite that she is married and now living in a fancy row house in the West End. Susan's unstable mental state becomes apparently to everyone, including Alice, when Susan is moody and is insulting to Raymond and their friends during a party attended by Sir Leonard Darwin (John Gielgud), which prompts him to walk out and announce to everyone that he has resigned from his position due to Great Brittan's involvement in the Suez Crisis.Skipping forward three or four years later, Susan and Raymond have moved to Jordan, where Raymond has been assigned a diplomatic post. Alice pays them a visit, and is alarmed by Susan's subdued demeanor. Although Susan claims to be happy, Alice questions her and Raymond about their sedate lifestyle, and worries how her friend could stay in Jordan for another two years. When word travels of the death of Raymond's colleague, Sir Leonard Darwin, Susan uses the excuse to return to England for the funeral, and Raymond blames Alice for putting the idea in Susan's head. Back in England, Susan insists they not return to Jordan.Sometime later in 1962, Susan meets Raymond's employer, Sir Andrew Charleson (Ian McKellen), and questions him about her husband's stagnant career. The meeting soon turns ugly when Susan threatens to commit suicide if Raymond does not receive a promotion within six days, which prompts Charleson to have Susan removed from the building. Charleson then informs Raymond of his wife's visit and threats and dismisses him from all of his posts and forces him into early retirement.When the distraught and somber Raymond returns home, he finds Susan decorating the house, seemingly oblivious to her actions earlier that day. Raymond insists Susan see a mental health practitioner, but she refuses and claims to have no idea what he means by that. As the couple argue, Susan slams a door in his face, and Raymond is knocked unconscious. She nurses his bloodied face before packing her things and leaving.Soon after, Susan rekindles her wartime love affair with Lazar, meeting him at a seaside hotel. After they make love, Susan shares her mental instability with Lazar. When she falls asleep, he leaves.In the final scene, Susan recalls her idealistic youth in the French countryside, following the end of the war where news about Germany's surrender reaches the French village where Susan is at. Susan talks with a local French dairy farmer about the end of the war and agrees to accompany him to a party with his family in the village to celebrate the end of the conflict. In the ironic final shot Susan proclaims: "there will be days and days of like this for many years to come!" Fade out.
