An oafish soldier receives a shirt but disregards the letter inside sent by a lovelorn secretary, prompting his bumbling friend to impersonate him in order to win her heart.
Evie's co-workers at the uniform shirt factory, and her almost-fiancée's inability to kiss, inspire her to slip a letter into a size sixteen-and-a-half shirt for some anonymous soldier. It's received by "Wolf" Larson, who immediately throws it away, but his sensitive, dreaming--and short--buddy John McPherson snags it, and begins a correspondence with Evie, pretending to be Wolf. But things get complicated when Evie wants to meet her tall, handsome soldier. And even more complicated when Wolf sees Evie and likes what he sees.
During WWII, the Trojan Shirt Company based in New York City has a contract to supply shirts to the military. Many female employees of the company, thinking about how best to snag a husband during the man shortage while men are enlisted, slip personal notes into the shirts for the G.I.'s. After Trojan secretary Evie O'Connor decides that her current boyfriend - the officious DeWitt Pynchon, her boss - is not the one for her, she slips a note into a size 16½ shirt, figuring the recipient will be a big, strong man. The recipient is big, strong Private Edgar Larson, nicknamed Wolf for always being on the prowl for fast, fun women with no want of a long term commitment. Wolf dismisses the note, but Wolf's colleague, Private John McPherson, can tell that Evie is a sweet, pretty woman. John, a slight, plain man - he's no "16½" - writes back to Evie as himself, sending her Wolf's photograph passing it off as himself after she sends him hers. Unspoken, the two seem to be falling for each other, despite knowing that a relationship can never progress. When John and Wolf receive a furlough to New York, John thinks about actually meeting Evie. However, he has to figure out how to approach and get to know her in person as himself and not as the person in the photograph. And if Wolf ever found out what John was up to, he would try and move in on Evie himself.

