In 1941 during the desert war in Abyssinia the Italian captain Blasi and the British major Richardson alternate between being bitter enemies or best friends depending on the circumstances.
In 1941 the Italian and British forces face one another.Italian army Captain Blasi and his troops capture a British army Major Richardson and his pilot when their scout plane crashes. The Italians allow the two British prisoners to escape. A desperate Captain Blasi decides to allow Major Richardson escape in return for Richardson's word that he will try and persuade his superiors to allow Captain Blasi and his Italian unit retreat without any difficulties or further harassment. O his return the British major is assigned to take his squadron and attack the fort his captors were retreating to. the British Major with a superior British unit takes Captain Blasi and his men prisoner but they slip away. the British abandon their vehicles to give chase on foot and the Native troops with the Italians slip back and burn the vehicles. the fire results in both the British and Italian troops seeking refuge on an island in the middle of a lake. The Italians surrender to the British so they will get taken care of.
In 1941 the Italian and British forces face one another.Italian army Captain Blasi and his troops manage to capture a British unit composed of British army Major Richardson and his men.Initially,it looks like a great feat for the Italians and a humiliation for the British.However,the British don't know the true sorry state in which the Italian forces,in full retreat,find themselves.A desperate Captain Blasi decides to allow Major Richardson escape in return for Richardson's word that he will try and persuade his superiors to allow Captain Blasi and his Italian unit retreat without any difficulties or further harassment.Not only the British Major escapes but he returns with a superior British unit and takes Captain Blasi and his men prisoner.Blasi considers this to be a personal affront and a total lack of gentlemanly conduct from the part of Major Richardson.Now in captivity,Blasi decides to make Richardson's task of guarding the Italians an impossible one.
A British Major (David Niven) is captured by an Italian patrol during the Abyssinian War of 1941. He is later released by the benevolent Italian Captain (Alberto Sordi) on the understanding that the Major will persuade the British to allow the Italian patrol to reach its base without attack. However, the Major's superiors refuse to accept the arrangement and the British troops are orders to attack. Russell Iungerich, California
