A young bride-to-be is being stalked upon by a serial killer in Staten Island. She gets help from a former lover, but will they manage to escape?
A reluctant bride to be is stalked by a serial killer who only kills brides and the people around them. While her friends get whacked one by one, a hard boiled renegade cop whose bride had been killed years before tries to hunt him down before it is too late. Meanwhile, the bride has to figure out if it is all in her imagination or not, aided by her ex-boyfriend...
The opening scene is a film-within-a-film of two young women watching a horror slasher film. One of them goes to the ladies room and becomes scared when she feels that someone in the ladies room is watching her. She returns to her seat and tries to tell her friend that there was a man in the ladies room stalking her. The mysterious man sits behind the young woman and waits until there is a murder on the movie screen and then stabs the woman through her seat and then makes a quick getaway into the night. Her friend soon realizes that she is dead and screams.The killer (Tom Rolfing) then boards a bus near the movie theater in Southampton, Long Island. While traveling all night, the killer dozes off and has a flashback to seven years ago; a young bride is murdered on her wedding day by the man she rejected for her current fiancé Len Gamble, a police detective.Meanwhile in the present, Detective Len Gamble investigates the murder at the movie theater and after learning from the murder victim's friend that the dead woman was going to be married, Detective Gamble concludes that the same killer from seven years ago is back and is killing brides-to-be. The killer's name is revealed to be Ray Carlton.The next morning, the killer arrives at Staten Island where he disembarks and sees from a distance university student Amy Jensen (Caitlin O'Heaney). Amy is preparing for her wedding and she sees off her husband-to-be, Phil, and his two friends who leave town for a bachelor party the weekend before the wedding. The killer begins to stalk Amy from this point on.After attending a ballet class with her friends Nancy and Joyce, Amy and her friends run into their psychology professor, Carl (James Rebhorn), with whom Joyce is having an affair. Amy leaves to go to a dress fitting, stopping to get ice cream on the way, where she notices a man following her. She is startled by Marvin (Don Scardino), her ex-boyfriend, outside the ice cream shop, on his break from his job at the local morgue.Amy then goes to the dress shop for her fitting, and as she leaves, the clerk is stabbed to death with scissors from the killer who continues stalking her.Later that night, Nancy and Joyce surprise Amy at her home with a small bachelorette party; her parents are gone for the weekend, leaving Amy in charge of her kid sister. Joyce leaves the party to Carl's house, where the two begin to have sex when the power inexplicably goes out. Carl goes to check on the electrical box, and when he returns, is stabbed to death by the killer with a chef's knife after finding Joyce's lifeless body in the bed.The following morning, Marvin arrives at Amy's house and insinuates that he wants to rekindle their relationship, and Amy expresses second thoughts over her marriage to Phil. While in the kitchen, Amy sees the mysterious man standing in her yard, and becomes frightened; she invites Marvin to come to a local amusement park with herself, Nancy, and her sister, but he declines as he has a shift at the morgue that night.Meanwhile, the police find the dressmaker's body at the shop, and detectives Frank Daley (Paul Gleason) and Len Gamble arrive to investigate.That same morning, Amy and Nancy meet Elliot (Tom Hanks), a psychology student, while jogging through a forest trail, and later attend the amusement park with him, where he questions Amy's claims of a man following her. While riding a dark ride with her sister, Amy sees Ray Carlton inside the ride, and confides in Nancy at her house that night. Amy briefly leaves to take her sister to a birthday party, leaving Nancy alone at the house. Nancy takes a shower and then puts on a record and lies down in the living room where she smokes a joint, and moments later has her throat cut by Ray with his chef's knife.When Amy returns to the house, she discovers Nancy's severed head in the fish tank, and is attacked by Ray the killer. She flees outside to her car, and struggles to drive with Ray on the roof. She crashes the car in a wooded area and runs to the nearby morgue where she finds Marvin and phones the police. Ray enters the morgue, and Detective Gamble arrives as well. Ray confronts Amy and chases her through a tunnel system in the morgue's basement. When confronted by Detective Gamble, the killer stabs him in the heart before he gets shot in his right shoulder by the detective. Neverless, the wounded killer continues to pursue Amy. Amy manages to trap the wounded killer inside a storage closet and escapes from the basement where she finds Marvin. The two flee outside to safety where police are waiting.In the final scene set some months later, Marvin and Amy are to be married, as it is implied that she cut off her marriage to Phil. As Amy sits in front of a mirror in her wedding dress, an unseen person enters the room; she stands, and approaches the camera, and says, "Phil, what are you doing here?" before she screams as the screen fades to red.
