A vampire Countess needs to drink the blood of a virgin in order to keep her eternal beauty. It seems that all is hopeless, until she bumps into Mark Kendall.
The Countess has a problem. She is a 400 year old vampire who will cease to look young unless she is able to feed on a virgin three times before the upcoming Halloween, a week away. She sends Sebastian, her servant and all of her lesser vampires out to find one. Finding a virgin is difficult in 1980s Los Angeles. Mark has a problem. He wants to 'do it' with Robin in the worst way, but she wants to wait. Jamie and Russ, Mark's goofy friends convince him to go to a Hollywood pick up spot where Mark meets the Countess, on the prowl. Robin's not going to understand this.
In Los Angeles, the virgin college student Mark Kendall is unsuccessfully trying to get into his girlfriend Robin Pierce paints. He decides to go to a bar in Hollywood with his also virgin friends Russ and Jamie to flirt and score. Meanwhile, the 400 year-old vampire Countess and her driver and butler Sebastian are seeking out a virgin lad to keep her beauty and youth appearance. The Countess needs to feed three times on a virgin before the Halloween that is close otherwise she will look older. When the Countess stumbles with Mark in the bar, she brings Mark home and seduces him. Mark changes his behavior and soon he realizes that he is turning into a vampire. Is there any chance to save Mark?
Everyone is getting laid except for Mark [Jim Carrey]. His girlfriend Robin [Karen Kopins] wants to wait so it can be something "beautiful". Mark doesn't want to wait, so he goes off in search of a lay. He meets the Countess [Lauren Hutton] who is looking for a virgin--a virgin's blood, that is. She invites Mark home with her and sucks him once. She follows him to a clothing store and takes her second drink. But drink three doesn't come as easily. Mark's girlfriend is getting wise. When Halloween comes, Mark wins the 'best costume' award for his vampire dress ("But I'm not wearing a costume!"), and the countess comes looking for her final drink. She almost wins except that Mark and his girlfriend sneak a quickie in a coffin. Mark no more virgin.
