A man named Zac Hobson awakens to find himself alone in the world. In a desperate attempt to search for others, he finds only two who have their own agenda.
A man wakes up to find himself literally alone in the world, and goes about trying to find other survivors, as well as to find out what happened. He suspects that a government research project he was involved in had something to do with the disappearance of everyone. Eventually he finds several other people, and once they begin to trust each other they try to figure out why they were left on earth.
Scientist Zac Hobson wakes up in the morning and sooner he finds that he seems to be alone in the world. He drives around unsuccessfully seeking out other survivors and tries to figure out what might have happened. After a few days, he shows traces of insanity due to the loneliness. Out of the blue, Zac finds Joanne and they stay together looking for survivors. Zac meets the distrustful black Api and Zac explains that he believes that the project that he was researching in the government laboratory might have caused the phenomenon. Now the trio decides to blow-up the laboratory to stop the experiment.
Zac Hobson awakens one morning and in the blink of an eye - at precisely 6:12 a.m. - finds that he appears to be the last man on Earth. There are no bodies to be found - everyone seems to have just vanished. He believes he knows what has happened - an experiment at the facility where he worked likely create a rip in space-time. After a considerable period of time, he is overjoyed to find another person alive - Joanne. Soon a third person, Api, joins them but Zac realizes that the effect will occur again.
Zac Hobson wakes up to find that he is apparently the only person left on Earth. Soon, however, he meets others - Joanne, a pretty young woman, and Api, a huge Maori tribesman. They survived the apocalypse (a malfunction of a government project in which Zac was involved) because all three were at the moment of death--Zac's attempted suicide, Joanne's exploding hair dryer, Api fighting with another man--when the apocalypse occurred. Soon, however, Zac and Api begin fighting over Joanne, and the trouble begins...

