A kind, small-town doctor mistakenly ingests pills made from vampire bat blood and they turn him into a dangerous fanged creature.
Dr. Matthew Campbell has been experimenting on methods to regress the mind to primitive instincts so that we can find methods to improve our brains and not get taken in by cheap horror movie hogwash. He's developed a drug made from vampire bat blood and has begun treating himself with it. But instead of improving his mind, he's become ill and addicted. He dies, but not before trying to warn fellow doctor Paul Beecher. Fortunately for us, he dies before he can say more than that pills are to blame. While still at Campbell's house, Paul finds a bottle of pills and pockets them. He's also got another bottle of pills in his other pocket that he takes for frequent migraine attacks. He goes home, puts his jacket on a rack, and then he's struck with a migraine. He asks his daughter to give him the pills in his jacket pocket, and of course she gives him the pills of evil. He is instantly addicted and he must take one pill every day. Each time he takes a pill he turns into a hairy and very insane killer, and he doesn't remember what he's done, except as a vague dream. Can the police and the other scientists who work nearby figure out who the killer is and stop him before he kills the beauteous new nurse that he has just hired?
Dr. Matthew Campbell invents pills to help with the human mind but instead he becomes extremely addicted to them. He stops taking them and tries to warn his friend Dr. Paul Beecher about the pills but dies before he can. Dr Beecher accidentally ingests some of these pills, and unbeknownst to him they're turning him into a dangerous fanged creature.
Just before Dr Matthew Campbell [Wood Romoff] dies, he passes on the product of his
long years of animal research to Dr Paul Beecher [John Beal] . "It's the pills," he
whispers. When Beecher gets a migraine, his daughter Betsy [Lydia Reed] mistakenly
gives him one of the pills. That night, Beecher sleeps soundly but Marion
Wilkins [Ann Staunton] is bitten by a vampire. When she is examined the next morning by
Beecher, she gets hysterical and has a heart attack.Dr Will Beaumont [Dabs Greer] comes from the university to investigate Campbell's
work. He knows only that it involved base instincts and some sort of
addicting pills that change the brain chemistry after only one dose. The
pills must then be taken every 24 hours or the 'animal' goes crazy. More
people begin to die. They all have two puncture wounds on their throats
and appear to have died from 'capillary destruction'. Sheriff Buck Donally [Kenneth Tobey]
gets suspicious and exhumes the bodies only to find them in a severe state
of 'cellular destruction'. Some virus, apparently introduced by the neck
wounds, is eating their tissue.Beecher suspects himself. He asks nurse Carol Butler [Coleen Gray] to keep him
company one night but gets called away to surgery. At 11pm, he transforms
into an ugly caricature of himself. He follows Carol home but she gets
away. The next night he stays with Beaumont but, when Beaumont takes away
the pills, Beecher goes crazy and kills him. The next morning, Beecher
decides to kill himself. Carol shows up early for work and tries to stop
him. When they fight, Beecher transforms. He pursues Carol into the
forest; Donally pursues them both. Beecher is shot 3 times by the deputy
as he struggles with Donally. [Original synopsis by bj_kuehl]
