Two mysterious orphan children have extraordinary powers and are chased by a scheming millionaire. But where do these kids really call home?
Tia and Tony are two orphaned youngsters with extraordinary powers. Lucas Deranian poses as their uncle in order to get the kids into the clutches of Deranian's megalomanical boss, evil millionaire Aristotle Bolt, who wants to exploit them. Jason, a cynical widower, helps Tia and Tony "escape to witch mountain," while at the same time Tia and Tony help Jason escape the pain of the loss of his wife.
We meet Tia and Tony as they are arriving at another orphanage. They do not remember who their families were or where they came from but know they have special telekinetic powers which make getting along with the rest of the kids difficult. During a movie trip, Tia gets a strong feeling about a man getting into a car across the street. She runs over to him and tells him that he should not get into the car. The man listens and decides to walk and get picked later by the chauffeur-driven car. Just then an out-of-control pick-up truck crashes into the door where the man would have been seated. This man, Lucas Deranian, (played by Donald Pleasence) happens to work for an eccentric rich man looking for clairvoyant kids that he can use to expand his fortune. Fake papers are drawn showing Mr. Deranian as the children's long lost uncle.The children arrive at the mansion of Aristotle Bolt (played by Ray Milland) to find everything they had ever wanted. Horseback riding, beautiful rooms, ice cream abound. They do not know there are cameras in their rooms watching them play using their special powers. Mr. Bolt tells them over dinner that they can name what they want to have and he will get it for them if they will teach him how they perform their magic. No deal. Tony and Tia want out because they overhear how they will be isolated on an island if they do not cooperate.They escape the mansion and meet up with an elderly man played by Eddie Albert. He agrees to help them find a place on a map that they have discovered on Tia's star case (pocket book).There are many close calls along the way as townspeople believe the children to be witches and from witch mountain. The three finally make it to the place on the map and are summoned toward a lake alongside the mountains. With Mr. Bolt in a helicopter, Mr. Duranian following in a car, and the townspeople coming up the rear, the final chase is on.This time Tony and Tia are met by their uncle and a flying saucer. Jason (Eddie Albert) is thanked for showing so much compassion getting the children back home. He is charged with finding others that survived from the spacecraft crash the night Tia and Tony were lost.Tia and Tony fly away with their uncle in the saucer. Jason is sad at parting but happy that they found their home. Mr. Winky, the children's cat, is left to keep him company.
