A professor recruits a professional wrestler to protect his daughter from vampires intent on kidnaping her and marrying her to the devil.
The vampire women in Mexico have awakened from their sleep, commanded by their master, The Evil One, to find him a bride. They choose as their target the beautiful daughter of a local professor. To rescue his daughter, the professor calls El Santo (Samson in some US versions), a silver-masked wrestler for justice.
In The Forest of White Pine, a coven of Vampire women living in a castle, has awoken after a sleep of over 200 years.The first one to awaken, is Tandra,the Vampire Priestess, who must prepare to awaken Thorina, the Queen of the Vampire Women. 200 years prior, a woman chosen to be Thorina's successor escaped the clutches of the Vampire Women and their henchmen. That woman's beauty has now been passed down to a current relative named Diane, on the cusp of turning 21. Per a prophecy, Diane is to take Thorina's place as Queen of the Vampire Women, as Thorina descends into the depths of darkness, to be with her husband: Lucifer.Tandra and several male henchmen go to Diane's home and spy on her. The young woman almost falls under Tandra's hypnotic gaze, when her father, Professor Orlof, and husband-to-be, Jorge, console her.Orlof recommends that she lie down, and as Jorge leaves for the evening, Inspector Carlos comes by. Orlof has called Carlos to provide security for a party of Diane's in a few days, but will not tell the Inspector just what he and his men are to protect Diane from.It turns out the Inspector has known for some time, due to some old parchments, that his daughter is destined to become the successor to Thorina. A mark on her shoulder shaped like a bat, is also a sign of Diane's 'destiny.' However, even with all this knowledge, Orlof has not told his daughter a thing about this prophecy.In the meantime, Tandra and her henchmen have attacked a couple coming out of a nightclub. The girl has been drained of blood, and her male escort has disappeared. Inspector Carlos looks over the body, with many perplexed about her bloodless corpse, until a doorman who saw Tandra turn into a bat and fly off, claims that the woman was attacked by a vampire! His declaration causes Carlos to declare the man be placed under arrest.Back at the Castle, the henchmen drain the kidnapped man of blood, and use his blood to revive the reset of the coven, along with Thorina.Back at his house, Santo arrives to speak with Orlof. Orlof tells of the prophecy, and how Diane's relation many years before, was saved by a former relation of Santo. Like then. Santo is the one who can save the woman destined to become Queen of the Vampires. Santo claims he will do what he can to protect Diane, but has to appear at a wrestling match.The day of the party, Inspector Carlos has a number of men watching over the party. However, their security does little, as Tandra and her henchmen detain several, and infiltrate the party. The two henchmen almost get away with Diane, before Santo appears, and detains them.It is in the aftermath of the attack, that Orlof finally tells of the vampire prophecy. Carlos then formulates a plan: hearing that another couple was attacked at the nightclub like the previous one, he suggests taking Diane there with several of his men to see if the vampire women and their cohorts might show up.Back at the castle, Thorina reprimands Tandra for failing to bring her Diane. Tandra then explains about Santo, and his possibly foiling the prophecy laid out.The vampires then send one of their male henchman to a wrestling match Santo is taking part in. The henchman takes out an opponent, and putting on his clothing and mask, attempts to take down Santo in the ring. The henchman's karate moves almost stop Santo, but Santo manages to unmask his opponent, showing his opponent's face to look like a wolf creature! Several officers fire bullets at the man, but he turns into a bat and flies off.Meanwhile, Diane, Carlos, and several other officers are at the club, when Thorina and Tandra appear, to take a look at her. Thorina leaves soon after, and Tandra and her henchmen manage to make off with Diane. Santo shows up too late to stop them, but manages to chase down one henchman, who bursts into flame upon running under the shadow of a cross.Carlos returns to Professor Orlof, and demands he quickly finish deciphering the parchments, feeling they have to tell where the coven is. With minutes ticking away, Orlof manages to find the location in The Forest of White Pine. Orlof radios to Santo, and the wrestler takes off for the castle.His attempts to infiltrate the castle end with him being trapped and tortured by the henchmen. However, Tandra does not act quickly in performing the ritual on Diane, and the sun begins to rise, burning the henchmen and Tandra, as well as sending Thorina and the other women to hide in their coffins. Santo manages to get free, rescues Diane, and burns the remaining Vampire Women in their coffins.Carrying Diane outside, she is reunited with her boyfriend and father, before Santo drives off.
