The living corpses of the Satan-worshiping Knights Templar hunt for human victims in a 16th century galleon.
The model Noemi questions her employer Lillian about her roommate Kathy that is missing after receiving a call from Lillian, and she tells that she will go to the police. Lilian explains that Kathy is in an afloat boat in the Atlantic with another model participating of a publicity stunt, and she brings Noemi to meet Howard Tucker and his henchman Sergio that have idealized the advertising campaign. Kathy uses the radio to report that a ghost galleon without crew has arrived and Tucker sends a helicopter to bring the models back; however the pilot does not find them at the location. Tucker contacts Professor Grüber that studies the Sixteen Century galleon and they use a boat to reach the ghost vessel with Sergio, Lillian and Noemi. Soon Professor Gruber learns that the damned galleon is stranded in another dimension and the crew is composed of excommunicated Templar zombies. Now they try to leave the galleon and return to their own dimension. Will they succeed in their intent?
When a publicity stunt of two models on a boat goes horribly wrong and the two get lost in a fog. They end up on a creaky floating tomb of the blind dead. That's right, these sea going Templars make short work of the Supermodels and move along. The head of the modeling agency and a group of employees start looking for the babes and too meet the Templars Pirates. But can they escape the fate of the models or will they too succumb to the monsters of the deep?
A pair of models staging a publicity stunt on the high seas in a motor launch mysteriously disappear after reporting a mysterious ghost ship. After learning that the ghost ship has been seen along the meridian the girls disappeared at for years, a search party sets out and discovers that the ship is inhabited by undead, blood-drinking Templar knights.
Two models are stranded in a motor cruiser in the middle of the ocean. It's only meant to be a publicity stunt, a way of stirring up interest in the boat itself; but they soon prove to be in real trouble. They're set upon by a 16th century galleon enshrouded by a fog. They each board the ghost ship, and each one disappears. Soon, the sporting goods magnate who hired the two girls sets out to find them. He is joined by his conniving right-hand man; the head of the modeling agency; a third model who is a lover to one of the missing girls; and a scientist from the weather bureau who is convinced something supernatural is going on. They all end up on the galleon, where they discover its crew are the undead Satan-worshiping Knights Templar.

