A young married couple flee both police and a gangster out for revenge.
When mobster Walt Radak tries to trick independent trucker Steve Randall into transporting stolen furs, Steve alerts the police, and Walt's young brother Al is caught and held for a cop-killing. When ruthless Radak tries to extort Steve's help in clearing Al, Steve and his young wife flee for their lives, only to find that the police are also in pursuit. With every man's hand against them, Steve and Anne must repeatedly abandon their temporary refuges. Finally, one midnight, the showdown...
The trucker Steve Randall is an ex-GI that has fought in the war and has been married with Anne Randall for four months. Steve has a trucking business, but he arrives home with the intention of celebrating his wedding anniversary with Anne. He receives a phone call from a client that offers a small fortune to him to transport some goods that night and he does not have how to refuse. When he arrives at the spot, he finds that he was lured by the mobster Walt Radak that wants to use Steve's truck to transport stolen furs. Steve does not accept the deal but is forced by Walt's gangsters to drive his truck. When he sees a police officer on the street, he blinks the headlights to call his attention. There is a shooting and the police officer is murdered and Walt's young brother Al is left behind and arrested by the police. Walt tries to force Steve to assume the murder to save his brother but Steve flees from the gangsters and travels with Anne, who is pregnant, to the countryside, pursued by Walt and his gangsters and by the police. When Steve finds a safe place for Anne in the farm of her Aunt Klara and Uncle Jan, he goes to the police department and tells his story to Det. Lt. Louie Ferrari (Jason Robards) that does not believe in his words but let him go. Steve returns to the farm without knowing that Ferrari released him to be a bait to catch Walt and his men.
Newlywed Steve Randall, who owns his own truck as a transport business, accepts a lucrative transport job on the evening of what was supposed to be his and his wife Anne Randall's four month anniversary dinner, the job taken with Anne's blessing. He may regret taking the job from a man named Reynolds when he finds out upon his arrival that the job is really for an acquaintance named Walt Radak to move stolen goods. Steve does whatever he can to get out from doing the job, but in the process not only gets caught up in this crime but potentially a murder. In eventually being able to get away, Steve has to elude both Radak and his men as well as the police, as Steve's primary mission is to ensure that Anne is safe from the threats of Radak, which Steve learns is even more important in finding out that Anne is pregnant. If he does get to that point in being able to safely hide Anne, Steve does intend to give himself up to the police to plead his innocence, despite the circumstantial evidence pointing to him being involved in both the robbery and potential murder which may be even more of a measure of his guilt in not coming in sooner. However, doing so may only complicate matters both with the police and with Radak.

