A young Boston writer goes back in time into an era where wizards and dragon reign and science is just barely known.
This is an animated movie based on the book by Peter Dickinson. In this movie the realm of magic is being threatened by the realm of logic, so Carolinus, the green wizard decides to shield it for all time. Ommedon, the evil red wizard, stands in his way. Carolinus then calls for a quest that is to be led by a man named Peter Dickinson, who is the first man of both the realms of science and magic. It is Peter's job to defeat Ommedon.
Faced with the inevitable replacement of magic by science, the magician Carolinus summons his 3 brothers (all magicians) to pitch a wild plan. The creation of a realm of magic to exist separate and apart from the world of man, where all things magical can be protected. 2 of Carolinus' brothers buy into the plan and offer their assistance. However one brother Ommadon rebels refusing to join this retirement village. Ommadon has another plan in mind, he wants to take the fight directly to man hoping to use their science against them. Prevented from direct interference, the 3 brothers arrange a quest to defeat Ommadon. A quest championed by a local knight Sir Orin Neville Smythe, the dragons Gorbash and Smrgol, and a yet unknown leader who must be a man of science. Calling out to antiquity, Carolinus locates Peter Dickenson, a modern day man of science and manages to convince him to join and lead the quest. However, a spell gone awry creates additional challenges for Peter, huge ones for that matter. What ensues is a wondrous adventure full of interesting characters, challenges, and perils that will cumulate in a face off between Peter and Ommadon. This story combines the literary works of Gordon R. Dickson's "The Dragon and the George" for core characters and themes, Peter Dickinson's "The Flight of Dragons" for the design of dragons and mechanics of dragon flight, and writer Romeo Muller who brings in the science verses magic angle as well as the romantic sub-plot.

