The Wanderers is a teenage, Italian gang in Bronx, NYC, 1963. They have their confrontations with other gangs. Drugs and weapons are uncool. Adult life awaits them.
Set against the urban jungle of 1963 New York's gangland subculture, this coming of age teenage movie is set around the Italian gang the Wanderers. Slight comedy, slight High School angst and every bit entertaining with its classic 1950's Rock n' Roll soundtrack such as "Walk Like a Man", "Big Girls Don't Cry" by The Four Seasons and "My Boyfriend's Back" by The Angels. Focusing around a football game where the different gangs play with and against each other, then at its grand finale, come together in a mass of union to defend their honour and their turf. Nostalgic stuff and above all a Rock n' Roll retrospective on a grand musical era. Timeless.
Set in the Bronx, New York City in the year 1963, the film opens with Richie (Ken Wahl), the leader of an Italian-American street gang called 'The Wanderers' persuades his girlfriend Despie (Toni Kalem) to go "all the way" as a World War II Hollywood war movie plays on a TV set. They have sex for the first time.Over the opening credits, we are introduced to "Baldies" a 40-strong gang of the most fearsome-looking hooligans, distinguished by their shaved heads and black leather jackets, gathering on a street corner under the command of their and their burly leader, known only as "Terror" (Erland Van Lidth) Nearby, Joey (John Friedrich), a feisty member the Wanderers, tries to persuade his friend Turkey (Alan Rosenburg) (who has just shaved his own head) not to join the Baldies. When Joey, being small but foolishly brave, insults the group's appearance, he is heard by Pee Wee (Linda Manz), a teenage tomboy and the sole member of the Baldies Ladies Auxuilary. The Baldies, including Terror and Pee Wee, chase Joey and Turkey who must literally run for their lives. As Joey runs through the streets, he signals the Wanderers for help. Richie along with another Wanderer member, named Buddy (Jim Youngs), appear, but when they see the Baldies, they join Joey and Turkey in flight.Cornered by the Baldies in a back alleyway, the four Wanderers prepare to fight. Suddenly, a tough, confident stranger named Perry (Tony Ganios) appears and intimidates the Baldies. Perry all by himself beats up several of the brawler Baldies forcing them to retreat. Terror then appears and confronts Perry. But after tense silence, to the other Wanderers' surprise, Terror suddenly backs down from fighting Perry and orders his henchmen to withdraw. Perry then leaves before the Wanderers have a chance to thank him.Later that evening, Joey meets Perry once again and learns that he lives right in his apartment building. Perry, a fellow Italian, has recently transferred to the all-boys high school that the Wanderers attend from New Jersey. Joey invites Perry to join the Wanderers and informs him that being a member of a gang is necessary for protection. Both Joey and Perry have trouble at home; Joey is afraid of his abusive and macho father Emilio (William Andrews), while Perry's widowed mother (never seen on-camera) is an alcoholic.In class, Perry watches as an argument escalates between African American and Italian students when their teacher Mr. Sharp (Val Avery) tries to teach them "brotherhood" in co-existing with each other. The argument turns violent as Richie, the leader of the Wanderers, agrees to meet gang leader Clinton (Michael Wright) and his African American followers, the "Del Bombers," for a fight on Saturday, but without guns or knives. In the meantime, Richie tries to build an alliance with the violent Irish gang, known as the "Ducky Boys," and the "Wongs," who are the Chinese, but both groups are distrustful of his offer. Although "Turkey" was a member of the Wanderers in high school, he admires the Baldies, and, still hoping to join them, he encourages Richie to reach out to the group, but Richie rejects the idea. Later, the Baldies harass Richie and Joey, while Turkey is forced to betray his friends and participate in the bullying.After the incident, Richie accepts an offer of assistance from the local Italian mafia boss owner Chubby Galasso (Dolph Sweet), who is the father of Despie. At his bowling alley, Chubby bashes a group of hustlers in front of Richie to demonstrate his authority, which leaves a chilling impression on the teenager. Instead of fighting the Del Bombers, Chubby tells Richie to settle the matter in a football game, and Chubby and his friends will bet money on the Wanderers, who are undefeated this season. To negotiate the arrangement, Chubby welcomes representatives from the Del Bombers to the bowling alley.Sometime later, Richie, Joey, Perry, and Buddy flirt with women on the sidewalk by bumping into them so they can grab at their breasts. Here, Richie meets Nina (Karen Allen), a young non-Italian teenager who is immediately attracted to Richie. Since Richie has a girl friend, Joey shouts out his telephone number to Nina. The friends follow Nina's car, but they take a wrong turn and arrive in an area controlled by the Ducky Boys. A fight ensues, and Perry's arm is broken by a baseball bat. After returning home that evening, Joey and Perry see Joey's father leaving Perry's mother's apartment... implying that they have been sleeping with each other. However, Joey is thrilled when Nina telephones and wants to join him and the Wanderers for a party, hosted by Despie at her parents' house.At the party that Saturday night, although Richie is captivated by Nina, he encourages best friend Joey to seduce her. In a separate room from the party guests, Richie and Joey play strip poker with Nina and Despie, which the guys cheat at. During the game, Despie notices Richie's interest in Nina and storms away. As soon as they are alone together, Richie and Nina kiss, then they leave to have sex in her car.Meanwhile, the Baldies are at their street corner hangout when in a drunken state, they are observed by a US Marine recruitment sergeant (Burrt Harris) working at an Armed Forces recruitment office. He invites the Baldies into his office and tricks them into joining the Marines, much to Pee Wee's dismay. Now intoxicated and looking to incite a ruckus, the Baldies arrive at the Galasso house and instruct Turkey to go inside and bring back women. As Turkey surprises the party-goers, he is assaulted by Perry. The Baldies, meanwhile, abandon their new recruit and drive away. Outside, Joey is shocked to see Richie seducing Nina in the car. When Richie tries to explain, Joey punches him and walks away, while Despie is tearful and curses her boyfriend.Elsewhere, Turkey runs through the streets to find the Baldies, but he becomes lost and encounters the Ducky Boys who are attending mass at a local church. Turkey then foolishly propositions one of the Ducky Boy leaders who investigates Turkey's shouting. The Ducky Boys then chase Turkey and terrorize him. After climbing up an elevated subway structure, Turkey looses his balance and plunges to his death. Later, at school, Joey mourns Turkey, telling classmates that he will be missed.Meanwhile, the Wanderers continue to ignore Richie for his betrayal of Joey. A few days later, on November 22, 1963, Richie and Despie encounter each other at a storefront, where the news of President Kennedy's assassination unfolds on television, they comfort one another and reconcile. Despie reveals she is pregnant as a result of their one-time sexual encounter. Chubby then confronts the young man and declares that he must take responsibility and marry his daughter and move into their house. Without waiting for a reply, Chubby congratulates Richie and calls him son-in-law.Elsewhere, Joey tries to cope with his abusive father, Emilio, while making a banner for the football game. On the day of the event at Van Courtland Park, the Del Bombers arrive at the stadium with confidence, accompanied by cheerleaders and music. Meanwhile, Richie hides on the sidelines while the Wanderers start the game, and Joey replaces him as quarterback. As the Del Bombers take a commanding lead, Joey becomes frustrated. Richie then arrives on the field, apologizes to his friend and guides the team toward tying the score. Suddenly, a large number of Ducky Boys appear at the stadium, wielding sticks and knives. As spectators flee, the Wanderers and the Del Bombers brace for a fight. Displaying their martial arts skills, the Wongs also enter the melee and assault the Ducky Boys. Joey's brutish father also joins the action. Despite the injuries, the combined alliance of gangs impedes the attack, and the Ducky Boys scramble from the field. In his rage to fight, however, Emilio strikes his son, knocking him to the ground.Afterward, Joey stays with Perry and declares he is never returning home, while Perry shares that his mother is an alcoholic. The two friends plan to drive out of town that night and leave for California to begin a new life. Emilio then arrives at the apartment. When he intimidates his son, Perry defends Joey, and a fight ensues. Joey hits his father on the head with a glass bottle, and the boys flee.Later, the Wanderers, the Del Bombers, and the Wongs surprise Richie with a bachelor party at the restaurant where he works as a dishwasher. Even Pee Wee attends the party, revealing that Terror and all of the Baldies are gone, having left days earlier for Marine boot camp. During the celebration, Chubby offers Richie a job in his organization, and Richie is too afraid to refuse; he will join the "family business". Unexpectedly, Richie sees Nina walking past the restaurant and follows her. Through a window, he watches with regret as she meets her parents at a folk song nightclub. Bob Dylan is performing at the club with the song "The Times They Are a-Changin'". Accepting that their brief relationship is over, Richie makes his way back to the party.When Richie returns to his bachelor party, Joey and Perry announce that they are leaving town for Los Angeles and say goodbye. Richie is despondent, but he is soon uplifted as the guests sing the song, "The Wanderer," in his honor. The final shot shows Joey and Perry driving away into New Jersey and heading for a new life in California.
