In 1845 Texas, a Louisiana belle is courted by a wanted Spanish nobleman and a Texas brawling gunrunner but her suitors' passionate duel is interrupted by the cavalry and a Comanche attack.
The Louisiana wedding of debutante Phoebe Ann Naylor to Don Andrea de Baldasar, El Duce de la Casala is stopped by the Cavalry over a matter of honor. Don Andrea flees across the river to Texas, where he meets up with Sam Hollis and his Indian sidekick, Kronk, who are carrying rifles to the town of Moccasin Flats. Don Andrea rescues an Indian maiden, Lonetta, tames some longhorns, competes with Sam for Phoebe's affections, eludes a Comanche war party and the cavalry (who have come to Moccasin Flats to celebrate Texas' statehood) and ultimately saves the town and gets his girl.
1845. Sam Hollis, who travels with his faithful but wisecracking sidekick, a native Indian he has nicknamed Kronk, has been refused by the US Cavalry any guides for protection of him and his cargo to travel across Texas through dangerous Comanche Indian territory to Moccasin Flats since Texas is not part of the union. In Shreveport, Spaniard Don Andrea Baldasar, whose wedding to southern belle Phoebe Ann Naylor is rudely interrupted and who is more gallant than he is smart to American ways, is being pursued by the Calvary in their mistaken belief that he killed one of their officers, Phoebe Ann's former fiancé, Yancy Cottle. Before Baldasar goes on the run, he and Phoebe Ann agree to reunite in Texas. Hollis and Baldasar, who meet on the Louisiana side of the border river between Louisiana and Texas, join forces for their now mutual goals with regard to Texas, with Hollis nicknaming Baldasar "Baldy". Despite their true affection for each other, their partnership is not always a harmonious one due to their basic differences. Their relationship is complicated by they needing to battle both the Cavalry and the Comanches. It is further complicated by the entry into the situation by two women: a Comanche squaw named Lonetta, who does whatever she can to protect Baldy; and Phoebe Ann herself, who Hollis falls in love with before learning her connection to Baldy.

