Intransigent magistrate Viola Orlando is targeted by her rivals who hire her twin sister Rosa, a high-class prostitute and porographic photo-novel star, to visit Rome and to set her up to impersonate Viola to demolish Viola's reputation, while Viola is torn between enforcing the law or giving up her seat on the bench to marry her childhood friend.
Con artist and all-around sleazeball Raffaele Esposito (Raf Luca) finds himself in court in the small town of Bellignano, charged with selling dog food as gourmet goulash. His seedy lawyer Bortolon informs him that the local magistrate, Viola Orlando (Edwige Fenech), is feared for her harsh sentences.After a disastrous hearing, Raffaele visits a nearby hotel leisure complex and is shocked to see a woman there he believes to be Viola walking around nearly nude. with flowers stuck to her nipples. He quickly discovers that this is actually Viola's promiscuous and free-spirited identical twin sister named Rosa (Edwige Fenech in a dual role). Raffaele and Rosa and up in bed together and after a wild night of passion and hot-and-heavy lovemaking sex, Raffaele persuades Rosa to take part in a charade that will discredit her sister and hopefully get him off the hook with the court.Posing as Viola, Rosa has sex with a few local crooks who are in trouble with the magistrate, thus word spreads that Viola is a whore.Meanwhile, Viola closes the factory of the entrepreneur Angelo Scotti because it pollutes the waters of a nearby lake. Raffaele takes advantage of it by offering Altero, in exchange for 10 million lire, the revocation of the closure and one night with Rosa, who pretends to be Viola. When Scotti meets the real judge the next day, thinking it is Rosa, he tries to touch her and ends up being reported for harassment.Viola suspects Rosa and sends her lover Renato to talk to her. Renato finds Rosa, dressed as Snow White, who works on a photo shoot for a pornographic magazine. Here he finds Raffaele from whom he buys - and then destroys - the negatives of the photos of the service.While Viola is attending a trial against a producer of pornographic films, Bortolon enters the courtroom giving the lawyer the nude photos in which Rosa is portrayed. When the photos are shown to the court and to the public, everyone believes that it is Viola. The trial is suspended and immediately afterwards Viola comes to the prosecutor to resign, but the latter convinces her to desist.Raffaele and Bortolon, to definitively eliminate the praetor, send an anonymous letter to the chancellor Lo Presti, a colleague of Viola, which states that in the photos of Snow White it is just the pretora and attach the receipt of the payment of negatives by Renato, Viola's lover. After Lo Presti has received the letter, he meets Viola (actually Rosa) with whom he has sex with; the whole scene is shot by Raffaele with a camera. The photos are sent to Renato who decides to cut the story with Viola. The same photos are sent to the prosecutor who at that time is together with Viola. For a more careful analysis, Viola realizes that the time marked by the clock in the photograph is the same as when he was talking to the attorney a few days before, thus making his meeting with Lo Presti impossible.The day of the trial arrives. Raffaele and Bortolon believe that Viola has now resigned and is amazed to see her appear in the courtroom. Raffaele is sentenced to prison, and finally Viola and Renato make peace and decide to get married.
