Follows the lives of the Borgen family, as they deal with inner conflict, as well as religious conflict with each other, and the rest of the town.
How do we understand faith and prayer, and what of miracles? August 1925 on a Danish farm. Widowed Patriarch Borgen, who's rather prominent in his community, has three sons: Mikkel, a good-hearted agnostic whose wife Inger is pregnant, Johannes, who believes he is Jesus, and Anders, young, slight, in love with the tailor's daughter. The fundamentalist sect of the girl's father is anathema to Borgen's traditional Lutheranism; he opposes the marriage until the tailor forbids it, then Borgen's pride demands that it happen. Unexpectedly, Inger, who is the family's sweetness and light, has problems with her pregnancy. The rational doctor arrives, and a long night brings sharp focus to at least four views of faith.
It's August, 1925 in rural Jutland, Denmark. Three generations of Borgens live on the family farm. Morten Borgen, the long widowed family patriarch, is a devout Lutheran. Most closely aligned to him religiously within the household is his only daughter-in-law, Inger Borgen, married to Morten's oldest of three adult sons, Mikkel Borgen, an agnostic, which Morten sees as a failure in his own parenting. Inger is currently pregnant with what will be her and Mikkel's third child, the first two being daughters, Maren and Lilleinger. Johannes Borgen, Morten's middle son, was his hope of that devout Lutheran among his children, as Johannes was the one who decided to study theology. But what happened with Johannes is that his intense study turned inward, resulting in him going mad, he believing that he is the current Jesus Christ. And Morten believes his youngest son, Anders Borgen, although a good man, is emotionally weak. In town, the Petersens, Peter Petersen the tailor and his wife Kirstin Petersen, belong to a fundamentalist sect of the church. Anders and the Petersens' daughter Anne Petersen have fallen in love and want to get married. Despite both being good, capable people, they know they will have problems convincing their parents of the union because of the differences in their religions. Indeed, Morten sees people like the Petersens as being holier than thou, while the Petersens see Morten as being not up to their faith. What happens with Inger and her pregnancy may give them all a different perspective of faith.

