Left for dead with his wife killed in their house, L.A. Detective Mason Storm will have to make a quick recovery, expose those behind the murder and take revenge.
Following up on a lead, L.A. Detective Mason Storm gathers evidence against the Mob and its political supporters but unfortunately, he is being monitored secretly, and when his cover gets blown, he will be home invaded and left for dead. Seven years later, Storm unexpectedly recovers from his deep coma only to realise that he needs to finish what he started and finally get even. In the end, now that Storm is unstoppable, no one will deny him of his rightful and devastatingly violent retribution. Who can be a match for a dead man's fury?
Mason Storm, a 'do it alone' cop, is gunned down at home. The intruders kill his wife, and think they've killed both Mason and his son too. Mason is secretly taken to a hospital where he spends several years in a coma. His son meanwhile is growing up thinking his father is dead. When Mason wakes up, everyone is in danger - himself, his son, his best friend, his nurse - but most of all those who arranged for his death
In 1983, Senator Vernon Trent is running a high-profile re-election campaign. Los Angeles cop Mason Storm videotapes a meeting where Trent hires killers to kill his opponent so he won't lose the election. When Mason's cover is blown, he gets away temporarily, but when he calls in this information to his partner Kevin O'Malley, he is overheard by corrupt cops who work for Trent. On his way home, Mason stops at a liquor store to pick up some champagne to celebrate his undercover coup with his wife Felicia and his 5-year-old son Sonny. 5 thugs come into the store with guns and blow away the cashier, and Mason kills the thugs. At home, Mason tucks Sonny in, and Mason and Felicia open the champagne. The corrupt cops who overheard Storm's call to Kevin go to Storm's house and start firing their guns. Felicia is killed, and Sonny is missing and presumed dead. Mason himself, declared dead at the hospital, revives only to remain in a coma. Kevin enlists the help of a doctor to keep Mason's survival a secret until he can recuperate and give information on his assailants. 7 years later, in 1990, Kevin has been forced off the LAPD, with Trent and his men now running the show. Mason is in a coma center under the alias of "John Doe," and he's being cared for by nurse Andrea "Andy" Stewart. Mason wakes up from his 7 year coma, and takes some time to recover. After recovering, Mason is reunited with Sonny, who is now 12-years-old, and Mason plans his revenge on Trent.
Mason Storm is an honest and honorable cop. He videotapes a mobster being contracted by someone to kill someone. While Storm was not able to get a clear shot of the other man, Storm recognizes the voice but can't remember who he is. He then calls his partner and tells him about it. Some of the others cops overhear the conversation, and before you know it both men are gunned down in their homes, and drugs are planted. At the hospital, O'Malley an internal affairs cop and friend of Storm, who doesn't believe he's guilty has been assigned the case by the Chief. At first, he and everyone there are told that Storm died and after everybody leaves, another doctor comes out to tell him that Storm is still alive. O'Malley then arranges for Storm to be placed in a coma center under a different name. Seven years go by and Storm wakes up, when one of the staff calls the number on his record looking for O'Malley, but O'Malley is no longer with the department. Later someone goes to the hospital and tries to kill Storm but Storm with the help of Andy Stewart escapes. The press paints Storm as a crooked cop. But Storm calls saying he has proof that he was framed and when it is announced the ones behind it try to find him. Storm readies himself when he knows that he will have to face them.
Back in 1983 Mason Storm (Seagal) is a Los Angeles police detective who is investigating a mob meeting taking place by a pier. He spies on them with a video camera and captures on tape a shadowy figure telling the other people that they can rely on his political support, emphasizing this by saying "And you can take that to the bank!" Storm is spotted but manages to get away. Driving home and unaware of another pair of cops listening in, Mason informs first his partner then his friend Lt. O'Malley (Coffin) that he has evidence of corruption, and will be bringing the tape to them soon. He goes into a store to get Champagne and a teddy bear to give to his son. The store is robbed, with one of the robbers shooting the clerk. Mason manages to stop them and afterwards goes home, intent on celebrating with his wife Felicia (Bonnie Burroughs). Before he does anything else, Mason hides the tape in a small hole in his kitchen wall. When he goes upstairs, a hit squad composed of corrupt policemen, including Jack Axel (Boswell) and Max Quentero (Richmond), working for the politician, break in and proceed to murder Mason's wife and shoot him. Mason's young son Sonny, (Bara) manages to hide until the danger passes. At the same time, Storm's partner is shot by a masked assassin whilst seated beside his window. At the hospital, Mason is found to be alive, but in a coma. Lieutenant O'Malley informs the medics to tell people that Mason died, to prevent anyone from coming back for him later. Mason is set up by the corrupt policemen as having murdered his wife and committed suicide.Seven years later, Mason wakes from his coma. Andy (LeBrock), one of the two nurses monitoring him, makes a phone call, which is intercepted by one of the corrupt police officers who want to see Mason dead. They send Jack Axel to the hospital to finish the job and kill the nurses to whom Mason might have talked. Mason realizes that he is still in danger but his muscles have atrophied to where he can barely use his arms. He manages to get himself to an elevator, and when Andy sees her colleagues killed, she helps Mason escape from the hospital.Needing time to recuperate, Andy brings Mason to a friend's house, where Mason uses his knowledge of acupuncture, moxibustion and other meditation techniques to recover his strength. While training, Mason hears a commercial for Senator Vernon Trent (Sadler) on television, who caps the commercial with the phrase, "And you can take that to the bank!" Recognizing the voice, Mason now knows who he has to go after to get his revenge and even mocks Trent's phrase by saying "I'm gonna take you to the bank, Senator Trent. To the blood bank!". Mason contacts O'Malley, who comes over with some weapons for Mason. O'Malley tells Mason that his son is still alive - O'Malley took Mason's son in and raised him, sending him to a private school so that he would be out of danger. O'Malley then leaves. However, Senator Trent's men find the house where Mason and Andy are and attempt to kill them, but Mason manages to get them both out again.Mason then goes back to his old house. Posing as realtors looking to see if the house is one that can be put on the market, Mason breaks through the plaster in the kitchen to get the tape he hid. Mason then goes to meet O'Malley in a train station, where O'Malley brings Mason's now teenage son. They do not see each other, because as Mason arrives, O'Malley is already dead having been shot (by Max) after giving the tape to Andy for safe-keeping while providing a distraction for Sonny (Rosencrantz) to get away. When Mason arrives, he sees his son running away from two of the corrupt officers (recognizing one who helped murder his wife). Mason catches up with the men, kills Max and saves his son and decides to go after Senator Trent at his home.At the Senator's mansion, Mason sneaks in and manages to take the Senator's men down one by one. Mason fights with Axel in the billiard room, ending with him jamming a pool stick into his neck. Mason finally manages to confront Senator Trent and holds him at gunpoint when the police storm the mansion. However, rather than arresting Mason, the police arrest Senator Trent and take him away. Mason is then reunited with Andy and his son and walk off as the image from the videotape is played, showing Trent coming out of the shadows briefly, wondering who it is that is taping him.
