A sleazy record promotor tries to make it big with a local Chicago garage band and plans to make them famous while keeping the profits for himself.
Sleazy music promoter Boojie Baker convinces a pop band to come work for him. He arranges play dates, publicity, record contracts, and the band's loyalty by getting his hired girls to exercise their feminine charms on all who stand in his way. Thus he creates the new music sensation, The Big Blast, but the band is unhappy about Boojie keeping most of the money. When they try to leave, Boojie sets them up for trouble with the law, but offers to bail them out if they sign the contract. Can't anyone stop this scum bucket?
In Chicago, a ruthless and greedy talent manager named Boojie Baker (Dan Conway) "discovers" then exploits unknown rock bands. Opening up at a nightclub, one of Boojie Baker's protégé acts, a band called Charlie who have clearly been put through the grind already, griping about the royalties they've been fleeced out of, walk out on him.Undaunted, Boojie and his loyal, but dim-witted assistant Gordy (Ray Sager) walk into a local bar for some cheap drinks and they discover a new band performing, (played by real-life Chicago garage band The Faded Blue). Promising them a recording contract and ensuing fame, Boojie renames the five-man group 'The Big Blast,' outfits them in designer suits, and sets about to prime them for stardom. This is done by utilizing a bevy of attractive and loose women to seduce a recording engineer, photographing him in the heat of the moment, then blackmailing him into letting the Big Blast cut a single. During the Big Blast's first concert appearance, Boojie bribes the same group of young women to run up on stage a rip the uniforms off the group as a way to further promote their supposed popularity.The group cuts their big hit, and Boojie presumably uses similar tactics to promote the record and garner airplay. Soon, Boojie and Gordy take the group on tour through the state from appearances all over Chicago, to concert appearances coast-to-coast. In one take away from the story, Gordy takes the group out one day for some lunch and they stop at a Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC) place where the manager, (played by none other then the founder of KFC himself, Colonel Harlan Sanders), lets the group perform a musical number right out in front of his restaurant in exchange for giving them five free buckets of fried chicken.As the months draw by, it doesn't take long before the band begins to wonder why they aren't receiving any money for their labors. When the Big Blast confronts Boojie in his office about their suspicions that he is swindling them out of their money, they demand a larger percentage of their sales. A hard line negotiator, Boojie refuses to budge in that respect, and welcomes the boys to seek fame in fortune in other avenues, while he secretly continues to squander all of the money that he receives by buying expensive clothes and luxury items for himself, as well as to squander the cash on prostitutes for his daily carnal urges. To show there are no hard feelings, he even invites them to a party at his apartment.Turns out this party, replete with liquor, women, and marijuana, is a setup, and a "police detective", named Lt. Kronsky, shows up to raid it. Coincidentally, this is before Boojie arrives, and when he does, it seems that he also has some pull in the "police department". As it happens, he is able to bail the boys out of this serious legal jam if they agree to sign new contracts which will give him a bigger percent of the profits they make, and expands their contract with him by five years instead of two. One by one, each of the five members concedes to Boojie's demands, with the drummer Tom being the last to succumb. Incidentally, after they leave the apartment, the "detective" hits up Boojie for some of the grass. It turns out that the Lt. Kronsky is an old friend of Boojie who help him set everything up.Back in the studio, the group begins to unravel, internal bickering starts to swell, and they just can't seem to cut their follow-up hit. During this time, the band makes a background check on Boojie, and they discover that Boojie was fired from his job as a talent agent at a big agency office a few years ago for "mis-use of funds" as well as suspected embezzlement of company money, but he was never brought with crimminal charges becase there was no evidence. As a result of this revelation, the Big Blast; Ron, Dennis, Tom, Ralph, and Chris, decide to bring down Boojie at the expense of their own fame and fortune by sabotaging a television appearance Boojie has lined up by showing up drunk and singing a thinly-disguised musical flipping-of-the-bird to him. The group then rips up Boojie's contract to them, in which he and Gordy storm out of the studio, presumably to go look for another rock and roll band to manage and manipulate. "Oh well, that's show business," Ralph of the Big Blast says.The film ends with a zany MOS montage of the band which was clearly inspired by the comic stylings of the Beatles movies of 'Hard Days Night' and 'Help!', which were directed by Richard Lester, even if the end result falls a bit short.
