In Nazi-occupied Paris, the immoral art dealer, Robert Klein, leads a life of luxury, until a copy of a Jewish newspaper brings him to the attention of the police, linking him with a mysterious doppelgänger. Will Mr Klein clear his name?
Paris, 1942. Robert Klein cannot find any fault with the state of affairs in German-occupied France. He has a well-furnished flat, a mistress, and business is booming. Jews facing discrimination because of laws edicted by the French government are desperate to sell valuable works of art - and it is easy for him to get them at bargain prices. His cosy life is disrupted when he realizes that there is another Robert Klein in Paris - a Jew with a rather mysterious behaviour. Very soon, this homonymy attracts the close - and menacing - attention of the police on the established art trader.
In 1942, in Paris, Mr. Robert Klein is a bon-vivant art dealer that exploits French Jews that need to raise money selling their artworks. When he receives a Jewish newspaper, he discovers that there is a homonym in Paris and he goes to the police to report the mistake. Soon Mr. Klein becomes suspect by the police that he might be Jew and he decides to carry out his own investigation but he does not find the other Mr. Klein. He needs to prove his origins to the authorities but becomes obsessed to find his double.
At the height of WWII, in Nazi-occupied Paris, the charming French opportunist and unscrupulous art dealer, Robert Klein, leads a life of luxury, benefiting from the volatile wartime situation. Against the backdrop of systematic deportations, the rapacious Mr Klein makes an enviable living by exploiting the desperate French-Jews who sell their paintings and valuables for peanuts, until the accidental delivery of a Jewish newspaper to his doorstep. Under those circumstances--as Robert tries to get to the bottom of this embarrassing and life-threatening misunderstanding--somewhere in the war-torn city, another Robert Klein of Jewish descent is threatening the real Klein's identity and well-being, bringing him to the attention of the police. However, who is Robert's mysterious doppelgänger? Will Mr Klein ever clear his name?

