A Broadway director helps the West Point cadets put on a show, aided by two lovely ladies and assorted complications.
Broadway director Bix Bixby, down on his luck (thanks to gambling), is reluctantly persuaded to go to West Point military academy (with Eve, his gorgeous assistant and on-and-off love) to help the students put on a show. Ulterior motive: to recruit student star Tom Fletcher for Harry Eberhart's new production (Eberhart just happens to be Tom's uncle). Then, Bixby finds that he himself must live as a cadet. Of course, sundered hearts come into the story also...
Broadway director Elwin Bixby - better known as Bix to his friends - and theatrical promoter Harry Eberhart aren't exactly the best of friends, specifically because of an incident with now movie actress Jan Wilson. Regardless, Harry asks Bix to stage a musical at West Point for their annual 100th Night as a favor to convince Harry's nephew, Tom Fletcher, the musical's writer and star performer, to get out of West Point and into show business. As Harry uses Eve Dillon, Bix's disgruntled dancer girlfriend cum unofficial fiancée, in combination with Bix's own financial problems as blackmail, Bix reluctantly agrees despite having disdain for the military due to his own past service. Once at West Point, Bix has mixed feelings about his task. He likes the show, and he thinks that Tom and co-writer and fellow cadet Hal Courtland are truly talented performers, but he can't tolerate the low priority the show has within the cadets' tasks, the fact that all the women's parts are played by the cadets themselves, and the officiousness of military life itself. Conversely, the West Point authorities have mixed feelings about Bix, and allow him to stay on one condition that he doesn't like but that Eve accepts on his behalf. With a little help from his old movie star friend Jan, Bix hopes that he can get what he wants out of the show. But the arrival of Jan adds unforeseen complications, some directly for Bix himself, all of which may only be solved through international diplomatic channels.

