In Italy, during World War II some American soldiers find an alien UFO.
In Italy during WW II, a patrol of American soldiers discover a space ship that has crash-landed in the woods, and they come across its alien crew. A nearby Nazi unit also finds out about the alien craft, and sends a patrol to capture it and the Americans.
When their platoon is attacked only The Sarge, Joey, Mittens, Dolan remain. When they're lost behind enemy lines, Joey thinks he's seen alien in the clear blue moonlight. The next morning, Joey has been unable to convince his friends of what he saw. Mittens and Dolan (thinking the creature was actually a deer) go on a hunt to find food, but they find a seemingly abandoned Nazi camp containing images and studies of a mysterious space craft in the deep forest, sadly they're captured before warning the others. As this happens, The Sarge and Joey discover the UFO themselves along with an alien creature following their every move. Is this alien friend or foe?
Somewhere in Italy 1944Joey (Timothy Van Patten) a solider for the US arm sits reading a pulp science fiction magazine on a bridge at the edge of a small Italian village. Mittens (Art LaFleur) another solider pesters him for a magazine with blondes from outer space on the cover. Joey tells him he swapped the magazine for a packet of cigarettes to a soldier is G Company.Elsewhere in the village Sargent Stone (Tim Thomerson) checks on his medic, Phillips (Bruce McGuire) whos previously injured his ankle. In the middle of the discussion the radioman, Ferguson (Eugene Brell) reports he cant raise HQ all he is getting is strange electronic sounds through the radio. Sarge checks his compass and notices it is spinning erratically, he checks Ferguson's compass which is equally uselessUnseen by the US soldiers a squad of Germans troops form up and advance on the town in preparation for an attack.Back at the bridge Joey and Mittens have their photograph taken by a soldier who introduces himself as Charlie Dolan (Biff Manard) Joey recognizes the name as a famous writer, and wants to know if Dolan is going to do a story on his unit.Sarge checks in with the Lieutenant (John Leamer) and reports the radio being out, and so far nothing has been heard of the other squads who should have arrived at the town by now. The Lieutenant dismisses Stones concern, and is sure the relief troops are approaching over a nearby hill. He goes to investigate, and is killed by the approaching Germans.The rest of the American troops take cover as the Germans continue to advance. Seeing the enemy strength Sarge orders his men to pull out of the village and make for a nearby wood. During the retreat both Ferguson and Phillips are killed. Sarge remains behind and sets up an ambush that stops the German advance.Regrouping in the woods, only four of the original squad including Sarge has survived the attack. Mittens is angry at Sarge. If hed taken a battlefield commission, the new Lieutenant would not have been in charge and Sarge would not have allowed the ambush to happen.As they move through the woods it becomes increasingly obvious they are lost. Sarge tries his compass a number of times without successUnseen by the soldiers a creature with a three fingered hand watches them from a concealed position.A german mortar position spots the Americans and fires. The round hits a tree which begins to fall on the men taking shelter. The unseen creature launches a device that disintegrates the tree debris instantly. The American move out of range of the Germans, and finally take shelter in an old abandoned farmhouse for the night. Dolan begins questioning Mittens about his relationship with Sarge. He wonders if Sarge can get them out of the trouble they are in. Dolans notices Mittens gun has the name Velma written on it. Dolan wonders if that is his wife, till Mittens admits it is a girl who beat him up in the 1st Grade.Joey is sent to take the first watch. As he circles the farmhouse he hears strange noises and the sound of someone approaching. He goes to investigate and finds a cluster of strange glowing eggs on the ground and a strange hairy creature standing over themThinking he imagined the incident, he goes back inside the farmhouse and burns his science fiction magazine. Satisfied he resumes his sentry duty. Next morning he confides in Dolans what he saw, and fears he is losing his mind. Dolan is interested in his story. Dolan is less concerned and thinks he saw some wildlife and his imagination took overMittens reports from his watch that hes seen a deer in the woods. Dolans, against Mittens best judgment is determined to try and kill it, and the pair goes out on the hunt. They find the location Mittens saw the animal and Dolens begins tracking itAt the farmhouse Sarge wakes finds Joey who tells him about the hunt. Sarge is furious and immediately goes looking for the other two menThe two men on the hunt crest a hill and find an abandoned SS camp. Dolan wants to go and investigate, but Mittens insists they go back to meet up with Sarge and Joey.Joey finds a piece of metal on the forest floor. When he picks it up he screams in pain from the intense cold coming from the metalAt the SS camp Dolans has ignored Mittens and snuck into the camp to see whats going on. He finds a series of maps and drawings of what he thinks is a new Nazi secret weapon.As Sarge and Joey are still trying to hook up with Mittens and Dolans, they stumble across the wreckage of what appears to be a downed space ship.Dolans is caught looking through the documentation and while in the process of being unarmed, Mittens sneaks in and shoots the guard. As Dolans and Mittens make good their escape more Germans arrive and capture the menThe Sarge and Joey find a way inside the wreck and begin exploring to see if there are any survivors of the crash. They can hear machinery noises coming from the lower areas of the ship and try to locate the engines. They fall through an opening and encounter the corpse of one of the creatures Joey saw the previous evening.
Joey finds an empty chair in the chamber they have entered. Joey surmises the creature he saw the previous evening is the survivor who would occupy the empty seat. As they explore the control systems Sarge sees a group of German soldiers approaching the shipAs the Germans move through the ship, Joey finds a ventilation shaft leading to the exterior of the ship and the two men make good their escape. As they escape they hear two Germans discuss the arrest of Charlie Dolan.
Sarge decides the best course of action is to blow up the ship, especially as the Germans have control of the wreckage. Joey is ordered to throw an hand grenade into one of the engine bays which triggers a series of explosions that kill all the Germans and destroy the remains of the shipAt the SS camp German soldiers unload a cage with what appears to be the captured pilot from the ship. The commander of the camp, Col. Manheim (Peter Boom) introduces himself to the captives and begins the process of interrogating them for any information they might have about the downed spaceship.A scientist interrupts the interrogation. The creature being held in the cage has morphed into a large pine cone shaped egg that appears to be glowing. When Manheim touches the egg, the creature erupts from its cover and attacks Manhiem.During the night, Adolph Hitler (Alviero Martin) visits the site to inspect the captured alien. He stops for a moment to examine the prisoners. Mitten realizes his hands are no longer tied and throws a punch breaking Hitler nose. After arranging the transport of the alien to Berlin he leaves.The next morning the alien is loaded on a truck for Berlin, and the two prisoners are held in the dog kennels. To their surprise Joey arrives dressed as a German and explains the escape plan to the men. Sarges plan involves also capturing the alien and see if it can be transported back to the allied lines.The plan unravels as one of the German officers realizes Joey is American, rather than waiting for dark they make their escape in broad daylight. Reaching the truck housing the alien, they are surprised to find Sarge at the wheel During the escape the truck runs off the road. As a German prepares to fire a rocket launcher at the truck the alien intercedes and sets a force field around truck making the attack ineffective. After the attack they continue on foot taking the alien with themAs night falls they take refuge in an empty family tomb. Mittens doesnt want to disrespect the dead and decides to stand guard outside, till the sound of wild animals drives him inside. As they settle in Sarge tells Dolans to come outside with him. Sarge then confronts the reporter about what he really knows.Two days ago Dolans is dropped off with their unit. Now they have a spaceship, alien, and SS units after them. Dolans pleads it is all coincidence and he is really there to write a story about Sarge. He explains to Stone that he is now a legend among the GIs its been reported at least 20 times hes been killed, but he always comes throughIn the tomb, Mittens and Joey accidentally discover the creature eat tobacco. It offers to swap a small device for cigarettes. Joey fools with the thing trying to understand its operation when a small green beam jumps from it, connects with Joeys head then creates a replica of a woman (Anita Zagaria) who immediately seduces JoeyWhile the two men are distracted by the woman, the alien grabs a gun. Rather than shoot the men he uses it to illustrate who he is and what he is doing. In the morning the alien is gone. All that is left is the remains of an egg. Joey summises the creature creates the eggs to sleep in. The four men track the creature back to the site of the crash. They encounter a second spaceship, with a different group of aliens, tey appear to be a rescues partyOne of the aliens takes on human form and speaks briefly to the aliens, only to discover the alien they have been protecting is a female. As the spacecraft is readying to leave a German tank arrives on the scene and begins shelling the spacecraft. The alien fires a small projectile at the tank destroying it instantly. Joey is killed in the attack.Joey is buried by the Americans as the aliens try to repair their ship, Dolans reports a German patrol is approaching. Sarge asks the aliens for help but they refuse. Resolved to stop the Nazis succeeding Sarge leads his squad out to try and ambush the enemy.The ambush is partially successful however the Americans are out of ammunition. Sarge offers to surrender and meets with the commander of the Germans to make the arrangements. Sarge approaches the officer and produces a hidden hand grenade that blows the German up and kills Sarge.Dolans and Mittens begin to consider retreat when a second German patrol arrives in their rear. Expecting to die the men are surprised when a ray weapon begins killing Germans. The aliens have had a change of heart and have decided to help the Americans. In a matter of minutes the Germans are defeatedThat night Dolan and Mitten say good bye to the aliens as they leave in their repaired spacecraft
Later as Dolan and Mittens discuss their options they encounter the Sarge standing in the middle of the road, somehow he's survived the explosion and heads of to cross back to allied linesChapman_Glen@yahoo.com
