When the overworked and stressed-out White House presidential shrink runs away, the CEA and the FBR scramble to retrieve him before he could be abducted by various competing foreign intelligence services.
At first, Dr. Sidney Schaefer feels honored and thrilled to be offered the job of the President's Analyst. But then the stress of the job and the paranoid spies that come with a sensitive government position get to him, and he runs away. Now spies from all over the world are after him, either to get him for their own side or to kill him and prevent someone else from getting him.
Sidney Schaefer is a well respected psychiatrist, selected by the "Central Enforcement Agency" from his work keeping their agents working though some of the cases and activities their positions have required. The "Federal Bureau of Regulation" has NEVER had a cooperative relationship with the "CEA", and blandly opposes the selection. But "President Lux" is satisfied that Dr. Schaefer is the right man for the job. This only means that Schaefer has no one to talk out his own concerns, or vent about the mix of insanity and inanity that his various cases entail. He has nearly instant access to the Presidential Manse, and is taken care of very nicely, a beautiful "gilded cage". But is he being watched? What about his communications? After a number of suspicious incidents and various people trying to either kidnap him, or kill him, Sidney Schaefer is on the run, with the help (or is it hindrance?) of agents of the CEA against the FBR and RSS (Russian Secret Services) and maybe (definitely) other strange and elusive agencies. Throughout the antics, Sidney Schaefer works his therapeutic treatments on all the agents he encounters, opening up some of their darkest secrets. Hiding with musicians, and the "underground culture" keeps him in the clear for a little while as his friends and enemies go looking for him. But all it takes is ONE TELEPHONE CALL and he is a prisoner. Behind all the antics "THE TELEPHONE COMPANY" wants to create and effective "hive-mind" creating a telephone network connecting people's phone numbers through their own neurocortices, eliminating the expensive infrastructure. Those agents he has met and treated realize that he is their best hope for something resembling sanity while still maintaining their positions in their various agencies. They rescue him and disable the "TPC" networking center. The movie ends with Schaefer hosting a Christmas Party with all the agents of the various agencies he has helped, and the "TPC" as an animatronic agency continuing with their plans. This is a satire of spy-films, science fiction, and the screwball chase movies of the 1960s.

