A showgirl returns to her New York home to visit her alcoholic mother, where she catches the eye of a Broadway producer.
Pretty Melinda Howard has been abroad singing with a musical troupe. She decides to return home to surprise her mother whom she thinks is a successful Broadway star with a mansion in Manhattan. She doesn't know that her mother is actually a burnt-out cabaret singer with a love for whiskey. When she arrives at the mansion, she is taken in by the two servants who are friends of her mother's The house actually belongs to Adolph Hubbell, a kind-hearted Broadway producer who also gets drawn into the charade. Hubbell takes a shine to Melinda and agrees to star her in his next show. Melinda also finds romance with a handsome hoofer who's also in the show. All is going well for Melinda except that she wants to see her mother who keeps putting off their reunion.
Entertainer Melinda Howard has been touring with a small theater company through the provinces, only being able to survive with the money sent to her from her Broadway star mother, Jessica Howard. Melinda decides to go back to New York to surprise her mother who she hasn't seen in years. What Melinda doesn't know is that her mother is a washed up drunkard whose only job is to sing at a seedy after hours club, that is when she's not in the hospital trying to sober up. Melinda heads to the swanky Manhattan address her mother has provided, which in reality belongs to beer baron Adolph Hubbell, who also has financed some Broadway productions. He employs as his butler and maid Lefty Mack and Gloria Davis, friends of Jessica's who also used to be in the theater. Intercepting Melinda, Lefty comes up with a plan to reunite mother and daughter for one night in the Hubbell house. Adolph goes along with the plan when he hears it is for Jessica's benefit. But the reunion can only happen if Jessica stays sober enough. In the meantime, Melinda catches the eye of famed Broadway entertainer Tom Farnham, who wants to partner with her both professionally and personally. That partnership may be threatened by the ensuing father-daughter like relationship that develops between Adolph and Melinda, which is seen by others, including a suspicious Anna Hubbell - Adolph's wife - as more a romantic one.

