A voluptuous black vigilante takes a job as a high-class prostitute in order to get revenge on the mobsters who murdered her boyfriend.
A sexy black woman, Foxy Brown, seeks revenge when her government agent boyfriend Michael is shot down by gangsters led by the kinky couple of Steve Elias and Miss Katherine.
An sexy, voluptuous, black woman named Foxy Brown is on a rampage when her boyfriend is killed by an government agent. Using her body as a tool of attraction and her afro and her gun as a deadly weapon, it's up to Foxy to avenge her boyfriend's murder.
Ordering food at a taco stand late a night, local Los Angeles drug dealer Link Brown (Antonio Fargas) eyes two thugs, Eddie (Tony Giorgio) and Bunyon (Fred Lerner), who have followed him. Two police officers arrive and place food orders. At a nearby payphone, Link calls his sister, Foxy Brown (Pam Grier), to pick him up, telling her that the two thugs will attack him once the police officers leave. At her home, Foxy gets out of bed and changes clothes, hiding a gun inside her brassiere. Meanwhile, Link tries to engage the policemen in conversation, but they drive away, leaving him alone with Eddie and Bunyon. As the thugs close in on Link, Foxy hits them with her car, and Link jumps on the vehicle, sliding inside through the sunroof.Returning home with Link, Foxy demands an explanation. Link confesses to owing a loan shark $20,000 that he lost betting on numbers but argues that his petty crimes do not compare to her missing boyfriend's dishonorable work as a police informer. Link says he would have money if he could only go back to dealing cocaine. Hoping to keep her brother out of trouble, Foxy allows him to stay at her house. Meanwhile at Katherine Wall's (Kathryn Loder) office, Steve Elias (Peter Brown) chastises Eddie and Bunyon for losing Link.One day, Foxy delivers flowers to her boyfriend, Dalton Ford (Terry Carter), at the hospital. Foxy watches as his doctor removes the gauze covering his face, which has been altered so that he can take on the new identity of "Michael Anderson," after having worked undercover for the Bureau of Narcotics for two years. Michael's boss, Adams (Ed Knight), allows him to leave the hospital for the day, supplying him with a new birth certificate and driver's license before he goes.That afternoon, Foxy and Michael take a walk and she spots her friend, Oscar (Bob Minor), on the street. They watch as Oscar and a cohort corner a drug dealer, beat him, and shove him into the back of a car. Foxy introduces Michael to her friend, and Oscar explains that he's part of a "neighborhood committee" working to expel drug dealers from the area. Because the dealers often bribe policeman for protection, the neighborhood committee must enforce their own form of vigilante justice.Link calls his blonde Caucasian girlfriend, Jennifer (Brenda Venus), and she informs him that Elias's thugs came by the apartment and threatened her earlier that day. Link worries about the $20,000 he needs to pay them back but hangs up when his sister returns with Michael. After Foxy introduces the men, Link stares at Michael suspiciously and leaves the house. Foxy and Michael make love before he returns to the hospital where he must stay one more night.The next morning, Foxy finds Link reading an old newspaper article announcing Dalton's disappearance three months ago. Link guesses that someone made a lot of money exposing Dalton as an informer. Foxy leaves, and Link studies Dalton's picture in the article, tracing lines over his face. Detecting something in the picture, he makes a phone call.At the office of Tedesco (Jack Bernardi), a drug supplier, Leroy, a chemist (Robert Nadder), tests Tedesco's latest batch of heroin and assures Elias that the product is 80% pure. Arranging a deal with Tedesco, Elias agrees to fly the product in from Mexico on a small plane. Later, Miss Wall discusses a new rumor that Dalton is still alive with Elias and his thugs. Bunyon claims he killed Dalton months ago, but Elias doesn't believe him. Wall instructs the men to make sure Dalton is dead.Foxy returns home and finds the newspaper article Link was looking at, noticing that he traced over Dalton's facial features. Foxy worries her brother may have detected Michael's disguise. Moments later, Michael is shot outside her home. Seeking revenge, Foxy finds her brother at his apartment and shoots at him, demanding to know whom he told about Michael. Link claims ignorance, and she fires another shot that grazes his ear. Relenting, he tells Foxy about Katherine Wall, who runs a high-end female escort service and also controls the local drug syndicate.Foxy visits the Katherine Wall Modeling Agency to apply for work, using the name "Misty Cotton." Foxy tells Miss Wall she knows what goes on at the agency and is willing to sell her body for the right price. The following day, Foxy reports to Wall's house where several women are being groomed. Foxy is assigned to accompany an escort named Claudia (Juanita Brown) to a party. There, they must befriend Judge Fenton (Harry Holcombe), who will decide a case the next day involving two of Elias's drug dealers. Claudia says their goal is to make sure Fenton finds the dealers innocent; otherwise, Wall might send them to a place in Haiti where men do unspeakable things to prostitutes. Outside Wall's house, Claudia's estranged husband, Willard (Edward Cross), approaches with their young son, Jason, and announces they are moving to Seattle, Washington, where he has a job. Claudia begs him not to take her son away, and Willard suggests that she come to Seattle. Eddie, Elias and Wall overhear as Claudia tells Willard she feels trapped by her employers. Eddie and Elias beat Willard, sending him and Jason away.As they ride to the party, Foxy watches Claudia ingest pills. At a hotel suite, Claudia and Foxy find Fenton surrounded by colleagues and topless escorts. The women take Fenton to a bedroom, remove his pants, and shove him into the hallway to be ridiculed by passersby. Afterward, Claudia comments on the danger she and Foxy now face after botching the assignment, Foxy promises to take Claudia somewhere safe.The next day, Elias informs Wall that Fenton convicted their drug dealers, and assures her that his men are searching for Foxy and Claudia. Meanwhile, Claudia sneaks out of Foxy's house in search of a drink. At a lesbian bar, Claudia (a closeted lesbian herself) talks to a woman named Bobbie (Jeanine Epper). Foxy finds Claudia at the bar and says they must leave, but Bobbie objects, challenging her to a fight. Foxy knocks Bobbie down with a stool, inciting a bar brawl. Outside, Claudia and Foxy spot Eddie, Bunyon and Elias. The men give chase and, while Claudia jumps over a fence and escapes, Foxy fights them. The men trap Foxy and, later, Wall watches as they torture her. Elias tells Wall Foxy's real name and identifies her as Dalton Ford's former girlfriend. Wall orders them to give Foxy a shot of heroin and send her to "the ranch."Sometime later, Foxy wakes up in a rundown house and finds one of her captors, Slauson (Boyd Red Morgan), sleeping. She hears Brandt (H.B. Haggerty), another captor, singing outside. Foxy sneaks out of the house, but Slauson, who was only pretending to sleep, lassos her with a rope, drags her back inside, and ties her to the bed. Brandt administers more heroin to subdue Foxy and rapes her.After Brandt has left the room, Foxy uses her mouth to grab a straight razor from the bedside table. Cutting the ropes, Foxy frees herself and grabs several wire hangers from a closet, twisting them into a makeshift weapon. In the kitchen, she leans through an open window, grabs one end of a siphon connected to a barrel, and siphons gasoline into a pot on the stove. When Slauson approaches, she strikes his face multiple times with the hangers and he falls to the floor. Brandt rushes inside, and Foxy douses him with the gasoline, setting him and the house on fire.After hearing about the fire and suspecting Foxy of starting it and killing two of her men, Miss Wall orders Elias to find and kill her. Soon after, Eddie and Elias burst into Link's apartment and demand Foxy's whereabouts. Link claims he doesn't know, and Elias shoots him dead and they kill Jennifer by slashing her neck.At the offices of Oscar's neighborhood committee, Foxy learns of Link's murder. Oscar leads her into a room where the committee responds to Foxy's request for help. Though they are hesitant to become involved in Foxy's revenge against Wall, she begs the men to aid her for the sake of her dead brother. The committee wants to know if Foxy has a plan, and she asks if anyone knows the name of the pilot who works for Elias.At a bar by the airport, Foxy flirts with Elias's pilot, Hays (Sig Haig), telling him that she's never been on a plane but wants to go. Obliging her, Hays takes Foxy on his next flight. Soon after, he lands his small plane near a hideout where Elias, Eddie, and Leroy await. Near the hideout, Oscar and his men approach two police officers guarding the area. As Hays greets Elias and his cohorts with the drugs, Foxy starts the plane back up and drives it toward Bunyon, running him over and killing him. She crashes the plane into a shed, and Elias's men shoot at her, but the neighborhood committee members arrive, armed with guns, and shoot back. After they trap Elias, Foxy looks on as one of the members begins to torture him with a knife.That night, Foxy carries a bag into Miss Wall's home, but Eddie and another henchman stop her and take the bag. Inside, he finds a jar containing Elias's genitals. Foxy removes a small hand gun from her afro, shoots and kills the two henchman, then shoots Wall in the shoulder when she lunges at Foxy with a knife. Instead of killing her, Foxy says she wants Miss Wall to live and suffer, along with Elias. Ignoring Katherine Wall's angry shouts and threats of revenge, Foxy walks outside, gets into a car with Oscar and they both drive away.
