When Germany invades Czechoslovakia, the German and the British intelligence services try to capture Czech scientist Dr. Axel Bomasch (James Harcourt), inventor of a new type of armor-plating.
When the Germans march into Prague, Czechoslovakia, armor-plating inventor Dr. Axel Bomasch (James Harcourt) flees to England. His daughter Anna (Margaret Lockwood) escapes from arrest to join him, but the Gestapo manages to kidnap them both back to Berlin. As war looms, British Secret Service Agent Gus Bennett (Sir Rex Harrison) follows disguised as a senior German Army officer. His ploy is the not unpleasant one of pretending to woo Anna to the German cause.
During the Nazi uprising in 1939, they have captured prominent Czechoslovakian scientist Dr. Axel Bomasch (James Harcourt) and his adult daughter Anna Bomasch (Margaret Lockwood). Despite the senior Bomasch having escaped to England before the Nazis invaded Czechoslovakia, the Nazis were able to discover his hiding location in part due to an elaborate ruse using Anna, who, at the time, was imprisoned in a concentration camp, and Karl Marsen (Paul Henreid), a Gestapo officer posing as a fellow camp prisoner. Dickie Randall (Sir Rex Harrison), an English officer using the code name "Gus Bennett", decides to mount his own rescue of the Bomasches posing as an S.S. Major. Anna feels she has no other choice but to go along with whatever Bennett tells her in an effort to escape from the Nazis, despite she not fully trusting him due to his seemingly cavalier attitude. Bennett and the Bomasches ability to escape may be placed into jeopardy by two Englishmen travelling on the same night train to Munich.
When the Nazis invade Czechoslovakia, the developer of a new form of armor plating that may be key to the war effort, Dr. Axel Bomasch (James Harcourt), manages to escape to England. Unfortunately, his daughter Anna (Margaret Lockwood) is stopped by the Nazis and put into a concentration camp. She manages to escape with a fellow prisoner, Karl Marsen (Paul Henreid), but it's all a ruse meant to lead them to her father. After Anna and her father are kidnapped and taken back to Germany, British Agent Gus Bennett (Sir Rex Harrison) goes there impersonating a German officer with the aim of escorting them safely to neutral Switzerland.
Anna Bomasch (Margaret Lockwood) is a Czech industrialist's daughter being used by Gestapo Agent Marsen (Paul Henreid), who is looking for her father also. British Agent Bennett (Sir Rex Harrison) poses as a Nazi officer to aid the Bomasches' escape.
In Czechoslovakia, inventor Axel Bomasch () flees the country moments before the Nazis invade in 1939 to take him into custody to create war weapons for the German onslaught against the world. Unfortunately his daughter Anna () is captured and put into a concentration camp as a medical nurse. When Anna witnesses the beating of fellow inmate Karl Marsen (Paul Henreid) at the hands of German soldiers she forms an immediate alliance with the man. After learning that she is Alex Bomasch's daughter and that she wants to get to Switzerland, Karl devises a plan to get them both out and into England where they manage to get to a safe house. Anna receives a message that to find her father she should go seek out Gus Bennett () an effeminate singer and salesman of popular songs. Bennett is a British Intelligence agent working undercover and is suspicious that Anna was able to escape from Germany so easily. His suspicions are well-founded when he realizes that Karl has planned things to get Anna out of Germany in order to find the location of her father Alex so that Germany can spirit him back to the fatherland. Bennett goes undercover as a German officer to get back to Germany when Anna is kidnapped with her father and taken back to Munich by Karl. Along the way Bennett is found out and discovers that he must incorporate the efforts of Charters() and Caldicott () whom he has known since his college days. A tense game of cat-and-mouse ensues as Bennett attempts to get Anna and Alex back to England before being found out.
