A story of infantry soldiers on the Leningrad front during the German invasion of Russia in WWII, which stresses the importance of friendship between combatants from different regions and ethnicities.
Two Soldiers follows the story of two machine gunners in the Red Army during the Siege of Leningrad. Arkady Dzyubin (Mark Bernes) is a jovial welder from Odessa who has become close friends with Sasha Svintsov (Boris Andreyev), a steelworker from the Urals. The movie opens with a battle on the outskirts of Leningrad. The Soviets overtake the German position, and we next see them having dinner in the bunker. Here, Arkady tries to keep morale up by telling his jokes and singing the film's famous song "Tyomnaya Noch". The friends are granted a day's leave in Leningrad, where the walk around the besieged city. Sasha recounts a friend he knew lived in Leningrad, so they go to the home of Sahsa's friend, Tanya (Vera Shershnyova). Arkady sings and jokes while Sasha quietly sits aside. When they return to the bunker, they discover that their unit had just returned from a devastating battle. Arkady tries to lighten the mood with his songs and jokes, poking fun at his friend's romance with Tanya. Sasha is hurt by Arkady's comments, running out of the bunker. Arkady tries to catch up to his friend, but they fight and part ways.Soon enough, a massive battle ensues. Sasha is wounded and taken immediately to the field hospital. Arkady tries to visit Sasha, but is turned away by the nurse by Sasha's request. Tanya receives a letter from Arkady about how Sasha is in the hospital. Shortly thereafter, Tanya's home burns down. Sasha eventually regains his strength and is preparing to return to the front as he marches through Leningrad. On his way there, Tanya sees him and stops him. She kisses him and tells him how Arkady let her know about him. When Sasha returns, the unit is in combat again. Arkady is severely injured while manning a machine gun, but Sasha rushes to comfort him. He makes up with his old friend and cheers him up by singing a song with him. As the battle ends, Sasha pulls his friend out of the bunker and carries him, believing him to be dead. He sits down at the side of a road as Soviet soldiers march past, and holds his friend. Much to his surprise, Arkady is not dead. The movie ends as we see Sasha helping Arkady to stand as the battle has been won.
