School is out, and three girls head to the beach for vacation. Two of the girls are world-wise party-goers who attempt to loosen up their naive, virginal friend, whose uncle has allowed the girls to stay at his beach house. When the near-sighted, drug smuggling Captain Bly dumps his cargo of marijuana, the bales wash up on shore. The two party girls, Ginger and Ducky, quickly stuff the dope into giant bags and spirit it back to the beach house, where it fuels a party with assorted misfits, delivery persons, and passersby.
A nerdy girls uncle lets her and two friends stay at his beach house and the two friends want to have a party so they look in the phone book and order a pizza then they start calling other service people and they soon have a house full of people. The party soon gets loud and wild with the caretaker trying to spy on them so the next door neighbor calls the police but the officer joins in the fun. Then when one of her friends calls a liquor store to have them deliver some booze they try to reach her uncle but they reach the uncles fiance instead and she gives them the okay to deliver the booze. She then calls him and tells him about the booze order and he is worried about what is happening at the house so he decides to drive out there. Then a boat that is smuggling marijuana is forced to drop its load while being pursued by the Coast Guard. Then as the uncle arrives at the house he notices call the people there and tells his niece that the people have to leave in morning. Her two friends hear him telling her about people having to leave so they seduce him and he agrees to have another party that night His neighbor sees what him and the two girls are doing and telephones his fiance who has her chauffeur drive her out to the house. The Coast Guard finally captures the smuggler only to find out that the marijuana is not on board so they plan a raid that evening on the house. But the two friends had earlier found the marijuana bags on the beach and they took the bags to the house and decided to hand out the marijuana at the party that night. The fiance finally arrived at the house as her chauffeur and caretaker get into a fight as she then starts to leave someone hands her a joint and joins the party. The Coast Guard then raids the house and takes the marijuana to burn it on the beach as everybody then inhales the smoke and starts acting silly.
