Det. Sgt. Mark Dixon wants to be something his old man wasn't: a guy on the right side of the law. Will Dixon's vicious nature get the better of him?
Det. Sgt. Mark Dixon always wanted to be something his old man wasn't: a guy on the right side of the law. But for a good guy, he's awfully vicious. After several complaints over his roughing people up, his boss, Insp. Nicholas Foley, demotes him. Foley tells him he's a good man, but needs to get his head on straight and be more like Det. Lt. Thomas, who has just gotten a promotion. Meanwhile, Tommy Scalise has an illegal dice game going and is looking to make a sucker out of the rich Ted Morrison, who was brought in by Ken Paine and his beautiful wife Morgan. She figures out too late her husband is using her as a decoy. Paine strikes her when she refuses to play along. The chivalrous Morrison intervenes but Paine knocks him out cold. That seems to be the worst of it, but later it turns out the guy is dead; and Paine looks guilty. Soon Dixon has fallen in love with Morgan - but not before losing his temper again and committing a terrible deed that he tries to cover up. Morgan's father, a tale-spinning taxi driver, may take the rap for it. It's up to Dixon to try to pin the blame on Scalise.
In New York, Mark Dixonis an efficient, but violent police detective that is haunted by his past. His father was a hoodlum and Detective Dixon hates criminals. After twelve complaints on his abusive behavior, his chief, Inspector Nicholas Foley, threatens him to take his badge if he loses his temper again. Meanwhile, the gangster Tommy Scalise has an illegal casino and loses US$ 19,000.00 in the crap game to the wealthy Mr. Ted Morrison, who was invited to the game by Kenneth "Ken" Paine and his ex- wife Morgan Taylor. When Morgan tells that she needs to go home because she needs to work on the next morning, Paine asks her to stay and she realizes that he is using her as a decoy to take Morrison's money. Morgan tells that she will go and Paine hits her face. Morrison defends her and Paine knocks him out with a punch. Later the police department is called by Scalise and his men and Morrison is found stabbed to death. They accuse Paine and Detective Dixon heads to his apartment to investigate. Paine is drunk and punches Dixon on the face. The detective reacts and punches Paine that falls on the floor. Soon Dixon discovers that Paine is dead and he was a war hero with many friends in the press. He plots a scheme to get rid off Paine's body and during the investigation he falls in love with Morgan. When her father becomes the prime suspect of Paine's murder, Detective Dixon lives a dilemma while hunting down Scalise.
Cop Mark Dixon is already in trouble with his superiors for his brutal tactics when he accidentally kills a murder suspect. To protect himself, he decides to cover it up and pin the killing on a racketeer he hates and knows has committed many crimes like this in the past, Scalise.
A tough New York City police detective misses out on a promotion because of his record of assault-and-battery in handling suspects and arrests. His superior officer takes him off of a murder case and, in his resolve to solve the case and prove his worth, he accidentally kills a man. He plants clues to absolve him self but his plan runs into trouble when he meets, and falls in love with a married woman, and her father is innocently accused of the crime.
Dana Andrews is police detective Mark Dixon, whose deep hatred of all criminals has lead him to treat gangsters with extreme prejudice to the point of being officially brought up on departmental charges of abuse. He has built his career as a cop because his father had been a criminal, something that has scarred Dixon psychologically. When the cops break up a floating crap game at the apartment of Tommy Scalise (Gary Merrill), and discover a dead body, they send out the alert for grafter/ gambler Ken Paine (Craig Stevens) as a murder suspect. Dixon tracks down Paine and tries to convince him to put the blame on Scalise, but during his rough questioning, accidentally kills him. In disposing of the body, Dixon narrowly avoids being caught by cab diver Jiggs Taylor (Tom Tully), who coincidentally happens to be the father of Morgan (Gene Tierney). Though circumstantial evidence, the police place the murder of Paine on Jiggs. Morgan is married to Paine and although separated, the gambler utilized his attractive wife to lure victims into gambling games. Dixon tries to clear Jiggs without implicating himself but cannot establish the cab driver's innocence without confessing of the murder of Paine himself. Morgan and Dixon have fallen in love and she stands by him even without knowing the full story. Dixon sees no alternative except to confront Scalise alone without assistance, and the result is a revealing moment to both Dixon and the criminal.
