A retired professor rents his attic apartment to pregnant Peggy and her GI-Bill-student husband. The professor ponders if his life is no longer useful while the young couple faces the challenges shared with many WW II veterans' families.
Professor Henry Barnes decides he's lived long enough and contemplates suicide. His attitude is changed by Peggy Taylor, a chipper young mother-to-be who charms him into renting out his attic as an apartment for her and her husband Jason, a former GI struggling to finish college.
Professor Henry Barnes is a widower and retiring college professor in a small post-WWII American town. The Professor lives alone in a huge house and he is is tired, bored and lonely. The world has changed and Professor Barnes believes he has outlived his usefulness. So, he plans to commit suicide just as soon as he has accumulated a sufficient number of sleeping pills. The married students at the college have a hard time finding housing; it is a common problem across America. When Professor Barnes meets vivacious, young Peggy, the wife of a young hero attending college on the G.I. Bill, Jason Taylor, he gets a big jolt. Peggy is so young, so much in love and so full of enthusiasm; but Peggy is also pregnant and needs a decent place to live while Jason finishes college. Peggy implores Professor Barnes to rent his attic to the couple and his first impulse is to say no. But, Peggy is charming, very pretty and determined; it is very hard to say "no" to Peggy. Soon, the attic is transformed and Professor Barnes is drawn into some of the problems of G.I. wives. Many of the expectant mothers are not getting vitamins and proper food, as money is tight; the husbands are working and going to class. Peggy and her friends worry about their husbands finding them ignorant or silly in comparison with their educated friends; in no time, the Professor is so busy teaching a battalion of eager young minds, loving every minute of it, he forgets about his sleeping pills and focuses on teaching plans. If pregnancy is the state of being full of life, Professor Henry Barnes learns pregnancy can be contagious.

