Daffy Duck opens a detective agency for the supernatural along side his Looney Toon buddies.
In this feature-length film combining footage from classic Warner Brothers cartoon shorts with newly animated bridging sequences, Daffy Duck, after having induced laughter in an ailing millionaire and forestalled the millionaire's death for a time (as chronicled in Daffy Dilly (1948), is the beneficiary for the deceased millionaire's assets. But the millionaire's will clearly stipulates that Daffy must use the money for the common good, by providing a service, and should Daffy think of pursuing selfish aims, the millionaire's ghost will "repossess" his millions by making them disappear from Earthly existence. Under the pretense of community service, Daffy opens an exorcism agency and employs Porky Pig, Sylvester Cat, and Bugs Bunny to track and eliminate ghosts, ghouls, and other monsters, while Daffy secretly schemes to use his learned "ghost-busting" talents to rid himself of the millionaire's nagging spirit.
Daffy Duck attempts to make money any way he can, when a news bulletin tells of the declining health of ailing 'buzzsaw baron,' J.P. Cubish. Cubish has been quoted as saying he would give a million dollars for one last laugh.Daffy goes to Cubish's place, and after getting rid of the butler, manages to become Cubish's personal clown...until Cubish dies of laughter. At the reading of the will, Daffy is bequeathed J.P.'s assets, with the stipulation that he use them to provide a public service.Naturally, Daffy figures he is home-free, until the spirit of Cubish begins to make the money vanish, proclaiming that Daffy must use it for 'good.' Daffy then decides to use the money to start an agency to investigate paranormal activity. He ends up hiring Bugs Bunny and Porky Pig, and each of them goes off to investigate strange activity.Though they investigate all manner of paranormal activity, Daffy grows frustrated when they can't turn a profit, and soon, Cubish's ghost has made the last of the money disappear. Daffy is then evicted from his office-space due to unpaid rent, and the items in his office are repossessed as well.While Porky and Bugs have gone their separate ways, Daffy returns to trying to sell items on the street corner to turn a profit.
