When a childless couple of an ex-con and an ex-cop decide to help themselves to one of another family's quintuplets, their lives become more complicated than they anticipated.
Recidivist hold-up man H.I. McDonnough and police woman Edwina marry, only to discover they are unable to conceive a child. Desperate for a baby, the pair decide to kidnap one of the quintuplets of furniture tycoon Nathan Arizona. The McDonnoughs try to keep their crime secret, while friends, co-workers and a feral bounty hunter look to use Nathan Jr. for their own purposes.
It's the story of "Ed" (short for Edwina), a policewoman who falls in love with "Hi" (short for H.I. McDonnough), while she's taking his mug shots. She's infertile and he's a habitual robber of convenience stores, and their folksy marital bliss depends on settling down with a rug rat. Unable to conceive, they kidnap one of the newsworthy quintuplets born to an unpainted-furniture huckster named Nathan Arizona. A Harley-riding bounty hunter gets on their trail and things start to get dangerous.
Colourful and unconventional slapstick comedy. Ex-con Hi and ex-cop Ed meet, marry and long for a child in the wilds of Arizona. When Ed discovers she's barren the God-given solution is presented: to snatch a baby from a set of quins. Thus begins a series of kidnappings, capers and rum goings-on that revolve around the helpless yet universally-loveable child. Hi's convict friends, his boss, and even the Lone Biker Of The Apocalypse become involved in the ever-twisting plot in the quest to own the baby.
Out in the Arizona suburbs, a young man named Herbert 'H.I.' McDunnough (Nicolas Cage) lives his life as a petty criminal with an apparent addiction to robbing convenience stores. He is constantly in and out of jail but is repeatedly paroled because he never uses live ammunition in his robberies. Each time he returns to prison, he is booked by young policewoman named Edwina 'Ed' (Holly Hunter). H.I. flirts with her during the booking process until one day when he comes upon her crying. She confesses she lost her fiancé (being a member of the lower class, she mis-pronounces it as 'fy-ance') who ran off with a cosmetology student. H.I. angrily retorts, saying that the man made a bitter mistake and his valiance creates a spark in Ed. An unlikely romance blossoms and H.I. proposes to Ed once he is a free man again. They begin a new life in a trailer home out in the Arizona desert.H.I. gets a legitimate job working as welder and machinist in a factory while Ed continues her police work until they decide they want to have a child. However, Ed learns that she is infertile and their attempts to adopt are foiled by H.I.'s criminal history. Ed is devastated and H.I. feels helpless until a small ray of hope emerges: a story appears in the paper celebrating the birth of the 'Arizona Quints', quintuplet sons born to local furniture magnate Nathan Arizona (Trey Wilson) and his wife Florence (Lynne Kitei). Figuring that the Arizonas have "more than they can handle", Ed and H.I. resolve to take one of the babies as their own.One evening, with Ed urging him on, H.I. takes a ladder and scales the Arizona house to the window of the nursery. Though the five energetic babies prove troublesome for H.I. to handle, he manages to keep four in their crib and takes whom he believes is Nathan Jr. (T.J. Kuhn). Though Ed has some reservations about upsetting Nathan Jr.'s mother, she and H.I. are overjoyed to finally have a family. Upon taking a family picture, Ed makes H.I. swear that he will be a caring and supporting father. That night, H.I. suffers a nightmare about a demonic figure, a grizzly-looking hulk riding on a huge, blatting motorcycle that he fears he's brought upon himself as Florence discovers Nathan Jr. missing the next morning.Nathan Sr. makes a press statement to local reporters about his son's abduction and offers a $10,000 reward to the person or persons who find his son. Mr. Arizona also enlists the local police to investigate his son's (Nathan Jr., he thinks) disappearance but the officers seem inept at conducting a proper inquiry in his own house.Meanwhile, H.I.'s prison buddies, brothers Gale (John Goodman) and Evelle (William Forsythe) Snoats, emerge screaming from the rain-soaked mud outside of prison, having just tunneled their way out. After cleaning themselves, and with much hair grease and stealing a nearby station wagon, they arrive at H.I.'s trailer for refuge. H.I. is excited to be reunited with his old buddies but Ed sees them as a bad influence and refuses to allow them to stay more than a day or two out of respect for H.I. The brothers are somewhat suspicious when they see the baby, leading a bumbling H.I. to struggle with a story to explain his spontaneous birth.H.I. and Ed attempt to ease into 'normal' married life and invite H.I.'s supervisor, Glen (Sam McMurray), and his family over for a picnic. The outing becomes more than H.I. can bear; Glen's children, all of them adopted and disheveled looking, are rude and take pleasure in breaking things around the trailer apartment or scribbling on the walls while Glen's wife, Dot (Frances McDormand), bombards Ed with all the things, some excessive, she needs to do to keep Jr. healthy. On a walk around the trailer, Glen, already an annoyance with a penchant for horrible and tasteless jokes, reveals to H.I. that he and Dot are swingers and suggests a wife swap. Infuriated and stressed, H.I. punches Glen in the face. Glen takes off yelling and runs face first into a cactus.That evening during a drive for some errands, Ed is somewhat upset with H.I. over the incident with Glen which resulted in Glen having a broken nose (H.I. doesn't mention Glen's spouse-swapping proposition to Ed.) H.I. leaves Ed and Jr. in the car while he enters a large convenience store... and proceeds to don a pair of pantyhose over his head before he takes a bag of diapers off the shelf and an unloaded gun out of his pocket. The porn-obsessed, geek store cashier, however, flips a silent alarm before Ed sees H.I. from outside. Enrage, she yells at him before driving off just as the cops arrive. H.I. flees the store and a hilarious chase throughout the neighborhood ensues as the trigger-happy geek store owner and a policeman chase H.I. Hearing gunshots, Ed resolves to drive back to fetch H.I. and picks him up, though a seed of doubt that H.I. could ever change his ways is planted in her mind. H.I. is chased through the neighborhood by the policeman, the gun-toting store owner, and a pack of dogs.Ed manages to pick up H.I. as he makes his escape out of a local supermarket and losing his pursuers where despite the tense situation between them, he manages to pick up the stolen diapers from where he dropped them on the street. When they return home, Ed orders Gale and Evelle, who are still loafing around the trailer and watching TV cartoons, to leave by tomorrow, telling them plainly that they're a bad influence. After telling them he lost his job, Gale and Evelle offer a proposal: they want him to help them rob a bank when it's flush with cash while all the local farmers cash in their subsidy checks. H.I. refuses immediately but Gale tells him to think about how well his life with Ed is going and if he can provide for his new family.The following morning, and while Ed is out, Glen arrives at the trailer and tells H.I. that he's fired and blackmails his cooperation by threatening to go to the police; dull, though he is, he deduced the baby's true identity as the missing Arizona child. Glen, however, is not interested in collecting the reward for Nathan Jr.'s return, but he and his wife want to claim the baby for themselves to raise. After Glen leaves, H.I. realizes that Gale and Evelle have overheard the whole conversion from within the trailer. When H.I. enters the house, he quickly finds himself in a pitched battle with Gale who eventually beats him down and, with his brother's help, ties him to a chair. The two leave with the baby to claim the reward money themselves. As they drive toward the bank's location, they both are gradually overcome by little Nathan Jr's infant charm. When they rob a convenience store, they accidentally leave left Nathan Jr. behind in his car seat outside in the parking lot. Screaming, they race back to the store and find the baby safe and vow they'll never leave him.Ed returns to the trailer and she and H.I. immediately arm themselves and pursue the Snoats to rescue the baby. Clad in her police gear, Ed admits that it was irresponsible of her to take the baby in the first place but all that she cares about is getting him back. She doesn't care if she and H.I. even stay together, she just wants Nathan Jr. safe.Meanwhile, frustrated by the poor functionality of the police, Nathan Sr. is approached in his office by an intimidating man named Leonard Smalls (Randall 'Tex' Cobb), a bounty hunter armed with a shotgun and a pair of baby booties (the same biker from H.I.'s nightmare). He offers to find the baby for more what Arizona is offering as a reward, but Nathan Sr. refuses after Smalls demands a high price of $50,000. When Nathan Sr. accuses Smalls of kidnapping his son himself and begins to call the police, Smalls leaves, intent on finding the baby anyway to sell on the black market.Leonard Smalls follows up on a lead of a recent prison break and tracks Gale and Evelle to Ed and H.I.s trailer. There, he finds clues of Nathan Jr.s presence and follows the trail into town.At the bank, Gale and Evelle are ready to go inside the bank but are unsure of what to do with Nathan Jr. Evelle argues that if they are killed in the attempt, Jr might not be found for hours. They burst into the bank carrying Jr in his car seat, telling everyone to get on the floor. Though their lack of coordination inspires some confusion from the bank patrons, the robbery goes successfully otherwise. However, in their haste, they leave Nathan Jr behind yet again.As they speed back into town, a anti-theft canister that was placed in Gale and Evelle's money bag explodes, covering them in blue dye and disorienting them. H.I. and Ed catch up to them and demand to know where Nathan Jr. is. Gale and Evelle confess that they left Nathan Jr. behind and Ed and H.I. race into town, leaving Gale and Evelle behind on the side of the road, yelling that the baby belongs to them too.As Ed and H.I. approach Jr in his car seat they see Smalls appear out of a burst of flame. Smalls snatches up the car seat and latches it to the front of his motorcycle. Ed manages to retrieve Nathan Jr. from his car seat while H.I. distracts Smalls, enduring a brutal beating in the process. However, just before Smalls can finish H.I. off by crushing him in a vicious bearhug, H.I. manages to pull a pin from a grenade on Smalls vest when Smalls throws him off. Smalls explodes, some of his paraphernalia landing in the road.They decide to return Nathan Jr. to his real parents and sneak into the nursery where Nathan Sr. finds them. Thinking them a kind couple who have found Nathan Jr., he offers them the reward but Ed and H.I. want nothing of it and admit that they are leaving one another. As he watches them admire Nathan Jr., Nathan Sr. deduces that they are the ones who took the baby in the first place. However, he is sympathetic to their wishes to have a child of their own and advises them to stay together before giving up hope completely. He assures them that he won't call the police and allows them to leave.That night, back at their trailer, as H.I. and Ed sleep, H.I. has another dream; he dreams that Gale and Evelle voluntarily return to prison by returning through the same tunnel they dug out of the prison from. H.I. imagines that "they weren't ready to come out into the world just yet". He dreams that Nathan Jr. grew up and received a football as a Christmas present one year from a loving couple who wish to remain anonymous and is watched by said couple as he grows up, becoming a football star in high school (Todd Michael Bogers). An elderly couple is seen living happily together as their children and grandchildren come to visit them for a holiday meal. In a final voice-over, H.I. surmises that, if it wasn't Ed and himself he was dreaming about and if that isn't wishful thinking, then it must be of a couple who come from a land not too far away.... maybe Utah.
