Mystery writer Cornelius Leyden becomes intrigued when the murdered body of a vicious career criminal washes up in the Bosphorus.
A mystery writer named Leyden is intrigued by the tale of notorious criminal Dimitrios Makropolous, whose body was found washed up on the shore in Istanbul. He decides to follow the career of Dimitrios around Europe, to learn more about the man. Along the way, he is joined by mysterious Mr. Peters, who has his own motivation.
Dutch mystery writer Cornelius Leyden is vacationing in Istanbul when he makes the acquaintance of Turkish Police Colonel Haki, a fan of his books. Haki makes Leyden aware that he is currently investigating the murder of Greek master criminal Dimitrios Makrpouloss, bloated corpse has just washed ashore on a beach in the Bosphorous. Never having seen a murdered body. Leyden accepts Haki's invitation to view it before cremation. Initially repulsed, he becomes fascinated by Haki's tale of Dimitrios sordid career as he rose from petty crime, smuggling and murder to blackmail, espionage, and political assassination. Following Haki's leads, his investigations lead him to such varied cities as Athens, Sofia, Geneva, and Paris, where he interviews Dimitrios' former mistress, who doesn't rise until ten in the evening, and the urbane, aristocratic cat-fancier who hired Dimitrios to steal state secrets. During his travels Leyden becomes friendly with Mr. Peters, an idiosyncratic three hundred pound Englishman, who seems more obsessed with Makropoulos than Leyden. Peters, who was betrayed by Dimitrios years before, is eager to take revenge on his former partner, and he forms a alliance with the writer to track down and blackmail the enigmatic criminal, a very high-risk enterprise.
When the body of the notorious Dimitrios Makropoulos is found stabbed and drowned at the sea coast of Istanbul, Colonel Haki meets the Dutch writer Cornelius Leyden at a party and tells the story of the criminal to the writer. Leyden decides to investigate the intriguing story to write a novel and stumbles upon the mysterious Mr. Peters, while he learns the fascinating story of Dimitrios Makropoulos.

