An evil Chinese mastermind plots to freeze the Earth's oceans.
The evil mastermind Fu Manchu plots his latest scheme to basically freeze over the Earth's oceans with his diabolical new device. Opposing him is his arch-nemesis, Interpol's very British Dr. Nayland Smith.
Fu Manchu (Christopher Lee) returns to plot another world takeover. In the caribbean, the mad genius uses a machine to create a giant iceberg, which ends up sinking an ocean liner.Shortly afterwards, Nayland Smith (Richard Greene), and Dr Petrie (Howard Marion-Crawford), are called back to their main offices. Word of the iceberg has made the national news, and Fu Manchu has been sending out multiple (untraceable) messages to the world leaders, calling for their surrender, or else he will freeze the oceans of the world. His ultimatum gives 2 weeks to comply.Meanwhile, in Istanbul, Fu Manchu's daughter, Lin Tang (Tsai Chin), meets with Omar Pashu (José Manuel Martín), and his assistant, Lisa (Rosalba Neri).Tang outlines a plan to take over the governor's castle in Anatolia, with the promise that he can have the governor's supply of Opium.As Pashu has direct contacts with the governor, he sends Lisa to see the governor, using the entry to allow Fu Manchu's men to enter the castle, and execute the governor. It is then that Fu Manchu reveals he has double-crossed Omar Pachu, by killing Pachu's henchmen, and imprisoning Lisa in the castle's dungeon. To feign suspicion, a false message is sent out that bandits attempted to attack the Governor's castle, and were dealt with.Back at the Home Office, Smith and Petrie continue to try and decipher how Fu Manchu could carry out his plan. Petrie explains how he recalls a theory by a Professor Heracles (Gustavo Re), who had a theory on a process that could freeze water through a special chemical compound.It just so happens that Heracles has also been kidnapped by Fu Manchu, and using his specialized crystals, the iceberg in the caribbean was produced. However, the doctor refuses to tell Fu Manchu the secret formula, and with Heracles' heart condition, the doctor claims he will die soon. However, Fu Manchu claims he may have a way to extend the man's life.Back in England, Smith and Petrie pay a call on Dr Curt Kessler (Gunther Stroll), and his assistant, Dr Ingrid Cox (Maria Perschey). Kessler explains that Heracles is a patient of his, and explains about his cardiovascular condition, though claims the last he heard from the professor, was from Istanbul.Smith and Petrie decide to have Kessler and Cox come with them to find Heracles, but as the Smith and Petrie wait for them to attend to some duties, several of Fu Manchu's henchmen kidnap the two doctors. Smith goes to check on them, and finding a burning cigarette on a polished wood table, concludes that the two must have been kidnapped.Back in Istanbul, a man named Inspector Hammond sends a man named Melnick to spy (Werner Aprelat) on something. Melnick finds two coffins being transported to the Governor of Anatolia's castle. Melnick then attempts to give this information to Omar Pashu, who upon hearing of it, has Melnick executed.The coffins turn out to contain Drs Kessler and Cox, who were frozen for transport, by some of Heracles' crystals. The two are then taken to Fu Manchu, who wishes for Kessler and Cox to operate on Heracles, using the heart of a younger man, to replace the professor's ailing heart. Fu Manchu threatens to kill Cox, unless the procedure is carried out.Using a portion of the professor's remaining crystals, Fu Manchu causes a nearby dam to burst, flooding a large area, and killing several workers, showing the two doctors the power he is threatening the world with.Meanwhile, Smith and Petrie meet with Inspector Hammond, who tells them about the death of his informant Melnick, as well as the disappearance of Omar Pashu, who it is suspected is camped out near the Governor's castle, intent on rescuing his assistant, Lisa.Back at the castle, Kessler decides to proceed with the operation, to which Cox soon comes to realize that Kessler has feelings for her.Meanwhile, Smith goes to Omar Pashu's encampment, but leaves Petrie in the care of Melnick, requesting he stand by for further instructions from him, and keep an open channel to the Home Office.An injured spy returns to Pashu, claiming his theories on Lisa being held hostage are correct. It is then that Smith reveals himself to Pashu, and claims he wants to work out a deal to stop him.Pashu shows up to the castle unarmed, and requests a trade: Lisa's release, for the turning over of Neyland Smith. During the negotiations, Lisa runs off, getting lost in the catacombs under the castle.Pashu still calls for Lisa's release, but gives into Fu Manchu's request on where Smith is. As he gives the location, Fu's daughter stabs Pashu in the neck, killing him.Meanwhile, Smith and Pashu's men have attempted to break into the castle. The soldiers are almost all killed, but Smith manages to make it in, with one of the soldiers claiming that Smith has been killed.Meanwhile, Heracles has awoken from his operation, and Fu Manchu asks for the formula, but is rebuked. Shortly thereafter, he is able to get the professor to hand it over.Following this, both Kessler and Cox are put in a cell. Kessler fully confesses his love for Cox, and using some acid, manages to get them out of the cell.Meanwhile, Smith has found Lisa in the catacombs, and they make their way to a transmission station, sending a message to attack the castle. Smith and Lisa manage to rescue Heracles, but upon getting him outside, Lisa suddenly rushes back in to save Omar (not realizing he's dead). She rushes back into the catacombs, where Fu Manchu has started to flood the tunnels, to prepare his plan. Lisa succumbs to the cold waters, but before the plan can complete, the castle begins to blow up!Kessler and Cox manage to make it out through another exit, and encounter Petrie in a boat.Meanwhile, Smith looks over the ruins of the castle, as Fu Manchu's voice is heard: "The World, Shall hear from me, Again!"
