After his sickly wife dies suddenly of an asthma attack, an unscrupulous doctor discovers that she has a doppelgänger in the form of a burlesque dancer, who is one part of an intricate insurance scam being weaved around him.
The wife of a doctor (Jean Sorel) is murdered. He had a mistress a long ago, since his wife (Marisa Mell) always begged herself out of engagements because she is a asthmatic. On the other hand, she enjoyed a part time job as a stripper. Did the doctor kill her?
George Dumrrier is a wealthy, but unscrupulous San Francisco doctor who runs a clinic with his brother Henry. Despite being married to Susan, an asthmatic, George his having an affair with a beautiful photographer's assistant named Jane. But when Susan dies under mysterious circumstances, George feels guilt ridden for being unfaithful. But things get more strange when George breaks up with Jane, and soon begins another affair with a stripper/call girl named Monica Westein, whom is the dead-splitting image of Susan. Soon, George gets accused of murdering Susan when her medicine is found to have been switched and a $1 million insurance policy is revealed to named George the benefactor. As George desperately tries to prove his innocence, he doesn't know that Monica is Susan who is alive and faked her death to get back at him for his infidelity. Will George be able to uncover the truth before he's sent to death row for Susan's 'murder'?
San Francisco, California. George Dumurrier (Jean Sorel) is a wealthy and good-looking businessman doctor with the emphasis on the business. He runs a clinic with his younger brother Henry (Alberto De Mendoza), but leaves care of his asthma-stricken wife Susan (Marisa Mell) to her sister Martha (Faith Domergue) and a local nurse. George is soon revealed to be having an affair with Jane (Elsa Martinelli), the personal assistant to Larry (Jena Sobiesky) a trendy photographer. Although very much in love with George, Jane is fatalistic about the future of their relationship.George and Jane travel out of town for a romantic break in Reno. But after arriving at the casino, George receives a phone call from Henry telling him that Susan has died after suffocated during a violent asthma attack. Returning home to his plush San Francisco home, George is consoled by Henry, but frozen out by the hostile Martha who has always disapproved of George marrying her sister. However, a $1 million insurance policy left by Susan is a timely bonus for George's recklessly extended business enterprise. But perhaps too likely as an insurance agent (Bill Vanders) begins tailing George, discovers his affair with Jane, and brings his suspisions to the local police detective, Inspector Wald (John Ireland).Meanwhile, an anonymous tip-off leads George and Jane to 'The Roaring Twenties', a strip club in Reno where the are both astonished the appearance of Monica (also Marissa Mell), a nightclub stripper who, although a luxuriant blond, bears an uncanny resemblance to the dead Susan. George is morbidly attracted to her and soon embarks on an affair that is part detection, part willing seduction. However, when the police, who have been tailing him, arrest Monica, she tells them that she was paid to pose as Susan by a woman calling herself Betty. Monica, as the police discover, is a popular fixture lately among the city's high class prostitutes. She has a devoted wealthy client, named Benjamin Wormser (Riccardo Cucciola), whose hopeless passion she toys with. When Benjamin hears about Monica's arrest, he arrives at the police station with her exorbitant bail, but soon discover that she has already been spring by someone the police will not name.A police search led by Inspector Wald of Monica's apartment turns up an envelope containing money. When George's fingerprints are found on the envelope, the police arrest him and charge him with murdering his wife for the life insurance policy. Monica goes missing, and George is tried, convicted, and sentenced to death. Some months later, on the eve of George's execution, his brother Henry arrives for a visit where in the privacy of an interogation room, the gloating Henry reveals all that has happened: he and Susan have hatched up this entire plot to get him out of the way and get the insurance money all for themselves. Monica is really Susan all along and faked her own death to implicate him. After Henry leaves, George tries to get a stay of execution by informing his lawyer about when Henry said. But despite some last-minute investigation by Inspector Wald, George is unable to clear his name. Only Jane continues to believe his innocence, but she is held in check by Larry.The day arrives as George is taken out of his cell to the gas chamber to be executed, still protesting his innocence. At the last moment, a phone rings where the state governor orders the execution halted as a telex arrives at the local FBI office that is forwarded to the prison authorties. In a twist of fate, the French police in Paris have informed the U.S. authorities that a woman identified as the dead Mrs. Susan Weston and her brother-in-law Henry have been shot dead in a local café by the spurned and suicidal jealous Benjamin Wormser.
