An escaped convicted murderer hides out at a New York wax museum where he hopes to get plastic surgery, which will help him revenge himself on Charlie Chan.
A wax museum run by a demented doctor contains statues of such crime figures as Jack the Ripper and Bluebeard. In addition to making wax statues the doctor performs plastic surgery. It is here that an arch fiend takes refuge. The museum also houses a statue of Charlie. Frustrated number-two son kicks statue in rear; oops, number-two son wrong in his assumption.
Steve McBirney, sentenced to death for murder, makes a daring escape from a New York City courthouse and vows revenge against the chief witness against him, Charlie Chan. McBirney and a confederate hide out at a local wax museum run by Dr. Cream, who makes a lucrative side income from performing plastic surgery on fugitive criminals. The museum is also the site for a weekly radio show on notorious crimes. When Charlie accepts the challenge of noted criminologist Dr. Otto Von Brom to debate him on a controversial cold case involving the infamous Butcher Dagen, currently presumed dead, McBirney now has the perfect opportunity to strike at his nemesis.
Synopsis - The Wax Museum, released 9-6-40
In court, a judge sentences convicted murderer, Steve McBirney, to death at Sing-Sing, who turns to Charlie Chan, threatening him, before the bailiff hauls him away. As the Prosecuting Attorney, congratulates Charlie, shots ring out, Steve McBirney shoots his way out of the courthouse by grabbing a policeman's weapon, firing shots several times, before escaping in a getaway car. McBirney heads to the wax museum, a cover for a gangster hideout, where Dr. Cream escorts McBirney and Grenock, McBirney's henchman, to the surgical room, followed by his assistant, Lily Latimer.Three weeks have passed since the courthouse shootout and Homicide Inspector O'Matthews has Charlie Chan at his desk, talking about McBirney's surprise escape. Enter Jimmy Chan, Mary Bolton, reporter from the Daily Record, Dr. Cream, Cream Crime Museum, Dr. Otto von Brom, psycho-criminalist, formerly from the Berlin Germany police department. They are all hoping Charlie accepts the invitation to attend a radio broadcast, debating the decision of a former crime and execution involving a Mr. Rocke. Mary tries to encourage Chan to attend the challenge and discussion. She shows him a picture of Joe Rocke, Chan claims Rocke was innocent, hanged for a crime he did not commit, the real murderer was never caught. Von Brom disagrees with Charlie's proclamation, stating Joe Rocke was convicted on von Brom's scientific evidence.The Inspector speaks about how people have been arguing for years over whether Joe Rocke fired that poison dart. Von Brum goads Charlie into the possibility he is leery of Steve McBirney's threats. Dr. Cream challenged Charlie Chan, in his absence, while among Jimmy's classmates. Mary Bolton and Dr. Cream went to Jimmy because they did not know how to locate Charlie. Jimmy accepted the invitation for Charlie, when the challenge was presented to the class. Charlie first balks at the invite, then changes his mind, telling Cream, he his most anxious for his own presence at tonight's broadcast. The Inspector said he is surprised at Chan for accepting that phony challenge. Charlie changed his mind because now Dr. Cream's role as a former and famous surgeon has changed to being a known friend of many criminals, like Steve McBirney; Chan is suspicious of Cream.Chan speculates, it is possible McBirney visited the doctor for a perfect disguise. McBirney's former partner, Butcher Degan, purportedly received a new face from Dr. Cream, too. Charlie is convinced Degan is still alive and hiding behind a new face, created by Dr. Cream. Inspector O'Matthews says there was no new face on Degan when they found his body. The severely mutilated body found, thought to be Degan's, was likely another man's corpse. The faceless body was in the water for three months before it was found, according to Chan. Doctor Cream might have a secret purpose behind his challenge tonight, proving once and for all, Rocke's true involvement or his possible innocence. The Inspector wants to attend tonight also, but Charlie asks him to refrain from going, it is better that way; mice only play when cat is supposed to be in bed.There is a rain coming down heavy, when the Crime League Weekly Broadcast sign is hung on the entry-door of the Crime Museum by watchman Willie Fern, indicating the museum is closed to the public. Inside, Steve McBirney is wrapped about his head in bandages, Dr. Cream has prepared a model seating arrangement of tonight's guests, including Charlie Chan. The Chan seat is at the end, placed on an electrified platform Willie Fern finishes nailing, as McBirney shoos Fern away. The gimmick is for crazy Willie to think he is throwing the switch to the electric chair. Grenock has been outside rigging the power to the house to deliver sufficient power to kill anyone sitting in that chair. He comes in from the rain guarantying it to work, claiming all is hooked up to the switchboard now. Lily whispers to Cream, you cannot go through with this, it will ruin everything, this place, your racket.Lily and Dr. Cream slip into Cream's office, Willie checks the office door, then admits an unidentified woman out of the rain storm, she says she is a friend of Joe Rocke, she brought a pistol and offers it to Willie for Joe Rocke's protection. She says you can't let Joe down. He refuses her gun, she puts the gun in her purse. He tells the woman to take it to Joe, he escorts her to the back of the museum, requesting she go up the stairs and then go right home. Willie exits the room to make his rounds, taking his lamp and clock, he comes upon an open window, shutting it from the bad weather, while Jimmy Chan is hiding covered on a table near the same window. Jimmy sheds his raincoat and hat, placing them under the cover on the same table, he moves about checking out the criminal displays, stopping at the electric chair figure. Jimmy spots Grenock, with his wet raincoat and hat, entering a jail cell display. Grenock pushes a cell-bed aside, exposing a trap door, allowing access to the cellar, as Jimmy listens behind the door. Jimmy opens the door, seeing a figure standing in the cell with a bandaged head, he taps on the figure's head, thinking he is a museum piece. Jimmy, then exits the cell, before the bandage McBirney can grab the young Chan; afterward, McBirney descends the stairs into the cellar, following Grenock.Jimmy continues to investigate the criminal museum, with certain criminal figures all around him. Jimmy opens the office door, eyes engineer Edwards and Lily testing the radio broadcasting equipment, as Lily tends to a cut finger. Dr. Cream is giving Charlie Chan a tour of the museum wax pieces, while Jimmy looks on through the ajar door. Agnew joins Edwards and Lily, while Chan and Cream gather amongst them. Cream introduces Tom Agnew, announcer and director of tonight's program, to Charlie Chan, along with Miss Latimer, Cream's assistant, and Edwards, the engineer. Agnew asks for Mary. Lily explains, Mary is showing von Brom around the wax museum. Agnew is surprised von Brom is to be present at the broadcast. Cream said it was sort of a last-minute idea inviting him. Cream says he tried to phone Tom of the decision, but he was not available. Von Brom's voice is heard by Mrs. Rocke, claiming the figure he is standing near is Butcher Degan. Von Brom recalls seeing Degan in Chicago years ago, relying on his photographic memory; he remembers the face, the shape of the head.Agnew is taken aback, learning the broadcast has changed to the Rocke case. Cream, again, apologizes to Tom, saying he will get his notes for Tom on the case. Mrs. Rocke pauses on the spiral staircase, above the wax figure of her husband, recognizing von Brom's voice. Chan states, Joe Rocke was convicted for a crime committed by Butcher Degan, as Chan looks directly at Tom Agnew. He turns to Lily, looking at her, stating his theories are based strictly according to evidence from Dr. von Brom, having never saw Degan. Mary now asks for an explanation. Chan mentions two facts: McBirney and Degan were partners; McBirney, Degan and Joe Rocke were partners in an honest enterprise, too. Rocke was an honorable man, unaware his colleagues were criminals. Degan, like the brother Cain, hated Rocke, while mysteriously, like a freak of nature, McBirney had almost a brotherly affection for Rocke. Degan, like a true child of Cain, hated him. Von Brum is pleasantly surprised, hearing his evidence was taken into account by Charlie Chan. Jimmy is seen looking through an ajar door, and Mrs. Rocke watches from above on the spiral stairway.Chan continues, in order to acquire the business from Rocke, Degan caused Rocke to be suspected of a murder he did not commit. McBirney looks on through the cell bars, as Tom Agnew adds, brother McBirney had his revenge, I read that he killed Degan. Lily chimes in with Degan got what he deserved, based on the information Charlie mentioned. Charlie inspects Lily's sore finger, she claims she caught it on Dr. Cream's office desk. Charlie says beware of infection. Otto von Brum thinks of Degan out loud, hoping to prove something tonight. After he checks with downtown, Edwards, the radio broadcasting engineer, says we are ready to go in two minutes. Lily gives a hard glance toward the display of tools, i.e. wire cutters, on the shelf next to her. She makes a move toward the wire cutters, when Carter Lane, attorney for Mrs. Rocke, arrives, insisting to see Dr. Cream, asking him for the broadcast not to occur, for it will bring humiliation and rather painful memories to Mrs. Rocke. Cream insists they are within their rights, as reporter Mary Bolton wants to go on with the broadcast, speaking to Dr. Cream. Von Brom disagrees, there is one clue he did not understand, until now. He says he will tell everything about Joe Rocke, as Mrs. Rocke stares at the doctor, while hearing him speak. Von Brum promises to tell the police where to find the real murderer. Within earshot, as von Brum speaks, are Chan, Mary, Cream, Lane and Agnew. Mary says Mr. Lane is there to prevent von Brum from talking. Lane accuses Mary of being a little crazy.Tom Agnew tells everybody to take their places, they are about to start the broadcast. They are seated in their assigned seats, per Dr. Cream's model, as the broadcast begins. Dr. Cream tells everyone they are seated exactly as the family was gathered at the fatal breakfast table. They sit at the table with some debate where the two police sit, i.e. von Brum and Charlie Chan. The broadcast announcer, Tom Agnew, starts the program, setting the stage in an attempt to prove the innocence or guilt of Joe Rocke. McBirney tells Grenock to tell Willie exactly what I told you. Grenock introduces himself to Willie as the new warden. Grenock tells crazy Willie to throw the switch at exactly 8:20, electrocuting the dummy in the electric chair. McBirney and Grenock look on at the broadcast inside, from the cell bars. Cream starts the proceedings by telling the radio audience everyone is sitting at the breakfast table of June 9, 1929, as demonstrated in court. Von Brom insists on trading seats with Charlie, and Chan complies, von Brom sits, Willie throws the switch, the lights are out at the table, the rest of the room is lit, there is a flash of light brightening part of the room behind von Brum's chair, as the group sits in silhouetted images, someone douses the lights, Steve McBirney and Grenock exit down the cell stairway. The lights go back on, von Brom stands, rubbing his neck, Mary screams his name, Von Brom collapses at the table, Mary says he has fainted, Edwards and Lane carry von Brum to a nearby chair. He is pronounced dead by Dr. Cream. Chan inspects von Brum's chair, gazing over at Lily. Lane says there was a wire connected to that chair, that is the cause of the flash, the doctor was electrocuted. Chan corrects Lane, wire connected to chair was previously severed by wire cutters. Tom Agnew announces through the broadcast microphone the Crime League is discontinued at once. Mary Bolton begs Tom to continue with the broadcast, in order to explain what incident occurred. Chan stands, after inspecting the victim, announcing the criminologist was murdered, noting a small puncture on back of his neck. The peculiar discoloration on his neck indicates he was killed by the poison of headhunters from Borneo. A bamboo dart was found on Von Blum's coat collar. The dart was propelled by a blowgun serving as the poison carrier during the seconds of darkness, as Chan explains. The dart was aimed at the man's face, but von Blum turned his head, looking at the electrical display behind his chair, instead the dart struck him in his neck. Dr. Cream says there is a blowgun on display, leading Chan to that display. The blowgun Chan is shown by Dr. Cream has not been used, it is two feet or longer. Chan notices Lily's cigarette holder, commenting something such as this size or less could have used. Charlie accuses Lily of knowing the chair was designed to electrocute occupant, showing her a pliers he removed from a display shelf, after injuring his finger taking it from the shelf. He continues to tell everyone Lily used these wire cutters to severe the lethal cable. Her injured finger resulting from twisting wire holding implement on shelf, proof as Charlie says he received an identical wound doing same thing. Charlie questions Carter Lane's position near the wired chair, rather than at his assigned chair. Lane says he simply got up to see what caused the flash.Cream says he noticed Lane moved toward von Blum in the darkness, and Mary Bolton agrees, adding, the killer would have moved closer to take aim. Charlie notices a toothpick on table, warning Cream not to touch the evidence. Suddenly, the swami-dummy moves the chess pieces off the board, Chan approaches with pistol drawn, only to find Jimmy Chan behind the dummy. Returning to the table, the toothpick is missing, as they all return their attention to the table. Charlie orders everyone to Dr. Cream's office, nobody is to leave. Chan eyes Mrs. Rocke sitting in display nearby, she claims to have been asleep. She joins the others in Cream's office. Jimmy calls the police, but gets Grenock, who is disguising himself, as he confers with McBirney. He tells Jimmy the police are on the way. Charlie asks Cream to see switchboard, leaves Jimmy with group, Lane reminds the group one them is a murderer, then Jimmy leaves to find Charlie. The others split up, Lane asks Rocke what she did with that gun. She tells him never mind, saying Degan is here and she aims to settle the score. Mrs. Rocke retrieves the gun from her husband's wax figure, while Jimmy wanders about the museum.Charlie questions Dr. Cream, as owner of the wax museum, he cannot explain the electric wiring to the chair reserved for Chan. Charlie quizzes Willie about seeing the warden, who told him to throw the switch to the electric chair, asking him to describe the warden, as Cream says Willie imagines all of this. Willie gives a description, Jimmy interrupts, saying there is another person in this building. Jimmy describes the bandaged man with another, completely disappearing. Cream lies to Charlie there was a bandaged man that was a temporarily part of the museum. Charlie moves the bed, exposing a trap door, leading to a cellar. Cream says it is just a store room. Charlie invites Cream to lead the way. McBirney and Grenock are below, and move out of the immediate area, as the three descend the stairs. Mary listens to their conversation from above, and below, Chan holds up paper cutouts, a Steve McBirney signature, last seen in the courtroom. Dr. Cream lies, denies knowing Steve McBirney. Jimmy leans on a fake bookshelf, it swings opens into the surgery room, Charlie holds his gun on Cream, accusing him of changing faces of criminals to cheat the law. McBirney looks through into the room, watching and listening Cream denying any knowledge of him. McBirney and Grenock both listen through the wall to the conversation with Chan and Dr. Cream. Charlie says he now knows why Miss Latimer cut wires on chair; it was to prevent murder from exposing museum's most profitable business. The phone rings, Jimmy answers, it is Mary, thinking she has her city desk, but gets Jimmy, who explains the phone system isn't allowing any outside calls. Charlie checks a control on the wall, realizes the phones have been rigged to stay inside. Dr. Cream states McBirney had the phones rigged, and now they know it was von Brum who died instead of Charlie. McBirney and Grenock move toward Charlie, on the other side of the lab door. Cream admits he thought the two criminals had left, now I know they are still here waiting to kill. Chan says criminologist was not killed by McBirney, murderer was Butcher Degan. Three clues spell it was Degan: quill toothpick, bamboo dart and poison called Tonga. McBirney whispers to Grenock, let them spot Degan for us, then we will get them both. Chan states, Degan sent another man to meet McBirney's bullets, Degan was officially dead, he could move about with his new identity, until he was recognized by von Brum, then the doctor was killed to prevent exposure of Degan's new face.Chan puts it to Dr. Cream, which one is Degan? Cream lies again, saying he doesn't know. Tom Agnew comes down the stairs and intervenes, telling Cream, we are all in danger here, with the killer loose, you have to tell which person is Degan. Tom Ewing has a determined stare face-to-face with Dr. Cream. Charlie orders son outside to telephone the police, as they all come up from the cellar-laboratory, into the jail cell, with Jimmy grabbing a pair of handcuffs, before ascending the stairs. Chan requests Agnew lock the front door after Jimmy's departure. While the men were moving about, Mrs. Rocke was watching them, as was Willie, each from different locations. Jimmy cuffs his wrist and a wrist of Dr. Cream, thinking he has the suspect. The radio broadcast equipment cannot connect with the police, because they signed the museum location off, per Edwards.Charlie orders everyone to stay, he enters the office, saying he hopes to fix the phone. Lane is questioned of his behavior by Mary, and Lane says he came there to prevent a murder, Mrs. Rocke planned on killing von Brum. She believed von Brom persecuted Joe Rocke to make his case stick. Tonight, at her apartment, she threatened to shoot von Brom, if he wouldn't exonerate her husband. As Mrs. Rocke enters the room with the others, Lane says he is convinced she couldn't have killed von Brom. The lights go out. Someone says there's a killer among us, I hope this isn't somebody's idea of a joke. Charlie is heard and seen on the phone, sitting at a desk, talking on the phone to the police, while McBirney lurks on the other side of the office door. McBirney is suddenly grabbed away from the door, Charlie continues with his conversation, telling the authorities there has been a murder, Butcher Degan is still in the building, and witnesses to the crime are in great danger. Through the same office door, someone throws a knife into Chan's back, while he holds the phone, he is heard gasping, his voice stops. The knife is seen in the body's back. Mary screams, Lane turns on the lights, Agnew watches, Jimmy accuses Lily of turning off the lights, allowing Dr. Cream to escape. When the lights went out, Cream unlocked the cuffs and exited. Jimmy runs into the office only to see a man's body slumped on a desk, with a knife in his back. Jimmy screams, examines the body, Agnew comments, got him through the other door. Chan appears from behind the door, asking Agnew how he knew the killer used the other door. Agnew answers, Mary was outside this door. Jimmy says to his father, a trap was set to catch the killer. Charlie responds, he is grateful for his deceiving wax-twin, but the knife thrower escaped in the dark. Charlie requests Jimmy not touch the knife; it with be used to gather the fingerprints of the killer. Charlie sends Jimmy to go for police, again.Charlie asks everyone to assume positions before darkness. Jimmy finds the front door locked, looks for another way out, finding his hat and coat on the floor near the shut window, as the rain continues falling on the stormy night. Jimmy lifts the cover on the body lying on the table, yells for his father to come quickly. Jimmy tells Charlie it is the bandaged dummy he saw earlier, as Charlie removes the surgical bandages for identification. Orders everyone to touch nothing, the victim's fingerprints will prove the man was Steve McBirney. Chan assures Lane and Agnew that Degan has struck again, evidenced by a fatal knife wound in his back. Lane asks about the five crisscross scars in back of the body's neck. Chan responds with it was the signature work of Dr. Cream; incisions were made in surgery to tighten and alter the skin contour.Grenock was listening to their conversation from behind a door, he slips into another room, just as a man comes out of the rain through the same window near the body. The man is Inspector O'Matthews. The Inspector dropped by when the broadcast was cut off, figuring he better come over to see what was going on; mentioning he couldn't let my myself or my men in with the front door locked; Charlie hands Jimmy the key. The Inspector tells Chan they picked up Doc Cream outside, where he learned about Doctor von Brom; was it true? Charlie tells him yes, Steve McBirney was also murdered, and by Butcher Degan. Contrary to opinion, Butcher Degan is still alive, and he will be identified, when fingerprint expert arrives. As he made that comment, Chan had turned toward the five remaining in the room: Agnew, Lane, Mary Bolton, Lily and Edwards. The police bring Cream inside. The Inspector orders Pete to get homicide over to the museum now, and he tells Burns to see to it that nobody leaves. O'Matthews asks Cream to identify Degan, we cannot protect a man who won't name his enemy. Cream denies ever knowing Degan. Chan suggests others remain here, the Inspector follows Charlie, after he has his men secure the place, particularly to secure the back room window. Charlie asks Jimmy what he saw before the lights went out. Lane made a move toward the curio case, just before it went dark. Mrs. Rocke looks out from an office door. Charlie discovers a secret light switch inside door to the curio case. A raincoat clad policeman stands in front the display swami. Chan explains to O'Matthews, the killer knifed McBirney in the dark, but he met an obstacle with the front door locked; Charlie says he locked it as a precaution. Cream knows who Degan is, why won't he talk, O'Matthews asks. Charlie says Cream is too frightened to speak, fear is cruel padlock. The rain coated policeman yells out as someone makes a play for his weapon, Mrs. Rocke shoots the hand of the person hidden behind the swami, the cop and the Inspector pull Grenock from behind the swami. Charlie takes Mrs. Rocke's gun, explains prisoner is Grenock, McBirney's bodyguard. Grenock says he and McBirney were waiting for Chan to spot Degan. He claims Mrs. Rocke is Degan, she says she thought Grenock was Degan. Charlie comments Dr. Cream's surgery did not create Mrs. Rocke. O'Matthews orders Grenock to be taken out, asks Mrs. Rocke if she came to the museum to kill von Brum. Mrs. Rocke says she came there to confront von Brum, and to beg him to reconsider the evidence that convicted her husband. She pretended to be insane when first found, because she knew Degan was there. She tells Charlie she hid the gun when the lights went out. No jury would convict me for killing Degan, he framed my husband and sent him to the gallows. She entered the museum with the watchman feeling sorry for her, because he thinks she came to talk to her husband and she is certain the watchman did not throw the knife at Mr. Chan. Charlie agrees with Mrs. Rocke about who did not throw the knife.Jimmy asks his Dad how come Degan just doesn't shoot his was out with McBirney's gun. Chan fires back it could happen if he cannot remain invisible or he may strike from darkness with blowgun. Chan hands O'Matthews the antidote for Tonga, the poison used on the bamboo dart; Charlie says he got it from Dr. Cream's office. Chans shows the Inspector a duplicate blow gun used by Butcher Degan. Jimmy says that it is a toothpick from the automat. Charlie agrees. Von Brum was killed with a bamboo dart containing the original poison. Jimmy says Degan blew it into the doctor's neck, a mere scratch being fatal. O'Matthews finds that fact hard to believe. Chan demonstrates for the Inspector by blowing a dart into a wax figure, who happens to be Tom Agnew holding a gun. The gun falls to the floor, Agnew holds his neck, demanding the antidote from Chan, as Charlie now holds his gun on Agnew. Chan says to Tom, you killed Dr. von Brum, Agnew says yes; also, Steve McBirney, Agnew says I had to kill him. Chan further states you framed Joe Rocke, an innocent man. Agnew screams, demands the antidote, Chan says the dart was a broken matchstick, original needle of death is still in Chan's pocket; your prisoner, gesturing toward the Inspector.Mrs. Rocke thanks Mr. Chan for clearing her husband's name, for which she is deeply grateful. Chan replies, justice is like virtue, brings its own reward. Mary Bolton mentions any other radio man would have stayed on the air to broadcast von Brom's murder. Chan agrees, the suspicion was revealed when the broadcast was cut short by Agnew, and the telltale scars appeared on the figure's neck like those of Steve McBirney, evidence of surgery to head. Jimmy quips, McBirney gave the clue to spot Degan with similar scars on the neck. Inspector O'Matthews says Dr. Cream will get five years for altering the criminal's identities. The antidote for the blowgun poison was a bluff, it was a bottle of toothache painkiller. Mrs. Rocke, Mary Bolton, Edwards and Lane are innocent bystanders remaining in the museum. Jimmy is asked to relinquish his handcuffs by the Willie, saying they are museum property. Willie removes from Jimmy's wrist without a key.
