Upon uncovering the dirty secret of futuristic theme-park Futureworld, an ex-employee is killed after he tips off two other reporters who decide to do an undercover investigation.
Two reporters, Tracy and Chuck, get a message from a third one who discovered something about "Futureworld" and was killed before he could tell anyone about it. They visit Futureworld to find out what he knew.
Three years have past since the tragedy at West World, the adult entertainment resort run by the Delos Corporation. Its owners have closed the resort down completely and the entire resort has been rebuilt and redesigned after spending $1.5 billion to make it fail-safe. It now offers three destinations for rich travellers with a taste for simulated entertainment. Future World offers its customers Space Age Fun. A grand reopening is planned and a private tour has been arranged for a select few. For part of a P.R. campaign to combat any adverse publicity, Dr.Duffy, the Delos representative has offered the IMC Communications Network exclusive rights to the "New Delos" story. Two rival reporters have been assigned to the job. Tracy Ballard, the network's top commentator along with Chuck Browning, from the newspaper who broke the original "West World" disaster story. Chuck has another more personal reason for confronting Delos. His informant, a Delos employee who had information for him had died as he passed a brown envelope over to him. He'd been shot in the back. Something suspicious must be going on behind Delos's closed doors. Why have so many important and influential world figures been invited?
It has been several years since the disaster at the Delos resort (events of "Westworld"), and Delos is ready to reopen, replacing Westworld with the new "Futureworld," which is getting rave reviews. However, one of Delos's most famous critics, reporter Chuck Browning, is still not convinced that Delos has cleaned up its act, especially after an informant with inside information about Delos is murdered. Chuck teams up with fellow reporter Tracy Ballard and goes to Delos to find out why his source was killed. What they discover is beyond any of their imaginations.

