A food writer who has lied about being the perfect housewife must try to cover her deception when her boss and a returning war hero invite themselves to her home for a traditional family Christmas.
Journalist Elizabeth Lane is one of the country's most famous food writers. In her columns, she describes herself as a hard working farm woman, taking care of her children and being an excellent cook. But this is all lies. In reality she is an unmarried New Yorker who can't even boil an egg. The recipes come from her good friend Felix. The owner of the magazine she works for has decided that a heroic sailor will spend his Christmas on *her* farm. Miss Lane knows that her career is over if the truth comes out, but what can she do?
In her Smart Housekeeping column, Elizabeth Lane provides amazing recipes and homemaking hints. However, Elizabeth's got a little secret: SHE needs a recipe to boil water! Elizabeth has no cooking skills, no Connecticut farm, no adoring hubby and no baby-makes-three as suggested in her column. Something her boss, the magazine publisher, doesn't know when he decides to invite himself and a recently returned war hero to her home for a traditional family Christmas. Watch as Elizabeth tries to be a good wife and doting mother, with absolutely NO experience.
The destroyer of Jefferson Jones and his partner Sinkewicz is sunk by the Germans and they float adrift in a raft for eighteen days. When they are rescued, they are sent to a hospital and Jefferson has to follow a stringent diet imposed by the doctors. He seduces his nurse expecting to get solid food and she decides to write to Alexander Yardley, who is the owner of the Smart Housekeeping magazine where the famous journalist Elizabeth Lane writes a column about recipes and food, asking him to allow Jefferson to spend Christmas with Elizabeth and her family in her farm in Connecticut. The prepotent Yardley sees the chance of free promotion of his magazine and forces Elizabeth to invite the hero Jones. However, Elizabeth is single, does not have a baby and lives alone in a small apartment in New York and she made-up a perfect married life for her fans. Further, she does not how to cook and the recipes belong to her Hungarian friend Felix Bassenak, who owns a restaurant in New York. The architect John Sloan, who has been wooing Elizabeth for a long, proposes to marry her in his farm in Connecticut and she brings Felix with her to help to proceed the farce. The things get complicated when Yardley also decides to spend Christmas with Elizabeth while she falls in love with Jones.
Elizabeth Lane is the perfect homemaker in so many ways. She's an outstanding cook and interior decorator who lives in a beautiful house in the countryside, is happily married and recently had a baby - as her regular column in Smart Housekeeping magazine recounts to her wide readership. There's only one big catch: she isn't any of those things - she can't cook, doesn't know the first thing about decorating and lives in a tiny, dingy apartment. It all begins to unravel when her publisher, Alexander Yardley, arranges for recently rescued sailor Jefferson Jones to spend the weekend at Lane's country home. To top it off, Yardley invites himself to spend the weekend there as well. Elizabeth scrambles, getting her friend Felix Bassenak to cook for her and borrows her friend John Sloan's country house. She even gets a baby from a neighbor. As if she doesn't have enough to deal with, she and Jones become quite attracted to one another. Somehow it all works out in the end.
Featured in Smart Housekeeping magazine, domestic goddess Elizabeth Lane's column, which focuses primarily on food and which is the most popular column of its kind in the country, is an account of her perfect domestic life as wife and new mother living on a rural Connecticut property. However, it is all a sham as Liz is single, lives in a small New York City apartment, and doesn't know how to cook, she using her Uncle Fritz Bassenak, a chef and restaurateur, as her source for the food items, and her long time suitor, architect John Sloan, who owns a Connecticut farm, as the source of the stories of rural Connecticut life. A problem arises for Liz and by association her editor, Dudley Beecham, who knows the truth about Liz, when their publisher, Alexander Yardley, who values truth above all else, asks Liz to host a Connecticut Christmas dinner for himself and war hero Jefferson Jones. Jeff is one of the few survivors of a bombed destroyer. Spending eighteen days on a life raft, he dreamed more about good food than anything during those eighteen days. His naval hospital nurse, Mary Lee, who he feigned to love just to get that food against doctor's orders, believes that Jeff, who has never had a supportive home life, has to experience such to get him to marry her, which resulted in the request to Liz via Yardley. It isn't until after Liz agrees to marry John, who she does not love but can no longer use the excuse of her flourishing writing career not to marry as she is sure Yardley will fire her once he knows the truth, that Dudley comes up with the idea to use John's Connecticut house and Felix's behind the scenes cooking prowess to host that Christmas dinner in Connecticut, complete with a borrowed baby. All the parties in the know agree. Complications ensue when Liz, John and Felix try to keep the truth from Jeff and Yardley, that truth which includes Judge Crowthers, who is to officiate Liz and John's wedding and who they have to hide physically whenever he is at the farm in order to marry them. But the biggest complication is that Liz and Jeff fall in love at first sight, Jeff whose love may wane if he learns that Liz is not all she appears on the surface.

