A deported gangster's plan to re-enter the USA involves skulduggery at a Mexican resort, and gambler Dan Milner is caught in the middle.
Nick Ferraro, deported crime boss, needs to re-enter the USA. His plan involves "honest" gambler Dan Milner, who's subjected to a series of "misfortunes," then bribed to take a trip to Mexico. En route, Dan meets chanteuse Lenore Brent, truly his kind of woman. But on arrival at posh Morros Lodge in Baja California, Dan finds the ostensibly rich, carefree guests all playing roles...except, possibly, ham actor Mark Cardigan. What does Ferraro want with him? Can he trust anyone?
Deported mob boss Nick Ferraro is determined to return to Stateside to oversee his criminal holdings. He hatches a plan to assume the identity of U.S. citizen Dan Milner, a mixed-luck gambler stumbling out of jail without a prospect on the horizon. Offered $50,000 to leave the States for a year, Milner's handed a one-way ticket to a posh Mexican resort for the big payoff. He meets heiress Lenore en-route, mistress to film star Mark Cardigan. Sparks fly but both have made risky bets they can't afford to lose. Once in Mexico, Milner meets a motley cast of characters pursuing unique hobbies to suit their interests. As gets to know his strange bedfellows, his curiosity turns to unease. When the mysterious prospect loses its luster, he finds it's a deal he can't walk away from.
After returning from a 30-day stint in jail down south Dan Milner (Robert Mitchum) returns home to find a group of thugs who claim he made a bet of 30 thousand and lost so they beat him up, whereupon he gets hired to go to Mexico for a year for a payout of 50-thousand dollars. Little does he know that he resembles the infamous gangster Nick Ferraro (Raymond Burr) and the sadistic crook, who has been deported to Italy, plans to use a plastic surgeon to change his face to look like Milner and use his identity to gain access back into the United States. Milner takes the deal without knowing all the details and on his way he bumps into the luminous Lenore Brent (Jane Russell) travelling to Mexico to meet up with the boisterous actor Mark Cardigan (Vincent Price) who believes his wife is divorcing him. Once they arrive south of the border Milner begins ferreting out the truth but gets stonewalled everywhere, while he and Lenore slowly develop a friendly bond. When he finally discovers the truth it's too late because Ferraro's thugs have taken him to an off-shore boat but Milner escapes and Cardigan helps him shoot it out with the bad guys but Milner needs to know more and goes back to the boat to confront Ferraro.
