A playboy who refuses to give up his hedonistic lifestyle to settle down and marry his true love seeks help from a demented psychoanalyst who is having romantic problems of his own.
Michael James, a notorious womanizer, desperately wants to be faithful to his fiancée Carole, but runs into serious problems since every woman he meets seems to fall in love with him. His psychoanalyst Dr. Fassbender can't help him either since he's busy courting one of his patients who in turn longs for Michael. A catastrophe appears on the horizon as all the characters check into the Chateau Chantelle hotel for the weekend not knowing of each other's presence.
Michael James, the British editor of a Paris fashion magazine, is in love with ESL teacher Carole Werner, but despite Carole and her parents' want for them to get married, Michael just isn't ready to give up his womanizing ways for Carole. In Michael's own words, he has been cursed all his life by "looking almost handsome when the light shines on him in a certain way" and thus becomes the object of desire for most women who see him in that light, such as unbalanced exotic dancer Liz Bien and a parachutist named Rita. Michael is seeing Austrian therapist Dr. Fritz Fassbender to help him with his problem, unaware that Dr. Fassbender will probably be of little help as he secretly aspires to Michael's life. Despite being married, Dr. Fassbender most specifically lusts after one of his patients, Renée Lefebvre, who only has eyes for another. Because Michael won't give her a commitment, Carole takes up with Michael's neurotic friend, Victor, who in turn truly loves her despite also aspiring to be more like Michael. All their romantic entanglements come to a head as they all convene - some by accident, some on purpose - on the Chateau Chantel for the weekend.
Why a pussycat? Not a duck. Dr. Quackenbush and Margaret Dumont of the fresh air fund/ modern Sanitarium Tech Culture meets psychedelia; does the soul have boundaries . are they, the soul's of man's choice or the boundaries of the small minded apes who board todays' meglo maniac' news groups or the ones if of dharma and prana as visible dynamic, static, flux...because the spirit world is about to pay....for example...the visions of a thousand years can be drunk like blood by the hollywood elite or does or babylon the great and the blood of the souls of kings ....well, your mother.... she ends up heads and tails and the king is going to win, so will quackenbush its a spa not a prison it s a faith not a fate
