Step into the world of gypsy life. Come meet Angelo and his family. See the gypsy court system. A gypsy wedding where a boy's family pays for his wife. Come see the gypsy lifestyle, how they live, how they love family.
Angelo My Love delves into the little understood and fascinating world of New York gypsies. Using real gypsies playing fictional versions of themselves. This critically acclaimed film explores the lifestyle, rites, myths and passions of the tight-knit urban subculture. Twelve year-old Angelo Evans is the street-wise. Charmingly precocious son of a fortune teller. When the boy accuses a sleazy gypsy, Steve "Patalay" Tsigonoff, and his foul-mouthed wife, Millie, of stealing an ancestral ring, he chases them to Canada. Angelo wants the ring for his future bride, Patricia, and nearly disgraces the family to get it back. Along the way, Duvall presents an extraordinary slice of gypsy life, highlighting there music and tribal customs, a wedding and a "kris" - the gypsies' court of justice. His film has a spontaneity and exuberance that make it a one-of-a-kind experience.
Meet Angelo a 8 year old gypsy boy as much as a men as he is a kid little Angelo ring gets taken from him by a another gypsy men Steve Angelo want the ring for his soon to be wife and a long the way the movie take you in to the gypsy lifestyle see a gypsy court system and a gypsy wedding the New York gypsy community and more
For the first time ever Robert Duval takes us inside the secret world of American Romani Gypsy Angelo a 8 years old Romani Gypsy boy Family ring get taken from him by a another Romani Gypsy men Steve (paytala) Angelo want his ring back for his (guyjee) American girlfriend along the Way Robert Duval take us inside the Romani Gypsy lifestyle we see a Romani Gypsy Wedding a Romani Gypsy Council Court system Angelo My Love one of the year best film
Robert Duval flim that take us inside the secret American Romani gypsies community in New York City we meet Angelo a 8 year old Romani American as much as a man as he is a kid Angelo grandfather gives him a family ring but Steve a American Romani takes it from him Angelo and his brother Michael follow Steve to Canada and along the way Robert Duval shows us the gypsy lifestyle from a community Kris (court) to a wedding where the bride cost $8000 come meet Angelo your understand why he all over the New York time

