Denny drops fiancée Jean and marries Flora who is worth ten million dollars. When Jean is fired from her job she decides to market the face cream she invented. She goes to Jeffrey and he sends a sample of the product to 12 selected rich women. Only one woman invests in the business and Jean is happy until she learns that it is Flora - but she takes the money. As Denny has no job, the girls give him an office at the factory. The business takes off, but Jean finds that she is still in love with Denny and Denny seems to forget he is married to Flora. So Jean and Flora send him to California for six weeks to open the West Coast branch of Jeanne Varelle.
Working class beautician Jean Russell has finally perfected the formula for a revolutionary astringent cold cream on which she has long been working. She has been doing all this work in the small apartment she shares with her friend and coworker Gwen Morrison. Jean is expecting her fiancé Denny Williams, her boyfriend of three years and a cosmetics salesman, both to help her with the next phase of getting the product to market and in general to share in whatever glory may come her way because of it. Denny, however has other things on his mind as he, a gold digger, has met and intends to marry copper heiress Flora Barton, a slightly older and rather plain woman who is worth $10 million. While Flora is totally devoted to Denny and is the one who pops the question, Denny does not love Flora but loves the thought of her money. Despite being heartbroken over Denny and not being able to focus on anything else besides that heartbreak, Jean is convinced by Gwen to continue with getting her cold cream to market. Despite the odds, Jean is able to convince Jeffrey Martin, who owns and operates his own advertising agency, to assist in the marketing, Jeffrey who in turn convinces Jean that what is required is a whole line of beauty products sold at exclusive salons. More importantly, Jeffrey is also able to find financial backing by a wealthy woman who is looking to find something appropriate for her new husband to do, the husband and wife being Denny and Flora Williams. Jean wants to be as open and transparent as possible under the circumstances, informing Flora and Jeffrey that she and Denny have met before, but she does not tell them of their former personal relationship. In working closely with Denny in what ends up being a successful venture, Jean has mixed feelings, hating him on the one hand for what he did to her, but still loving him deep down in her heart on the other hand. Denny admits to her that he still loves her as well. The question becomes what will happen in this love triangle. Certain other factors may come into play such as Flora and Jean becoming friends, and other people entering the three-sided picture, one of those being Jeffrey who has fallen in love with Jean.

