Seven former college friends, along with a few new friends, gather for a weekend reunion at a summer house in New Hampshire to reminisce about the good old days, when they got arrested on the way to a protest in Washington, DC.
The Secaucus 7 of the film's title are seven friends who, during their college days, were arrested in New Jersey on their way to a protest in Washington. The film takes place ten years after all that, as the friends gather at the home of Mike and Katie, now schoolteachers in New Hampshire, bringing with them old problems and new: Maura has left Jeff and seeks consolation with his best friend, J.T.; J.T., arguably the least successful of the friends, finally gets the courage to move to Los Angeles to start a career as a songwriter; Irene brings her new boyfriend along, hoping he'll like and be liked by her friends and expecting them to challenge him for his more-conservative politics; and more. This is the film that inspired "The Big Chill."
When school teacher Katie Cipriano (Maggie Renzi) and her boyfriend Mike Donnelly (Bruce MacDonald) rent a New Hampshire cottage for the weekend, they wait for the arrival of old friends. As they clean the house and bathroom, they wonder about their schoolmates. Meanwhile, Irene Rosenbloom (Jean Passanante), and her latest beau, Chip Hollister (Gordon Clapp), who work as political aides for a U.S. senator, are on the road driving towards the cottage.Elsewhere, musician J.T. (Adam LeFevre) hitchhikes, and Frances (Maggie Cousineau), a medical student and old friend, gives him a ride. When they arrive at the cottage, Frances learns from Katie that Irene has become more conservative now that she is with Chip. During their drive, Irene instructs Chip on how to behave around her friends, which makes him nervous. Soon, the travelers stop at a gas station to use the restrooms, and an attendant, named Ron (David Strathairn), recognizes Irene, and is glad to hear that Frances is in town for the weekend.As the hosts, Katie and Mike, feed their guests, Irene, Chip, J.T., and Frances, at dinner, they explain that two of their friends, Maura Tolliver (Karen Trott), a children's theater actress, and Jeff (Mark Arnott), the director of a methadone drug clinic, could not join them because of a large family reunion. The friends are also told that Lacey (Amy Schewel), an actress friend, is performing in a period comedy, and has provided them with free tickets. Maura suddenly telephones Katie, saying that she has left Jeff, traveled by bus, and needs a ride. When Katie meets Maura in town, her friend has a hard time explaining the reason for her breakup. As the women embrace, Maura is excited to hear that J.T. is visiting for the weekend.Later at the theater, Frances explains to Chip that Lacey, Katie, and Maura were roommates during their freshman year at college. Lacey went to live with a boyfriend, while the other women roomed together until Maura joined VISTA (Volunteers in Service to America), a national social services program. Backstage after the play, Lacey is chatty, but chooses to go to the closing night party instead of spending time with her college friends.After the show, Maura and J.T. walk home, and she confesses that she and Jeff were stuck in a rut until she had the courage to leave the relationship. J.T. assures Maura that he will not abandon her, even though he and Jeff are best friends. Back at the house, the friends drink beer, and play charades.Later on the sofa, Maura cannot sleep and wakes J.T. She confesses that she feels adrift since her breakup, and is attracted to J.T. He admits that he has always liked her, and the two make love. Meanwhile, Katie postpones going to the bathroom when she hears the lovers in the living room. She and Mike assume that Frances and J.T. are in the throes of passion. Once Katie treks to the bathroom, she and Mike are surprised to learn that the lovers are Maura and J.T.The next day, Mike and Chip sit on the sidelines during a volleyball game and Mike gives a more detailed account of how everyone met in college. Jeff arrives unexpectedly. While his friends are happy to see him, Maura gives him a cool reception. Later, J.T. plays guitar, and admits to Maura that he feels guilty about sleeping with her. He confesses his indiscretion to Jeff, who takes the news calmly, but accuses J.T. of having poor instincts with women. Elsewhere, Katie warns Maura that J. T. is not very responsible or discriminating when it comes to women.As Irene and Frances walk together in the woods along a trail, they also discuss J.T.'s inability to handle responsibility and how much harder it will be to have a successful music career as he gets older. Back at the cottage, Ron and his friend Howie (John Sayles), a local hotel manager, arrive and challenge the guys to a game of basketball. Soon, J.T. slams his head into a pole, is dazed, and blames Jeff for causing the accident. The women play Clue, a board game, and gossip.Later, the friends skinny-dip in the river (the men only). J.T. confesses to Mike that he is broke, but lent money to a friend in Boston, Massachusetts, and expects to be reimbursed. Ron tells Frances he is interested in a career promoting snowmobile competitions.The friends gather to prepare lunch, and remark how nice it would be to get high. Chip shares the marijuana cigarettes he has stored in his glove compartment.Later that evening, the friends relax over beers at the local bar. Jeff and J.T. flirt with two women, hoping to score sexual favors. Then, Jeff admits he is not ready to start dating. J.T. whips out his guitar and entertains bar patrons, while Frances explains to Ron how the personalities of doctors in various specialties differ. He, in turn, admits to being a popular athlete in high school, but says he is now known around town as a top car mechanic. He invites her to spend the evening in one of Howie's spare hotel rooms, and she agrees. Meanwhile, Maura and Jeff loudly confront each other about their failings. Neither will back down, and they lean on friends for support.On the drive home, the group stops to examine a dead deer in the road. A police officer passing by arrests the friends on suspicion of illegal hunting. The group shares a cell with town drunk Norman Gaddis (Brian Johnson), the former high school referee, who recognizes Mike. Norman advises them to plead self-defense to beat the charges. J.T. then announces that their situation is practically a reunion of the "Secaucus Seven." Mike explains that during college the friends were on their way to a protest march in Washington, D. C., when police searched their borrowed car and found a rifle and an ounce of marijuana. They were thrown in jail in Secaucus, New Jersey, where they anointed themselves "The Secaucus Seven," and acted out scenes from James Cagney and George Raft prison movies to pass the time. After they were released, the case was eventually thrown out of court. In the present, history repeats itself, and the group is released from jail.Back at the cottage, J. T. describes his plan to sell his songs in Los Angeles, California, when he and Jeff hear the sounds of vomiting from his hangover. They take turns guessing the identity of the wretched soul, which turns out to be Katie, and J. T. wants to know if Jeff is still angry with him. Jeff admits he is annoyed, but it will pass.The next day, J.T. also tells Irene about his plans for the West Coast, and she agrees to invest in his career. He is uncomfortable borrowing a large amount of money, but she insists. As Maura and Jeff wash dishes, they divide up their possessions. J.T. turns down Irene's offer because he is determined to succeed on his own.Soon, it is time for the guests to leave. Maura announces that Jeff has disappeared because he hates to say goodbye. Katie drops Maura and J. T. at the bus station, where Maura insists on buying him a ticket. Meanwhile, Jeff chops wood in frustration, then leaves a short note for Katie and Mike, apologizing for his hasty departure. Frances passes out on the sofa after her late night with Ron, as Katie and Mike fold the volleyball net and put it in storage.
