A young man returning home from World War II finds himself caught up in his parents' turbulent relationship.
When Timmy Cleary (Sheen), comes home from soldiering, he's greeted by the open but strained arms of his two parents, John and Nettie, (Neal and Albertson). Once considered sickly and weak, he has now distinguished himself in the service and is ready to begin a new life. His parents, however, are still trapped in the bygone days of early and unresolved marital strife and begin emotionally deteriorating through several drama packed encounters. Now mature, the young Tim Cleary finally understands the family dynamics that has played all throughout his boyhood. By the simple act of bringing his mother roses on behalf of his father, Tim realizes he may have destroyed his family, but is helpless to obtain resolution which must come from both his parents.
WWII has ended, and twenty-one year old US Army Corporal Timmy Cleary has just returned to live at the Bronx apartment of his parents, John and Nettie Cleary, after fighting in the infantry since age eighteen. Behind closed doors, John and Nettie's marriage has long been in name only. John and Nettie have different perspectives of what they wanted in their marriage, and each has taken different measures in dealing with their marriage falling apart. Staunch Catholic John, who wants the world to see their lives as being perfect, drinks to excess and has had extramarital dalliances. Nettie has focused her attentions on her blood relations, most specifically her mother and a disabled relative named Willis. Before Timmy left for the war, he, a sickly child largely due to being coddled by his mother, knew what was going on in the apartment, but had no say as the minor among the three. Now an adult, Timmy not only is not afraid to express his opinion on their dysfunction or any topic, but changes his viewpoint on whose fault it is for that dysfunction as he more clearly sees his parents for who they are. Timmy's return changes the dynamic within the apartment which may make John and Nettie deal more openly with their long standing problems.

