Donald Duck is a window washer who has problems, from his hat and tail feather being trimmed to waking up Pluto to break the window. And finally tormenting a bee, getting tied up on the platform only to have his rear end stung by a bee.
Donald is washing windows on a high-rise; Pluto is his assistant, hauling the rope for the platform and refilling buckets but mostly sleeping. And when things are finally going well, Donald makes the mistake of tormenting a bee.
Donald Duck is washing windows on the roped platform. He encounters problems including getting his sailor hat and tail feathers clipped. His assistant Pluto the Dog pulls Donald's platform up but gets distracted by fleas which causes Donald to fall through the platform and on a statue horse. Donald Duck washes windows and runs out of water, he can't get the hook on the bucket full of water, Donald calls for Pluto to help him out, Pluto is asleep, Donald tries many ways to wake him up until finally he wakes up and blows the pulley rope to the bucket but it hooked on the wrong bucket full of nuts and bolts. Donald Duck accidentally throws a bucket full of nuts and bolts, which vandalizes one of the windows, Donald Duck is embarrassed and pulls the window shade down. Donald Duck washes windows and sees a bee named Spike the bee. He teases the bee by almost drowning it in water and laughs at the bee. The bee gets angry and attacks Donald Duck but Donald defends himself with the bucket and tries to crush the bee with the bucket but this causes Donald Duck to fall off the building pole and on the roped platform. The bee dives down at Donald who swings it with his mop but this causes Donald Duck to get tied up and tangled in the rope which traps Donald Duck and exposes his feathery rear end. The bee sees this as an opportunity to sting his rear end and attempts to sting Donald Duck in the behind but Donald Duck blows the bee and both Donald and the bee get tired out on the roped platform. The bee was tired but never gave up and stung Donald Duck in the rear end which unraveled Donald and caused him to dive into the drainpipe down at the bottom but only his head came out. Donald Duck yells at Pluto to help him up but Pluto ignores him and shoves his foot in Donald's face right back into the drainpipe where he continues to scream.
