A psychosomatically deaf, dumb and blind boy becomes a master pinball player and, subsequently, the figurehead of a cult.
Nora Walker is told that her British fighter pilot husband is missing in action and presumed killed in World War II. On V.E. Day, Nora gives birth to their son, who she names Tommy. While Tommy is an adolescent, Nora marries Frank, a shifty camp counselor. Shortly thereafter, Tommy suffers an emotionally traumatic experience associated with his father and step-father, which, based on things told to him at that time, results in him becoming deaf, dumb and blind, a situation which several people exploit for their own pleasure. As Nora tries several things to bring Tommy out of his psychosomatic disabilities, Tommy, now a young man, happens upon pinball as a stimulus. Playing by intuition, Tommy becomes a pinball master, which in turn makes him, and by association Nora and Frank, rich and famous. Nora literally shatters Tommy to his awakening, which ultimately leads to both the family's rise and downfall as people initially try to emulate Tommy's path then rebel against it.
Tommy is blind, deaf and dumb, but there is nothing wrong with him. As a small child, he accidentally witnessed the murder of his father by his stepfather. His mother and stepfather told him to forget everything he had seen and heard, and to never talk about it; but Tommy carried it to the extreme, turned inward, and stopped seeing, hearing or speaking at all. He suffered much while growing up, and finally found happiness in, of all things, playing pinball. When he became the world champion pinball player it brought his family fame and fortune. After being spontaneously healed, he began to teach others of his unique perspective on life, eventually becoming a religious cult figure.
Cpt. Walker's plane is shot down during World War 2 and he is presumed dead. Nora Walker meets Frank Hobbs while her son, Tommy is attending "Bernies Holiday Camp" and they are quick to get married. However, one day Cpt. Walker comes home. Tommy follows his silhouette and sees his murder through a mirror that captures his and his fathers soul. Nora and Frank tell Tommy that he didn't see it, hear it, and to never speak of it. This causes him to go Deaf, dumb and blind. They try a few cures, such as a preacher that believes Marilyn Monroe can heal, and a woman named Gypsie "The acid queen". They then give up, and to get out of the house they leave Tommy with the relatives. First up, Cousin Kevin who tortures him. Then Uncle Ernie, who rapes him. Then they decide to leave him by the mirror, which he curiously stares into almost all day. He sees himself beckoning him, and Tommy follows, straight to a junkyard where he finds a device that will change his life, a pinball machine. He becomes the world's greatest player, which makes his family rich. They go to see a doctor, that tells them they need to find some kind of shock to bring Tommy back into our world. The shock comes in the breaking of the mirror, that frees his soul. He believes that he is the new messiah, and a religious cult is formed around him.
Captain Walker is lost in World War II and presumed dead. His wife, Nora, soon thereafter gives birth to their son, Tommy. When Tommy is about ten years old, Nora gets remarried to scheming holiday camp worker, Frank Hobbs. When nora and Frank are about to comsummate their relationship, Captain Walker stops them. In the heat of passion, Frank kills Captain Walker, all of which is seen by Tommy. After which, he is blind, deaf and dumb. As Nora and Frank search for a way to give Tommy back his senses(including drugs, cultism, and medicine), Tommy searches for dreams of his lost father.
When Nora Walker gets pregnant, her beloved husband, the pilot Captain Walker, is considered missing in action in World War II when his plane crashes in a battle. Nora raises her son Tommy alone with the memories of his father. In 1951, she meets Franks Hobbs in a summer camp, is courted by him, ending in an affair. However, in the middle of a stormy night, the boy has a nightmare with his father and runs to her mother's bed, finding her naked with "uncle" Frank, becoming immediately deaf, dumb and blind. The years go by, and her mother lives with a complex of guilty of the psychological problem of her son. One night, Tommy finds a pinball machine in a junkyard, and his natural skills transform him in a champion, and when he supersedes and heals his problems, a legion of fans follows him, as if he were a new Messiah.

