A former Special Operations Vietnam vet works as a Chicago cop, and uncovers C.I.A. wrongdoing.
In Japan, the Sicilian martial arts expert Nicolo "Nico" Toscani is recruited by the CIA Special Agent Nelson Fox to join the Special Operations Forces in the border of the Vietnam and Cambodia. In 1973, Nico witnesses the torturer Kurt Zagon interrogating prisoners of war and he is disgusted and quits the CIA, returning to Chicago. Fifteen years later, Nico is married with a baby with his wife Sarah and they live in the same house of his mother. Nico is a tough and incorruptible narcotics detective of the Chicago Police Department very close to his partner and friend Delores 'Jacks' Jackson and his friend Detective Lukich. When Nico and Jacks investigate a drug traffic operation, they arrest the gang of the drug dealer Tony Salvano but they find that they are smuggling the plastic explosive C4 instead. However there is an interference of the FBI and Salvano and his partner are released by FBI Agent Neeley (Nicholas Kusenko) and the detectives are forbidden of proceed with the investigation. But Nico does not stop and is suspended from the police force. But when there is an explosion in the church of his neighborhood and his friend and parish priest Joseph Gennaro is murdered, Nico chases Salvano and discovers a corruption ring that is planning to kill the American Senator Ernest Harrison that is investigating the involvement of the CIA with drug traffic.
Nico Toscani is a martial arts expert who was recruited by the CIA when he was in Japan, he would be sent to Vietnam. While there he witness the sadistic treatment of prisoners by Zagon, an interrogator, when he clashes with him, Nelson Fox, his friend tells him to get away. Nico goes home to Chicago and becomes a cop. 15 years later, when he busts a drug dealer, he tells Nico of a major deal going down, when he busts them, he discovers a cache of plastic explosives. And before he knows it everyone he arrested is released and when Nico tries to find out what's going on, a brick wall thrown in front of him. But Nico isn't about to let that stop him. And before long Fox calls Nico to warn him to back off and it's not long after that he is arrested and suspended from the force. And when a bomb is set at his church, which kills the parish priest, Nico wages an all-out war on whoever's doing this.
Nicolo "Nico" Toscani is the son of Sicilian immigrants, and Nico studied martial arts in Japan. His talents got the attention of CIA, which recruited him and sent him to help in some covert operations on the Vietnamese-Cambodian border in 1973. There, he became disgusted with Zagon, one of his superiors who used the Vietnam war as an opportunity to get into the money making business of smuggling drugs. Nico left the CIA, and Nico now works as a Chicago detective and he has a wife named Sara. Nico discovers a major drug deal that involves Salvadorian drug dealer Salvano. Nico and his partner Delores "Jax" Jackson arrest Salvano, but Salvano is released at the request of Federal officials. Not listening to the orders to back off, Nico discovers that Salvano is connected to Zagon, who wants to fund an invasion of Nicaragua. When Senator Harrison puts the heat on Zagon and his group to reveal their undercover operations, Harrison becomes Zagon's next target. Sara's life is put in danger when Nico tries to protect Harrison from Zagon, who will stop at nothing to keep Nico out of the way.
Nico learned martial arts in Japan, and was in Vietnam for the CIA, and now is a cop in the vice squad of Chicago. A junkie tells him about a big drug deal; However it turns out that the deal was about C4 explosives and that one of the parties was the CIA. Nico gets ordered to keep out of it, but can't imagine why the CIA would sell C4, so he investigates further. While risking his and his young family's life, he discovers that the CIA tries to cover it's connections to drug dealers in Middle America and wouldn't even stop from murder.
Nico Toscani, an ex-CIA policeman now working for the local police department, while doing an investigation discover the existence of a big weapon trade. Nico finally reaches Zagon and Salvano, two corrupted American secret service members.

