Dave Hirsch, a writer and an army veteran winds up in his small Indiana hometown, to the dismay of his respectable older brother. He meets and befriends various different characters and tries to figure out what to do with his life.
In the post-war, the alcoholic and bitter veteran military and former writer Dave Hirsch returns from Chicago to his hometown Parkman, Indiana. He is followed by Ginnie Moorehead, a vulgar and easy woman with whom he spent his last night in Chicago that has fallen in love with him. The resentful Dave meets his older brother Frank Hirsh, who owns a jewelry store and is a prominent citizen of Parkman that invites him to have dinner with his family. Dave meets his sister-in-law Agnes that hates him since one character of his novel had been visibly inspired on her, and his teenage niece Dawn. Frank introduces the school teacher Gwen French to him and Dave feels attracted by the beautiful woman that is daughter of his former Professor Robert Haven French and idolizes his work as writer. However, his unrequited love with Gwen drives Dave back to the local bar where he befriends the professional gambler Bama Dillert and meets Ginnie again with the Chicago's mobster Raymond Lanchak that was her former lover and has followed her from Chicago. The unconditional love of Ginnie for Dave leads to a tragedy in the calm Parkman.
In 1948 Dave Hirsh returns to his home town of Parkman, Indiana. He's left the army and isn't quite sure what he will do for the rest of his life, though he does aspire to be a writer. He's not sure why he's returned home. He doesn't get along with his older brother Frank - who put him in a home after their parents were killed - and his sister-in-law Agnes hates him. He meets up with a professional gambler Bama Dillert and they soon become fast friends. He also has to deal with Ginnie Moorehead, a girl he met in Chicago the night of his departure and she's decided to tag along. He doesn't plan on staying in town for very long until he meets Dawn French a teacher of creative writing at the local college and an ardent admirer of his earlier works. He falls for her but she's not so quick to fall for him. As life in a small town continues to encroach on his style, Dave has a run-in with a Chicago hood who thinks that Ginnie is his girl, leading to tragedy all 'round.
Dave Hirsch, a writer and army veteran, returns to 1948 Parkman, Indiana, his hometown. His prosperous brother introduces him to Gwen French, a local teacher. But the more flamboyant Ginny has followed him to Parkton, where he also meets gambler Bama Dillert. Dave must come to terms with his roots and with his future.

