An American boy turns out to be the long-lost heir of a British fortune. He is sent to live with the cold and unsentimental lord who oversees the trust.
After the death of Cedric ('Ceddie')'s English father, he and his mother live together in Brooklyn. Cedric's grandfather, the Earl of Dorincourt, had disowned Cedric's father when he married an American, but when the Earl's remaining son dies, he accepts Cedric as Lord Fauntleroy, his heir, and the Earl sends for Cedric and his mother. Cedric uses the first of his newly found wealth to do some favors for his old friends, and then heads to England, where he must try to overcome the Earl's dislike for Cedric's mother.
It's a snowy, cold Christmas in 1880's Brooklyn, New York, USA. "I never saw a man meet death with finer courage," says the doctor.Mrs. Errol (Dolores Costello Barrymore) comes out of the room where Captain Errol had died. She tells her young son Cedric (Freddie Bartholomew) that Father is finally better (but mother and son are now all alone in the world).Now it's spring and Cedric's ninth birthday.Cedric's mother and their maid Mary (Una O'Connor) give Cedric birthday gifts including a new bicycle. Cedric rides the bike out to show his Brooklyn friends.The local applewoman, Mrs. McGillicuddy, a poor Brooklyn street vendor (Jessie Ralph), talks to Cedric and admires his new bike.Later, a gang of older boys stop his bicycle riding and taunt Cedric Errol about his British accent. He says he's an American and firmly adds "My father was English, if it's any of your affair."When these boys insult his mother, he fights them single-handedly, until his good friend Dick Tipton (Mickey Rooney) drops his shoeshine equipment and joins Cedric in the fight.A friendly Irish-American cop (Robert Emmett O'Connor) breaks up the fight and the big boys scatter. Officer O'Brien smiles and assures Cedric that he knew Cedric and Dick would have won, but he just didn't want them to be "commitin' murder."Cedric then visits Hobbs' Fancy Vegetables (&amp;) Groceries and his friend, store owner Mr. Hobbs (Guy Kibbee). He sits on a cracker barrel and listens to Mr. Hobbs rail against British nobility. Mr. Hobbs tells Cedric how he considers British earls a bad lot, waving his newspaper as he, a staunch American, exclaims, "I''ll have no graspin' tyrants [earls] sittin' around on MY cracker barrels!"Dick arrives, and the three start to celebrate Ceddie's birthday, just getting into one swig of ginger pop before maid Mary bustles in to fetch Cedric home, "...where strange things happenin' to us," she says.British lawyer Mr. Havisham (Henry Stephenson) has come to America by order of Cedric's unseen paternal grandfather, the Earl of Dorincourt. Mr. Havisham explains that young Cedric is now the only living heir to his British grandfather's title and estates.Mrs. Errol reluctantly agrees to bring Cedric to Britain since her husband, the late Captain Errol, would have wished it. Mr. Havisham warns Mrs. Errol that the old Earl does not wish to see her as he is quite prejudiced against Americans and is fixed in his determination not to see her. She, thus, cannot enter the Dorincourt Estates but must live in a home nearby where Cedric can visit.Distressed, Mrs. Errol accepts the home but refuses the money offered with the house, as she has a small income of her own. She also asks that Mr. Havisham not tell Cedric why she must live apart, as it would make it harder for Cedric and his grandfather to be friends. Mr. Havisham assures her that Cedric will thank her for this someday, when he's a man.Cedric enters, and before a word is spoken, Mr. Havisham is visibly impressed by the lad's poise. Cedric greets the stranger courteously. When Mr. Havisham calls him little Lord Fauntleroy, Ceddie turns to his mother for an explanation. She says the earl has no more children and, very lonely, has invited them to live with him in England. Cedric will henceforth be known as Lord Fauntleroy and will someday become an earl. Cedric asks if he HAS to go - none of the other boys (he knows) get to be earls. "What will Mr. Hobbs say?"Back in Mr. Hobbs' store, young Cedric nervously recalls their earlier discussion about no earls allowed to sit on Hobbs' cracker barrels. He confesses, "Mr. Hobbs, an earl is sitting on this barrel now." Astonished, Mr. Hobbs blames the heat. Cedric explains that he'll now be known as Lord Fauntleroy. "Well, I'll be jiggered," says Mr. Hobbs. Sadly, there's no way out of it. Each takes a cookie and nibbles in silence, together.Later, Mr. Havisham enjoys dinner at the Errols' small Brooklyn home. He and Cedric talk about what an earl is. With Cedric's mother called away by Bridget (a needy neighbor whose husband Michael can't work because he's sick), the topic turns to money. Mr. Havisham keenly studies Cedric's reaction towards having it, but Cedric's first thoughts are towards using it to better the lives of those he knows. He'd also buy beautiful things for Dearest. (He tells Mr. Havisham "I call Mother "Dearest" because Father did.") As for himself, it would be a pony, but that would be too much to even dream about.Mr. Havisham gives Cedric money as a gift from his grandfather, which Cedric immediately runs out to give to Bridget. He returns to report that Bridget cried for joy at the money, which he never saw anyone do before, and surmises that his grandfather must be a very good man and that going to be an earl is more agreeable that he first thought.It's moving day. En route to the ship, the new Lord Fauntleroy stops to say goodbye to his three favorite friends: the applewoman (who wears a warm new shawl from Cedric, and who gives him a free apple for his long journey), Dick Tipton (in front of his new shoeshine stand from Cedric, where Dick gives Cedric an extraordinary handkerchief, and where the two boys stand awkwardly, not knowing how to express their sadness at parting), and Mr. Hobbs (who gets a new pipe and an engraved watch for remembrance).In Britain, Mrs. Errol, in her new home near Dorincourt Estate (where maid Mary introduces her new cook and parlormaid), tells Cedric they must live apart; however, she promises they will see each other daily and Cedric, initially upset, becomes a little more cheerful.That evening, Mr. Havisham enters Dorincourt Castle. A distressed servant reports that these past few weeks have been the worst. Gout, you know. The old Earl is heard (off camera) yelling "You idiot...!" at another servant for bringing the wrong wine.Mr. Havisham reports to the Earl about Cedric's safe arrival in Britain. The old Earl is surprised and suspicious that Mrs. Errol will not take the extra income from him. Mr. Havisham suggests that the Earl not speak disparagingly of Cedric's mother to her young son as she has all his affection.The next day, young Cedric rides up with Mr. Havisham to meet the old Earl, his grandfather, on the grand Dorincourt Estate. After greeting the household staff (who are all delighted to meet the new Little Lord Fauntleroy), he enters - alone - into the great library where sits the old Earl (Sir C. Aubrey Smith) and his large great dane dog. Quickly befriended by the Earl's large dog, Cedric walks with it across the large library. "Are you the Earl? I'm your grandson that Mr. Havisham brought. I'm Lord Fauntleroy!" He extends his small hand to his grandfather, the Earl of Dorincourt. They shake.The old Earl is impressed with young Cedric's intelligent conversation on various subjects. He learns many amazing things about the new Little Lord Fauntleroy. He learns that his grandson cares for his humble Brooklyn friends (Bridget, Dick and the applewoman), was thinking of being a grocer but would go into the House of Lords if that is a good business, and has decided views about influencing world politics, even declaring, "Mr. Hobbs says that if there's ever to be another war, that I would HAVE to be in America, but I promised him that if there were to be another war, I should try to stop it."Dinner is served, and Cedric, noting his grandfather's sensitive foot, offers his shoulder to lean on as they head for the dining room.The amazed Earl (used to receiving only contempt and fear from others) uncharacteristically comforts the young boy as he becomes homesick for his mother.The next day, local minister Mr. Mordaunt calls on the old Earl to plead for him not to evict the Higgins family, who are behind in their rent. Cedric, overhearing their tale of sicknesses, financial woes and family devotion, exclaims, "That's like Michael!" "I forgot we had a philanthropist here," says the amused old Earl and dictates a letter for Cedric to write and sign. The Dorincourt tenant manager is thus directed to let Tom Higgins and family stay on. "I hope when I grow up I shall be just like you!" says Cedric.The delighted minister leaves to deliver the good news to the Higginses, then, the old Earl tempts Cedric to skip his daily visit to his mother to see a surprise - a new pony in the stables. "Whose pony is it?" asks young Cedric eagerly. "Yours" says the Earl, but Cedric will not stay and miss his daily visit with his beloved mother. Cedric is bewildered when the Earl will not get out to say hello to "Dearest," his mother. As the earl's carriage drives away, he sees Cedric run to his dear mother's arms.As the villagers and tenants go to church the next day, they talk about the wonderful new Lord Fauntleroy and his charming American mother. They greet his mother who, with Mary, walks into church. When they see Cedric arrive (with, unbelievably, the Earl), one declares of Fauntleroy, "He's Captain Cedric all over again!" Cedric marvels at the smiles of the people and assumes it's because they love his grandfather, which the Earl corrects, saying they're bowing to him, Lord Fauntleroy. "To me?" This surprises Cedric and endears him to the people.In the church service, Cedric sees an inscription on a tomb: "Here lyeth ye bodye of Gregorye Arthvre Fyrst Earle of Dorincovrt Allsoe of Allsone Hildecarde hys wyfe." Cedric whispers to his grandfather "Who are they?" and the old Earl replies, "They are some of your ancestors, lived a few hundred years ago." Cedric figures he inherited his bad spelling from them.After church, tenant Tom Higgins thanks Cedric for interceding for him, but Cedric turns all praise towards his grandfather. The Earl takes this opportunity to sourly say that Cedric has the right idea about his true character and everyone should turn to him (Cedric) for the right idea. Higgins, a bit confused, smiles as he understands.In the carriage ride back to the castle, the subject of Cedric missing his mom comes up. Seeing her everyday isn't like seeing her all the time, and he must now wait to tell her things. To explain it further, if Cedric were now to be separated from his grandfather, he would think of his grandfather all the more. "On my word," says the Earl, "I believe you would."Later Cedric writes Mr. Hobbs, "He is such a good Earl, he reminds me of you. He is a universal favorite!"Back in Brooklyn, NY, at Hobb's Finer Groceries, Mr. Hobbs and street urchin Dick Tipton mutually miss Cedric and read his letter aloud. Mr. Hobbs still thinks earls are haughty and mean and laments that Cedric "would have been a shining light in the grocery business."When he learns Dick has no safe place to sleep, Mr. Hobbs offers the lad the sleeping space in his loft for free. "Gee, Mr. Hobbs, talkin' about earls, you ain't no earl. You're a prince!" exclaims the grateful young bootblack.At Dorincourt Castle, the Earl throws a lavish party to introduce Cedric, the new Lord Fauntleroy, to society. The Earl's younger sister, Lady Constantia (Constance Collier), and her husband Sir Harry Lorridaile (E. E. Clive) are delighted to meet their grand-nephew Cedric. She tells Cedric "I loved your father more than most people in this wicked world," to which Cedric replies that she must therefore meet and talk to Dearest about him. Cedric is a hit with the guests, and more than one guest comments on the profound change the boy's presence has wrought upon his grandfather; however, the old Earl notices that Mr. Havisham is grim. Mr. Havisham has news but begs off sharing it till later.After the party, Mr. Havisham tells the Earl bad news, the worst: the male offspring of his oldest son, Bevis, has come forth and is apparently the rightful heir, making Cedric the mere offspring of the Earl's younger son, Capt. Errol. The old Earl is immediately angry - "It's a lie!" - then becomes slowly ashamed. He asks, "The woman, you say, is an ignorant, vulgar person?" "She can hardly spell her own name. She's obviously uneducated and openly mercenary," says the lawyer. The Earl looks warmly down upon sleeping young Cedric. "And I ... I objected to HIS mother. I suppose it's retribution," he says repentantly. A servant enters and the Earl distinctly instructs him to take "Lord Fauntleroy" up to his room.News of the turn of events goes public. Even the Earl's sister and brother-in-law feel sorry for the old boy, declaring Cedric a thoroughbred if ever there was one and the first human being the Earl has ever loved.Villagers talk at the inn where Minna, former wife of Bevis (the Earl's deceased eldest son), is staying. Knowing the great change grandson Cedric worked on the old Earl, they discuss how hard this new claimant is upon his Lordship, and Cedric losing his title will mean the loss of the best friend the community ever had.The old Earl and Mr. Havisham meet Minna, now going by "Lady Fauntleroy" (Helen Flint), her lawyer Mr. Joshua Snade (Walter Kingsford), and her dirty-faced, candy-sucking son Bevis (Jackie Searl) at the inn. Her initial pretense of charm dies swiftly under the Earl's glower, as does Bevis' courage in meeting his grandfather. She confronts the old Earl, hoping to get plenty of money as her son sucks away at his lollipop and stares dumbly."Your son Bevis married me all right, and a fine rotter he was, but he was the father of my boy.... I've heard plenty about you and your dirty, snobbish pride. Plenty of pride YOU'LL have when I'M finished with you!... unless you wanna climb down off your high horse and get reasonable..." she smirks. The old Earl, in disgust, promises that the lawful heir will get his due but forbids her to enter Dorincourt till after his death. "Yes, you're exactly the kind of person that I should've expected my son Bevis to choose." The Earl exits and Minna laughs maniacally.Several lawyers find no fault in Minna's paperwork. "That's monstrous!" cried the Earl. "That mother and that boy are utterly unfit!" he continues. "Perhaps," says the lawyer, "the boy won't turn out so badly as you fear." "That boy?!" snaps the Earl. "That...OAF?!!"The old Earl, grieved again at how he objected to Cedric's mother, calls on her and asks her forgiveness. She comforts the stricken Earl.The Earl enters Ceddie's room, and the boy can immediately tell it's bad news: He's not Lord Fauntleroy anymore. He's asks if the other boy will now be the Earl's boy, like he himself was. "NO!" growls the Earl strongly. Cedric can and will still be his grandfather's boy, even if he's not going to be the earl.Back in Brooklyn, Mr. Hobbs gets a shoeshine at Dick Tipton's fancy new shoeshine stand that Cedric had given him. Mr. Hobbs reads aloud a news story about the new Lord Fauntleroy and Dick looks at the picture of the new Lady Fauntleroy on page five. "Holy mackerel!" exclaims Dick, "That's Minna, Ben's [former] wife!" They suspect fraud and go off to seek proper advice.Later, at the inn near Dorincourt, Minna and lawyer Joshua Snade, confined in the small quarters, snap at each other. She wishes to go but doesn't want to leave the area till the Earl settles money on her. Suddenly the dour Earl enters, followed shortly by Dick (grinning), his older brother Ben (scowling), Mr. Havisham (stern) and Mr. Hobbs (interested). "Where's the child?" asks Ben, "...our boy Tom." Minna launches into a feigned sad tale of Tom dying three days after his birth from pneumonia. Dick notices movement at a door across the room and opens it, revealing Ben's son Tom, a.k.a. Bevis. "Hello, Uncle Dick," says the boy, and the fraud is exposed.As Minna quickly accuses them of spying on her and trying to do her hurt, Ben calls Tom over, and father and son are happily reunited. Joshua claims he knew nothing of the deception, but Havisham points out the "little matter of a forged birth certificate." Sick of the whole matter, the Earl declares he's had enough, and the sooner the pair of them leave the country the better. He exits the room, followed by all members of his party.Time to celebrate Cedric's 10th birthday, and Cedric fills in an engraved invitation for his birthday party to Silas Hobbs personally.The Earl shows Mr. Hobbs around Dorincourt Castle's portrait hall. They view the Earl's earlier distinguished ancestors (which Hobbs mistakes him as saying "aunt's sisters" - "Your Great Uncle, he MUST have had a family!"). Mr. Hobbs concedes "You know, Earl... you're a pretty good sort, even if you are an earl." "I'm very gratified" says the Earl. "You know," continues Mr. Hobbs, "I wouldn't have minded being one myself." The Earl grunts his amusement at that.Outside, the gathered townspeople, tenants and American visitors (Mr. Hobbs and Dick Tipton) cheer on Cedric for a speech, which is short and graciously thankful for their attendance. "Ain't he a daisy?" says Dick, "I bet you boids [birds] elect him king some day." "I didn't know the little fellow could talk so good!" says Mr. Hobbs.The Earl has another birthday present for the delighted Cedric - his mother, who's come to live with them in the castle. "To Live with us?" asks Cedric excitedly, "To live with us for always?" "We've always wanted (her)," admits the Earl, "but we weren't exactly aware of it."Mrs. Errol is glad to see her old friend, Mr. Hobbs, and says, "I dread to think of you ever going back to America." The new Anglophile American Silas Hobbs says "Not to live there. Not to live there. America's a good enough country for them that's young and stern, but there's faults in it. There's not an aunt's sister among 'em - NOR an earl."The End.
