A conman gets mixed up with a group of thieves who plan to rob an Istanbul museum to steal a jewelled dagger.
A small-time con man with passport problems gets mixed up with a gang of world-class jewelry thieves plotting to rob the Topkapi museum in Istanbul. Turkish intelligence, suspecting arms smuggling, gets involved, and under pressure, the con man rises to heights of which he'd never dreamed.
Beautiful thief Elizabeth Lipp (Melina Mercouri) and criminal genius Walter Harper (Maximilian Schell) put together a plan to steal an emerald-encrusted dagger from Istanbul's Topkapi Palace. As part of their crew, they hire small-time hustler Arthur Simon Simpson (Sir Peter Ustinov) to act as their fall guy. When the Turkish secret police capture Simpson at the border, they persuade him to spy on his partners in crime, mistakenly believing that they're Communist Agents plotting an assassination.
Professional jewel thief Elizabeth Lipp (Melina Mercouri) reunites with her former lover and partner Walter Harper (Maximilian Schell) for the score of her life - the theft of an exquisite jeweled dagger from the Topkapi museum, located in the former Ottoman imperial palace in Istanbul. Walter recruits the team, which includes alarms expert Cedric Page (Robert Morley), strong man Hans Fisher (Jess Hahn), and circus acrobat Giulio "the Human Fly" (Gilles Ségal). Since the museum's floor is completely pressure-alarmed, it will be necessary to lower Giulio by rope from a rooftop window and raise the the heavy glass cover enclosing the mannequin on which the dagger is displayed. Giulio will then replace the dagger with a copy and leave the scene intact in the hope that the theft will not be discovered until the thieves leave the country. This method will require two strong men, Hans and Walter, holding ropes - one to raise the glass cover and the other to hold Giulio.The plan calls for shooting out a searchlight and exploding smoke grenades to distract the guards when the team leaves the museum. Walter hides a rifle and some smoke grenades inside the door jamb of a convertable limousine. In Greece, he hires a small-time hustler named Arthur Simpson (Peter Ustinov) to drive the car to Istanbul. When Simpson arrives at Turkish customs, he is detained for an expired passport and the officials become suspicious of his disjointed personal history. The car is searched and the contraband discovered. Simpson is now accused of abetting terrorism, a capital offense.Simpson manages to convince Maj. Ali Tufan (Ege Ernart) that he knows nothing of the supposed terrorist plot. He agrees to redeem himself by infiltrating the gang as a spy for Turkish security. Upon arriving in Istanbul, he informs Walter and Elizabeth that, due to a bureaucratic mixup, only the person who brought the car into the country is allowed to drive it. Walter and Elizabeth reluctantly agree to hire Simpson as their chauffeur during their "touristic" visit, so he joins them at their rented villa.Simpson does his best to ferret out information, leaving messages for the police in discarded cigarette packs, but he learns little. One evening, the drunken and obnoxious cook Gerven (Akim Tamiroff) annoys Hans to the point that a melee breaks out. In the confusion, Hans manages to break his hands when a window is slammed shut. With Hans out of commission, the plan cannot go forward without a second rope holder, and Cedric demurs that he is not strong enough.Walter and Elizabeth put Simpson through a test of strength, which he passes, barely. They decide to offer Simpson $10,000 to participate in the robbery. Simpson agrees, but then lets slip that he is working for Turkish security. Walter decides to go through with the robbery anyway, but to move it forward to that same evening.Though the group is being tailed by police, they manage to slip away one by one at a crowded wrestling match. Since they can no longer shoot out lights or use smoke grenades, Elizabeth, with Cedric's help, will distract the guards using her feminine wiles. Walter, Guilo and Simpson enter the museum just before closing time, hide, and eventualy make their way to the roof, where Simpson announces that he has a fear of heights. They manage to get across the roof anyway, and as soon as darkness falls Guilio is slipped in through a high window. The plan almost fails when Simpson lets the rope slip, but he recovers just in time. As planned, Guilio switches the daggers and the three depart the museum.The dagger is brought to the courier who will take it out of the country. It looks like everything has gone according to plan, but of course there is an unexpected twist at the end.
