When his girlfriend becomes dangerously obsessed with a ghost she contacted using a ouija board, Jim reluctantly joins forces with her ex - his own estranged childhood best friend - to identify and exorcise the evil spirit.
At a party, a guest brings out a Ouija board, and they attempt to contact a spirit he knows. The spirit does appear, but it becomes apparent to the one who brought the Ouija board that this is an evil spirit that is impersonating his spirit, and despite warnings not to use the board alone, a woman uses it alone, and becomes harassed by the evil spirit, his goal to possess her so he can walk the earth again.
Brandon Sinclair brings out his ouija board at a party and attempts to contact David, the spirit of a dead ten-year-old boy with whom he has communicated numerous times. The spirit responds, but Jim, formerly Brandon's best friend and now nemesis, insults David, making David angry and provoking David to slash the tires of Brandon's car.The next day, Linda, Jim's live-in girlfriend, sees Brandon's ouija board (which Brandon left behind from the previous night) and tries to contact David. The spirit that appears is actually an evil being (Malfeitor) acting under the guise of David. This malicious spirit starts being nice and helpful, informing Linda where her lost diamond engagement ring is. Meanwhile, at the construction site where Jim is working, Jim's friend Lloyd is killed by the murderous spirit. Linda again contacts Malfeitorwhom she still believes to be Davidand he lies, responding that he did not cause the accident. Linda begins to fall under "progressive entrapment", in which the spirit changes and starts to terrorize the user, making the person weak and easy to possess.Brandon and Jim conduct research on David, and later accuse him of terrorizing Linda. They play with the Ouija board and discover that another spirit is frightening Linda. The same spirit then attacks and kills Brandon.Released from the hospital, Linda plays with the board but gets no response. She then takes a shower, but gets attacked by Malfeitor. She initially escapes but soon is possessed by the evil entity. The next morning, Jim returns and discovers the apartment in disarray, with Linda wearing men's formal wear and holding an firefighter's axe.Just then, Dewhurst, the detective investigating the murders he suspects were perpetrated by Jim (but were actually committed by Malfeitor), enters the apartment. He accuses Jim of hurting Linda, but quickly discovers that he is wrong as he is immediately smacked in the face with a fire poker, rendering him unconscious and causing him to drop his gun. Jim picks up the gun and shoots the board many times right before Linda pushes him out the window.The next scene is at the church at Jim and Linda's wedding. As a girl and the apartment landlady clean up the apartment, they both find the ouija board and the girl says, "Wonder if it still works?" The landlady then throws it into a box with the planchette. The camera then zooms to "yes" on the board as the planchette moves to it by itself.
