A corrupt D.A. with political ambitions is angered by news stories implicating him in criminal activity and decides to frame the reporter who wrote them for manslaughter in order to silence him.
Although innocent, reporter Frank Ross is found guilty of murder and is sent to jail. While his friends at the newspaper try to find out who framed him, Frank gets hardened by prison life and his optimism turns into bitterness. He meets fellow-inmate Stacey and they decide to help each other.
Even though he was warned off the story, newspaper reporter Frank Ross goes ahead with his story of corruption and graft in the awarding of contracts to companies owned by the powerful Hanley. They frame him for drunk driving and manslaughter and he's sent to the State penitentiary for 1 to 20 years. Life is tough in prison and the guards are cruel. Intent on eventually proving his innocence, Frank's plan is to keep his nose clean and get paroled as soon as possible. He befriends a gangster, Hood Stacey, who has a proposition for him: if Frank helps him break out of prison, Stacey will find the truth and get him released.
The investigative reporter Frank Ross finds evidence of corruption against a powerful politician Jesse Hanley (Thurston Hall) that is candidate to Governor in the elections. Hanley sends his gangsters to catch Frank to frame him. They knock his head and soak him with whiskey and then they put him fainted in car in movement that hits another and kills the driver and two passengers. Frank can not prove that he is innocent and is sentenced to twenty years of hard labor in Rocky Point Prison. The newspaper direction tries to find evidence of Frank's innocence while he befriends the gangster Stacey that was sentenced to 199 years. Stacey asks Frank to help him to be accused for a crime that he had not committed since he has planned to escape from the courthouse. In return, he would help to find who has framed him up using his contacts in the underworld. Will Stacey really find the responsible for the frame-up?

