A resourceful British government agent seeks answers in a case involving the disappearance of a colleague and the disruption of the American space program.
James Bond 007 is Britain's top agent, and is on an exciting mission, to solve the mysterious murder of a fellow agent. The task sends him to Jamaica, where he joins forces with Quarrel and a loyal C.I.A. Agent, Felix Leiter. While dodging tarantulas, "fire breathing dragons", and a trio of assassins, known as "the three blind mice". Bond meets up with the beautiful Honey Ryder and goes face to face with the evil Dr. No.
Everyhing starts when the British Agent John Strangways and his secretary go missing in Jamaica. James Bond is assigned by M to investigate what have happened with the agents. 007 teams-up with C.I.A. Agent Felix Leiter and the native Quarrel that works with him, and 007 learns that Strangways was investigating the Crab Key Island that belongs to the mysterious Dr. No, and is very well protected by armed guards. Soon they learn that Dr. No is toppling the rockets launched by N.A.S.A. at Cape Canaveral, and 007 goes to Crab Key with Quarrel to seek evidence against Dr. No. They meet the sexy Honey Ryder collecting seashells in the island. They stay together, but soon they are found by security guards and arrested in Dr. No's facility, and James Bond learns the evil plan of Dr. No and S.P.E.C.T.R.E.
An agent of the British Secret Service, James Bond 007, is sent out to the West Indies in order to find out why another of his number was killed. His arrival is not welcomed by everyone, but it is not long before he is on the trail of the killer. The trail leads to a secretive scientist, Dr. No, but the discovery has wider implications.
Bond's mission takes him to the steamy island of Jamaica, where mysterious energy waves are interfering with U.S. missile launches. As he unravels the astonishing truth, 007 must fight deadly assassins, sexy femme fatales, and even a poisonous tarantula. With the help of crack C.I.A. Agent Felix Leiter and the beautiful Honey Ryder, he searches for the headquarters of Dr. No, a fanatical scientist who is implementing an evil plan of world domination. Only James Bond, with his combination of wit, charm, and skill, can confront the madman and save the human race from a horrible fate.
James Bond 007, seductive British Secret Agent, has been sent to Jamaica to investigate the disappearance of British Agent John Strangway and his secretary. Once arriving, 007 becomes suspicious of scientist Proffesor Dent, who was the last person to have seen Strangway before he disappeared. After learning Professor Dent is working for a terrorist with a metal hand, Dr. Julius No, and Strangway is dead, 007 meets C.I.A. Agent Felix Leiter and his assistant Quarrel in Jamiaca. 007 and Quarrel head to the tropical island Crab Key, after encountering the beautiful Honey Ryder, 007 finds the island is Dr. No's secret lair, and 007 and Honey are captured, but Quarrel is killed. Where 007 learns Dr. No is has been disrupting the American rocket launches at N.A.S.A., and he is out for world domination and plots to unleash his vengeance on the United States of America. Can James Bond defeat Dr. No and save the world?
John Strangways, the British Intelligence (SIS) Station Chief in Jamaica, is ambushed, killed, and his body taken by three assassins known as the "Three Blind Mice". In response, MI6 agent James Bond (007) is summoned to the office of his superior, M. Bond is briefed to investigate Strangways' disappearance and to determine whether it is related to his cooperation with the American Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) on a case involving the disruption of Cape Canaveral rocket launches by radio jamming.Upon his arrival at Kingston Airport, a female photographer tries to take Bond's picture and he is shadowed from the airport. He is picked up by a chauffeur, who Bond determines to be an enemy agent. Bond instructs him to leave the main road and, after a brief fight, Bond starts to interrogate the driver, who then kills himself with a cyanide-embedded cigarette.During his investigation Bond sees a picture of a boatman named Quarrel with Strangways. Bond locates Quarrel but finds him to be un-cooperative when he interviews him. Bond also recognises Quarrel to have been the driver of the car that chased him from the airport. Bond follows Quarrel and is about to be beaten by him and a friend when the fight is interrupted by the man from the airport who has been following Bond: he reveals himself to be CIA agent Felix Leiter and that not only are the two agents on the same mission, but also that Quarrel is helping Leiter. The CIA has traced the mysterious radio jamming of American rockets to the Jamaica vicinity, but aerial photography cannot see the exact location of its origin. Quarrel reveals that he has been guiding Strangways around the nearby islands to collect mineral samples. He also tells about the island of Crab Key, owned by the reclusive Dr. No, who operates a bauxite mine which is rigorously protected against trespassers by an armed security force and low-scan radar.After finding a receipt in Strangways' house about mysterious rocks naming, Professor R.J. Dent, Bond meets with Dent who says he had assayed the samples for Strangways and determined them to be ordinary rocks. This visit makes Dent wary and he takes a boat to Crab Key where Dr. No expresses displeasure at Dent's failure to kill Bond and orders him to try again, this time with a large venomous spider. Bond survives and kills the spider.Bond becomes friendly with Strangways' secretary, Miss Taro and agrees to meet her at her home in the hills above Kingston. While driving there, Bond is attacked by several men driving a large hearse. He is able to outmaneuver them and the hearse is run off the mountain road and explodes. When Bond shows up at Taro's house, she's surprised to see him, a fact that Bond notes easily. She goes into her bedroom and talks on the phone to her boss, who tells her to keep Bond occupied for a few hours. Bond and Taro spend that time in bed.Bond makes a phone call, ostensibly asking for a taxi but actually talking to the local police, who show up soon after and arrest Taro. Bond then sets a trap for Dent and waits for him to show. Dent steals into the bedroom and fires several silenced shots into the bed, which Bond rigged to look like it was occupied. Bond forces Dent to drop his pistol and begins to interrogate him about Strangways and his radioactive rock samples, which Dent tried to cover up. Dent is able to recover his pistol, finding it empty and Bond coldly shoots him dead.Having detected radioactive traces in Quarrel's boat, where Strangways' mineral samples had been, Bond convinces a reluctant Quarrel to take him to Crab Key. On the beach there, Bond meets the beautiful Honey Ryder, dressed only in a white bikini, who is collecting shells. At first she is suspicious of Bond but soon decides to help him. When Bond asks her if she had her sail up all the way to the beach, she tells him that No's men have tried to catch her in the past but failed. A high-powered boat soon appears. Bond, realizing that Ryder's boat was detected by radar, has the three of them hide near the forest behind the beach. They are shot at, thought the men on the boat cannot see them. Ryder leads them all inland to an open swamp. After nightfall they are attacked by the legendary "dragon" of Crab Key which turns out to be a flame-throwing armoured vehicle. In the resulting gun battle, Quarrel is incinerated by the flame-thrower whilst Bond and Honey are taken prisoner. Bond and Honey are decontaminated after radiation exposure and taken to quarters before being drugged. Later, while Bond is unconscious, someone with strange hands enters his room and watches him while he sleeps.Upon waking they are escorted to dine with Dr. No, a half-Chinese man with mechanical hands that replaced his own after a radiation experiment when awry. He reveals that he is a member of SPECTRE (SPecial Executive for Counter-intelligence, Terrorism, Revenge, and Extortion) and plans to disrupt the Project Mercury space launch from Cape Canaveral with his atomic-powered radio beam. After dinner Honey is taken away and Bond is beaten by the guards.Bond is imprisoned in a holding cell but finds a way to escape through a vent. Disguised as a worker, Bond finds his way to the control centre, a multi-level room full of high-tech instrumentation with an atomic reactor set into the floor, overseen by Dr. No from a command console. Bond overloads the nuclear reactor just as the American rocket is about to take off. Hand-to-hand combat ensues between Bond and Dr. No, with the scientist being pushed into the reactor's cooling vat, in which he boils to death, his steel hands making a grip on the metal supports impossible. Bond then finds Honey and the two escape in a boat just as the entire lair explodes. Their boat later runs out of fuel and they drift for a while before being found by Leiter and the Coast Guard. They throw Bond a rope and begin to tow him and Ryder back to shore, but Bond deliberately drops the rope, leaving them drifting again on the tide.
