A newly hired dumb secretary working for a bookie masquerading as a Realtor causes unintended hilarious troubles for her employer.
A bookie uses a phony real estate business as a front for his betting parlor. To further keep up the sham, he hires dim-witted Ellen Grant as his secretary figuring she won't suspect any criminal goings-on. When Ellen learns of some friends who are about to lose their homes, she unwittingly drafts her boss into developing a new low-cost housing development.
Ellen Grant is going to secretarial school in order to support herself instead of having to rely on getting married to survive financially. Marriage to her boyfriend, Assistant DA Ralph Winton, who she doesn't really love, may become the necessary fallback position as she has sunk all her savings into the tuition, and everyone at the school including herself knows she just doesn't have the aptitude to be a secretary. Against the odds, she is hired by Dick Richmond of Richmond Realty, he who could have had his choice of any of the more able students at the school. His choice of Ellen is because of certain other attributes she possesses as he is looking more for a receptionist cum friendly, compassionate face for the many clients to who to tell their housing troubles. In reality, Dick hired her exactly because she isn't too bright, as the realty office is a front for his new horse racing bookie operation with his associates, Mssrs. Gleason and Kilcoyne: she can add some legitimacy to the office, but won't know what's going on, even if she does see them working on their illegal operation. Complications ensue not only when Dick learns about Ralph and about her uncle, Judge Ben Grant, but when she wants to make a real difference in ensuring the town has affordable housing, many of her friends who are having problems finding a place to live. Dick has to find a way to combat Ellen's actions. Dick's actions have unintended consequences of a more personal nature. Thrown into the mix is Dick's ex-girlfriend, Peggy Donato, who runs a bigger operation using strong-arm tactics and who will do anything to get Dick back into her operation.

