A poor girl must choose between the affections of dating her childhood sweetheart or a rich but sensitive playboy.
Teenager Andie is one of the not-so-popular girls in high school. She usually hangs out with her friends Iona or Duckie. Duckie has always had a crush on her, but now she has met a new guy at school, Blane. He's one of the rich and popular guys but can the two worlds meet?
Poor Andie is smart and sensitive but not popular in school. When she meets rich Boy Blaine, she thinks she's found true love. Unfortunately their friends don't think it will work. Can Andi and Blaine overcome the obstacles to lasting love? Jon Cryer costars as best friend Duckie in an unforgettable role.
For years, Duckie has been trying to summon up the courage to confess his secret love to his best friend and equally unpopular high-school senior, Andie; however, in vain. But, before long, things will take a turn for the unexpected, when the rich boy and Andie's long-time crush, Blane, takes an interest in her: the awkward girl from the wrong side of the tracks. Now, Andie's already complicated world is turned upside down--and as if that weren't enough--the day of the long-awaited prom rapidly approaches, and Blane's snob friends look down on Andie. Blane seems to genuinely like Andie. What is the colour of teenage love's very first kiss?
Andie comes from a poor home, is a bit of an outcast at school and works at a record store. She takes care of her dad, who is still a bit lost after being left by Andie's Mom years ago. Duckie is her best friend who has secretly been in love with her since childhood. Enter Blaine, A popular rich kid who is interested in Andie despite the social pressure from his friends.After a couple days of flirting Blaine eventually asks Andie out, much to Duckie's disappointment. Andie is initially very excited but feels out of place when Blaine takes her to a party and his friends are less then accepting. They leave and go to one of Andie's favorite hangouts, A bar with live music, but the Blaine gets a less the welcome reception from Duckie. Despite the social world differences the two want to make it work and Blaine asks Andie to Prom. Blaine's douche bag friend Steff get's to him though and Blaine backs out of the prom date. Andie eventually decides to go anyways, is meet there by Duckie, and they reconcile their friendship. Blaine realizes he was wrong and apologies to Andie, Duckie relents and tells her to go after him, and Andie and Blaine make up and out in the parking lot and everything is golden in 80's teen romance land.
