A social-climbing American with a business in illegal gambling falls in love with a blue blood, but gangsters and a jealous ex-girlfriend stand in the way of happiness.
A greedy but successful professional gambler wants to join the British Establishment when he falls in love with a blue-blooded lady. But first he must mend his ways and then dump his nightclub singer girl friend. She's not so easy to get rid of, neither is his past.
Jim Forster [Dane Clark] is an ex-alcoholic who served three years for manslaughter for killing a man in America whilst drunk. He now owns an illegal gambling club in London overseen by Dave Davies [Meredith Edwards]. Jacko Spina [George Pastell] is his cashier who settles accounts with the customers. When a cheque Spina accepts from a new customer, Lord Peter Willens [Anthony Forwood], bounces, Spina offers to track down the customer but Forster tells him to forget it because he wants to keep a low profile and keep clear of the police.Forster is hoping to improve his place in society and socialise with the upper classes. He visits stables where he is seen by Lord Willens, is having lessons in English etiquette, and also employees an American colleague Sam [Thomas Gallagher] as his butler. Lord Willens visits Forster to reveal he has been visited by two of Forster's men regarding his outstanding debt so Forster sacks Spina for trying to enforce payment.Forster already has enemies in London and a new threat are the Colonna brothers, who are now also in London and will be setting up a gambling business as they have done in other European cities. Forster is not concerned and goes to his club, where he has a brief but amenable introduction to Arturo Colonna [Eric Pohlmann] and his brother Angelo [Enzo Coticchia]. Forster's girlfriend Pat [Kathleen Byron] performs as a dancer at the club but their relationship is strained and they are argumentative.The Colonna brothers attempt to buy Forster's gambling business, offering him 10% to stay on as their employee, but Forster refuses.At a birthday party at his club, Forster meets Willens's sister Lady Susan Willens [Naomi Chance]. When they dance together, it only adds to the tension between Forster and Pat. Forster also owns a boxer and invites Susan to attend his next boxing match.Forster tries to arrange to meet Susan for the boxing match but Willens erroneously tells Forster she is not interested. By the time Susan calls back, Forster has left. After the fight, Forster is given a second chance by the Colonna brothers to accept their offer. When he refuses again, they warn him it is every man for himself and that night, Forster's club and two of his gambling flats are smashed to pieces.At a horse race meeting the next day, Susan bumps into Forster and explains she had really wanted to meet him for the boxing match. They happily spend the remainder of the day together. Willens father Lord Willens-Hortland's [Percy Marmont] horse is beaten by Forster's horse The Jack of Diamonds in one race.Next time Forster and Susan visit the club together, Pat confronts Susan and warns her about having a relationship with Forster instead of her.Lord Willens and his father are short of money and ask Susan to ask Forster to lend them some money for an investment. Mining prospector Richard Farning [Anthony Ireland] convinces Forster to invest with him. Forster instructs Davies to sell everything: the gambling business, the boxer, and the horse. Forster sees it as an opportunity to make a lot of money legitimately but Davies is sceptical and warns Forster he is being conned but sells up to the Colonna brothers.The newspaper the next morning reports the police are enquiring into a mining scam involving Lord Willens-Hortland and the disappearance of Farning. Forster realises he has been swindled. Susan tries to explain it was all Farning and they have been conned too. Forster has lost everything and turns back to drinking heavily.Spina is still angry with Forster and vows to get revenge for being sacked. He informs the police where to find the illegal gambling clubs Forster used to own. Spina convinces Colonna it must be Forster who is informing on them so they decide to pay him a visit. Forster finds Davies murdered by the Colonna brothers and chases after them by car. Susan and Sam chase after Forster. Forster confronts the Colonna brothers and their men. Spina takes Arturo Colonna's gun and tries to shoot Forster but misses. Forster shoots Spina and a gunfight breaks out. In the dark Forster manages to escape through the window, wounded in the arm. Outside in the dark, Pat calls to Forster from a nearby car but he is unable to see her. As he steps out into the open, she drives at him and runs him over. He dies just as Sam and Susan reach him.
