Angela, supposedly reformed and living under an assumed surname, is working at a summer camp. However, when the campers start misbehaving, she soon reverts to her old ways.
Angela Baker has undergone years of therapy, electro-shock and sexual reassignment surgeries, and finally landed herself a job in the last place she should be working - camp rolling hills. She has an old fashioned approach as to how camp should be, and an old familiar deadly way of making sure that those who don't follow her rules don't get to come back next summer.
Camp Rolling Hills will never be the same. Not with their newest camp counselor Angela Johnson arriving. While there once was nothing but the best summer camp ever, it's now only a killing field to her. No matter what anyone does, Angela will have a problem with it. And when this woman has a problem with someone, she's not one to try and resolve it through conversation. No, she'd rather find inventive ways to make all the campers hearts stop beating using anything necessary to accomplish her goal. As the number of campers becomes noticably slimmer, it's up to one courageous girl to try and get out of Camp Rolling Hills alive.
Angela, the psychopathic transsexual from Sleepaway Camp, has escaped from a mental hospital. She's had a sex-change operation to become a woman, years of therapy, and is now a camp counselor at Camp Rolling Hills. Although she claims to be cured, we know that's false from the beginning. Immediately, she kills her first victim by beating her on the head with a log! Angela begins killing more teenagers when they don't follow Angela's rules.
Angela Baker, from Camp Arawak, Is now Angela Johnson, a counselor at Camp Rolling Hills. She hopes that the other campers are nice and aren't getting in trouble. But not all the campers are perfectly nice, so she goes on and kills them like no other psycho has done in history of massacres, especially when she hide the bodies and tell people she sent them home!
At Camp Rolling Hills, the head counselor T.C., and a camper named Phoebe are telling each other scary stories around a campfire. Phoebe tells them the story about the killings of the previous film at Camp Arawak. Suddenly, counselor Angela finds her and orders her to go back to her cabin. As Phoebe and Angela start arguing about sneaking away from the cabin, Angela tells her to go home. Phoebe, distressed, runs off into the woods. Phoebe, now lost, calls back for Angela, who appears behind her and hits her in the head with a log. Angela then cuts out her tongue, proclaiming: "And here's what you get for using horrible language and having a filthy mouth!". The next day, Angela's group is wondering about Phoebe's whereabouts. Angela tells them that she sent her home for "doing things with the boys that she had no business doing".Meanwhile outside, Charlie and Emilio are taking pictures of the girls who are topless. The head of the camp, Uncle John, gives Angela the "counselor of the week award" during breakfast. Afterward, when Angela is walking in the woods, she finds the Schoute sisters smoking some marijuana and fornicating with one of the boys. After sending the boy off, Angela looks over at Brooke, who's completely out of it and looks back at the still active Jodi. Brooke then suddenly wakes up on what appears to be a grill somewhere deep in the woods, with Angela pouring some alcohol on her to wake up. Brooke rises up and is shown face to face with the charred skeleton of her already immolated sister, Jodi. Angela then pours gasoline all over her body and says "Let this be a lesson to you: say no to drugs," and burns her alive.That night, the boys throw a panty raid in the girls' cabin until Angela comes in, throwing them out. After Angela leaves for a counselor meeting, the girls get back at the boys by raiding their cabin for their clothes. Angela walks in, finding Mare showing off her breasts. Mare then decides to go home. On the way back, Angela stops the car and offers Mare one last chance to go back and aplogize, and Mare declines. Angela then pulls out a drill and drills Mare to death. The next day, Angela finds Charlie and Emilio looking at naked pictures, one of them showing a side-view of Angela. Later that night, some of the teenage boys go out to scare Angela by dressing up like Freddy Krueger, Jason Voorhees and Leatherface. However, the plan backfires when Angela slashes one of the boy's throat with his own razor knives fingers glove and chainsaws the other boy through the skull.The next day, Angela sets up a trap for Ally Burgess, by giving her a fake note saying that Molly's boyfriend, Sean, would like to meet her in the woods. Ally arrives and Angela stabs her in the back and shoves her into an outhouse, then pushes her inside the hole, which is full of feces, urine and leeches, drowning her. That night, Demi starts telling Angela about how Mare's parents told her that she was still at camp. Realizing that she could be caught, Angela starts searching the room for something to kill her with while Demi talks non-stop, finally ending up with her guitar string saying "Demi, you talk too much" and garrotes Demi to death. Suddenly, Lea comes in and Angela stabs her to death, merely stating "You're gonna tell". With no one but Angela and Molly left in the cabin, and with not telling Uncle John about her sending home campers, Uncle John fires her.Feeling sad for Angela, Molly and Sean go to cheer her up. When they find her hiding place, they discover the dead bodies of everyone that has been killed. Angela suddenly appears behind them, knocks Sean out and ties the duo up.Back at camp, Rob Darrinco, Sean's best friend and Ally's 'sex friend', reveals to T.C. about Molly and Sean's disappearances. T.C. goes off to find Angela. He finds the cabin and enters it, and is greeted by Angela, who throws battery acid on his face, hideously mutilating and killing him. Sean then realizes that Angela is Peter Baker, the fourteen-year-old transsexual killer from the previous film. Angela reveals that after two years of electroshock therapy and a sex change, she was released for having good records from doctors. Angela then proceeds to cut Sean's head off with Judd's machete.Angela then leaves because she has already set a trap for Matt, the boy who was fornicating with Jodi and Brooke. When she comes back with his body, Molly, who has escaped from being held hostage, attacks her with a log and proceeds to run off. Angela chases after her and after a struggle, Molly pulls out Angela's pocket knife and stabs Angela in her hand and left leg. Angela continues approaching her. Molly, who is standing near a ledge, falls over and is apparently dead. Angela tells her "If it's any consolation, you almost made it," and leaves.Later that night, Diane, another camp counselor, finds Charlie and Emilio pinned up against a cabin wall with their necks slashed open and their eyes gouged out. Diane runs to go find Uncle John. Diane finds him in his office, with his throat slashed and a machete on his desk, next to his cut off hand. Diane then prepares to run but bumps into Rob, who is hanging from the wall with a gag in his mouth. Angela appears behind her and stabs her. Angela leaves the office, but then walks back in and proclaims "Goodnight, campers." Meanwhile, Molly, who has just regained consciousness, limps out of the woods. Angela hitchhikes with a truck driver and is about to leave the campsite. Angela, however, is now getting annoyed by the driver because of her smoking and her annoying Texan voice. Angela then pulls out her knife and starts attacking the woman just as they stop at a railroad crossing.Molly finally makes it to the main road and starts walking away when the pickup truck stops behind her. Molly, relieved, walks over to the truck. The driver is revealed to be Angela who says "Howdee partner!" Molly screams as Angela apparently kills her as well.
