A famous fashion photographer develops a disturbing ability to see through the eyes of a killer.
Suddenly Laura Mars can see through the eyes of a serial killer as he commits his crimes. She contacts the police and with the aid of a police detective, tries to stop the killer. But first, they have to figure out who it is.
Laura Mars is a very successful high-end fashion and advertising photographer. Detective John Neville notes striking similarities between her art photos and those of actual crime scenes. Although suspicious of her, he soon realizes that she hasn't been involved in any of the crimes but can see what is happening through the eyes of the killer. After her friends and some of her models are killed, she joins forces with Neville to identify the killer before she too becomes a victim.
New York photographer Laura Mars' latest exhibit, its associated book titled "Eyes of Mars", and her continuing current work are considered controversial for the depiction of female sexuality side by side with violence. Laura has been having the occasional vision for several years, which started this thematic work. These visions started as fleeting thoughts, which have now become full blown moving pictures, as if she were looking through a camera lens. These visions begin to haunt her as she can see people she knows in these visions, they who end up being murdered by a knife through the eyes, the actual murder which she "sees" as it is happening through the eyes of the killer. As the police investigate these murders, she tries to explain to them her visions. The only one of the investigating detectives who believes her is the lead, Lieutenant John Neville. Laura is scared not only for her friends and associates, but also herself as she can see in her visions that the killer is also after her. As she begins a personal relationship with Neville, she comes to the conclusion that the killer may not be some random nut who solely dislikes her work, but someone that she knows and trusts, the leading candidates being her estranged ex-husband, Michael Reisler, who recently reentered her life, and her driver, Tommy Ludlow, who routinely carries a knife and whose criminal past she had only recently learned.
A photographer famous for pushing the social boundaries of sex and violence in her art is periodically blinded by visions of murder. When her own associates become the victims of a serial killer, she confides in the detective investigating the crimes.

