A strong-willed female stock car driver challenges her chauvinistic crush to a race to win his respect- and get him into bed.
Scrappy, willful, and fiercely self-reliant spitfire hoyden automobile mechanic Tomasina 'Tommy' Boyd develops a huge crush on cocky race car driving dreamboat hunk Randy Starr after meeting Randy at a party held at a jerky rich guy's house. However, male chauvinist Randy won't take Tommy seriously because she's a gal, so Tommy dares Randy to a high stakes souped-up automobile race in order to win over his respect.
A beautiful girl grows up playing sports while being encouraged by her astronaut father to do things that are ordinarily not interesting to women. She eventually decides to become an auto mechanic and a race car designer/driver as her friend keeps constantly encouraging her to be more ladylike. A man is also interested in dating her but she keeps turning him down and her friend is trying to raise money for a dance show
that she is producing and starring in but is unable to raise the money needed. So she auditioned for a commercial and she wins the part and while she is acting in the commercial she meets the owner of the product being advertised and he invites her to party. The woman mechanic works for an older man and when he tells her that he cannot find motor mounts for a classic car that they are restoring for a spoiled rich brat she surprises him by telling him that she made them and the car is ready to be picked up. Her friend then shows up mad because she was paid in boxes of donuts as that is what the company that she did the commercial for makes. She then hands out some boxes of donuts to them as she tells her that she has been invited to a party and she would like her to come with her. She then tells her that she is not interested but she then tells her that the race car driver that is her idol will be there as she has a poster of him on the wall by her toolbox. She then agrees to go to the party as she then tries to find something to wear and when they arrive the party is getting pretty wild. She then meets her idol who asks her to go out with him as she rebuffs him at first but she eventually does so. Then at the garage the rich brat and her idol show up in the vintage car as he tells her that the kids father is sponsoring him in a race. He doesn't believe that she is a good mechanic and driver which makes her mad. But they continue to date and fall in love then when he invites her out to the track when he is testing the race car the kids father puts her down because she likes cars and her idol doesn't support her. She then challenges him to a race against her car. They accept as she then wins the race and gets them to hire her as a mechanic as she then leaves.
