An adman and an ad woman put a dangerous milk tycoon in line for the White House.
Clint Lorimer (Dana Andrews) works for an advertising company. He is fired. He goes to New York where he meets a past girlfriend, Peggy Shannon (Jeanne Crain). She is sort of mad at him because he takes her for granted but is sort of in love with him.Clint decides to help Anne Tremaine (Eleanor Parker) with her failing advertising company and make advertising for a dairy company a huge account. As Clint becomes more successful, Anne falls in love with him. However, Clint is wanting more than a girl...he is money and power hungry. At one point, Anne even asks him why he doesn't give her a ring. He makes light of it but then says that he wants her to be at his side but doesn't want to settle down until he is more prosperous and has landed a huge deal. Anne is a little upset and becomes even more so when Clint lets business disrupt a private rendezvous.All the while, Peggy runs into Clint off and on. She has long since become disillusioned with his commitment, They now seem to just be friends, but you don't know which woman Clint is going toward, if he's even going toward either.Anne reads an article about Clint and talks to him. They have an argument, and Anne tells Clint to go find Peggy. Clint goes and sees her. When he visits her, Peggy is slightly mad because Clint is suddenly affectionate after a long period of silence and ignoring her. They mend their fences.Later, Clint is trying to track down Peggy because he did something to anger her....again. His secretary has looked for at every magazine, but she has poofed. Anne comes in to taunt him and say some sour words, including the fact that she has decided to marry Harvey Holt Ames. Clint is not fazed and says that they deserve each other. Clint finally hunts down Peggy through his usual trickery. Clint says he is unhappy without her and tries to kiss her, but she turns away. They are disrupted by someone, but then Clint pronounces his love for Peggy.Then the credits roll.
