A successful businessman goes to Italy to arrange for the return of his tycoon-father's body only to discover dad died with his mistress of long standing.
Baltimore industrialist Wendell Armbruster crosses paths with London shop girl Pamela Piggott when they come to Ischia to pick up the bodies of her mother and his father, who have been killed in an automobile accident after a ten-year summertime affair. Straitlaced Wendell tries to avoid a scandal while free-spirited Pamela is impressed by the romantic setting. After some confusion with the bodies and a blackmail attempt by unscrupulous locals, Wendell and Pamela extend their parent's affair into the next generation.
Harried business executive Wendell Armbruster, Jr. crossed paths with London shop girl Pamela Piggott when they both come to pick up the bodies of their parents; her mother and his father,. who have been killed in an automobile accident after a 10-year affair. Wendell tries to avoid a scandal, but free-spirited Pamela - impressed by the romantic setting.feels otherwise After some confusion with the bodies and a blackmail by local, Wendell and Pamela may continue their parent's affair.
The arrogant and rude Vice-President of the Armbruster Industries Wendell Armbruster, Jr. travels to Ischia, in Italy, to retrieve the body of his father Wendell Armbruster, Sr., who died in a suddenly and tragic accident while driving back to Baltimore. During his trip, British woman Pamela Piggott tries to start a conversation with him, but the impolite executive pays no attention to her. In Ischia, the manager of Hotel Excelsior Carlo Carlucci welcomes Wendell telling him that it is a place that heals everything. He helps him with the Italian bureaucracy and to get a sealed zinc casket in Amalfi in order to release the corpse from the morgue. When Wendell meets Pamela at the hotel, he discovers that his father and her mother had been lovers for the past ten years. His father had met her mother every year from July 15th to August 15th. Wendell offers to help Pamela and they decide to follow the routine of his father and their mother, finding why the couple had had a such a long love affair.

