After an all-night send-off party for the troops, a small-town girl wakes up to find herself married and pregnant, but with no memory of her husband's identity.
Trudy Kockenlocker, a small-town girl with a soft spot for American soldiers, wakes up the morning after a wild farewell party for the troops to find that she married someone she can't remember--and she's pregnant. Norval Jones, the 4-F local boy who's been in love with Trudy for years, tries to help her find a way out of her predicament. Trudy complicates matters further by falling for Norval, and events snowball from there.
During World War II, the citizens of Morgan Creek are saying farewell to the enlisted men heading off to war. Trudy Kockenlocker is one of the Morgan Creek residents who feels it's her patriotic duty to give the soldiers a happy send off, this against the wishes of her stern and overprotective policeman father who forbids her to attend the farewell parties. Trudy co-opts her naive childhood friend, bank clerk Norval Jones, to help her clandestinely go to the festivities. Norval, who so wants to enlist himself but has some medical issues preventing him from doing so, does anything Trudy asks since he loves her. The next morning, Trudy doesn't remember everything of the previous night due to an accidental bump to the head, but she does know that she got married to one of the enlisted men - she doesn't know who or even what his name is - and that the evening resulted in her getting pregnant. Trudy's pragmatic younger sister, Emmy, becomes Trudy's confidante. To get Trudy out of her predicament, they decide tricking Norval into marrying her will prevent scandal from happening. She decides she can't put Norval through this illegal action since she is falling in love with him. However once Norval finds out what's going on, he hatches a plan that he thinks is somewhat legal that will legitimize Trudy's pregnancy. When the plan backfires, Norval is arrested and Trudy's father finds out the predicament his daughter his in. Constable Kockenlocker, who loves his daughter, risks his own career to help his daughter. Ultimately, Trudy unwittingly ends up being able to save herself and the lives of all those around her.

