A Manic depressive artist survives a suicidal fall only to be possessed by a murdered gangster, who uses the artist to seek vengeance on those that ended his life.
At Halloween George Miller jumps down from the roof of a hotel. But he's rescued and survives. In psychiatry the young Dr. Jennifer Curtis cares for him and gives him back his will to live. However he suffers from terrible nightmares. Back home, he discovers in the newspaper that his dreams, in which he forces other people to kill themselves in most cruel ways, seem to be reality.
George Miller is a timid, gentle, introvert Manic depressive failed artist, who's grown so sick of his faults and livelihood (consisting of painting macabre stuff) supporting his sad rather pathetic lonely living, that one Halloween night, decides to end his life by jumping from the top of the inner-city fleabag motel he calls home. Somewhere across town, at the exact same moment Vito Minelli a somewhat small-time mobster is fatally finding out what happens to those who don't pay off their gambling debts, as his embittered fellow hoodlums, let him have it by making him eat lead, blow out his kneecaps in the process before finishing him off by dousing gasoline over him, followed by setting him on fire. Barely surviving George recovers after three months only to slowly discover his continuing to enjoy breathing oxygen was due to Vito, possessing him at precise point of death, and now Vito is homing inside of him, bidding his time, until the moment George sleeps and like a parasite, Vito uses his unwilling host to go out into the night preying on his murderers with his new found telepathic powers. As George struggles to understand what is happening and how to stop it, Vito is relishing his vengeance on his betrayers and slayers, but further antagonized by George's resisting and interferences from others, ensures that Vito is soon turning his rage on others outside of those who ended his life...which is far from good for George...or anyone else who gets close to him. (Worth catching to see a before he was famous Tony Cox, the familiar face of Dennis Lipscomb and the late sort-of-great Hoyt Axton)

