A shell-shocked World War II veteran with memory problems is accused of being an impostor by a former comrade.
A Canadian commercial pilot sees a telecast in London of an interview with Sir Mark Lodden (Sir Dirk Bogarde) at his home. The Canadian is convinced that the baronet is a fraud, that he is actually a look-alike actor named Frank Welney (Sir Dirk Bogarde). The Canadian, the baronet, and the actor were all prisoners in the same German camp during the war and escaped together. One of them disappeared during the escape. Was he Sir Mark or Welney? The tabloids have a field day with the Canadian's accusations, and Lady Margaret Lodden (Olivia de Havilland) urges her husband to sue for libel and engage the distinguished barrister Sir Wilfred (Robert Morley). The long drawn-out case is made complex by the fact that Sir Mark is not quite sure of his identity. Injured in the war, he stutters on occasion and has difficulty remembering portions of his life. As the evidence sways back and forth in court, it begins to appear that Sir Mark is an impostor and the possible murderer of the missing baronet. Even his wife is convinced of his guilt and turns against him. She denounces him as a stranger who stole her love.
Sir Mark (Sir Dirk Bogarde) and Lady Margaret Loddon (Olivia de Havilland) and their adolescent son Michael (Sebastian Saville) live in Ingworth House, a grand country estate in the County of Dorset, England. Mark and Maggie were engaged prior to World War II, they having gotten married after the war's end when Mark returned from active duty. Mark is a tortured soul, believing probably about some repressed memory from the war, when he spent a lot of time in a P.O.W. camp. He admits having a spotty memory about much of his life prior to the P.O.W. camp. That repressed memory also involves a tune that often runs through his head, hearing it, which is a source of great anxiety. Meanwhile, Jeffrey Buckenham (Paul Massie), a Canadian commercial airline pilot on a two day layover in London, sees the couple on television, and is certain that Mark is not who he says he is, but rather a man named Frank Welney (Sir Dirk Bogarde). Jeffrey confronts Mark about his fraudulent identity directly, threatening to expose him. Mark admits to recognizing Jeffrey as a friend and fellow prisoner from that P.O.W. camp and recognizing the name Frank Welney as another prisoner, but that is all he will admit. To get the story into the public consciousness, Jeffrey takes it to the media, one of the British rags. Although Mark initially wants to ignore the story, he finally decides on Maggie's urging for Michael's sake to sue Jeffrey for libel, which is exactly what Jeffrey was hoping to expose him as truly being Frank Welney. Behind the scenes, Jeffrey is supported by Mark's cousin, Captain Gerald Loddon (Anthony Dawson), a Jaguar car dealer who would have inherited the estate if Mark did not return from war, although he does not want Mark to know that he is working against him. During the course of the trial, Mark, Jeffrey, and Frank's story is told, which may finally put together the pieces for Mark about that spotty memory, and the truth whether he is Sir Mark or Frank.

