When five ninjas whose fighting styles are based on natural elements unleash their fury on a rival school, a lone survivor vows deadly revenge.
A young martial artist seeks revenge on the Ninja who kills his martial arts brothers and teacher. He finds help in the form of a new teacher (who knows Ninjitsu) and new brothers. Together the four pupils face the Five Element Ninja challenge: Wood, Earth, Gold, Water, and Fire.
The "Venoms" were no more. After five years and more than a dozen films together, the only one of the original five who proved so successful for the director was the muscleman Lo Meng. But with just that one "venom" and his incredibly agile new star Cheng Tien-chi, he made this spectacular, internationally popular, favorite. Evil ninjas (who attack with, and from, fire, sun, wood, water, and the ground) brutally slaughter a noble Chinese kung-fu school's students. The one survivor finds a teacher and four students who are ninjitsu experts. The five graduates take revenge. With this strong structure and exceptional kung-fu choreography (from the star and co-star Chu Ke), Chang Cheh produced platinum. This film was one of the director's best of his superheroic, grand guignol period. By any name, it could be called, almost literally, "bloody good" entertainment!
To showcase his incredibly agile new star, Cheng Tien-chi, veteran, venerated martial arts movie director Chang Cheh made this spectacular, internationally popular favorite about evil ninjas and the five Chinese kung-fu masters who beat them at their own game.
Two warring clan leaders challenge each other to a tournament involving their best fighters. One clan loses heavily, and in revenge employs the services of the Five Element Ninjas, whose fighting styles are based on the five Chinese elements (gold, wood, water, fire and earth). The ninjas dutifully defeat the hitherto victorious clan and then turn on their employers. It seems as though the ninjas are set to rule the martial world - but the sole surviving member of the clans meets up with an old man who alone knows the secret of how to defeat the ninjas...
Two Chinese clans compete in 10 rounds of combat using (in most cases) a vast assortment of weapons. When one clan loses heavily they employ the services of Japanese ninjas. The ninjas challenge the first clans' best fighters to face five sets of element ninjas. When the Japanese ninjas massacre the clan they follow up by invading their head quarters and wiping out the remnants of the clan. One clan member gets away and learns the art of the ninjas. He then heads back to challenge the ninjas who have now disposed of their employers. The lone clansman and his three new sworn brothers must then face the unstoppable ninjas.

