Bosko the woodsman spurns cutting down trees and plays music instead. The trees and animals dance and make their own music.
Bosko is about to cut down a tree when a squirrel pops out of its hole and begs him to spare it. The anthropomorphic tree cowers as little trees gather around to protect it. Everyone is relieved when Bosko pulls a harmonica out of his pocket and plays. Bosko the woodsman will spend his day in the forest playing music instead of cutting down trees. Meanwhile, the trees and animals of the forest dance and make their own music.
Bosko is about to cut down a tree when a squirrel pops out of its hole and begs him to spare it. The anthropomorphic tree cowers as little trees gather around to protect it. Everyone is relieved when Bosko pulls a harmonica out of his pants and plays. The little trees dance around the big one as if it were a maypole. "Ain't that cute!" gushes Bosko. But one little tree blows him a raspberry. Bosko gives chase, grabs the tree and pulls off its bark. The poor tree shivers with cold. Bosko grudgingly gives the tree back its bark. The tree puts it back on as if it were an overcoat, then ungratefully kicks Bosko in the shin. The tree throws up his behind as a gesture of contempt and walks away. "Well, shut my mouf!" exclaims Bosko.Quickly recovering from his anger, Bosko takes his ax and goes whistling through the forest. He is charmed by a mother bird singing "Rock-a-Bye Baby" to her baby birds as a tree rocks them in their nest. "Ain't that cute!" he gushes again, just as a bird dropping falls on his hat. Disgusted, he flicks it off and then looks up. He sees a bird on a branch above him chewing tobacco. Bosko barely avoids the next "dropping" as the bird spits out its juice again.Suddenly, a butterfly goes by and Bosko happily tries to catch it. The butterfly leads him to six trees lined up in a row. Bosko plays the trees as if they were harp strings. Another tree, with the long "hair" typical of musicians, pulls out three tiny branches from the side of its face and plays them like violin strings. A weeping willow throws itself into an ecstasy of sorrow. The long-haired tree is now playing its stomach like a cello.Pussy willows meow in time to the music. A pelican opens its mouth to make a honking noise. The pelican inside its mouth makes a higher-pitched noise, and the pelican inside the second pelican's mouth makes a noise higher-pitched than that.Two mice jump on either side of Bosko's saw, as it lay on a tree stump, as if they were on a seesaw. One mouse falls into a nearby puddle and cries for help. The other mouse jumps in -- or tries to jump in. For some reason he lands on top of the water as if it were ice. This proves helpful as he pulls his friend out of the pond and carries him to dry land. The poor mouse is bloated with water. The rescuer presses on his stomach, and the half-drowned mouse unintentionally spits out a stream of water and dowses him. The rescuer-mouse grabs the other's tale and squeezes out the water as if he were a tube of icing.The mice now have a better idea for fun. They saw off a disc-shape from a nearby log. One mouse puts the disc, which has a small hole in the center, over the other mouse's nose. He cranks up the mouse's tail, spins around the disc and then uses his own tail like a phonograph needle. He stretches out his mouth to make a speaker. And now they've created their own music.A tree dances to the music, its roots shaped like high heels. It takes off half of the leaves on its "head" as if it were a scarf and wraps the "scarf" around its trunk, making a dress out of it. The tree dances like a Mexican señorita, even clicking castanets in its "hands." For its big finish it throws off its "dress," exposing the hole in its middle. A bear cub (or another kind of animal) pops out and shouts "Aye yi!" as we iris out.
