A lonely widowed housewife does her daily chores, takes care of her apartment where she lives with her teenage son, and turns the occasional trick to make ends meet. However, something happens that changes her safe routine.
Jeanne Dielman, a lonely young widow, lives with her son Sylvain following an immutable order: while the boy is in school, she cares for their apartment, does chores, and receives clients in the afternoon.
A lonely, ritual-obsessed widowed housewife does her daily chores, takes care of her apartment where she lives with her teenage son, and turns the occasional trick to make ends meet. When one of her clients causes her to have her first-ever orgasm, her life slowly falls apart.
Widowed now for six years, Jeanne Dielman lives in a one-bedroom inner city Brussels flat with her teen-aged son Sylvain Dielman. She never really loved her husband and has no intention of ever remarrying, seeing it more of a chore of getting used to someone than ever missing emotional love. Most of the time, she tends to her household duties with a certain meticulousness and fastidiousness, but also with a definite routine. This attitude extends to the way she treats Sylvain, which is more as caregiver than loving mother. Included within her daily routine is looking after her neighbor's infant son while the mother runs her errands for the day and turning tricks with a small stable of regular clients in the apartment while Sylvain is at school. A few small changes to her routine over a thirty-six hour period culminates with something she's never experienced with one of her clients, which threatens what she knows her life to be. She has to decide how that incident will affect her psyche.
Jeanne Dielman is a middle-aged woman who takes care of her teenage son. Over a three day period the film follows her daily routine, one that never seems to change. She makes her son breakfast, prepares his clothes and cleans his shoes. She then cleans the house and goes out to shop. She makes a living working as a prostitute with a regular customer visiting in the afternoon. Her son isn't very communicative and Jeanne effectively lives alone and in the end leads to a surprising conclusion.

