A husband's suave exterior unravels after his marriage, and he unleashes his paranoid and volatile temper on his wife, which escalates to more dangerous and unpredictable tantrums.
Francisco is rich, rather strict on principles, and still a bachelor. After meeting Gloria by accident, he is suddenly intent on her becoming his wife and courts her until she agrees to marry him. Francisco is a dedicated husband, but little by little his passion starts to exhibit disturbing traits. Nevertheless, Gloria meets with scepticism as she expresses her worries to their acquaintances.
Francisco Galvan de Montemayor is a bitter man battling to regain properties once owned by his ancestors. He blames the world for cheating him of his rightful legacy, When he meets Gloria Milata, he thinks her the perfect woman and he is determined to marry her, and succeeds in winning her away from her fiancée, Raul Conde. The honeymoon and the following months have an unnerving effect on Gloria. She discovers her husband to be an irrationally jealous man who interprets the innocent actions of other men to be advances toward his wife. His distorted thinking drives him to abuse her. Her story of his cruelty is disbelieved by all but Conde.
In Mexico, the wealthy, religious and leery middle-aged Francisco Galván is battling in the justice to retrieve the possession of real-estates that belonged to his ancestors in the beginning of the Twentieth Century. When he sees the young Gloria Milalta in the church, he becomes obsessed by the woman, unsuccessfully courting and stalking her. He follows her and sees Gloria with her fiancé and his acquaintance, the engineer Raul Conde, having lunch in a restaurant. Francisco schedules a ball at his mansion and invites Raul and as the night progresses, he seduces Gloria. They get married and on their honeymoon, Gloria discovers that Francisco has a sick jealousy towards her. As time goes by, the emotionally unbalanced Francisco oscillates between a passionate husband and a disturbed paranoid.

