A waitress, a hobo and a bank robber get mixed up at a lonely diner in the desert.
Gabby lives and works at her dads small diner out in the desert. She can't stand it and wants to go and live with her mother in France. Along comes Alan, a broke man with no will to live, who is traveling to see the pacific, and maybe to drown in it. Meanwhile Duke Mantee a notorious killer and his gang is heading towards the diner where Mantee plan on meeting up with his girl.
Alan Squier, a failed, world-weary British writer, hikes into an isolated, weather-beaten desert diner in Arizona owned by Jason Marple. Jason's daughter, Gabrielle is immediately taken with the disillusioned intellectual, since they share idealistic dreams of escaping the stark reality of their lives, but her interest in Alan brings out jealousy in her gas-pumping boyfriend, Boze. Tensions rise when everyone present become hostages of a gang. Unlike the others, Alan relates to the threats of the gangster's leader, Duke Mantee, with an indifference to his own fate, as if realizing that they both he and Duke are doomed by the inevitable failure of their lives.
Alan Squire is a hobo of sorts, walking his way across America with no particular aim or destination in mind. He stops at a roadside café in the middle of the Arizona desert where he meets the pretty Gabrielle, Gaby to most of the locals. Gaby was born in France but came to America as a young child. Her mother soon returned to France after only a few years and Gaby would like nothing better than to join her there. She's tired of her humdrum life while Squire is just plain tired of life and states that dying would be welcome. The peace and quiet of the café is shattered when it's taken over by notorious bank robber Duke Mantee and his gang. He's waiting for his girlfriend to join them but but Alan challenges him to look at his life of crime but in doing so, reevaluates his own wish to live or die.
The Maples - father Jason Maple, his romantic minded daughter Gabrielle Maple, and Jason's excitement seeking but stingy father - own and operate a gas station and diner in the isolated desert outpost of Black Mesa, Arizona on the outskirts of the petrified forest. Gabrielle's mother left them years earlier to return to her hometown of Bourges, France, where she and Jason met when he was stationed there during the war. Gabrielle eventually wants to live in Bourges to be an artist. One stormy day, a wanted killer named Duke Mantee and his gang who are on the run, stop by the diner and eventually take those in the diner and anyone who stops by hostage. Besides Gabrielle and Gramp Maple, the hostages include their football playing pump jockey and Gabrielle's wannabe boyfriend Boze Hertzlinger, a wealthy couple named the Chisholms and their black chauffeur Joseph, and a former writer now penniless wanderer named Alan Squier. In Alan's short time at the diner, his stories about his life, his work and his travels make Gabrielle fall in love with him, and he eventually with her much to Boze's chagrin. Her wanderlust only increases because of Alan. During the hostage situation, all the players involved get to know each other a little better, which makes Mrs. Chisholm offer a piece of advice based on her own life, and Alan come up with a solution for Gabrielle's ultimate happiness in what looks to be an impossible life situation.
Bogie and his gang hold a group of cafe customers hostage while they look to escape the law.
