A wild jazz-loving and boozing wife Roxie Hart, kills her boyfriend in cold blood after he leaves her.
Based on a true crime story, the movie is about a wild jazz-loving and boozing wife Roxie Hart who kills her boyfriend in cold blood after he leaves her, and how she finagles her way out being convicted. Remade once as a movie, and as a Broadway musical.
At the start of the silent version of Chicago, Amos Hart (a much more sympathetic role than in either the source play or the later musical) wakes up and makes breakfast for Roxie, his wife, who makes light of his obvious affection. He goes to his job at a nearby cigar store, meeting Katie, the cleaning girl, who thanks him for a coupon that allowed her to buy an "Ingersoll" (an inexpensive pocket watch). At Amos' store, a customer jokes that he's about to give his girl "the air." The customer, who is Roxie's lover, arrives at her flat and makes it clear he's tired of her demands for money. She attempts to seduce him and take more money, but he throws her to the ground as he leaves, and she picks up a gun and shoots him, all while the player piano continues to play a jaunty tune. She calls Amos and asks him for help. Amos recognizes the man from the store, but tells the police that he killed the man in self defense. The district attorney tricks Roxie into a confession, and she's put in jail.The press coverage goes to Roxie's head, and she lords it over the other women in jail. Amos consults with Billy Flynn, the best lawyer in Chicago, but the extravagant up-front fee is more than he can raise. While giving a down payment, Amos notices Flynn's hidden safe. He breaks in and steals the contents of the safe, and although he isn't recognized, he loses his watch in a fight with Flynn's body guard. The next day Amos pays Flynn the balance with some of the stolen money, but when Flynn notices he doesn't have a watch, he suspects but can't prove the identity of the burglar. Flynn and Roxie concoct a false innocent persona for the court-room, but the all-male jury is swayed as much by Roxie's fine legs as by any legal argument, and Roxie is acquitted. Outside the court-house, another murder occurs, and all attention goes to the new celebrity murderess. Back at the apartment, Flynn's detectives come looking for the rest of the money, and ask Amos to show them his watch to prove his innocence in the burglary. Katie, the cleaning girl, produces her watch, pretending to have borrowed it from Amos, and after the detectives leave, she gives him the money, which she hid from the detectives. Roxie tries to get the money, but Amos, in anger, throws it on the fire and sends Roxie out into the rain -- still loving her, and having saved her life, he knows she's a cheat and never wants to see her again. He breaks all of her things in the apartment, but Katie, coming in to straighten things up, indicates a better romance for Amos in the future.
