A young lady from Georgia goes to Hollywood in the hopes of becoming an actress.
Colonel Pepper brings his daughter, Peggy, to Hollywood from Georgia to be an actress. There she meets Billy who gets her work at Comet Studio doing comedies with him. But Peggy is discovered by High Art Studio and she leaves Billy and Comet to work there. For her new image, she is now Patricia Pepoire and ignores Billy when he sees her on location. When she is not longer wanted by the little people who do not understand "ART", she plans to marry Andre to get a fake title. Billy will not let her go without a fight.
General Marmaduke Oldfish Pepper drives his daughter Peggy Pepper from their Georgia home to Hollywood so that they can prove to the Hollywood filmmaking community and thus the world that she is a great and serious dramatic actress. Unlike the royal reception and easy ride they were expecting, Peggy is treated like the plethora of other Hollywood hopefuls, that is until they meet bit player Billy Boone at a studio commissary, he who believes she would be perfect for the movie which he is currently filming. It isn't until after filming her first scene that she realizes that Billy is part of a comedy troupe, the movie is a slapstick comedy, and the Georgia "hokum" (as it is described by the director) that is Peggy's acting is perfect for broad farce, and is not the great serious art that Peggy had mistakenly believed. Billy, who is falling for Peggy, did not mean to denigrate her, but wants her to embrace her natural comedy. After Peggy does, she becomes an overnight success as a comedic movie actress. Peggy does come to the attention of "serious" Hollywood, who try to capitalize on that success. She is convinced by one of her serious movie leading men, Andre Telfair, who is really French Count Andre d'Bergerac, that her private life has to match that serious screen image for her to become a complete success in Hollywood. Thus, transforming herself from Peggy Pepper, down home Georgia waif, to "Patricia Pepoire", serious French aristocratic actress may be her biggest acting challenge to date. She will eventually have to come to a decision if losing her identity is worth what was her original goal, that being a serious dramatic actress.

