A free-spirited young woman (Deborah Foreman) upsets the status quo at a stuffy Brentwood limousine service.
Casey Meadows (Deborah Forman) is a free-spirited young woman working as a dishwasher in an upscale restaurant in downtown Los Angeles. One day she receives a hand-delivered job offer as a driver for Brentwood Limousine Service. The company manager, Charles McBride (Howard Hesserman), is appalled at Casey's young, brash presence... and the fact that she's a woman in an all-male establishment. McBride soon learns that Mr. Witherspoon (E.G. Marshall), the company owner, personally handpicked her and offered the letter of employment. McBride reluctantly agrees to hire her, but warns her that she will be fired if she steps out of line.Casey experiences sexism and chauvinism from her fellow, (mostly older) limo drivers. While frustrated at her lack of acceptance and tolerance amongst her new co-workers, she does manage to find some kindness and support in Jeremy O'Brien (Sean McClory), an older Irish driver. Jeremy convinces her to tough it out and give the change-hating men time to adjust to her presence. She agrees to stay.Casey is routinely given bad assignments that are engineered to get her fired. Her first job is driving a high, oversexed and hung-over British punk rock singer named "Cat Fight" (Leland Crooke) to his concert. Casey finds Cat Fight in a motel bed with his three women backup dancers in a drug-induced stupor. Realizing she'll be fired if she doesn't deliver him to the concert, she takes a cooler full of ice water and dumps it on Cat Fight's bed and manages to get Cat Fight and the three women into the car. During the drive to the concert, Cat Fight flees from the limousine to a local park where he tries to steal the panties off an overweight woman wearing a blue dress which as part of his "game" is worth 20,000 points. Despite the distraction, Casey manages to bring him into the arena just in time for the concert.Casey is then assigned to transport Battle Witherspoon (Sam J. Jones), an arrogant, heartless, workaholic executive who is stalking his ex-girlfriend. The angry ex tells him she can no longer stand to be with him and says she is pregnant with another man's child. Casey, sympathetic, offers visibily devastated Battle some liquor from the onboard bar. After consuming an excessive amount, Battle runs out of the car and strips his clothes off, running through a park stark naked, making a huge nuisance of himself. He finally returns to the limo and passes out. Not knowing where Battle's residence is, Casey takes him to her apartment so he can recover from the day's events. The following morning, he awakens and reverts back to his old hateful self, hurtfully insulting Casey before leaving.Unbeknownst to Casey, Battle Witherspoon is actually the son of the Mr. Witherspoon, the owner of the limo company. Mr. Witherspoon orders Battle to check out another of his companies upstate in Sonoma. Casey is assigned to drive Battle up north, much to their mutual displeasure. Halfway through the trip, the car overheats and breaks down in a remote location on the highway. Battle and Casey walk off in search of a phone. After walking and bickering for several hours, night falls and they get caught in a rainstorm. Casey sprains her ankle and is unable to walk. Battle continues his walk while carrying Casey in his arms. They finally find a rustic cabin occupied by a hillbilly couple, who invite them to spend the night. Both are put in a bedroom with a single bed and after another one of their arguments, Battle kisses her. They both have sex. The following morning, Battle proposes marriage but Casey refuses, fearing he will return to his emotionally-distant ways.Casey is next assigned to transport a Middle Eastern sheik from his hotel to a meeting. The sheik Abdul (Teller) is approached by a local pimp and con artist named Bone (Penn Jillette) out for a wild night on the town. The rambling Bone then forces Casey to drive them to a local nightclub while swindling the mute Abdul out of all his cash and valiables with magic tricks and card tricks. Bone and Abdul pick up a number of loose women and transport them around in the limo for some more drinking and stripping before Casey manages to drop Abdul back at the hotel. After Casey returns the next morning, she is fired by McBride after learning that police and government agents have been searching for the missing sheik.Realizing that he's fallen for Casey, Battle starts making some positive changes in his life and continues his efforts to court Casey. He slowly wins Casey over and takes her home to meet his father. When she arrives at the estate, she experiences Deja Vu, recalling the times she played in the Witherspoon mansion as a child. It turns out that Casey's mother was formerly employed by Witherspoon. But shockingly, Witherspoon reveals that he is Casey's biological father, making Battle and Casey siblings. Jeremy then comes into the room with Giles, another limo driver, ordering Giles to confess what he knows about Casey's paternity. He reveals Witherspoon is not Casey's biological father, Giles is. Giles was in a relationship with Casey's mother before she and Witherspoon spent their "little weekend together". Giles (who was especially hostile to Casey) reveals that he denied paternity in order that Casey would receive stable financial support as an heiress to the Witherspoon fortune.The movie ends with Battle and Casey's wedding. As they climb into the back of a Brentwood Limousine. The driver is McBride, who has finally received his comeuppance for his mysogynic treatment of Casey.
