It looks like we don't have any Plot Summaries for this title yet. Be the first to contribute! Just click the "Edit page" button at the bottom of the page or learn more in the Plot Summary submission guide.
Enrico Melotti, a businessman middle-aged, is dominated by a fierce as naive form of machismo sees women only for what they can give, both in terms of emotional and sexual, both in terms of labor services and domestic. Therefore it has difficulties with his wife Marisa, with the secretary - lover Claudia and with the maid Teresa.During a business trip to America, his friend Arthur shows him how he solved the same problems. A home of Arturo, Enrico is astonished seeing Catherine, a robotic handyman featured female hurry chores better than a person because he does not sleep and does not need to feed. The only thing that puzzles Henry is the insistence of the robot in search Arturo by phone at regular intervals, as if to show the apprehension typical for a human mate.He returned from the trip, Henry has again discussions with Claudia, Teresa and Marisa: ignores the protests of Claudia, who would that man finally left his wife to give clarity and dignity to their relationship, it criticizes the fact that Marisa has its own work and a social life, and claims that Teresa performs additional work on their night off.Henry decided to break relations with the three women and Catherine buy a robot to conduct these domestic duties, determined to live alone and not having to answer to anyone. At first, although spending is significant, everything seems to be going well, although Catherine shows strange reactions almost human and gives some strange sign of unrest during a visit to the former husband of Marisa.Believe they have solved all his problems, Henry begins to look for a female company that does not impose on him too much responsibility, and calls home the young and beautiful Elizabeth, whom he met in the store Marisa. The girl, seeing Catherine, appears bewildered as the wife of Henry, especially as the robot seems to reject it as he did the same Marisa.When Henry and Elizabeth are going to spend the night with Catherine loses all control over putting ransacked the house and even trying to kill his master; Elizabeth, panic, run away and disappear from human life. The intervention of the engineer of the robot manufacturer is little: Catherine, in fact, is a machine so sophisticated as to have acquired almost total autonomy from its original setting.In front of the engineer he pretends to behave not to be removed and replaced, but as soon as the technician moves away back to put his conditions to Henry: she will serve him devoutly and without protest if he will offer the respect and dedication that would demand a real woman. So when an American girl call to Henry asking to be hosted by him, the man responds emphatically no, I gripped by fear of another possible retaliation of the robot. The film ends with Henry for dinner while Catherine serves him at all points, after closing thoroughly erased all around the room.
