Charlie tries to discover the identity of a strangler who strikes multiple times on a cruise ship bound from Honolulu to California.
On a cruise ship from Honolulu to San Francisco, the famous Chinese detective encounters four more murders while trying to figure out the murder of a Scotland Yard friend.
Synopsis - Charlie Chan's Murder Cruise, Released 1940
The sign on the door reads Detective Bureau, Honolulu Police Dep't, Lieutenant C. Chan, the room is dark with two sons sifting through Charlie's mail as he arrives. Catching the younger, about to spank same, when Inspector Duff from Scotland Yard walks in. The boys are dismissed to bed, the Inspector asks for Charlie's assistance with murder case involving a strangler, whom he has traveled over the globe and knows practically nothing. The fox is with the hounds as a member of a round-the-world cruise, one of ten people conducted by a Doctor Suderman, who is also a suspect. The tour started in New York around four months ago, aboard a British liner, and the first night out a New York a judge was murdered in his state room. As the Inspector explains the details of the case, a bearded stranger is peering inside Charlie's office window, watching and listening. The cruise party is in Honolulu, staying at the Leilani Hotel, Duff suggests he and Charlie check out the party. The Lieutenant goes into inform his Chief where he is going to be, while the Chan sons scamper away, after listening near the door. The Police Chief obliges Charlie's trip to the hotel, while the Inspector is assaulted by the lurking stranger from outside Chan's office. The Police Chief gets a call from the hotel where a man is reported strangled. The men rush across the hall to find the Inspector strangled. The Police Chief orders the nearby policemen to get medical assistance for the Inspector and search for the assailant. Charlie requests the case to be turned over to him alone because of the long friendship with the Inspector; the challenge to find the criminal will not go unanswered.Jimmy drops Charlie off at the hotel, the bearded stranger asks for money from Chan for food or coffee, Professor Gordon greets Charlie, while dismissing the beggar. The professor says he is winding up a world cruise with Dr. Suderman, who greets Charlie in the hotel lobby, stating it was Mr. Kenyon who was murdered. Wilkie, the house detective, leads Chan into Kenyon's room. Present is Dick Kenyon, a lawyer and nephew of the murdered man, saying he was with Paula Drake that evening. Charlie finds a bag of thirty silver dimes in the deceased man's hand; the dimes being an ancient symbol of betrayal. Chan says the murder did not take place in this room, as can be noted from heel marks in carpeting, indicating victim likely dragged from this room; bearded stranger is listening from next room. The room is rented to Gerald Pendleton, as the stranger makes a retreat out of the next room when Wilkie knocks on the door, and they enter. The bed was not prepared by the maid, as evidenced by its covers, according to Chan. Marks in the room show tracks in carpet, also. Gerald Pendleton enters his own room asking who the people are. Wilkie mentions it is a police investigation, telling Pendleton, Mr. Kenyon has been strangled in bed. Chan lets Pendleton go, telling Wilkie to have him followed. Chan requests presence of Professor Gordon, summons Dick Kenyon to get him, he obliges. Chan spots Dr. Suderman in adjacent room through the mirror, asking if he wanted anything. He hands Charlie one of the straps from his suitcase, suggesting someone was trying to blame him for the crime.A woman screams from another room, she is Susie Watson, frantic from seeing an intruder, a shot was fired, Wilkie wrestles a mystery person in the curtains to the floor. The person turns out to Jimmy, trying to help, but failing, in a way. He found the gun on the balcony, wrapped it in in a handkerchief, only to be rubbed by Gerald Pendleton, who handled the same gun before turning it over Chan. Kenyon returns from downstairs saying Professor Gordon was not in the bar. The phone call is for Charlie, Lt. Wilson is calling to tell him there is no sign of the intruder. Mr. and Mrs. Walters enter the room, they are part of the cruise, wanting to see Mr. Chan. Mrs. Walters tells Chan last night Dick Kenyon had a violent argument with his uncle. Kenyon denies such an episode. Walters said the argument was about Dick marrying Paula Drake, saying she was only after his inheritance money. Dick says they were only playing, it was right out of the novel his uncle was reading. Charlie gets word the Inspector died of his strangulation earlier. Charlie advises Dr. Suderman to pack up your cruise party guests and board the ship at once.Dick Kenyon and Paula Drake are talking on the ship's deck, they discuss the conversation between his uncle and himself. They were arguing, he did not want to agree with Walters, thinking it might hurt Paula, with plans to tell Chan later, but now to no avail. Paula goes below. Professor Gordon and Dr. Suderman meet on shipboard, exchange greetings. A person was reclining in a chaise lounge and then disappeared. The person they think maybe moved turns out to be Charlie Chan, out on deck as well. They exchange some caustic remarks, a door closes, Dr. Suderman finds Susie Watson behind the door, not certain if she saw anyone. The Professor and the Doctor join one another for a nightcap, while Susie joins Chan, both listen to Mrs. Walters prognostication from an upper deck. Jimmy is hiding in a lifeboat, pulled by Charlie and joined by the Ship's Officer and two sea hands. They take Jimmy away. Mr. Ross meets Paula asking for help barricading Susie in her room after seeing a ghost. Gerald Pendleton hears the conversation outside his ship's cabin, a knock at his door is the ship's steward with a radiogram. When he asks for it to be placed under the door, nothing appears. He calls the radio operator, finding no such message for him was sent tonight. James Ross bangs on Susie and Paula's door, loud enough to have Professor Gordon enter the hallway complaining of the noise.Charlie finds Jimmy shining shoes as a steward's assistant. Mr. Pendleton calls. Jimmy gave him the wrong shoes, but says he will correct that. Charlie suggests he bring him three pair because he desires to talk with nervous gentlemen who refuses to open door. The ruse at Pendleton's cabin door has a gun drawn on Charlie when he forces himself inside. Gerald puts down the gun, hears from Chan that Mr. Kenyon was murdered in your room, and hears he used Dr. Suderman's strap to strangle victim. Pendleton found Kenyon like that. Chan says thank you. Gerald explains he is under a doctor's care, he can't stand noise, he found Kenyon dead. Kenyon was hard of hearing, Pendleton asked to change cabins, he forgot something, when he returned to the room, he found Kenyon. Chan said you carried body in room and placed it in bed. Mr. Kenyon met death in wrong room, appears murderer strangled the wrong victim. A bag full of coins is dropped mysteriously through the upper louvers of the cabin door, Chan picks up the bag, while Pendleton admits there was such a bag in Kenyon's hand when he picked up the body. Gerald tells Chan, the bag is a warning of death. Pendleton says five years ago his wife received a bag of coins like that one and the very next day someone tried to kill her. Gerald and his wife could not think of a soul who would mean to harm them. Chan says after five years, revenge is still sought. Pendleton says it is madness.Susie Watson, Paula Drake and Dr. Suderman are playing cards, while James Ross left them to get his own deck. Both Walters' are looking on while seated against the wall, Professor Gordon is playing mahjong with Dick Kenyon, as Dick glances across at Paula. Chan comes upon the mahjong play, commenting it is unusual to be playing with only two players. Professor Gordon makes reference to the game of mahjong being introduced in the Han Dynasty, while Charlie thinks ancient pastime born earlier. Gordon espouses about a dynasty in the incorrect region of China, boasting further he has studied the Han Dynasty and Chinese archeology. Kenyon says by the time they reach San Francisco, Chan must have evidence or his suspects will be able to scatter. Chan's comment about Kenyon's accurate prediction irks Jeremiah Walters, but his wife calms him down.Jimmy has been going through the cruise-member-suspect's clothing for any torn pockets; he finds a torn pocket in Mr. Walters' closet. Walters chases him to Charlie's cabin, receives an explanation of earlier having chased a man going to a woman's cabin when he tore his coat-pocket. He tells Charlie he would rather not give up the names, since a woman's reputation is at stake. Charlie returns the coat. Dr. Suderman drops by Chan's cabin, wondering if the guard posted at Pendleton's door remains necessary. It is the last night aboard for everyone and he is giving a party and would like everyone to attend. Charlie says he will be there, but Mr. Pendleton is a very nervous man. Charlie will be the judge in the hobby horse race at the party. Pendleton is not expected to show, guesses Suderman. Charlie asks Jimmy if he suspects Dr. Suderman. Jimmy replies he doesn't who to suspect.The hobby horse races began with Mr. Ross the winner in the first race. Dr. Suderman announces there will be races every 15 minutes, the next to commence at 8:15 sharp, with dancing in between races. Paula explains to Charlie the quarrel between the Kenyon's. Charlie advises Paula to let Dick know what is in your heart. She acknowledges his good advice. The guard is seen at Pendleton's cabin door. A noise down the corridor arouses his curiosity, making him move toward the source. Part entering a doorway to a dark cabin, he is assaulted, then heard falling, with the bearded stranger exiting the cabin after the guard had entered. The stranger is dressed the same as the beggar, with a hat and overcoat. The stranger is seen key-entering Pendleton's cabin. Dr. Suderman and Professor Gordon consult with Charlie, when Jimmy announces to his father, Mr. Pendleton is dead, strangled in his cabin with a leather show lace.Charlie and Jimmy visit Pendleton's room, Chan asks Jimmy to get Buttons, the ship's servant delivering the food to the cabin. Jimmy finds the guard, recovering from someone assaulting him. Charlie is pencil rubbing a radio marine notepad with a message to Mrs. Pendleton warning her of pending danger. Jimmy returns with the recovering guard. The guard explains to Charlie what happened to him as he sees Pendleton's body on the floor. The guard tells Chan he last saw Pendleton alive at 8:30 when Buttons brought his dinner. Charlie requests clearance from radio room officer on message Pendleton sent. The note was addressed to Linda Pendleton, and it was phoned to the addressee. Jimmy asks where the original message is, Charlie says is not in the wastebasket, perhaps in the hands of the strangler. Jimmy asks, why would the killer keep the message if it was already sent? If the answer is known, the criminal's motive would be clear. Charlie questions Jimmy if he can recall whose shoes had leather laces. Jimmy cannot remember the owner. The guard hands a message from the radio operator, radiogram telephoned to operator at 9:04, and it is now 9:30. Original message read quite differently addressed to the same Linda Pendleton, all is well, meet me Adelphi hotel, San Francisco, love Gerald. Chan says the second wire was actually sent by murderer, the original message written on the pad was never sent.Charlie informs Jimmy that Buttons takes pictures of all races, the first race was at eight o'clock, then every fifteen minutes, with the fifth race at nine o'clock. The pictures will tell us who wasn't at the party at nine o'clock, and that is our man. Charlie asks Jimmy to bring film and the steward's developing material to my stateroom at once. Jimmy comments with his missing laces and your pictures, this case is as good as solved. Professor Gordon calls Chan, visits his cabin with his leather shoe laces. Professor Gordon states his laces were missing when the boy returned them this morning. Chan inquiries, do you think boy removed laces? Gordon says he did not string Mr. Pendleton, but someone is anxious to have you think I did. Chan thanks him for the honest explanation. Jimmy walks in remembering it was Mr. Gordon who had the leather shoelaces. Chan says Gordon told him he had leather shoelaces. Jimmy is told to remain calm while his father develops the interesting negatives. Phone rings, Jimmy answers, the voice says the missing shoelace is in the top desk drawer of cabin 26; he hangs up on Jimmy. Jimmy leaves the cabin while Charlie is seen in the dark, developing negatives. Someone enters the makeshift darkroom, knocking out Charlie, taking the negatives; it is the bearded stranger. As the stranger leaves Charlie's cabin, he is seen by Jimmy, and the pursuit is on. Jimmy runs past people screaming for them to stop the bearded man, he is the murderer. Jimmy meets the Ship's Officer, requesting his help to catch the killer. Buttons, a ship's servant, enters Charlie's cabin checking on him, Charlie comes to and they pursue Jimmy.The stranger fires a shot at Jimmy and the Officer as they continue their chase through the stairways of the ship's hold. The Officer returns a shot at the killer, then another, while the male guests begin chase.
Seen in pursuit are Dick Kenyon, Dr. Suderman, and Professor Gordon. They split up. Chan is flanked by the women, and three men. One woman points to where she last saw the others. Chan directs an officer to take the passengers back to the lounge, quickly. Jimmy catches up with a body lying on the floor. Chan never fired his gun, the Officer fired from thirty feet away, doubting it was his gun that killed him. Charlie removes the disguise revealing James Ross as the beggar man, or bearded stranger. Why did he kill my uncle, asks Kenyon. Suderman returns with the others to the lounge, while Jimmy quips on how the shot killed Ross from thirty feet away. Bullet shot from thirty feet does not leave powder burn, evidenced by the mask Charlie shows Jimmy. Only one bullet fired from Ross' gun, as Charlie checks Ross' gun. The killer of James Ross would have bragged about it, according to Jimmy; Charlie responds, except one who wished to remain anonymous.Jimmy and Charlie are on deck with Jimmy summarizing he couldn't find the other shoelaces and the negatives were destroyed from exposure. Charlie responds with a simile, memory of number two son still elusive, like soap in bathtub. Dr. Suderman comes on deck to say everyone has agreed to attend the inquest, figuring it was a routine matter. Charlie says he has arranged to hold it immediately. As passengers leave the ship, the Police Chief greets Charlie, the inquest is all set, eyeing the caskets of the deceased. A courier is paging Mr. Pendleton, Suderman takes the envelope, pointing to the casket indicating to the courier, that is Mr. Pendleton. Chan intercedes, taking the envelope, opening and reading the message aloud: from the Oakland Airport, Mrs. Pendleton flying to rejoin husband, has met with serious airplane accident. Chan asks the Police Chief to escort others to inquest. Chan's closing directive is for Jimmy to remain with the others. Jimmy directs the group to the morgue for the inquest. Charlie presumably left the group to meet with Mrs. Pendleton.The inquest passengers assembled have testified and are in complete agreement, therefore, the coroner concludes for the coroner's jury the decision of one count of murder and one count justifiable homicide; he dismisses the group. Charlie Chan appears just before anyone leaves, asking the coroner to allow him to present additional information. The coroner is satisfied Ross murdered Pendleton and was shot attempting to escape. Charlie has Mrs. Pendleton wheeled in, accompanied by her doctor, her eyes are bandaged preventing her vision. Chan says she is most anxious to testify. She begins by stating she is an actress by profession, first married in New York to a man I believed to be a jeweler, but later she was shocked to discover he was a thief. When he tried to make her use her profession to smuggle jewelry, she went to the police, he was sent to prison. He swore he would make her suffer for that. His name was Eberhart, Jim Eberhart. Chan looks at the audience as the name is spoken. I divorced him, resuming my maiden name, but lived in terror of the day he would be let out. He was the sort of man who would never stop until he had revenge. Then I met Mr. Pendleton, shortly after our marriage, Jim escaped from prison. That very day I received a small bag of coins containing thirty dimes, I knew what that meant. The next night when I was alone, he broke into my apartment and tried to kill me. Shortly afterward, he was recaptured, last May he was released. Susie Watson interrupts, stating last May was when we started on our cruise. Eberhart would have been on the boat, per Jimmy, but the Chief adds, not likely, because Pendleton would have recognized him. Mrs. Pendleton injects no, because Mr. Pendleton had never seen Eberhart, she had never told him about Jim. The coroner blurts out, there is only one answer, Eberhart must have used the name of Ross. The coroner asks Mrs. Pendleton be wheeled to the viewing window to identify Ross as Eberhart. Charlie says identification unnecessary, Ross not Eberhart, New York Police reported Ross as wholesale jeweler suspected of being a fence for stolen gems, but he was never arrested. The coroner asks why did he kill Pendleton? Chan corrects the coroner, Pendleton killed by Eberhart. The coroner comes back with why was Ross wearing that disguise? Chan answers the coroner's question. Ross was forced to do so as Eberhart had sufficient evidence to convict Ross as a fence, compelling him to join Jim's ingenious murder plan. When Ross was trapped in the ship's hold, Eberhart feared exposure, he eliminated Ross, since he was the only other person with knowledge of the mad scheme.The coroner doubts the validity of Chan's case, asking how he intends to prove it; the coroner further directs to Chan, saying you haven't got Eberhart. Chan says contradiction please, Jim Eberhart is now in this room. The coroner asks Mrs. Pendleton to remove her bandages for a moment and identify Jim Eberhart. Mrs. Pendleton's Doctor tells everybody she has been temporarily blinded, she can't do as the coroner has requested. Chan asks if she can identify him by his voice. She says I'm sure I can. Dick Kenyon blurts out, that is useless, it will never hold up in a court of law. Chan asks for the men to step forward and repeat the words, I am Jim Eberhart. Dr. Suderman protests, saying this is ridiculous, I'm not Jim Eberhart. Mrs. Pendleton recognizes the voice, saying Jim, then faints. Chan says you can stop talking now Dr. Suderman; please arrest this gentleman who protests too much. Suderman dashes toward the door, shutting off the lights as he exits. Someone grabs the disguise mask and hat while the lights are out. Suderman is seen in a hallway, then ducking into a room just before a policeman passes in pursuit. Chan is listening to Mrs. Walters say she thought that he was the one, referring to Suderman. Professor Gordon bids Charlie congratulations and departs, as do the Walters, offering a goodnight to Charlie. Paula Drake and Dick Kenyon say goodbye to Charlie along with Susie Watson. Jimmy wants to leave the morgue, a hotel would be welcome, saying he is hungry, as the coroner is served coffee and sandwiches.The bearded stranger is seen walking around outside and then entering a doorway. Jimmy is asked by the coroner to get those exhibits off the table in the viewing room. Jimmy notices the disguise is gone. He asks the doctor with Mrs. Pendleton if he saw anything. Jimmy rushes into the adjacent room telling his father the mask and the hat are gone. The stranger is seen entering the room with Mrs. Pendleton, after Jimmy exited. The doctor, Charlie, Jimmy and the coroner are locked out of the next room. Charlie orders the doctor and Jimmy to break the door in, quickly, as screams are heard. The inquest room is empty, the next room entrance door is also locked. Charlie and the doctor break through the door. The stranger is about to strangle Mrs. Pendleton, saying to her I've waited five years for this, I swore I'd get you. The door is opened, the police grab the bearded stranger, the Police Chief explains this was all Mr. Chan's idea to capture the mastermind killer, Jim Eberhart and we heard him say he killed Pendleton. Charlie tells the man you may remove the mask now Mr. Eberhart, revealing under the disguise, it is Professor Gordon. Chan comments you were extremely clever using the disguise of a beggar to dispose of the victims then forcing Ross to wear same disguise and be seen with you in front of the Honolulu Hotel. Last night, fearing exposure by development of pictures, you compelled Ross to steal negatives, after drawing my son away with telephone call. When Ross, wearing disguise, was trapped in hold of ship, you saw opportunity to establish perfect alibi by killing him, but powder mark was fatal blow to ingenious plan. Eberhart says I underestimated you Mr. Chan, you said on the ship the murderer was a blundering fool, and you were right. I should have eliminated you, as I did your friend Inspector Duff. Charlie returns the comment, I'm most happy for truth of ancient saying, opportunity will never knock again. Take him away. Charlie asks Mrs. Pendleton if she is all right. She responds yes. Jimmy is holding a gun on Dr. Suderman. Suderman is asking Chan to have his son put the gun down. Charlie explains to Jimmy, Dr. Suderman only follow instructions to mislead real criminal. Mr. Gordon was a supposed archeologist. I learned Gordon not an archeologist on shipboard at mahjong table, when questioned about Chinese dynasties. Jimmy sees Mrs. Pendleton without the bandages and with her doctor. Mrs. Pendleton is an extremely brave woman, she played her part to help apprehend murderer, regret unhappy experience, but you can now live in peace, thank you so very much. Dr. Suderman tells Charlie he was happy offering his assistance, as he exits, staring at Jimmy. Charlie explains to the coroner and Jimmy, Eberhart convicted himself when he went after Mrs. Pendleton. The mere suggestion of her identifying Eberhart would have not brought out the confessions heard from his mouth.
