Sex and politics collide in this tale of forbidden love, blackmail and murder. Set up by the secret police to compromise a prominent politician, a teenage hustler discovers himself passionately in love with the man he must betray.
A rising politician risks his career and his marriage when his homosexual desires are reawakened following a hospital visit. At first he's safe enough with one night stands with young rent boys chosen by a discreet hustler that he met in the hospital. But, when he falls for one of the boys he meets and starts bringing the young man into his family, the risks escalate. What he does not know is that the political opposition knows of his vice and have planted the boy.
SPOILER - - I thought the detailed description and photos I saw on another site made this movie appear much more interesting than it was. Even considering it was made in 1978. The movie opens to find the progragonist, Roberto Orbea in his car, looking down a short downhill street at two policemen, standing at the bottom of the street. He worries when they and the country will find out about "the scandal." For the next 15 or 20 minutes, which seems like forever, various figures in different scenes run through all the political charges which appear in his police file, scenes of implied brutal interrogations, sometimes even reading extensively right out of a file folder. For most viewers, 4 or 5 minutes of that would have been more than enough to set the tone. After that the next hour plus is a very boring look at his committment to politics, the struggle he has with his homosexuality, somewhat assuaged by his many trysts with very young rent boys. Of course I didn't expect porn, but the few decent shots of nude males were mostly either too dark to see anything or were obscured by the english subtitles. There is exactly one male/male kiss. All the while the few in the know including himself keep saying if they discover he's a homosexual, he will never be elected Secretary General. He toys with the idea of resigning. Supposedly he falls in love with the last rent boy, his wife decides she's had enough pretending not to know and they foolishly embark on a threesome, sexually and non-sexually getting photographed extensively by the opposition. The rent boy is interrogated about the photos, then kidnapped, and Roberto has to go to where they are holding him, Roberto's own secret apartment but when he arrives the boy has already been murdered. As the movie continues it seems he decided not to resign, the final scene shows a crowd and he with a few others are on a podium - apparently he was elected Secretary General after all. At this point the film abruptly ends and we have no idea what ultimately happens with the "discovery of scandal" (or if it even occurred) that loomed over the whole darn film. I did not enjoy this.
