A wacky inventor and his wife invite two other couples for a weekend party at a romantic summer house in the 1900s countryside.
Centred around a weekend party at the home of inventor Andrew Hobbs and his wife Adrian, attended by randy doctor Maxwell Jordan, his nurse Dulcy, renowned philosopher Dr.Leopold Sturgis and his fiancée, this is a light comedy concerning their various emotional, intellectual and sexual entanglements, loosely based on Ingmar Bergman's 'Smiles of a Summer Night' .
It's the turn of the nineteenth into twentieth centuries. Andrew, a Wall Street investment advisor whose true passion is inventing novelty items, and his staid wife Adrian are spending the summer, like they do most summers, at what has long been Andrew's cottage in the woods of New York. They have hit a rough spot in their marriage, not having had sex in six months as Adrian has had a mental block concerning the act. They have invited two couples to stay with them at the cottage one weekend. Maxwell, Andrew's best friend, is a Lothario of a physician, he often sleeping with his female patients. Who he has decided to bring for the weekend is his new and very young nurse, Dulcy. On the surface, Dulcy is an innocent, but one does not need to scratch very deep below the surface to find that she is a sexual aggressive. She knows what she is doing in this department largely due to her knowledge of anatomy. The other couple is Adrian's much older cousin Leopold, a philosophy professor and general man of the world, and his younger fiancée Ariel, who Andrew and Adrian have yet to meet... or so they say. What Andrew is afraid to tell Adrian, especially in light of their sexual issues, is that Ariel is an old girlfriend of his who he once brought to the cottage, something that quickly does come to light. Leopold and Ariel will be getting married at the end of the weekend before they head off on their honeymoon. Each person at the cottage ends up having his/her hidden or not so hidden agenda for the weekend. Maxwell has for the first time in his life fallen in love - at first sight no less - to Ariel, who will at least hear him out on the issue. Maxwell cannot bear to see Ariel marry Leopold, who he considers a pompous ass. Leopold, who was a confirmed bachelor before he met Ariel, wants to sow one last wild oat with Dulcy before he settles down, something to which Dulcy is amenable. Adrian, who wants her marriage to Andrew to work, secretly wants sex advice from who is probably the most knowledgeable in that department, namely Dulcy. And Andrew and Ariel, who never consummated their relationship when they dated, can't help but wonder if they would have ended up together if they had, especially as they still have undeniable feelings for each other. The problem each couple faces is that there are four other people in their confinement who may catch wind of what's going on. But what has been known to be the enchantment of the local woods may sort out all these issues by the end of the weekend.
A married couple, Andrew and Adrian, invite a group of friends over to their house in the country for a few days. The guests consist of two couples: Adrian's cousin Leopold, a stuffy academic, and his fiancé Ariel and Andrew's friend Maxwell, a doctor and serial womaniser, and his nurse Dulcy. Andrew and Ariel have a history - Andrew thinks of Ariel as The One That Got Away - and meeting her again rekindles those emotions. However, Maxwell is soon smitten by Ariel too.

