The ghost of a dead porn star comes to Earth to help a nerd with his sex life.
A dead porno movie star returns from the beyond to help a nerdy teen to score with the beautiful wife of the owner of the camp he is spending the summer working at. Wow.
A 14-year-old boy named Rudy is trying desperately to lose his virginity. When he spends the night with his friend Wendy (whom secretly loves him and he doesn't realize she's the one for him) and they watch a porno film called "E.A.T. M.E.: The Sextra-Terestrial" starring Roxanne Du Jour. When the movie is turned off, they discover on the news that the famous porn star has died. Meanwhile in Heaven, Roxanne must become an angel by committing one good deed. She decides to help young Rudy lose his virginity. It just so happens that Rudy has a crush on the "Love Goddess" who just happens to be the sister of the town bully, Mean Gene.
Having just graduated from high school, nerdy Rudy Gerner (Patrick Dempsey) lusts after beautiful girls, but is still a virgin. Rudy has arranged a summer job working for his old friend, Tripper Harrison, but when he arrives at the lake, Rudy learns Tripper has sold the restaurant and moved away. The new owner, "Mean Gene," (George Buza) hires Rudy as a dock janitor and gas station attendant. Rudy is smitten by Gene's wife, whom the locals call "The Love Goddess," (Shannon Tweed) but Gene warns him not to look at her.Meanwhile, Roxanne "Roxy" Du Jour (Sally Kellerman), a star of pornographic films, dies on the set of her latest movie, 'Eat Me Too'. When Roxy gets to heaven, which is set up like a movie studio, Saint Peter (Charles Durning) tells her she is not on the list and gives her one final chance to redeem her life by returning to earth to help Rudy.Roxy returns to Earth and now possesses magical powers, but only Rudy can see or hear her. She takes him shopping for clothes, gets him contact lenses and a new haircut, and takes him to Mean Gene's bar to find a woman. Before going in, Roxy advises him that women sometimes say "no" when they are actually interested. When a bar patron starts a fight with Rudy, Roxy uses magic to knock the man out and make it look like Rudy beat him up. The crowd is impressed, and with new confidence, Rudy asks a woman to dance. She declines at first, but agrees when Rudy presses her. They go for a lakeside walk, and as they start making out. Rudy confesses he has never gotten this far with a girl before. She pushes him away, indicating he is moving too quickly.With Rudy's new look, more women notice and flirt with him. Men notice too, and start fights, but Roxy intervenes with her magic. Mean Gene invites Rudy to ride in his speedboat, but stops in the middle of the lake and makes Rudy swim back to shore. One night, when Rudy is making out with a girl in the back seat of a Volkswagen, she tells him she is a virgin. Roxy suddenly freezes time, informs Rudy that a girl's first sexual experience is very important, and urges him not to proceed unless he is serious about her. Although Rudy does not care about the girl, he continues seducing her, so Roxy releases the car's parking break, letting the vehicle roll into the lake.Sometime later, after a wet tee-shirt contest at Mean Gene's bar, Rudy begins making out with one of the contestants. Roxy freezes time, explains to Rudy that her job is done, wishes him well, and returns to Heaven. However, as the girl unzips Rudy's pants, she discovers a roll of salami stuffed inside. Running away, she tells her friends, and everyone teases Rudy. Since he has not yet lost his virginity, Roxy is sent back to Earth to finish the job.When Mean Gene goes out of town for a few days to ride with his biker friends, many of the customers take bets on who can bed his wife, "The Love Goddess." Roxy assists Rudy by stopping time to thwart his competitors, and when he finally gets "The Love Goddess" alone, he learns that she is Gene's sister, not his wife. She and Rudy make noise for the crowd gathered outside her bedroom, and when Rudy goes to the window with a look of triumph, the crowd cheers. Hearing the news, Mean Gene rushes home and looks for Rudy, but learns from his sister that the big sex scene was a joke.Rudy runs into Wendy, a friend from school, and invites her to go on a walk around the lake. She says no and Rudy walks off, but Roxy's voice reminds him that "no means yes." Rudy asks Wendy again, and she accepts. Realizing the couple will soon make love, Roxy returns to Heaven.
