A young doctor falls in love with a disturbed young woman, becomes involved in the death of her husband, and has to flee with her to the Mexican border.
One night at the hospital, young doctor Jeff Cameron meets Margo, who's brought in after a suicide attempt. He quickly falls for her and they become romantically involved, but it turns out that Margo is married. At a confrontation, Margo's husband is killed and Jeff and Margo flee. Heading for Mexico, they try to outrun the law.
In San Francisco, Dr. Jeff Cameron is ready to date his girlfriend, the nurse Julie Dorn, when they are summoned to the emergency room to attend a suicidal. The mysterious woman recovers and tells that her name is Margo. On the next morning, she flees from the hospital but sends a telegram to Dr. Cameron scheduling an encounter with him at home. Dr. Cameron finds that she is a wealthy woman and she tells that she lives with her old father and has no friends. Soon Dr. Cameron dates and falls in love with her and proposes Margo to marry him. However she tells that her father wants her to travel to Nassau with him and she leaves Cameron alone in the restaurant. He drinks a lot and completely drunken, Cameron goes to her house to meet her father Frederick Lannington to tell that he wants to marry Margo. But soon he learns that the wealthy Frederick is actually her husband in a marriage of convenience. When they have an argument, Frederick hits him on the head with a stick and Cameron pushes him and Frederick falls fainted on the floor near the fireplace. Cameron brings water to recover Frederick but he finds him dead. Now Margo convinces Cameron to flee with her to Mexico. What will Cameron do?
Interne Jeff Cameron treats attempted suicide Margo, who is so gorgeous he falls for her despite prior ties with nurse Julie. But after a few dates with Margo, he learns her "father" is really her husband. Jeff receives a concussion in a drunken brawl, reviving to find the husband dead. Still woozy, he lets Margo persuade him to flee with her. But what is Margo hiding?
Jeff Cameron, a young doctor at the beginning of his career, links his destiny to that of a patient he saves from suicide. He dumps the secure, rather plain nurse Julie, for the passionate but perplexing Margo. Confused, caught up in Margo's deceptions, Jeff loses his sense of reality and finds himself fleeing with her for the Mexican border. Together they race desperately through a post-WWII noir-American landscape peopled with grotesque small-town types eager to exploit their every turn. "Once we cross the border, it'll be alright," says Margo.

