A scatterbrained socialite hires a vagrant as a family butler - but there's more to Godfrey than meets the eye.
In the depths of the Depression, a party game brings dizzy socialite Irene Bullock to the city dump where she meets Godfrey, a derelict, and ends by hiring him as family butler. He finds the Bullocks to be the epitome of idle rich, and nutty as the proverbial fruitcake. Soon, the dramatizing Irene is in love with her 'protege'...who feels strongly that a romance between servant and employer is out of place, regardless of that servant's mysterious past...
In New York post-Great Depression, the spoiled socialites Irene Bullock and her sister Cornelia Bullock are disputing a scavenger hunt where the winner is the one who brings a "forgotten man" first. They go to the city dump and Cornelia offers five dollars to the derelict Godfrey Smith to go with her and her companion to the Wardolf Hotel. The man pushes her in the garbage and Cornelia leaves the landfill with her companion. However, Irene talks to Godfrey that she wanted to beat Cornelia to it and he accepts to go with her to win the prize. Irene offers the position of butler to Godfrey and tells her parents Alexander and Angelica Bullock that she has hired Godfrey to work for their dysfunctional family in their mansion. Irene has a crush on Godfrey and protects him while Cornelia hates him and wants to harm him. During a party in the Bullock's house, the Harvard graduated investor Tommy Gray recognizes Godfrey and salutes him. But the butler asks him to keep the secret of his past and schedules an encounter in the restaurant to explain what is happening.
During the Depression, rich socialite Irene Bullock meets hobo Godfrey while participating in a high society scavenger hunt. He accompanies her and she wins the contest. Godfrey himself is appalled at their conduct and a guilty Irene offers him a job as her butler. He shows up the next day, properly dressed and ready to go to work. He's warned by the maid Molly that entire Bullock family all all a bit batty. Godfrey learns that the maid's assessment is mild, if anything. Despite his odd employers, Godfrey likes his job and has every intention on continuing in the position. He does have a secret however - he's really a very rich man who decided to drop out of society after a love affair gone wrong. When Irene falls in love with him, he's really not interested in pursuing another relationship. She doesn't know how to take no for an answer however.
Godfrey is "forgotten man" who is hired by a young, wealthy eccentric as the family's new butler. Godfey brings sanity a dose of reality to this spoiled rich family.

