Trying to find how a millionaire wound up with a phony diamond brings Hercule Poirot (Sir Peter Ustinov) to an exclusive island resort frequented by the rich and famous. When a murder is committed, everyone has an alibi.
Hercule Poirot (Sir Peter Ustinov) is called in to investigate a case for an insurance company regarding a dead woman's body found on a moor, and then an important diamond sent to the company to be insured, turns out to be a fake. Poirot discovers that the diamond was bought for Arlena Marshall (Dame Diana Rigg) by Sir Horace Blatt (Colin Blakely), and Arlena is on her honeymoon with her husband and stepdaughter on a Mediterranean island hotel. He joins them on the island and finds that everybody else starts to hate Arlena for different reasons, refusing to do a stage show, stopping a book, and for having an open affair with Patrick Redfern (Nicholas Clay), another guest, in full view of his shy wife. So it's only a matter of time before Arlena turns up dead, strangled, and Poirot must find out who it is.
Hercule Poirot (Sir Peter Ustinov) is investigating a murder and a fake diamond. His investigations take him to a holiday resort on an island in the Adriatic Sea. While he is there, Arlena Marshall (Dame Diana Rigg) turns up dead, murdered. Plenty of suspects, she appeared to be universally hated, but everyone has a perfect alibi.
The Belgian detective Hercule Poirot travels to what
appears to be an idyllic vacation island in the Adriatic
Sea. The Evil exists anywhere.... even in paradise islands.A former actress (Arlena Marshall), who alienates everyone around her, is found strangled on the beach. Everyone in the resort had a motive to kill Arlena, but all seemingly have an alibi. Poirot will investigate the murder.
Poirot discovers  that the murderer is Patrick Redfern, Arlena's lover, who had been having an affair with Arlena while seemingly flaunting it in his wife's face. He wanted to steal back a diamond he had given her, which had itself been stolen before Arlena came into possession of it. It turns out that not only did Patrick's wife approve of the affair, but was in cahoots with her husband. An elaborate ruse had been set up to throw Poirot off the track with Patrick's wife temporarily impersonating Arlena after Arlena had been killed. The murder turns out to be linked to a previous murder case, in which it was assumed that a vagrant had committed the crime.
