Vijay struggles as a dockworker. Eventually, he becomes a leading figure of the underworld, while his younger brother, Ravi, is an educated, upright policeman. This divide causes problems in their relationship.
The movie tells the story of two brothers, Vijay and Ravi Verma, who follow different career paths: Vijay is a smuggler and Ravi the policeman who is asked to hunt Vijay down. Vijay Verma (Amitabh Bachchan) and Ravi Verma (Shashi Kapoor) are the sons of a trade unionist, Anand Verma(Satyen Kappu), who was defeated and disgraced by the management of his firm using his family as bait. Unable to bear the public disgrace father deserts the family, and the sons are raised by their mother(Nirupa Roy)who brings them to Bombay City, who suffers the trials and tribulations of a poor single mother. Vijay Verma, the elder brother, grows up with an acute awareness of his father's humiliation and is victimized for his father's supposed misdeeds. In the process of fighting for his rights Vijay, who starts out as a boot polisher and becomes a dockyard worker in his youth, becomes a smuggler and a leading figure of the underworld.
Trade unionist, Anand Verma, defeated and disgraced by the management of his firm using his family as bait decides to desert his family. Leaving two young sons, Vijay and Ravi Verma to be take care of by his wife, Sumintra Verma. Sumintra struggles day and night to bring up her two sons. Years later the family is still struggling, while Vijay works as a porter at a dockyard, all Ravi attempts at getting a job are all in vain but he romances Veera, the daughter of a senior police officer and finally gets a police job as a Sub-Inspector. One of his first assignments is to be apprehend and arrest some of Bombay's hardcore criminals and smugglers which includes his brother, Vijay - much to his shock, as he had never associated his very own brother of having any criminal background. Ravi must now decide to proceed on with apprehending Vijay, or quit from the police force.
Union leader Anand Verma name gets stain among his village people when the owners of the company he works for hold his family at gun point so that he can sign away incriminating documents. Unable to bear the daily torments of the villagers Anand goes away leaving his family consisting of his wife Sumintra Devi, two sons Ravi and Vijay in a destitute way of living. This forces Sumintra and Vijay to take up employment so that they can educate Ravi to the fullest extent. Years later Ravi is now a police inspector and Vijay works as a laborer in 'Bombay's dock-yard'. Unable to witness the injustice inflicted on the workers by gangsters Vijay seriously beats them up and is well respected by unlawful people so much that they decides to make him their leader but this pits him against his brother Ravi especially when Ravi is assign with the task of arresting Vijay.
Anand Verma backs up from a labor strike.After the mill owner kidnaps his wife Sumitra sons Vijay and Ravi and threats to kill them.Anand gets beaten by other workers for ditching them out shame Anand moves out of the town leaving his family behind.The workers write on Vijay's wrist his father is a robber.Sumitra cant afford to educate her children with low wage so Vijay starts working in order to support his mother so Ravi gets educated.After facing sufferings Vijay stops believing in god and has is own way of living.Years later Ravi is a well educated man struggling to find a job while Vijay is working at the docks.Ravi gets a chance to enter the police force and goes for training.While Vijay has caught eye of a kind hearten smuggler Daver after he bashes goons of his rival Samant. Ravi turns out to be a honest police officer and Vijay becomes one of cities biggest smuggler in hit-list of Ravi and Samant to wants to get rid of him.Ravi and Vijay start having differences after Vijay doesn't want to give his life of crime.Also forcing Sumitra to go against her most loved son.
Trade Union Leader sells out to save his family, then unable to face the social ostracism deserts wife and 2 kids. Mother watches them grow up to become a cop and a gold smuggler, and has to choose one to live with. Then, the inevitable brother vs. brother climax.
Abandoned by her husband (Satyen Kappu), Sumitra Verma (Nirupa Roy) is saddled with two young sons, and must live on a day to day basis. Years later, the family is still struggling. Her elder son, Vijay (Amitabh Bachchan) is a porter in the Bombay docks; her younger son, Ravi (Shashi Kapoor) is unemployed and romancing the Police Commissioner's only daughter, Leena Narang (Neetu Singh). On the Commissioner's suggestion, Ravi applies for employment with the police, and is sent for training. Several months later, he is accepted by the police, and has a rank of Sub-Inspector. When he returns home, he finds that Vijay has become a businessman overnight, has accumulated wealth, and a palatial home. When Ravi finds out that Vijay has acquired wealth by crime, he decides to move out alongwith his mom. Vijay must now decide to carry on with this criminal activities or join his mom and brother, and lead a honest life.

