After defeating The Long-Armed Devil and his armies, our nubbed hero has been living in retirement as a farmer, but circumstances causes him to come out of retirement and take on The Eight Kings, each warrior with their own unique fighting style. The time has come for the one armed swordsman to return.
One-Armed Swordsman revolutionized the kung-fu film, paving the way to the Golden Age and new wave era, which has made Hong Kong action cinema one of the most respected in the world. It was also a gigantic box-office hit, and overwhelming popular demand called for a sequel. Director Chang Cheh truly proved that he was indeed the " "Godfather of the Kung-fu Film" by mounting a follow-up which many say is even more accomplished and exciting than the original. Jimmy Wang Yu is back as one-armed hero Fang Kang, who just wants to lead a quiet life ... until the Eight Demon Swordsmen won't take "no" for an answer. That's their mistake: Fang takes them all on, and more, in this fight-filled, action packed adventure which clearly proves that one arm, attached to the right hero, is better than sixteen.
One-armed swordsman Fang Kang leads a quiet life as a farmer with wife Hsiao Man. A gang of notorious bandits headed by the "Eight Demon Swordsmen" one day issue a challenge to swordsmen of all schools to a dueling contest at their stronghold. The village folk fear this is a prelude to much bloodshed. Knight Lu Lung and sons Tung and Ta seek Fang's help unsuccessfully. The swordsman also rejects the Demons' invitation. Later, Lu Lung and some fifty swordsmen are killed or captured by the bandits who demand a human arm from each sect as ransom for those taken. Hsiao Man is now abducted. Fang sets out to investigate and rescues her after killing Demon Tung Pei. The couple and the knights head for the robbers' stronghold. En route, Chien Shou is one of the eight Demons, infiltrates their ranks. Several young knights fall victim to her charms before Fang has her killed. In three subsequent duels, Fang dispatches three more Demons. He makes his way to the hideout, sets the prisoners free and finishes off Demons Chuan Lun and Ta Li in the process. The following night, Fang and the returning swordsmen stop at an inn. In gratitude for Fang's services the villagers present him with a gold medal which he refuses to accept. Now Demon Wu Hsiang and the remaining bandits launch a desperate attack on the knights. In an ensuing duel, Fang kills Demon Wu Hsiang. The one-armed swordsman and Hsiao Man set off to resume their peaceful way of living.
Jimmy Wang Yu is back in the sequel to Chang Cheh's revolutionary hit, which many say is even more accomplished and exciting than the original. This time he takes on the "Eight Demon Swordsmen" to prove that one arm, attached to the right hero, is better than even sixteen.

