Donald Duck shirks his duties while working as a gift wrapper in a department store.
Donald Duck is late to work, he works for Royal Bros gift wrapping. He plays with the toys and breaks many of them as he gift wraps them, he yells at his boss. His biggest challenge is getting Jack-in-the-box closed which he struggles with it and fails many times including sliding across the table through gift boxes, clamping it with the clamp tool but ends up getting a pie piece in his head, finally he is hammering stakes on the floor, only to have it break through the floor, Donald pulls it out and manages to switch his clothes with Jack-in-the-box wearing his shirt and hat while Donald wears Jacks clown costume and quits work.
Donald Duck is late to work he runs through traffic and uses a magnet on the clock to make it appear he clocked in early. The Royal boss greets his workers with a song which annoys Donald Duck who wants the song to be over. Once the song ends the pile of toys zooms past Donald Duck which causes his shirt to be blown off him and quickly gets it on.Donald Duck plays with the toys and breaks them and pretends to be working. Donald plays with the pendulum clock and reads his book. He marks the word rush with his squirt gun. He then decides to drink coffee but the speaker horn sneezes coffee all over Donald's face and Donald throws a temper tantrum and his boss scolds him and Donald pretends to apologize.The boss announced that production has increased in every single department except for the gift wrapping department which made Donald mad. Donald wraps himself in the rocking chair until he gets a rush order, he gets out and opens the box which turns out to be a Jack-in-the-box but opens right back up. His boss tells him not to play with toys. Donald gets angry and tires many ways to get it closed but fails including wrapping it up. But the toy sends Donald sliding across the table through the gift boxes until his beak hits the sand funnel toy which spills sand on his beak. Donald tries again to clamp the box with a vice clamp but gets angry at the speaker pipe, shoves a rubber ball in the speaker, which shoots the rubber ball at the tool clamp releasing Jacks head which hits Donald Duck into his pie causing him to get angry.Donald finally hammers the stakes with his mallet to hold the box down on the floor but this fails as Jacks head breaks through the floor. Donald Duck runs down the stairs and pulls Jacks head out of the ceiling until the box comes out and it pulls Donald in the box and traps him inside. Donald Duck wrestles with the box until he finally bounces out but finds that Jack-in-the-box stole Donald's shirt and hat while Donald Duck is wearing the accordion clown costume with the nightcap that he switched with Jack. Donald complains about his failure until his boss tells him it's cleaning time. Donald gets excited and runs upstairs forgetting the Jack-in-the-box is still wearing his shirt and hat. But the boss tells to to wrap a few more packages and give him everything you've got. Donald Duck got angry and ran upstairs to beat up his boss and breaks the speaker pipe in the process.
