A group of gold thieves pull of a heist and flee into the snowy wilderness, only to be pursued by a horrible, spider-like monster.
Gangster Alexander Ward, his girl friend, Gypsy Boulet, and two henchmen come to Deadwood, South Dakota with the idea of stealing a few gold bars. They enlist the aid of a local ski instructor, Gil Jackson, and plan to use him as a guide out of the territory after the robbery. However, a blizzard forces them to take refuge in Jackson's cabin, where Gypsy lowers the inside temperature by giving the cold shoulder to Ward, her former sweetie until she saw Jackson. Ward don't care, as he plans to kill Jackson after they have no further use of him. But they had used an explosion in a cave to serve as a distraction during the heist, and this explosion had irritated the big spider that lived there and, sure enough, all hands have to seek refuge in the cave from the fury of the storm. All but two of them would have been better off facing the South Dakota elements.
In a skiing station in Dakota, a gang of criminals leaded by Alexander "Alex" Ward plans the heist of golden bars from a small bank. While the lover of Alex, Gypsy Boulet, goes to an isolated cabin with the ski instructor Gil Jackson, a time bomb explodes a cave to divert the attention of the locals and the gangsters steal the gold. But the explosion releases a spider-like monster and due to a storm, the group becomes trapped in Gil's cabin and threatened by the creepy beast.
Ski instructor Gil Jackson agrees to take a group of tourists on a 2-day cross-country ski trip to his cabin deep in the woods. Unbeknownst to him, they are actually a gang of thieves who plan to steal gold bars and make their getaway through the woods. When they set off an explosion in a local mine as a diversion, they kill the security guard. Tensions rise as they spend a few days at Jackson's cabin awaiting an airplane that is supposed to pick them up. They also have to deal with a deadly cave creature that has them earmarked for death.

