An American World War I soldier, whose disfigured face is reconstructed by Austrian plastic surgeons, returns home after twenty years, but no one recognizes him, his widow is married to another man, and his son is a grown young man.
Elizabeth and John say goodbye as John leaves to go to war. When World War I ends, Elizabeth receives a telegram that John has been killed in action. She finds comfort in Larry and they marry. John returns 20 years later, disfigured, with a new identity, Erik, and an adopted daughter, Margaret. John/Erik and Elizabeth accidentally meet and he learns that he has a son, Drew. John must then decide whether or not to reveal his true identity.
At the end of World War I, on Armistice Day, Elizabeth MacDonald (Claudette Colbert) is waiting for her husband, John Andrew MacDonald (Orson Welles), to come home. However, she receives word of his death. After she faints at work, her boss, Lawrence Hamilton (George Brent), takes her home where his Aunt Jessica (Lucile Watson) can help care for her. They discover that she is pregnant with John's child. Elizabeth stays with the Hamiltons through her pregnancy and Larry gradually falls in love with her. He proposes to Elizabeth and she eventually agrees. They raise John Andrew Hamilton (Richard Long) as Larry's son, referring to him by the nickname Drew, and have another son, Brian (Sonny Howe).However, John is not dead but severely injured and disfigured by an explosion. He refuses to reveal his name to the Viennese doctors, not wanting to be a burden to his wife or pitied. He agrees to experimental plastic surgery and re-establishes himself as a leading chemist, Erik Kessler. He remains friends with his surgeon, Dr. Ludwig (John Wengraf).Twenty years goes by. The Nazi's kill Dr. Ludwig and his wife, Erik adopts their daughter, Margaret (Natalie Wood) and flees to England. He obtains the chief chemist job at Larry's company and arrives back in Baltimore with Margaret in tow. On a visit, Erik discovers Elizabeth's marriage to Larry, his son, Drew Hamilton, and their second son, Brian. But all is not quiet on the home front. Concerned about German aggression in Europe, Drew wants to join the Canadian RAF and fight the Nazis. Elizabeth refuses her consent, refusing to lose her son to another world war, even though Drew will turn 21 in two months. Erik also disturbs her. She suspects he is John MacDonald, which he refuses to admit. He also brings a personal Nazi experience, undermining her objections to Drew joining the RAF.Drew decides to leave with his friends and join the RAF, anyway. He leaves a letter for this father (Larry) but does not tell his mother. In panic, Elizabeth calls the factory and asks to speak with Erik when she discovers Larry is in Washington, D.C. on a business trip. Erik reads Drew's letter and hurries out into the rain storm, heading to the train station to stop Drew. He takes Drew home to his mother. Elizabeth tries one more time to get Erik to admit he is John MacDonald, but he tells her to forget the past, because it is beyond their reach to change. She should live for the future and her family. She finally accepts John's death and lets Erik go. Elizabeth helps Drew repack for a Canadian winter, letting him join the RAF with her consent. Erik goes home, but the cold, soaking rain and his already weakened health leads to his death. The next morning, Larry and Elizabeth arrive to thank Erik, but take Margaret home with them upon hearing of his death.
