Anti-Nazi tract laced with 1938 newsreel footage finds American girl (Bennett) married to a German (Lederer) gradually learning he is a Nazi, trying to get their son to America.
THIS FILM is an apologetic about the rising fever of nationalism as Germany takes over the neighboring countries like Poland and Austria, and the Brownshirted thugs of Hitler's dictatorship threaten everyday Germans with Treason for ordinary political commentary directed at the Government policies or Nazi Party in general. It is very prescient about the fate of the emerging war and the Prison&lt; Dachau, as well as Dresden and Goebbels, very amazing how the film-maker saw WWII coming. There is a married couple and 9 year old son making a trip to Germany to see the man's elderly father after ten years in NYC. A friend asks them to somehow deliver bribe money that will free his own brother, a philosopher critic of the Nazis imprisoned at the Dachau concentration camp [DCC], because he himself cannot leave NYC. They see the father who owns a factory but is a film director being harassed because his films depicted the brutality and ugliness being heaped on ordinary Germans by the brown-shirted thugs, things such as the people in the Czech/Slovak part of town being physically forced to clean garbage up off the street over and over again as Nazi thugs re-dump the same garbage out of the truck again and again laughingly. One fellow even asks to change out of his suit, and reappears in the WWI UNIFORM from when he fought for Germany as a younger man, still the German thugs made him clean laughingly enjoying the spectacle, as the couple watch. When the couple are reproached by a thug in a military uniform for not laughing along, their escort states the Czechs are too stupid to laugh at and they have to hide their actual revulsion. The soldier allows them to drive on and throughout the film there are similar incidents such as the father's butler spying and passing on any comments made in the household to Party members who try to boycott and interfere with the father's business interests and clientele. The husband and wife wind up changing beliefs the husband becoming a Nazi sympathizer while the wife decides she dislikes anything Nazi and wants to return to America. The husband tries to talk his father into letting him run the factory because the father is elderly and wants to retire and leave Germany because he is not happy with Nazis and what Germany is becoming with Goebbels. There the family strife continues as the polarizing feelings cause the boy to be caught in the middle. There will be no spoiler at this point so you can watch this prophetic film of 1940 call out what may happen in Naziland, and will happen in 1942-1945 well after it was produced. Amazing, actually. Light entertainment of a very serious topic. Enjoy it, I give it 3 dings out of 5 bells.
Carol Hoffman travels with husband Eric to his homeland of Germany in the year 1938 for a vacation with their son Ricky. Soon, their happy marriage starts to fall apart as he begins......changing : he doesn't seem bothered by the Nazi doctrines his friend's wife so eagerly talks often to him about, and he even begins giving commands to Ricky in German. Carol doesn't know what has happened to him, but she knows she doesn't want the same thing happening to her and her son. But what can she do?

