A woman lures emotionally crippled men into affairs, then helps them repair their lives.
Sara Deever, a kooky Brooklyn Heights girl, sublets apartments and paints in her spare time. Each month, Sara selects from her lodgers a new lover - but only on the condition that he will let their affair end when the month expires. When Charlie Blake, a box manufacturer and her lover-of-the-month, falls in love with her, he is unwilling to give her up. Sara insists, even though it is obvious that she too has fallen in love. As the month runs out, Charlie searches desperately for the key to Sara's persistence. What he discovers provides the haunting climax to this love story.
It's late October in New York City. Despite their inauspicious initial meeting (she made him have to rewrite his driver's examination) and the fact that he doesn't seem really to understand anything about which she is talking, Englishman Charlie Blake is attracted to seemingly eccentric twenty-two year old Sara Deever. After they get to know a little about each other, Sara suggests to him that he become her "November". She takes a different man - someone who she perceives has a problem that needs fixing - every calendar month to rehabilitate him. The man lives with her in her Brooklyn Heights apartment for that month and they do almost everything together, albeit with the understanding that at the stroke of midnight on the last day he is to leave without question. She feels that Charlie's business (he owns a box making company), the fact that he only wears three-piece suits and that he seems fixated on time are a manifestation of an unknown problem. Beyond subletting apartments for a profit, these rehabilitation sessions are Sara's main job. Despite not thinking he himself has a problem, Charlie agrees to be "November" if only to get to know her. As November proceeds, the two get to know each other - for him which includes meeting a few of his predecessors, learning about Sara's potential "December", and meeting her older vegetarian friend Alonzo who seems to be her protector - and truly fall for each other. But will Sara break her rule with Charlie of one month only, especially in light of the reason that she has taken on these rehabilitation tasks in the first place?

