A rock band becomes embroiled in foreign affairs when they're sent to go on tour in Albania as a cover to find hostages in a remote castle held by Communist enemies of the U.S.
An athlete, a campus militant, a black model, and an American Indian are picked by a computer (shaped like a woman) to form a rock group called the Phynx and go on tour in Albania where American show biz people have been kidnapped by Communists. Some of the stars that the phony band rescues: Johnny Weissmuller and Maureen O'Sullivan (the most famous movie Tarzan and Jane), Leo Gorcey and Huntz Hall (the Bowery Boys), Ed Sullivan, James Brown, Colonel Sanders, Guy Lombardo, Andy Devine, Ruby Keeler, Edgar Bergen, Butterfly McQueen, Jay Silverheels (Tonto), Rudy Vallee, Xavier Cugat, Trini Lopez, Dick Clark, Richard Pryor, Harold "Oddjob" Sakata, George Jessel, and Rhona Barrett. Warner Bros. Studios thought it was so bad that they decided at the last minute not to release it!
Markevitch, the dictator of Communist run Albania, has been, using his military led by Col. S. Rostinov, kidnapping leading American citizens such as George Jessel, Dorothy Lamour, Colonel Harland Sanders, Butterfly McQueen, Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy, Xavier Cugat, and even Johnny Weissmuller. After Corrigan of the US Secret Service fails in his mission to extract these Americans from Albania, Corrigan's boss, Bogey, on the advice of M.O.T.H.A. ("Mechanical Oracle That Helps Americans"), decides to recruit a four person undercover team, posing as a rock band Christened "The Phynx", to assume the mission. The four "volunteers" are out-of-work activist Dennis Larden, whitified Native American recent college graduate Ray Chippeway, athlete A. "Michael" Miller, and black actor Lonny Stevens, who are placed under rigorous training, including learning how to be musicians and knowing all about what it means to be a melting pot American, before they are sent to Albania under Corrigan's lead. Before they can complete their mission, they must first understand Markevitch's motivation, which they may not be able to learn until they meet him.

