Private detective takes on a case and gets mixed up in murder, sex and blackmail.
Jake Masters is a private detective who is hired by millionaire Jason Dominic. The police are after Jason in connection with the murder of a woman, and Jason wants Jake to find the real killer. Jake teams up with his nephew, Keith, and Jason's bodyguard, Cora Merrill. They track down the unsavory suspects one by one, getting involved in several murders and sexual situations along the way.
Cry Uncle!, based on the Michael Brett novel, "Lie a Little, Die a Little", follows the misadventures of a fat, hairy slob of a private eye named Jake Masters, who is hired to clear up a phony murder rap.The NYPD is hunting for an eccentric millionaire, Jason Dominic, in connection with the brutal murder of a cocktail waitress named Lucille Reynolds, and Dominic wants Masters to find the real killer. Masters is sent to La Guardia Airport to pick up Cora Merrill -- Dominic's trigger-happy troubleshooter. After an initial case of mistaken identity, Jake, his trainee nephew Keith and the statuesque Miss Merrill head out to Dominic's palatial (but shabby) yacht.Dominic tells them the police believe he killed Lucille because she had filmed an orgy featuring him with three drug-addicted whores, who then blackmailed him out of $50,000. But Masters thinks its a much bigger extortion scheme aimed at scaring a wealthy sucker with a phony murder rap.Armed with a printed frame from the film with which to identify the hookers, plus the names of a couple of guys who may be involved, Jake, Keith and Cora team up to work through the list of likely suspects.Jake tracks down Lucille's boyfriend, who's staying with two of the hookers, but he gets snuffed before Jake can learn anything. Jake next follows the hooker Connie Landfield to a sleazy apartment where he finds her sprawled naked on the bed. Thinking she's in a drug stupor, Jake "takes advantage of the opportunity", little realizing that she's dead. Then a gunfight erupts in the adjacent flat, and another hooker suspect, Lena Right, is seen fleeing the building.Jake eventually tumbles to the fact that cold-blooded Cora has been leading him on -- working on the orders of Jason Dominic to knock off the blackmailers after Masters has located them for her!
