At the turn of the century in a Welsh mining village, the Morgans, he stern, she gentle, raise coal-mining sons and hope their youngest will find a better life.
Life is hard in a Welsh mining town and no less so for the Morgan family. Seen through the eyes of the family's youngest, Huw, we learn of the family's trials and tribulations. Family patriarch Gwilym and his older sons work in the mines, dangerous and unhealthy as it is. Gwilym has greater hopes for his youngest son, but Huw has his own ideas on how to honor his father. Daughter Angharad is the most beautiful girl in the valley and is very much in love with Mr. Gruffydd, who isn't sure he can provide her the life she deserves. Times are hard and good men find themselves out of work and exploited by unseen mine owners.
Adult Huw Morgan is about to move away from the south Wales coal mining village he has lived in his entire life. He remembers back to his growing up period, when the dust from the coal mines, which were then new to the area, had not yet darkened the lush green valley. His father and his five adult brothers worked in the mines, which ended up being a source of conflict, not only between management and laborers, but also within the Morgan family, its individual members who had different views of their role in the mine. Despite his tender age, Huw immediately fell in love with Bronwyn, who came to the village to marry his eldest brother Ivor. Also on the love front, his only sister Angharad fell in love with the new preacher, Mr. Gruffydd, who had a slightly different view of his relationship with her, and which would end up destroying his life in the valley. Huw would be the only of his siblings to obtain an education, but he learned as much about life as he did about book learning in his schooling. His first work experience post school, which surprised his family, would result in the loss of his youthful innocence.
The story of a family, the Morgans, who live in a Welsh coal-mining town, told through the eyes of the youngest son, Huw (played by a 12-year old Roddy MacDowall). The father and four oldest sons all work in the colliery. Pretty much everything centres around the colliery - it is the life blood of the town, and the source of pain, ill-will and death. In addition, we see the relationships between the people in the town, how they develop and change.
Huw Morgan, the academically inclined youngest son in a proud family of Welsh coal miners, witnesses the tumultuous events of his young life during a period of rapid social change. At the dawn of the 20th century, a miners' strike divides the Morgans: the sons demand improvements, and the father doesn't want to rock the boat. Meanwhile, Huw's eldest sister, Angharad, pines for the new village preacher, Mr. Gruffydd.
This story of a Welsh valley's turn-of-the-century descent from pristine paradise to despoiled coal mining region, is told in flashback form by Huw Morgan, an old man who has decided to leave the valley forever. Huw is the youngest in a family of 6 brothers and 1 sister and the film centers on his struggle toward manhood amid conflicting demands of faith, economics, education and family loyalty in a Wales caught in an irreversible shift from a pastoral to an industrialized society. The story, based on the novel by Richard Llewellyn, is accented by an impressive background of Welsh choral music and quaint patterns of speech.

