A man spends a summer day swimming as many pools as he can all over a quiet suburban town.
Neddy Merrill has been away for most of the Summer. He reappears at a friend's pool. As they talk, someone notices that there are pools spanning the entire valley. He decided to jog from pool to pool to swim across the whole valley. As he stops in each pool his interactions tell his life story.
One summer day in an upper class neighborhood of suburban New York City, middle aged Ned Merrill appears in the backyard of one of his friends and neighbors, who he has not seen in quite some time. Before the neighbors can welcome him, they who are happy to see him, Ned jumps into their swimming pool with much energy and vitality. Ned learns that with the addition of a recent swimming pool in another neighbor's backyard, he can literally swim home moving from swimming pool to swimming pool, his home which is miles away. He names the route Lucinda's River, after his wife. He is determined to make this journey despite some obstacles along the way. At each swimming pool, Ned stops and chats with his neighbors. Each stop reveals more and more of Ned's life journey until he reaches his final destination.
Ned Merrill, a former stock broker from the valley has been released from a mental hospital after suffering a break-down. No longer having a car he develops in his mind that his former wife and estranged grown daughters are leaving to play tennis. Delusional he thinks he has left his car on a quest to swim to his boarded up home in an imaginary 'river' of the valley's numerous swimming pools. At first a stranger, as he nears his former residence people begin to put him down: an alcoholic, mentally ill and not a good family man. He becomes challenged at a pool gathering that his wife and daughter sold off the estate months ago. He begins to shiver from hypothermia as rain sets in. Climbs a steep hill in back of the club's pool and finds the tennis court overgrown and the house locked and boarded. He collapses in his swim trunks in the rain. One of only a very few movies with a cameo by Joan Rivers and Kim Hunter outside her Planet of the Apes make-up.
Merrill is clearly driven by inner forces. His friends are baffled by his determination to complete this quest, "swimming home", which we immediately intuitively understand. His passion is monumental, as are his oblivion and decades of neglect of those he holds most dear. His odyssey leads from love and power to despair and ruin.

