A street sweeper who cleans up after grisly accidents brings home a full corpse for him and his wife to enjoy sexually, but is dismayed to see that his wife prefers the corpse over him.
Graphic, low-budget gore-shocker about Rob and Betty, a couple of ordinary necrophiles who apparently don't mind if their dead sexual partners are not so fresh. Rob's job affords him the opportunity to bring home corpses and the odd body part; when he loses his job, he loses Betty, and Rob's life gets REALLY bizarre.
Robert Schmadkte and his wife Betty have a fetish for blood and dead bodies. Luckily for them, Robert is in the right line of work for such a passion - he is part of a "clean up" crew, picking up dead bodies and taking them to the morgue. The bodies are often in states of decomposing or have limbs or sections missing. Robert often brings a body home for him and his wife to enjoy. Then one day his wife decides she prefers the latest dead body to her husband...
Sharing a mutual fascination for the dead and the macabre, the Berlin misfits, Betty and Robert, are in for a big surprise that will soon broaden their horizons when Rob takes a job as a cleaner at an aftermath clean-up agency. Little by little, right under everyone's noses, the obsessed new employee secretly amasses a rich and grotesque collection of severed limbs and human organs--and what is even more fascinating--their dreams will finally come true when Rob brings home a putrid cadaver to amaze his girlfriend. Nevertheless, can Robert handle this bizarre and gruesome ménage a trois?
Nekromantik is about a middle aged necrophiliac named Robert Schmadtke who works at a crime scene clean-up agency. His job is to collect the remains of dead bodies in accidents for burial/disposal. He has a hobby of collecting body parts and conserving them in booze. One day he gets to take care of a rotting corpse. Instead getting the corpse buried, he takes it home to his girlfriend and the fun begins...
Robert Schmadtke works at a streetcleaning agency. He has a strange kind of hobby; he collects body parts and conserves them on alcohol. His girlfriend adores him, mainly because of his job, and his sexually attraction to corpses. One day Robert brings home a complete corpse. Betty gets really exited .. until Robert looses his job. Without Robs job, whos gonna get new corpses ???
The film opens with a woman urinating into the grass in close-up. She is on the road together with her husband. They have a fatal car crash. Robert Schmadtke works at a street cleaning agency. Together with his co-workers he cleans up the mess the following day. In the toilet at work Robert's boss urinates into a urinal. He takes the penis out of his pants - holds the penis and waits for the urine to leave his bladder - a sniff - the urine uncontrollably shoots out of the penis' glans - urine running into the black nothing of the urinal - urine drops dripping from the uncircumcised foreskin, which hinders the urine from flowing in one perfect unity - the urine slowly comes to an halt until the spring is dried up - the man shakes it off a few times and brings the fella back home. Robert comes home to his wife/girlfriend Betty. While Betty takes a bath in a mix of blood and water Robert watches the interview of a man speaking about phobias. While looking at the TV he imagines the following: A bunny being slaughtered. - First a hit over the head while it is being held on its ears. Then a knife slits its throat. It slowly bleeds dry, jerks and quirks and obviously still is very much conscious. After this process the bunny's fur is being peeled off like banana peel, although you don't need a knife to peel a banana, of course. After that the bunny's eyes are cut off like buttons off of a shirt. Its belly gets opened up and the bowels are being taken out. The dead bunny, which hangs upside down during this whole process receives a cut to the crotch and the testicles are being removed. Somewhere else. Daytime in a garden. Apples are being taken off a tree. The man picking the apples accidentally gets shot into the neck by a man in the garden next to his. He dies at the scene. In an attempt to cover up the crime he disposes the body. Some time passes and the decayed body gets found. The street cleaning agency takes care of it. But instead of disposing the body properly Robert takes it home without anyone else noticing. The girl is visibly excited about her husband's gift and they go feel up the body real good. The body is so rotten it basically is a very wet and juicy skeleton covered with crap and stuff. As decayed as it may be, it still got a juicy eye in its skull. They saw off a chair's wooden leg and Betty rams it into the body's crotch. It gets her all hot and bothered. She rolls a condom over the chair leg/the body's newly gained huge and super hard erection. Betty drops her black saucy lingerie and sits on the erection. She kisses the corpse - her husband feels her up from behind - her breasts touch the corpse's chest - her tongue goes all over the dead man's face - then the man kisses its face and takes its eye into his mouth. They sit up Mr. Dead and the girl's penetration continues. The eye falls out of Mr. Dead's skull and Betty tries to catch it with her mouth. We get to see this sequence in slow motion so we don't run risk to miss it. Their intercourse almost looks like a dance but all this time Mr. Dead appears to be awfully stiff and apathetic. The next day Robert gets fired from his job for several reasons. He left his unwashed and stinking working clothes in his locker over the weekend and he arrives three minutes too late to work. Meanwhile Betty reads Mr. Dead a story. They are in bed. She's naked. Then Mr. Dead gives her oral pleasure. When Betty learns that Robert lost his job she gets pissed because she knows that now they have a serious corpse-supply problem. So she leaves him for good, but not without taking Mr. Dead with her, which doesn't please Robert at all. He burns a picture of her. Then he strokes his cat. He feeds her with some human bowels, possibly a liver. But the kitty doesn't want to eat, so he puts her into a plastic bag and bashes it against the wall. Blood stains on the wall. The man plays dead in the bathtub. The cat is close to him. She doesn't have to play dead. The kitty's blood runs into the tub and mixes with the water. Water turns red. Man rubs kitty's bowels on his naked body. He takes a bite. We see the moon. A white, shiny ball in a vast of black nothingness. The white, shiny ball turns into a white, shiny, grinning skull. Robert drinks some liquor and takes some pills. He falls asleep and dreams of being a corpse and coming to life in a plastic bag. A girl walks up to him and gives him a gift. It's a crummy, decapitated head. They throw it around and play with it like you would play with a ball. The head turns into a piece of meat. He jumps around in the grass with the piece of meat in his hands and is jolly. As he wakes up from the dream he gets a prostitute and they fornicate on a cemetery. The whore sits on a gravestone. He can't get it up because she is too much alive and moving and such. So he strangles the life out of her. Then the sex works for him real smooth. The next morning: A gravedigger finds him lying next to the body. At this moment Robert wakes up and shovels off the gravedigger's head (he is skull-free from his lower jaw upwards). The digger gargles in pain as his hand tries to find the rest of his skull. The attempt fails and he drops to the floor. He bleeds, twitches, jerks and gargles a lot. Fade-to-black. He probably died soon afterwards. Robert runs around in grass on some hills. He jumps around like crazy and yells in joy. Back home he nails a Jesus miniature onto a crucifix. He takes a knife and rams it into his own belly. He lays on the bed and takes the erect penis out of his pants. As he rams the knife deeper into his torso the spermatozoon shoots out of the penis. One huge white fountain after another. The scene is intercut with the rabbit footage played in reverse. The bunny jerks and quirks back to life. The man pokes around in his bowels like a kid would poke around in a plate of broccoli hoping somebody would finally say that it doesn't have to eat up. The white fountain turns red and shoots even higher. He doesn't survive it. A gravestone with his name written on it. We see a shovel being jabbed into the grave by a person wearing lady's slippers.
