When a hotelier attempts to fill the chronic vacancies at his castle by launching an advertising campaign that falsely portrays the property as haunted, two actual ghosts show up and end up falling for two guests.
When Peter Plunkett's Irish castle turned hotel is about to be repossesed, he decides to spice up the attraction a bit for the 'Yanks' by having his staff pretend to haunt the castle. The trouble begins when a busload of American tourists arrive - along with some real ghosts. Among the tourists are married couple Jack and Sharon. Sharon's father holds the mortgage on Castle Plunkett, so she's hoping to debunk the ghosts. Jack, on the other hand, after meeting pretty ghost Mary, is very eager to believe. Can there be love between a human and ghost? Jack and Mary are going to try and find out.
An Irish Castle, the main source of revenue and employment for the region, is about to be repossessed. The villagers and the owner attempt to turn it into a tourist hotel destination for foreign visitors by pretending it is haunted. Their early attempts are comedic failures. The American tourists turn out largely to have ulterior motives, one related to the creditor about to repossess and another a researcher attempting to expose the haunting as a fraud. The owner's mum, who disapproves, soon summons the real ghosts of the castle to take revenge on the Americans. All Hallow's eve turns into a real horror movie but with a twist that both the ghosts and the tourists experience personal catharses which improve their individual situations. Everyone ends up better off by all Saints Day with two new couples even, one consisting of a 200-year-old ghost and an American tourist.
Peter Plunkett's Irish castle, turned hotel is about to be repossessed, he decides ghosts would attract more Tourists. The trouble begins when a bus load of American tourists arrive. Among them, the daughter of the man who holds the mortgage and a paranormal psychologist and his family. When the real ghosts of castle get angry and decide to take a hand in things will they all survive Halloween?

