A single mother prostitute, who goes by the name Princess, finds herself forced to work undercover for the police in order to apprehend a homicidal, misogynistic pimp named Ramrod, who will do anything not to get arrested.
A Los Angeles businesswoman, known only by her street name of Princess, turns to prostitution to support herself and her young daughter when she's forced by Detective Tom Walsh and his vice squad to help them arrest a brutal pimp named Ramrod for the murder of a prostitute named Ginger. But when Ramrod learns that he was set up, he escapes from police custody and begins a long night of tracking down Princess while Walsh and his vice squad are always one step behind him.
Among the crime and sexual solicitation of Hollywood, California's Sunset Boulevard, a prostitute known only by her street name "Princess" (Season Hubley) prepares her young daughter, Lisa, for a trip to see her grandmother in San Diego, California. When Lisa's nanny, Beatrice Adams (Marilyn Coleman), arrives, Princess receives a distressed telephone call from her friend, Ginger Grady (Nina Blackwood), who is hiding in a motel from her abusive cowboy pimp, Ramrod (Wings Hauser). At the bus station, Princess says goodbye to Lisa and Beatrice before changing into a revealing dress and scouring the streets for potential costumers.Meanwhile, Ramrod finds Ginger's motel room and apologizes for hitting her, promising to never hurt her if she agrees to open the door. As soon as she does, however, he slams her against the wall, ties her to the bed, and beats her with a wire hanger.Across town, undercover police sergeant Tom Walsh (Gary Swanson) and his trainee officer, Edwards (Maurice Emanuel), arrest a prostitute and bring her to the Los Angeles Police Department, which is full of other unruly, detained sex workers and drug dealers. Tom is called to the hospital, where Ginger quickly dies from her severe injuries, and the officer promises to avenge her death by bringing Ramrod to justice.Shortly afterward, Princess arrives at the hospital morgue to discuss her pending charges for cocaine possession. Although he knows she does not use drugs, Tom warns her that the unsympathetic judge will send her to prison and separate her from her daughter. As a result, the officer offers her a pardon in exchange for her help catching the violent criminal. She initially refuses out of fear of getting hurt, but Tom changes her mind by revealing the mangled condition of Ginger's bruised corpse.Later, Princess wears a wire while speaking with Ramrod in a nightclub. The pimp invites her back to his apartment, unaware that Tom, Edwards, and other vice squad officers have staked out his building disguised as janitors. The officers listen to the audio recording as Princess and Ramrod become intimate, bursting inside after they hear him reveal persecuting information. As Edwards locks him in handcuffs, Ramrod is surprised to learn that Ginger died from his abuse, and grabs Princess as a hostage. As Tom pushes a gun against his head, Ramrod vows to kill the prostitute for deceiving him. Afterward, Tom buys Princess a hot dog and offers to loan her money so she can take the rest of the night off. She refuses, and he watches sadly as she drives away with another customer.Meanwhile, the two officers escorting Ramrod back to the police station are involved in an automobile accident, allowing the pimp to escape. Once freed from his handcuffs, Ramrod borrows a car from his friend, Roscoe, and drives to meet a club owner named Fast Eddie, who gives him a gun. He reveals that Princess no longer has a pimp, but helps Ramrod track down her former boss, Joe Dorsey.After her first tryst, Princess finds another client while admiring a shop window display of children's toys.As Tom and Edwards return to the streets looking for Ramrod, other officers enlist another prostitute named Louise Williams for her help in the search.Princess meets some of her colleagues at a bar to discuss the strange sexual fetishists they have encountered that evening. When another patron propositions her, she accompanies him home, but remains distracted, and the dissatisfied client forcibly takes his money back.Castrating Joe Dorsey with his knife to get information, Ramrod heads to Princess' motel. Moments before he arrives, however, a chauffeur (Michael Ensign) approaches the prostitute in the parking lot, claiming that his wealthy employer wishes to enlist her services after being referred by her friend Coco.Tom and the vice squad learn of Ramrod's location and arrive at the motel to question the manager.On the street, Ramrod kidnaps Coco and beats her until she reveals that the wealthy man has taken Princess to his house in Beverly Hills, California.Inside the Beverly Hills house, Princess is instructed to dress as a bride and descend to the parlor, where the elderly client lay motionless in a casket. When he unexpectedly jumps awake, Princess screams in surprise, and the man becomes annoyed that she broke her promise not to speak, ending the encounter.Police officers find the injured Coco beside a trash heap and unknowingly drive past Ramrod in a new vehicle, pursuing Princess' taxi home. As Princess stops to buy a stuffed animal rabbit for Lisa, two of her friends attempt to warn her about Ramrod, but the looming pimp suddenly revs his car and chases after her, hitting one of the women in the process. He pulls Princess into his truck and takes her to an abandoned warehouse, which he has transformed into a lair for his violent sexual escapades.The police arrive as he begins to torture her, and Ramrod jumps out the window, shooting multiple officers, including Edwards, and stealing a car. Tom pursues him across town, finally cornering the criminal in an alleyway and shooting him dead. Just after daybreak, Tom emerges from the warehouse with a gunshot wound in his arm and gives the now-bloodied stuffed animal rabbit back to Princess, promising to buy her a new one. While being lifted into an ambulance, Princess tells him that he will "never be able to change the streets," and he walks away as the sun rises over the city.
