An aspiring reporter is the key witness at the murder trial of a young man accused of cutting a café owner's throat and is soon accused of a similar crime himself.
Rising reporter Michael Ward is the key witness in the murder trial of young Joe Briggs, who is convicted on circumstantial evidence while swearing innocence. Michael's girl Jane believes in Joe and blames Michael, who (in a remarkable sequence) dreams he is himself convicted of murdering his nosy neighbor. Will his dream come true before Jane can find the real murderer?
Reporter Michael Ward is promoted at his newspaper when he becomes the key witness in the murder trial of Joe Briggs, a young man that he had previously seen threatening the victim Nick in his coffee shop and later saw leaving the place and found Nick with a sliced neck. Joe swears innocence, but based on the circumstantial evidence he is convicted and sentenced to the electric chair. Michael's fiancée Jane feels uncomfortable with the sentence and believes that Joe might be innocent. Michael loses his confidence and feels remorse for his testimony accusing Joe. One night, Michael brings Jane to his room and his nosy neighbor Albert Meng brings the landlady to expel Jane from the boarding house. Michael threatens Meng and later he sees a stranger with bulging eyes on his floor that runs away from him. He has a weird nightmare and when he wakes up, he finds that Meng is murdered with a sliced neck similar to Nick. Michael calls the police and is arrested as prime suspect of both murders. Jane seeks out the stranger on the streets to save her fiancé.
A newspaper reporter gives truthful but circumstantial evidence at the murder trial of pathetic loser Briggs. Briggs is convicted despite crying his innocence and the reporter begins to feel guilty for the key role he played in the trial. Haunted by memories of the poor man's pleas, he begins to wonder...
Rising newspaper reporter Michael Ward is the key witness at the trial of Joe Briggs where he testifies that he saw the unfortunate Briggs fleeing the scene of a murder and previously heard him verbally threaten the victim, coffee shop owner Nick. Based primarily on the circumstantial evidence of Michael's testimony, Briggs is convicted and sentenced to die in the electric chair. Shaken by the verdict and by his fiancée Jane's intuition about Briggs's innocence, Michael returns to his room, where he begins to brood about the events that led up to Briggs' arrest. Lost in his thoughts, Michael recalls his first meeting with Albert Meng, his loathsome neighbor, when he notices a sinister stranger lurking in the hallway and chases him from the rooming house. After returning to his room, Michael detects that Meng's snoring has ceased, and begins to fantasize that his neighbor has been murdered and that he will be convicted of the crime on circumstantial evidence. Michael's paranoia continues in his dreams, and he awakens to find that his nightmare has come true and that Meng's throat has been slit. Michael notes the similarities between the murder of Meng and Nick and surmises that the same person must have committed both, which would exonerate the currently jailed Briggs. Jane convinces him to report the murder to the police, but the district attorney find Michael's presence at the scene of both murders suspicious and he is taken into custody. Realizing that the only way to prove Michael's innocence is to find the stranger, Jane begins to search for the man. She finds him feeding a stray dog and learns that he has escaped from an insane asylum. Thinking that Jane has come to take him back, the stranger begins to chase her across the street but is hit by an oncoming truck before he can harm her. Before dying, the stranger confesses to the murders, thus exonerating both Michael and Briggs of the crimes.
