A couple falls in love and agrees to meet in six months at the Empire State Building - but will it happen?
Nickie Ferrante's return to New York to marry a rich heiress is well publicized as are his many antics and affairs. He meets a nightclub singer Terry McKay who is also on her way home to her longtime boyfriend. She sees him as just another playboy and he sees her as stand-offish but over several days they soon find they've fallen in love. Nickie has never really worked in his life so they agree that they will meet again in six months time atop the Empire State building. This will give them time to deal with their current relationships and for Nickie to see if he can actually earn a living. He returns to painting and is reasonably successful. On the agreed date, Nickie is waiting patiently for Terry who is racing to join him. Fate intervenes however resulting in misunderstanding and heartbreak and only fate can save their relationship.
The suave cosmopolitan and first-rate philanderer, Nickie Ferrante, has finally decided to settle down. Sailing from Europe to New York to reunite with his lovely celebrity fiancée, Miss Lois Clarke, and her enviable inheritance, the great seducer will cross paths with the charming professional singer, Terry McKay, who is returning to her lover. However, despite both being engaged to others, the two transatlantic commuters will laugh, tease each other, and flirt--and by the time they reach New York City's Port--the clandestine couple will have fallen madly in love. But now, as an unforeseen and troubling dilemma burdens Nickie and Terry, only a sincere promise and a face-to-face meeting atop the iconic Empire State Building in six months' time can seal their bond. Still, is this love meant to be?
Handsome playboy Nicky Ferrante and beautiful night club singer Terry McKay have a romance while on a cruise from Europe to New York. Despite being involved with other people, both agree to reunite at the top of the Empire State Building in six months. However, an unfortunate accident keeps Terry from the reunion, and Nicky fears that she has married or does not love him anymore. Will he discover the truth behind her absence and reunite with his one true love, or has fate and destiny passed them by?
While in a cruise from Europe to New York, playboy Nicky Ferrante meets the gorgeous former night-club singer Terry McKay and they have a romance. Nicky is traveling to meet his fiancée, the inheritor of one of the greatest fortunes in USA, and Terry is returning to the arms of her supportive boy-friend. They schedule a meeting on the 102nd floor of the Empire State Building six months later to decide whether they should marry each other, but Terry has an accident and she is not able to reunite with him.
Nicky Ferrante is an international, European playboy setting forth on a cruise ship headed for New York to meet his wealthy fiancée. Terry McKay, a former night-club singer, is sailing to New York to be with her long-time boyfriend, who flew on ahead to close a business deal. Nicky and Terry meet on the long cruise, and romance, replete with complications, ensues.

