Disguised as ice cream vendors, Cheech and Chong make--and subsequently lose--millions of dollars selling a batch of marijuana with an unusual side effect.
Cheech and Chong house sit for a marijuana grower and rip off the crop. Stalked by keystone-style cops, Los Guys have a series of encounters with L.A. area characters even weirder than themselves.
Cheech and Chong have set up a new business- selling ice cream from a large, odd-looking ice cream truck! However, this isn't regular ice cream- it's actually scientifically-experimented marijuana, sold in the form of ice cream. They've dubbed their business "Happy Herb's Nice Dreams Ice Cream".
Day by day, the 2 drive their ice cream truck around to the beach, to the gym, to other places, selling the marijuana ice cream. Soon, all their business starts paying off as the 2 make millions of dollars. However, they've unwittingly sold some marijuana ice cream to undercover cops, planning to bust them from the start.The cops, led by Sgt. Stadenko (Stacy Keach reprising his role from "Up in Smoke"), who has become a stoner and alcoholic, have the marijuana tested in their labs, and it turns out that the marijuana has some odd side-effect, those who smoke it turn into a lizard! Sgt. Stadenko sends 2 incompetent cops out to catch Cheech and Chong, while he in turn smokes some of the marijuana himself- and slowly turns into a lizard himself.After visiting a gym and selling marijuana ice cream to guys working out, Cheech and Chong drive their truck back to their home on a California cliff overlooking a beach. Cheech totals up the money, to discover they've made up to $20 million! The stoners dream of all they can buy with the money- their own private island, guitars, cars, their own resort, and of course, get a lot of women! The 2 head to their house and meet up with their roommate.Cheech and Chong go to the lab where their friend makes and experiments on the marijuana. His lab, under a fake pool, is full of marijuana and dope. As Cheech bargains with the experimenter to get more marijuana to sell, Chong uses a trash can to steal a whole load of the stuff. Meanwhile, cops have tracked Cheech and Chong to the house and begun circling it overhead from helecopters. The cops, however, become side-tracked by naked girls on the beach. Discovering they're being busted, Cheech and Chong load all the marijuana they can into their ice cream truck (while stopping to smoke a bit) and escape, leaving for the cops to bust their roommate and the guy experimenting on the marijuana. The marijuana factory is then taken apart and destroyed. They're taken to the police office and meet Stadenko, who's slowly turning into a lizard. The 2 incompetent cops ask the Sgt. what to do now; the stoner chief now mumbles different words, leading the cops to think they're looking for "Mr. Big." The cops then set off to find Cheech and Chong and finally bust them.It's nightfall and Cheech and Chong have parked outside a Chinese food restaurant and begun to dine inside. While inside, a crazy lady who thinks she knows Chong comes over to him and tells him about making a record, while actually stealing his plate and food. At that point, Cheech's old high school girlfriend Donna shows up with a friend, Howie Hamburger Dude (played by Pee-wee Herman), who is a mental patient. The 4 sit down together and Howie takes out some cocaine, and the 4 go under the table and snort it.
Coming out from unde the table, Cheech and Donna go to Donna's car to have sex, leaving Chong to talk to Howie Hamburger Dude. Cheech and Donna begin to have sex in the car when Donna faints, leaving Cheech stuck. Cheech realizes he can't do it with her sleeping (and even asks the audience what they would do), when a cop car pulls up. Cheech fears he'll be in trouble, when suddenly, a coked-up Chong drives up in the ice cream truck- stocked up with marijuana!The cops, not wanting to arrest Cheech and Chong and have to fill out the paperwork and reports, let them go, despite Chong telling them that they're wrong. Having to leave their truck behind, Cheech and Chong have neither the marijuana plant, nor their truck with marijuana to sell, leaving them out of a job. At least they have their money, right?Cheech, Chong, and Donna go to Donna's apartment to have a threesome. In her room the stoners try to nail her all at once, when Chong goes to get some ice. Cheech begins to make out with her when Donna gets a call- her ex-con biker boyfriend, Animal, known to hate Mexicans, has just broke out of prison and is in the lobby of the apartment, coming up. Cheech worries, and when a loud knock is heard on the door, he hides on the balcony and gets locked out.When Cheech sees it's just Chong coming back, he tries to get back in, when he discovers the door is locked, and he's outside on top of a hotel, naked. Cheech tries to scale off the hotel by walking on the balconies, then getting stuck on top of the elevator, going up and down. Meanwhile, Animal has broken the door down into the apartment, and Chong is hiding around the apartment. Animal grabs Donna and has sex with her on top of the bed, where Chong is hiding underneath. Animal and Donna pass out on the bed, and Chong dresses back up. Cheech, meanwhile, has jumped off the elevator into the pool, got a towel, and returned to the room. Chong tells Cheech of Animal in the room, and the 2 get dressed back up and leave.As they go down in the elevator, Cheech asks Chong where the money is- Chong tells Cheech that he cashed in the money with Howie Hamburger Dude for a check! Unfortunately, Chong is illiterate and has no drivers liscence or ID- now he can't cash the check, and the stoners are broke again! $20 million, gone! Cheech, however, is not letting Howie Hamburger Dude walk away with all their money, so he looks up the address on the check, and he and Chong get a ride. However, they're actually getting a ride from the 2 incompetent cops that are looking for them in the first place.Knowing who they are, and waiting for the perfect busting moment, the cops wait outside the address waiting for Cheech and Chong. The 2 stoners climb the gates of the residence- Casa Del Whacko, which is a mental asylum. Sleeping in one of the rooms overnight, the 2 are awoken by multiple mental patients and crazy people. Cheech and Chong try to escape the mental people and find Howie Hamburger Dude, who is running around. Cheech corners Howie, telling him to give back the money. Cheech doesnt understand what Howie says and starts fighting with him, pushing him, when doctors show up, and grab Cheech.Believed to be mentally unstable and dangerous, Cheech is chained in a straight-jacket and locked up in a soft-padded room. Cheech screams and yells to be let free, but is ignored. Meanwhile, Chong is believed to be a doctor and finds Cheech in the soft-padded room. Cheech tells Chong to go find the key, and Chong goes off. Later, Chong returns to the room with a real doctor (played by Timothy Leary), and Cheech begs him to be set free. The doctor tells Cheech he'll give him "the key", and gives both Cheech and Chong "the key to the universe", actually medicated pills.Cheech and Chong swallow the pills and fantasize and get high off the pills. As they fantasize and have weird hallucinations about being hung and killed, the 2 stoners are awoken by the manager, Mrs. Del Whacko. She's realized the mistake and unlocks Cheech and gives them back their bag full of money, apologizing for the incident. She makes Howie apologize and takes him away to get a lobotomy.The 2 stoners rejoice in the room that they've gotten their money back, when a siren sounds- the cops are outside, waiting for Cheech and Chong to bust them. The 2 escape out through a tunnel in the asylum, and the cops arrest Howie and Mrs. Del Whacko by mistake, thinking Howie to be "Mr. Big."A while later, the stoner buddies have managed to lose their money yet again in an unknown way, and now have no job, no marijuana to sell, and they're broke. Cheech and Chong are now forced "to go to work" to make some money, being that Chong has lost all their money. The 2 take off their shirts and strip their pants to their underwear, and go on to a strip club stage, dancing as the male strippers in an all-male strip-club, which is their only way to get money. With the stoners now living a poor job and having an unfortunate job, the movie ends.
