A disturbed young embalmer digs the grave of his recently deceased girlfriend and brings her body to his family villa with help from his strange housekeeper. But his bouts of insanity are just beginning.
A young rich orphan loses his fiancée to voodoo doll mischief on the part of his housekeeper who is jealous of his attentions. He digs his girlfriend up, cleans her out, stuffs her, and puts her in bed at the mansion. Following this, he tries out and disposes of a series of young maidens, trying to find the right replacement for her, and the disapproving housekeeper helps him with the disposals.
Anna Völkl (Cinzia Monreale), the fiance of taxidermist Frank Wyler (Kieran Canter), dies of an illness in the hospital during a final kiss after Iris (Franca Stoppi), Frank's wet nurse and housekeeper, stabs a voodoo doll. Back at the villa, Iris then breastfeeds Frank for erotic lactation comfort.During Anna's funeral, Frank injects Anna's body with an embalming fluid preservative so that he can dig her body up and be with her forever. Unbeknownst to Frank, a funeral home employee sees him making the injection and becomes suspicious.At night, Frank digs up Anna's body at the cemetery. On the ride home, Frank gets a flat tire and while changing it for the spare, picks up an American hitchhiker, named Jan (Lucia D'Elia). While smoking pot, she offers some to Frank who declines because he is driving. The female hitchhiker then passes out in the car as Frank arrives back at the villa. Taking Anna's dead body from the van, Frank, begins stuffing Anna in his workshop. (Note: there are very, VERY graphic scenes involving Frank's disemboweling of Anna, and his efforts to install glass eyes into her sockets. Plus, Frank picks out Anna's heart and takes a bite of it.)When the hitchhiker wakes up and spots Anna's corpse, she panics and a struggle ensues. Frank tortures her by ripping off some of her fingernails with a pair of pliers before choking her to death. When Frank is not satisfied, Iris tries to comfort him once more, this time by masturbating him. Assisted by Frank, Iris chops up the hitchhiker's corpse in a bathtub and pours acid to dissolve the flesh (another very gory and graphic scene). Frank then buries the pieces in a hole in the woods.A few days later, a jogger (Anna Cardini) twists her ankle around Frank's home and he invites her in. They have sex on his bed, until Frank can't resist showing off Anna's corpse right next to them. Once more a fight ensues. Frank bites her neck and eats a huge chunk of her flesh. He and Iris burn her corpse in the furnace downstairs. But the female jogger is still alive and screams as she is incinerated alive.Another day or two later, Iris invites her old, eccentric relatives to dinner and announces her engagement to Frank. Yet Frank thinks otherwise and leaves her humiliated. The following day, while Iris is drunk in her room and Frank is out for a jog, the funeral home employee enters Frank's home to investigate, where he discovers Anna's body. Startled, he immediately leaves.That night, Frank picks up a woman at a disco. Fortunately for her, Frank just sends her off due to the arrival of Anna's twin sister Elena (played by Cinzia Monreale in a dual role). She asks to stay a few days while she sorts out Anna's estate.At the climax, Elena faints on seeing Anna's corpse seated in a chair in the foyer, and Iris approaches her with a knife before Frank intervenes. Frank kills Iris, but not before she badly injures him by stabbing him in the groin and ripping his left eye out. Frank, while Elena remains unconscious, incinerates Anna's body in the furnace so he can be with Elena. The funeral home employee then returns to confront Frank and finds him badly injured near the furnace in his basement. Frank passes out and dies.The funeral home employee takes Elena, who he thinks is Anna's deceased body, and returns it to the funeral home where he places it in a coffin for burial. While he is sealing the coffin Elena awakens, pushes the coffin open, and lets out a blood curdling scream....
