A martial artist hunts a killer in a plague-infested urban dump of the future.
Gibson Rickenbacker is a hired fighter living in a plague-ravaged apocalyptic America where a plague has infested most of the United States and the rest of the world. In New York City, Gibson encounters a woman named Pearl Prophet. Pearl reveals to Gibson that she is a cyborg who is carrying vital-information for a group of scientists in Atlanta who are working on a cure to the plague and Pearl hires Gibson to escort her back to Atlanta. But Pearl is kidnapped by "Pirates" a murderous gang led by Fender Tremolo, who wants the cure for themselves and they decide to take Pearl to Atlanta themselves. Gibson, joined by a young woman named Nady Simmons, goes in pursuit of Fender and his gang, as Gibson sets out to rescue Pearl, stop Fender and his gang from reaching Atlanta and defeat Fender who slaughtered Gibson's family.
Set in a post-apocalyptic future where starvation and disease are plaguing the few remaining inhabitants of Earth. Scientists are close to discovering a cure for the plague that is sweeping the country. Gibson Rickenbacker is a strong fighter who leads a group to Atlanta to gain information needed for the cure, along the way attempting to avoid the villains.
A martial artist hunts a killer in a plague-infested urban dump of the future. He is the protective escort for a half-human, half-cyborg woman whose programming contains a possible cure for a plague that's threatening to wipe out the entire population of Earth. But a woman is kidnapped by the martial artist's evil nemesis while they are en route to her Atlanta headquarters. That leads him right into a lion's den of sadomasochistic torture and torment.
"First there was the collapse of civilization...anarchy, genocide, starvation...then we got the plague." Cyborg is about the post-apocalyptic struggle for survival of an urban ninja named Gibson (Jean-Claude Van Damme). The movie opens with a man and woman in jumpsuits fleeing sociopathic pirates (they have a boat) led by Fender (Vincent Klyn), a buff-looking guy wearing chainmail and sunglasses. The jumpsuited-man tries to hold off the pirates while his counterpart escapes. He is quickly killed by the feral pirate horde. Apparently the jumpsuited woman, named Pearl (Dayle Haddon), is a CYBORG and has obtained the cure for the plague in New York and is storing it in her brain/hard drive. Fender wants the cure for himself, so he commands his crew to capture the CYBORG.Pearl gets trapped in an alley by a trio of pirates, but they are quickly dispatched by the agile Gibson who happens upon the scene. She tries to hire him to take her back to the last group of doctors in Atlanta, who originally tasked her with finding the cure. They are interrupted by a pirate sniping at them with a crude-looking gun and Gibson is forced to run into a wood structure, which collapses on him. Fender takes possession of Pearl and heads back to his ship, destined for Atlanta.Gibson punches his way out of the rubble and follows Fender to the harbor. He finds a burning village and Fender already gone. While staring at the fire he notices movement in the shadows and throws an unknown projectile, hitting someone. The person turns out to be a villager that survived Fender's attack, named Nady (Deborah Richter). While waiting for her to awaken, he has a flashback to a previous family that hired him to get them out of New York. It shows Gibson leading them to a house in the country and then violent images involving Fender. Gibson waits for Nady to wake up and then he leaves. She offers to help him rescue Pearl, but all he cares about is getting Fender. They set off on the road to Charleston.Gibson and Nady stop for information in a shantytown where he talks with his friend Maize (Jophery C. Brown), who tells him where he can catch Fender's boat. It is revealed that Gibson had settled down with the family he rescued and given up his previous life.After leaving the shantytown, Gibson and Nady are ambushed by highwaymen. Gibson disappears into the woods and Nady flees to a nearby decrepit building. Gibson kills two of the men while in the woods and runs to the building, where Nady is being held at knife-point. Gibson, using his gun and boot-shiv, takes out the rest of the highwaymen and rescues Nady.The heroes finally reach the ocean where Fender must land and continue inland to Atlanta. Nady takes the opportunity to bathe and Gibson follows suit. While warming up around the campfire, Nady offers herself to Gibson, who declines and seems distracted. He then flashes back to a love scene between Gibson and the oldest girl of the family he rescued. As they lay sleeping on a bed, Fender and his pirates are seen standing at the window.The next morning the heroes find Fender's boat and follow him to an abandoned industrial complex. An intense gun and knife battle takes place, resulting in the death of more pirates and Gibson getting wounded by Fender. Gibson must flee with Nady after Pearl refuses to be rescued, relying on the forces in Atlanta to destroy Fender. Gibson enters the sewer and is followed by the pirates. He stops to kill the biggest pirate (Ralf Moeller) and then exits the sewer onto a field, where he and Nady begin frantically running. The pirates catch up to them and Gibson kills a few before being overpowered. Nady takes out one pirate but is knocked out (again). Fender proceeds to beat Gibson to a bloody mess and then nails him to the mast of a beached boat, leaving him to die.While hanging from the mast, Gibson flashes back for the last time to his adopted family in the country. He and the oldest girl and her little brother are tied up with barbwire hanging over a well. Fender gives the barbwire to the younger sister Haley (Haley Peterson) and tells her if she can hold it, her family will live. The wire rips through her hands and the family falls into the well. Gibson manages to climb out of the well, but the girl and her brother have died. Hanging on the mast, Gibson recognizes Haley as being Fender's woman now. Summoning his rage, Gibson breaks the mast with his heel and falls to the ground, where he is cut free by Nady.Fender and Pearl enter Atlanta and reach the center of the city by nightfall. In the rain, Gibson and Nady prepare for their ambush. Gibson gives Nady a knife and she runs to hide. Gibson fires a single arrow at Fender as he approaches. The arrow lands at his feet and Fender orders the remnants of his pirates to attack. Gibson deals with them while Nady sneaks up and takes out the two pirates guarding Pearl. Nady fends off the last pirate as Gibson and Fender commence their final showdown. Halfway through the fight, Haley yells at Fender to stop and he goes after her instead. Nady prevents Fender from killing Haley, but is slashed by his knife in the process. Gibson recovers and stabs Fender, finally kicking him onto a large hook which kills him. Gibson, Haley, and Pearl then mourn Nady's death.The trio arrive at the Atlanta facility and Pearl asks Gibson and Haley to stay, but alas they belong on the streets where they can help others. They leave as Pearl enters the facility and the armored door closes behind her.
