A young couple becomes embroiled with the personal problems of another couple on a yacht moored off Sicily during a turbulent weekend of fun, games, sex games, betrayal, spouse abuse, and murder.
Two carefree youngsters, Irem and Barbara (Al Cliver and Silvia Dionisio), are invited for a weekend cruise on a yacht owned by Giorgio, a ruthless and cynical industrialist, who is married to Silvia, a disturbed woman who allows herself to be physically and mentally abused by him.
Two carefree youngsters, Irem and Barbara, are invited for a weekend cruise on a yacht owned by Giorgio, a ruthless and cynical industrialist, who is married to Silvia, a disturbed woman who allows herself to be physically and mental abused by this devil-may-care man. Silvia then forms a love triangle with Irem and Barbara who conspire against Giorgio, whose misogyny and paranoia pushes him over the edge into murder.
Giorgio (John Steiner) is a ruthless and cynical businessman married to Silvia (Elizabeth Turner), his obliging victim, who accepts the betrays, domestic violence, and abuse committed by Giorgio with a sense of masochistic resignation. This couple meets Barbara (Silvia Dionisio) and Irem (Al Cliver), two carefree 20-something youngsters on the beach whom they invite on their yacht moored off the coast of Sicily.Soon, a degree of erotic tension arises between the two couples. Giorgios unpleasant manners and personality rapidly becomes evident to Barbara and Irem as Giorgio never passes up an opportunity to humiliate Silvia and always emphasizes his social superiority with regard to his two guests. Barbara soon speaks up against Giorgio and his erotic games and she rapidly exasperate him by skillfully turning his own words against him. Impressed by Barbara's strong will, Giorgio begins courting her, but in so doing is forced to put of with the fact that this gives Silvia the right to seduce Irem. Silvia grows more and more dissatisfied with her husband, and the dissatisfaction soon turns into hatred. Before long, Giorgio realizes that a sexual triangle has developed between his wife and the young couple, both of whom engage in sexual relations with one another.Giorgio becomes more paranoid and thinking that Irem, Barbara, and Silvia are plotting against him, Giorgio attacks Silvia one evening, and throws her overboard into the water, where helpless to wounds she sustained, she drowns. Barbara and Irem, correctly assuming that Giorgio may have murdered Silvia, plan and take advantage of Giorgio's umpteenth bout of drunkenness to throw him into the water as well after dressing him up in a wet suit and oxygen cylinder, in order make his death look like a scuba diving accident. Now alone on the yacht, Barbara and Irem set sail into the open sea, free to do and go anywhere they want.
