A mysterious woman, fashion designer by day and prostitute by night, is hounded by two men: a married father of two children and a sexually repressed preacher.
The thirty year-old hard-worker Bobby Grady is married with two children to the frigid Amy Grady and their marriage is in crisis. Bobby is invited to work the night shift at a fashion design studio whose owner believes his talented and introspective designer Joanna Crane is selling his designs to competitors. Bobby accepts the job to make money and please Amy with a bathtub and follows Joanna after hours. He discovers she has a double life, working as a fifty-dollar hooker called China Blue in the red light district and practicing kinky sex with her clients to satisfy their fantasies. Bobby becomes obsessed by China Blue and when the true thief is found, he has sex with her and they have a crush on each other. Meanwhile the insane preacher Rev. Peter Shayne (Anthony Perkins) decides to save Joanna's soul and stalks her everywhere.
A sportswear designer leads a double life as a hooker named China Blue. One of her clients, a divorced man, decides he loves her and figures out who she is. He then begins wooing her, which she fights against since he was a client. Meanwhile a street preacher works the red light district trying to save souls. He decides to save China's immortal soul and begins hounding her. Eventually he gets out of hand and the man in love with her must try to help her.
This probing and multi-layered investigation of love, sex, and commitment plays off China Blue's, Bobby's, and The Reverend's situations against each other. This probing and multi-layered investigation of love, sex, and commitment plays off China Blue's, Bobby's, and The Reverend's situations against each other. Each's sexual frustrations are extrapolated to the larger and symbolic factors of American life. China Blue is the woman in search of sexual fulfillment that includes love, but in her disappointment, she becomes a prostitute by night, career woman by day. Bobby's marriage has mutated into sexual frustration that is also shown as lack of honesty while husband and wife struggle with commitment gone sour. The Reverend is partly a symbolic representation of Christian confusion about sex and love and partly a representation of China Blue's confused and disappointed search for an authentic man/woman relationship. The story is not that simple, however, as it contains searing inditements of Christian salvation methods, the mixture of frustrated sexual longings and Christian condemnation of sex, and society's confusion about sex, marriage, and authentic loving relationships. As the prostitute, China Blue, that character is complex in her dual life, her unlikely opening of herself to a client (Bobby), and her brutal accessments of human sexual nature while leaving open the hope of "true love." The story will not resolve into these simplifying statements, however, because all the relationships are multi-dimensional.
For example, the hard bitten China Blue is tender and understanding in the strong scene where she is hired to give a dying man a last sexual thrill. That scene rises way above this description because of honesty of the ill man's pain and of China Blue's sensitivity to that pain. In another scene, China Blue is picked up in a limo by a "Wall Street" couple who dally with her while discussing a business deal, equating the couple's removal from real feelings and substituting money games. Her encounters with several male clients explore sexual domination and submission, especially with one (censored*) scene which graphically shows the brutality of a policeman-customer with Blue, but it must be taken as a larger contextual condemnation of violent sex as rape. Bobby appears a typical American male, frustrated in his marriage, longing for honesty, and trying hard to emerge from his teenage ideas into maturity. The price of divorce paid by the children is also referenced in a brief scene; thus, Bobby's divorce is with a large price, and he admits that and other dimensions. The story does not allow any easy or pat answers.
The Reverend is the most difficult character because he appears to harbor genuine caring for China Blue, but has his own twisted sexuality and confused idea of applying his Christianity to contemporary sexual mores. That he is made into a mad man, wanting to kill China Blue with a sharpened dildo, may push the story into horror elements that jar with the rest of the depictions. The final scene where he is killed by China Blue has to be taken symbolically (what will happen when the real police arrive?) in its brutality and unreality, although it does allow China Blue to throw over her "China Blue" life symbolically and be able to bond with Bobby.
Overall, the story is a search for authentic feelings and relationships in a world significantly corrupted by lack of trust and confused Christianity and inauthentic sexuality.I wrote more but the web site lost the rest.
