Three American friends travelling through Spain get stuck in a remote town where something very dangerous is changing the town's people.
3 young friends are on vacation in Spain, until weird things begin to occur and then a man from NASA tells them what's really going on: Dangerous Alien Organisms from the Apollo 14 Moon Mission, which was tested on animals on SkyLab. But then the organisms fell to earth with SkyLab and they are now starting to infect people by brutally killing them off. And these 3 friends and NASA scientist must get an antidote from a NASA Lab nearby and save themselves and the rest of the world.
In 1973, the space satellite Skylab was launched into orbit. Experiments with a lethal alien microbe were performed by being tested on animals aboard Skylab due to being too lethal to be performed on Earth. The results were horrific. In 1979, Skylab crash landed onto Earth, and a huge chunk of the satellite crashed outside a small village in Spain called Duarte. Now it is 1984. A cow has been exposed to the virus, originally thought to have burned up upon re-entry, among the wrecked remains of Skylab and dies. Wild dogs are later seen eating the corpse of the cow and one of the dogs is swallowed whole by an organism within the cow's corpse. The virus then starts to spread. At the same time, three American teenagers, Michael, Damon and Samantha on a pre-college vacation are spending the summer in Europe traveling in a rented camper with a dune buggy in tow. Their camper breaks down and they are forced to go into the village and stay for the night at a nearby trailer park. The next morning, NASA scientist Dr. W. Tracer has flown in from the United States to meet with a colleague, Captain J.J. Wells to discuss the virus and the infection of the local captain. Back at the trailer park, Michael, Damon and Samantha step out of their trailer for air and meet an Indian Family, the Bhodis, who happen to be camping right next to them. They talk to the Bhodis who are friendly but act somewhat weird at the same time. The three teenagers then decide to go to a diner for lunch.At the diner, Damon tells Michael and Samantha that he is going to make a quick errand and go to an auto parts shop to pick up parts for the camper. When he returns, Damon says that the store was closed but he noticed that the owner was unresponsive. Samantha tells Damon that he was more than likely asleep. Damon further elaborates on weird events that occurred at the store, such as a tire being thrown into the window and the then-awaking owner, despite being badly hurt by the shards of glass, not succumbing to the pain at all. Before leaving the diner, Michael calls for the bill and insists that Damon pay for their meal, much to Damon's chagrin after he says that Michael didn't even like his meal. When the waitress brings the bill, her hair is all messed up and her nose is bleeding as well. Meanwhile, Dr. Tracer and Captain Wells are examining the deformed corpse of the local captain at a hotel. The captain became deformed as a result of the alien virus. Blood from the captain's face splatters on the shirt of Captain Wells. Dr. Tracer and Captain Wells then go to a secret NASA laboratory outside the village to work on a cure. Dr. Tracer intends on using Wells as a guinea pig for the cure. When Wells finds out he is infected due to the Captain's blood splattering on his shirt, he tells Dr. Tracer that is unsure whether to kill the doctor or himself. He then tells Dr. Tracer to find another "guinea pig" and commits suicide by shooting himself in the head. As Dr. Tracer runs off, an alien can be heard making its way out of what's left of Wells. Back at the trailer park, Samantha has had enough of being treated unfairly by Michael and Damon and decides to take the dune buggy and look around the village for the rest of the day. While in the village, Samantha encounters Dr. Tracer but ignores the doctor's plea to come with him on behalf of the alien virus. While at a local grocery store, Samantha encounters an infected man wearing a weird mask who then takes her outside to have her smashed by a garbage truck driven by an infected villager. Samantha however, escapes her fate by attacking the masked man and leaves him to get run over by the truck. She is then confronted by Dr. Tracer again who takes her to the local hotel to work on a cure for the alien virus.Later that night, Michael and Damon realize that Samantha has been gone unusually long, and when they here her via the camper radio talking in a scared fashion to someone (Actually, Dr. Tracer), they think she has been kidnapped. Michael tells Damon to see Mr. Bhodi for help on getting the camper started back up. Damon knocks on the Bhodis' trailer door, but there is no answer. Damon then wanders in to ask for help, only to see the corpses of Mrs. Bhodi and their daughter Baby and presumably alien organisms as well (similar to what was unleashed from Captain Wells). Damon runs out sickened and throws up in a garbage can. Michael thinks that Damon is joking around, but Damon insists that he is not and tells Michael to look in the camper for himself. He opens the door and noticed a spilled bottle of tomato juice as well as Baby's tricycle and doll. Mr. Bhodi's bloody corpse then falls down and shocks Michael, who immediately closes the camper door. Michael and Damon, after quickly repairing the camper, immediately drive the camper back into the village to look for Samantha. At the hotel, Samantha wanders around the hotel hallway and notices that all but one door is locked. She then goes inside the unlocked room and notices, to her horror, the deformed corpse of the captain. An alien then bursts out of the captain's face and nearly attacks Samantha, but she is saved by Dr. Tracer. Tracer later uses the radio board in the hotel to call for a napalm air strike of the village so that the virus will not spread anywhere else.Upon arriving, they go inside the hotel and find Samantha as well as Dr. Tracer, whom they pin down to the floor under the impression he kidnapped Samantha. Dr. Tracer tells Michael and Damon that it isn't what they think and Samantha tells them to let the doctor go, which they do. Dr. Tracer then explains about what is really going on and about the alien virus. He also mentions that if nothing is done about the virus, then all of Europe will get wiped out in 9 weeks. Michael then drives the dune buggy to the NASA lab, after Tracer mentions a canister that could provide a cure. On his way to the lab, Michael is confronted by a Fiat, which he successfully outruns.At the lab, Michael encounters the corpse of Captain Wells, and an alien that has unleashed itself from Wells' face. Michael manages to kill the alien and finds the canister. The lab alarm then goes into self-destruct mode, but despite losing the card key for the elevator, Michael successfully escapes from the lab with the canister before it explodes. While driving back in the village, Michael is confronted once again by the same Fiat that pursued him earlier. Once again, Michael successfully outdrives the Fiat, this time, causing it to flip over and explode. Arriving back to the camper, Tracer then develops the cure and applies it to the three teenagers. When the three hear the sounds of fighter jets, they suspect Dr. Tracer of trying to cover up the affair and have everyone killed. After that, Tracer reveals that he himself, is infected. Deciding that it is too late for him to inject himself with the cure, he runs out of the camper. Damon tries to convince the doctor that it isn't too late for him to be cured and to come with him, Michael and Samantha so that they can take him to the nearest hospital. The doctor tells Damon to escape from the village while he still can and is immediately run over by the garbage truck. Damon runs back into the camper and he, Michael and Samantha escape. The garbage truck is also in pursuit of our heroes but Damon manages to shoot a tire causing it to slow down. The three successfully drive out of the village alive after the air strike hits the village, destroying the garbage truck as well.While driving on the way to Madrid, the three teens decide to stop at a gas station to refuel the camper. At first, everything seems to be okay, until the gas station attendant coughs up blood and opens his jump suit to unleash a horrible alien from his face and chest cavity. Immediately, the alien leaps onto the camper window. The three teens attempt to escape, without any luck at first, but Damon then turns on the camper windshield to get the alien off the window and the camper eventually starts up. As the alien attempts to bite one of the camper's tires, Damon runs it over and the three move on. While Michael and Samantha are in the back of the camper and as Damon drives the camper into Madrid, Damon scratches his arm and his nose starts bleeding, indicating that he too, is now infected and that Dr. Tracer's supposed cure did not work. As the camper ascends into Madrid, the familiar sounds of an alien munching its way out of Damon's face can be heard. The movie ends there.By the time the end credits finish rolling, it can be presumed that the rest of Europe will be inevitably wiped out in 9 weeks, as Dr. Tracer predicted, and the rest of the world will follow through. It's also implied that Michael and Samantha are already infected too.
