A lady cop infiltrates an all-female criminal gang.
Lacy Bond (Sondra Currie) is escorting B.J. Anderson into prison. The Police Sergeant (Loretta Swit) at the reception desk, admonishes her for not having signed the form triplicate, and Lacy looks bored. Lacy and Anderson follow a guard to a cell, Lacy opens the handcuffs of Anderson and the guard opens the door. Suddenly, they are shoved aside by the inmates, who run away through the corridor. Anderson and the guard are knocked out when they hit their heads on the wall and the floor, respectively. Lacy is shaken but not out, and she runs after the fugitives. The one she cache sup with, she grabs her hair from behind, and kicks her rump, sending her head first onto the wall. In quick succession, she stakes on those who were running behind her: the second with a clothes-line with her left arm; the third with a knee to the groin; the fourth with a kick to the stomach; the fifth with a karate chop; the sixth with another low kick.The first three fugitives manage to pass a door, and black Pam (Jeannie Bell - first black Playboy centerfold) produces a small pistol to menace a prison guard, demanding she opens another door. and she takes it with her two companions. Meanwhile, the Warden and a few cops, guns in hand, stay behind the closed door.Lacy Bond is knocking out the rest of the fugitives: the seventh with a high kick to the face, the eighth with a chop, the ninth with a punch. The tenth runaway, a redhead with a ponytail, opts to run back into the cell, closing the door behind her.The three fugitives tie up and gag the prison guard, strip their uniforms and change clothes - that had been hidden in a laundry car, together with a long rope, grenades and explosives - and do not pay attention to the Warden's demands to surrender. Pam imposes herself to her companion Janette (Laurie Rose), a shoulder length brunette - because she is the one with the gun - and then they throw grenades and teargas into the corridor, forcing the Warden and cops to run away, or fall on their rumps, coughing. The three fugitives, now in black leotards, boots, and breathing masks, reach easily the door to the roof, explode the last barred window with a piece of dynamite, and descend to the street via the long piece of rope.Although delayed by the smoke in the corridor, Lacy also gets to the roof, just in time to catch the last of the three fugitives, a blonde, whom she knocks out in a brief karate fight.(Film credits)The morning after, Lacy Bond reports to Inspector Martell (Chuck Daniel), a black man, who has reviewed her CV and found that she may be a troublemaker, having placed - and been denied - 26 requests to be transferred from prison guard to field officer. She does not see that is a problem, simply wishing to experience what "gutsy" men experience on the street - she says it pointedly, as the deputy inspector with Martell had been addressing her with macho superiority, and could lose some weight. He introduces her to lieutenant Frank Mitchell (Tony Young) who tells her that there is a dangerous mission that only a woman may perform, and to sergeant Pete Petersen (Richard Schuyler).The inspector decides to give her that mission, but first she will have to go through the entrance course, "to show what she is capable of". Lacy Bond fires an automatic rifle, placing all shots at the head of the target; at the driving area, she drives a police car back and forth at speed, much impressing the Driving Instructor (Marland Proctor), and then, in a karate outfit, she is taken to the gymnasium, where Bill McClarsky, the black belt Karate Instructor (William Smith), who has an advantage of 1 foot in height and 80 lbs in weight on her, promises her to go easy on her, and then does the opposite. The sergeant is happy at last, Lacy is not, and tells it to the instructor. When they face up again, the little woman's bare foot impacts firmly into his groin. He staggers aside but turns round, and attacks again. The blonde then flips, tosses, chops, and lays to rest the haughty Goliath in less than 30 seconds, the last time with a kick to the face that cuts his lip and breaks one of his front teeth. Lacy apologizes several time, with a smile that betrays her words. (The karate scene is cut from some copies.) She is taken to the police lab, where a technician shows her micro transmitters hidden in a lady's mirror and a cigarette lighter. In between tests, she had been told that there is a crime wave, involving prostitution, bank robberies, gold smuggling - and the inspector suspects they are all planned by a well organized female Mafia.A car parks in front of a closed gate to a large mansion, driven by Frank Mitchell, with Lacy and Petersen inside. Petersen goes to have a word with another team of cops, in a red car in front of them, and then he calls out Mitchell to join him. Lacy is about to object, them being talking in front of the house like that - but then a Woman in Black Sedan (Angela Carnon) arrives; she is about to park close to the gate, but seeing the two men talking to the red car's driver, and Lacy on the other car, she speeds away instead. Lacy takes the wheel, and gives chase, leaving her superiors planked on the road. The woman is forced to slow down because the road is narrow, and a slow driver is in front of her, and then she loses the control of the car when she was trying to surpass but a van comes in the opposite direction after a bend. The black sedan falls into a ravine, a fire starts, and the driver dies in the subsequent explosion.The fire brigade is ending their work on the burned out sedan, which had been carrying a lot of heroin in the trunk, and inspector Martell is not pleased, but sergeant Petersen takes the opportunity to blame Lacy of blowing their cover. Lacy starts an argument, and says they shouldn't have been talking with the other cops, so distracted that they hadn't seen the black sedan. Frank Mitchell confesses that they had been discussing lunch, inspector Martell ends up accepting Lacy's view of the matter, and she makes peace with sergeant Pete, the old fashioned cop.While they are at this, a blue sedan enters the mansion's gate. It's a large property, with an asphalt road lined up with trees and shrubs, several cars parked close to the house and a lawn and playing field. The Womn in the Blue Sedan opens the trunk of her car, and from it come the two prison fugitives: Pam and Janette. The brunette goes to Maud Anderson (Elizabeth Stuart), who is busy with an automatic calculator and a stash of bank notes on a camping table.Maud is happy to see Janette again, and they talk about the escape, then the 70+ old lady asks rudely, "Who's the black?"
"She's Pam Grier [sic], she had a gun - came in handy!" answers Janette.
Maud says she doesn't like guns, and wants to know how the girl had gotten it. Pam extracts the gun from her waist, and throws it on the table. "It's fake, I made it!" Then she tells she was in for prostitution. Maud is not satisfied with all she has to say.Kim (Eileen Saki), in white sweater and baggy trousers, detaches herself from the other girls who're playing on the lawn, and interrupts the meeting, with racist obscenities and saying that "we don't want black bitches around here". Without losing her composure, Pam, still in black sweater and dark blue figure hugging trousers, tells Kim "But Honey, I doesn't understand your attitude, I always say nice things about gooks..." hinting at the obvious Asian ancestry of the other girl. On the background, Doc (Phil Hoover) is lifting weights, wearing only white shorts that emphasize the bulge in his crotch. Kim rams headfirst onto Pam, who falls overturning a light chair. Kim kicks Pam before she is able to stand, and a circle of cheering girls surrounds them quickly, including Maude and her lover Doc. Pam makes Kim fall, but on the ground she is then victim of a back-breaker and arm lock combination. Kim then jumps upon the supine Pam, but Pam throws her aside.Pam tries to stand, but Kim is fast, and karate kicks her three times in a row, making the black girl fall on her back every time. At last, Pam manages to escape another attack, and receives a diving Kim with a double kick to the chest. They keep karate kicking each other for a little while, until Pam knocks Kim out. Then, Pam hurls Kim up three times, and three times she knees her to the jaw and face, achieving her completely. She drags the bloody faced, unconscious girl to the table, picks up a large water bottle, and is about to smash it on her head, when Maud shouts, "That's enough!"Maud is pleased with Pam, and offers her money and what she may want if she obeys her commands. Pam looks at Doc, again lifting weights and sporting an erection. Maud says angrily that Doc is her husband, and all girls know they can not approach him. Pam says she did not want a piece of him.Then she shows Janette and Pam where they will live, and they're interrupted by Doc who brings bad news, that Susan is dead, and it seems the police had already been surveying the house before she delivered the drugs. Doc is unhappy about Maud trusting so much the stupid girls, she calls him a moron, and gives orders to pack their things and prepare to abandon the house.Indeed, the police has set a video camera on the front of the house, and are keeping watch. Over lunch, inspector Martell decides to send Frank and Lacy to Catalina Island, to look for clues there of Maud's operation. Meanwhile, Maud is telling Doc that losing three boats with gold is not a problem to her, because 62 boats got through the authorities' net. She tells Doc to stop his weight lifting exercise, as the weights are making metallic noises that distract her from her accounting. Reluctantly, he does, and approaches her suggesting that he will be taking a shower - his grin suggesting sex. She says, "Not today, Doc. I've got a headache and a sire throat." He goes to the showers, followed shortly after by Laura (Susie Ewing), a long haired brunette in a blue bikini. She strips nude, and enters the shower cabin, suggesting she could soap him, and Doc could soap her. The girl makes up to him, but he is too worried with Maud to accept, and leaves. She calls him "Fag!"Janette is trimming Pam's large Afro hairdo, leaving her with a totally different look.On Catalina Island, Inspector Mitchell and Lacy Bond have got a yacht in location from the Hobie Cat club, they rent a buggy to go to Las Casitas, they bicycle through the scenic spot, drive a motorboat, walk around the port and buy shrimps and chips from a street stall, ride horses in the wood, smooch each other at a restaurant, walk some more eating hamburgers, sail in a light catamaran, and refresh themselves at the hotel's swimming pool (he inside, she out), before taking their shorts and bikini off, and dressing for a romantic dinner at the restaurant. Frank is wearing a tie, and Lucy a a low cut decollete golden dress. Over a cup of wine, their conversation goes from gender relations to sex, and she promises to be gentle with him, and not repeat what he described as "dangeous moves", evoking her test at the police gym. Follows sweet sex in bed, and finally he asks why she had learned karate - she had started at 10, and was a black belt at 17 - and why she wanted so bad to do field work - she had wanted to be a policewoman and her first assignment was as prison guard, a job where she felt imprisoned.Next morning, they are early sunbathing aboard the yacht, at the dock.Frank Mitchell and Lacy Bond are spying the gang's movement from a yacht at the docks. Frank suddenly exclaims, "Caroline Field", and Lacy doesn't understand, because she is face down, wishing him to put more suntan oil on her back. Frank's eyes are open wide, as he just identified the blonde in the white bikini going aboard a large yacht, the Westerly, close to theirs. Lacy is suddenly alert. He tells her that that girl had been a high class call-girl, with a gangster boyfriend. Frank decides to follow Westerly that is just leaving the port. The Westerly was about to get in contact with the smugglers, but Caroline and her girls noticed the presence of the small yacht, got suspicious, and decided to return to the port. When passing close, Caroline recognizes Frank as a cop she had known. Caroline decides to take the wheel, and crash the small boat. With Lacy at the wheel, the small yacht manages to evade the attack of the big yacht. When the two boats are very close again, Frank manages to jump aboard the Westerly, and he punches a couple of girls, but he is outnumbered and ultimately knocked out and beaten by the other three with a paddle and a metal chain. He is bloodied, and knocked out.Lacy, dressed in gray trousers and an open jacket over a top that leaves her midriff bare, manages to jump onto the large yacht, after stopping her own. She high kicks Laura in pink bikini and yielding the metal chain, who falls onto her back KO'ed, either from the kick, or hurting her breasts on the yacht's handrail.A Hit-girl in a striped skirt and matching bra is next, yielding a club; she attacks and goes down with a knee to the chest and a karate chop to the head.Kennedy, a brunette in a red bikini, was still beating up on the fallen man, so she turns around to aim it at Lacy. But the policewoman deviates the hit, and floors the attacker with a right punch to the head.Caroline Field (Dorrie Thomson), the blonde in a white bikini, was also hitting at Frank with a paddle, and comes at Lacy next. This is a longer fight, until the blonde loses her weapon, and is KO'ed by Lacy's powerful high kicks.Using the micro radio she had been given by Inspector Martell, she requires police support and reports five arrests - the four girls she has knocked down, and a Hit-girl brunette in a pink sweater and shorts, that had been knocked out by Frank when he first boarded the big boat.After delivering the hit-girls to the police, and against Frank Mitchell's opinion, Inspector Martell decides Lacy should continue her infiltration mission, assuming that Maud's people in Catalina Island do not know her. Frank goes to hospital, physically hurt - and with his male ego also hurt, despite Lacy going sweet on him.Raymond Willis (Wes Bishop), waiting in vain for Maud's girls, decides to call her about the situation. She is mad at him, and says he is responsible if that shipment is lost - he should take care of the problem, or else. Maud decides to leave the house immediately, and her orders are followed. On Pete Peterson's watch, all of them leave the mansion in fourteen cars and vans of different descriptions, that Pete reports - uselessly, and missing just the last car - to the cops that only have one car available to follow the suspects, who are driving in two opposite directions. Maud is in a blue Volkswagen driven by her husband, with Janette and Pam on the back sit."You just learned one lesson, girls. No one gives a shit about a Volkswagen."Soon, the four of them are flying a hydroplane, to have a meeting with Raymond, at the Catalina Attendant's home. Maud is worried of losing this large cargo of gold.Meanwhile, the Westerly comes to port, driven by Lacy, who reports to the Catalina Attendant (Lee Frost) that she had found it without crew on board. He tells her that it belongs to Richard Willis.Lacy goes to Richard's villa, situated in a viewpoint over the ocean, and when she says she has brought his yacht back, he welcomes her in - only to subject her to some hard slapping by Doc's hands, in order to know where the female crew is. She keeps saying she doesn't know and takes a severe beating. When both Maud and Doc think she is unconscious, they talk about the gold cargo, and Maud's plan to leave the island. Janette and Pam are returning from a stroll outside, and Janette recognizes Lacy, from somewhere. Pam intervenes, saying she also remembers her - from being in prison with her, in Chicago, and presents herself as Pam Harris. Lacy does recognizes both as fugitives from the Bakersfield prison, but jeeps her mouth shut, and goes along with Pam's story, who tells Maud that "This girl is OK. She's one of us"Maud goes to the boat "to see if he finds something", but returns home empty handed, and bored by the presence of some dozen cackling, beautiful girls that now surround Maud.Pam takes Lacy and Janette out to a restaurant, where Janette - who's wearing a blonde wig. Janette keeps talking about past love affairs, but slowly she brings in the subject of imprisonment, policewomen, and of a particular police woman who had broken her nose. She ends saying pointedly that she hates policewomen. Then she tells Pam that Lacy is a cop. Lacy tries to say that she's confusing her with someone else, but Janette insists that "She is the woman who put my fingers on that paper!" Then, seeing how Pam keeps silent, she takes the conclusion that, since Pam said Lacy was a con, she must be in collusion with the cop. "So, that's it! You're both cops!"Janette stands up and leaves the restaurant in a hurry, and so do Pam and Lacy. Pam says to Lacy, "We must get her." Lacy is delayed by the restaurant manager, who wants her to pay the bill.Pam overcomes Janette on the run on a plateau overlooking a cliff. She tackles her, is punched to the face, but grabs her leg, stopping her to continue to Richard's house. They fight, Janette finds a handy piece of wood with what she clubs at Pam's breasts. Pam stands up and they fight again with kicks and a throw - that sends Janette off the border of the cliff. Pam tries to give her a hand to pull her up, but the girl is either too heavy or to scared to help, and then the brunette opens her hand and with a piercing scream, she falls into the ravine to her death.Lacey arrives out of breath, and asks Pam what happened. "I couldn't save her."
"You're cop, aren't you?"
"Secret Service."
Pam concocts a story for Janette's disappearance, that she had had to kill the dark blonde as she found out that she had been informing the police about the gang's deliveries. Both women trade information about the case.Aboard the Westerly, Pam and Lacy watch how Maud receives the gold - via an inflatable boat that pops up (from somewhere) at a certain latitude-longitude point. After tying the boat to the yacht, Maud maneuvers the yacht to the main coast, instead of Catalina Island, which surprises the policewomen that had been told they would be back to the island, and where both Police and Secret Service personnel was waiting for Lacy and Pam' signal to act.Doc plunges into the sea and single-handed, pulls the inflatable boat to the coast, to where Maud has already carried her dozen girls with no visible paddling boat on sight.Each girl carries two bars of gold, and the large container on top of the inflatable boat is thus emptied. The girls carry the gold to three army trucks stationed at the beach along with a military police car. Maud tells them that there are military uniforms for the girls to wear. "And no one ever stops an army convoy!" she says. The girls do as ordered, and Lacy activates her "lighter", sending a signal to her colleagues. However, the signal interferes with the walkie-talkie Doc is using to communicate with another girl elsewhere, and that leads him to discover the culprit object in Lacey's uniform pocket. "What's this, girl? I've not scene you smoking before!"Lacey runs away, followed by Doc, who's followed by Pam. The other girls stay put, not understanding what's going on. He knocks out both women with a punch each. Maud shoots a warning shot and tells him to stop. Her priority is getting the convoy on the road quick, and "we'll drop these two on the way".Both policewomen are put inside a truck, with Doc and Maud - with her gun - guarding them.
"You two girls, did a really bad mistake... No cop ever screwed around with me and got away with it!" says Maud.
"She's no cop," interposes Lacy, pointing at Pam with her jaw - though their hands are not tied.
Maud is not impressed, and tells Doc they are to be thrown off the top of the cliff as soon as the trucks are there. When she gives the signal, Doc asks who will be the first, and Lacey volunteers.
She and Doc stand up - and Lacey starts a fight with him, while Pam KO's Maud with a punch, and takes her revolver, watching Lacey fight the big bodybuilder alone. He goes down, his face bloodied and his groin hurt with a knee blow, much like that Karate Instructor early on.
Pam tells her colleague, "She's had it," referring to Maud.
Then they lift the tarpaulin between the cargo area and the cabin of the truck, and Lacey knocks out the woman driver with a precise karate chop to the neck. Pam takes the wheel and, with an acrobatic move, both girls get into the cabin before the truck goes off the road.Then, Lacey manages to jump onto the next truck - without being seen by the driver or her assistant. This time, she performs the karate chop with both left and right hands, with such precision that both the women driver and her assistant are KO'ed at once. And alone, she wriggles into the cabin to take the driving wheel, and go on driving despite the cumbersome sleeping women in the cabin.
After signaling Pam that all is OK, Lacey speeds up and overtakes the first truck in the convoy, who is driven by Kim.
The woman driver of the police car does not understand what's up, but she doesn't allow Lacey to overtake her, and engages in a "test of strength" which has the expected result of her car being driven off the road, into the ravine. Lacey stops and goes to border of the ravine to see that no survivors are left.Pam keeps watch with Maud's gun, over three girls in uniform, but Kim was quick in understanding something went wrong, and ran away - followed by Lacey.
"Ran scared, honey?" teases the redhead policewoman.
Kim turns around smiling, then attacks with a loud shout. Again a karate fight takes place, this time with no one to see Kim biting the dust, and fall onto her back, KO'ed by a kick to the plexus.Inspector Martell and Frank Mitchell are there to arrest the survivor's of the gang, and take the cache of gold. Frank invites Lacey to go an another dangerous assignment with him, which she promptly accepts. He is in such a hurry to be alone with her that he "abducts" her in a police car.
Doc and Maud are in custody of the police, in a police car, and she's making plans for a diamonds' heist, already.
