When call-girl Della gets caught in the middle of a drug bust at a hotel where she was meeting a trick, she is held hostage by a robber that busted in on the drug agents and the drug dealers. She gets rescued by vice cop Church who is accused of staging the aborted bust. Ex-ballplayer turned drug dealer Roger is in tight with corrupt vice cops and their superiors And the fireworks start popping.
Detective Tony Church is forced to retire and become a store rent-a-cop when his drug sting operation comes to a tragic end by a masked killer. He joins forces with a prostitute, the only one able to identify the killer, to bring him to justice.
Outside a hotel in Chicago, Illinois, police officer Tony Church (Burt Reynolds) and his team prepare for a drug bust. As an undercover officer named Lindy (Ned Schmidtke) arrives at the dealer's third floor room with $2 million, prostitute Della Roberts (Liza Minelli) arrives to meet her client. Knocking on the wrong door, she is turned away by "Dancer," (James Remar) a former police officer. After Della finds her client's room, Church and his team arrest the drug dealers. However, Dancer appears wearing a motorcycle helmet and throws a flash grenade into the room. Opening fire with an automatic weapon, Dancer aims at the dealers and the officers, killing everyone except Tony Church. Grabbing the money and cocaine, Dancer attempts to kill Della. Church shoots, but misses, and Dancer escapes.At the police station, Church turns in his badge after the hot-tempered and arrogant Precinct Commander Wieser (John P. Ryan) accuses him stealing the money for himself. Meanwhile, Dancer stalks Della and tries to murder her. Worried, Della asks Church to protect her, but he only agrees after she reveals she has given up prostitution.Later, Church and Della run into former police officer Roger Latrele (Richard Masur). Della recognizes Roger from a party she once worked. Breaking into the police records department, Church and Della learn that Dancer was the code name for fired officer Adam Booth.Afterward, Church and Della visit Beth Connors (Dionne Warwick), Della's former madam. Going through Beth's files, Church notices that Alexander, the city's top cocaine dealer, referred all the former police officers as clients, including Roger Latrele. Assuming Dancer and Roger work for Alexander, Church and Della ask Beth to get them invitations to a party at Alexander's mansion in order to look for evidence.At the party, Alexander recognizes Tony Church. Upset with Beth for double-crossing him, Alexander has Dancer kill her. Later, Roger feels guilty about his association with Alexander.Meeting with Church, Roger confesses that Alexander ordered the drug bust ambush. Meanwhile, Della hears about Beth's murder and breaks into the dead madam's apartment, looking for information on Dancer. As she telephones Church with the name of the club where Dancer works, Dancer kills Roger.Wearing a "wire," Della arrives at the dance club with Church. Before Della goes inside, Church kisses her. However, Dancer takes Della hostage and drives to Alexander's mansion. Church radios his former partner, Lemar, for backup, and follows them.At the mansion, Dancer puts on his motorcycle helmet and blinds Alexander and his henchmen with a flash grenade before killing them. Church appears and attacks Dancer by placing a flash grenade inside his motorcycle helmet. When the grenade detonates, Dancer's head explodes.In the final scene, Della embraces Church and announces that she will be moving in with him.
