A man and his wife receive a clue to an imminent assassination attempt, only to learn that their daughter has been kidnapped to keep them quiet.
While holidaying in Switzerland, Lawrence and his wife Jill are asked by a dying friend, Louis Bernard, to get information hidden in his room to the British Consulate. They get the information, but when they deny having it, their daughter Betty is kidnapped. It turns out that Louis was a Foreign Office spy and the information has to do with the assassination of a foreign dignitary. Having managed to trace his daughter's kidnappers back to London, Lawrence learns that the assassination will take place during a concert at the Albert Hall. It is left to Jill, however, to stop the assassination.
Londoners Bob and Jill Lawrence and their daughter Betty are in St. Moritz where they are partaking in some sporting competitions: Jill is in a skeet shooting contest, and their friend, Frenchman Louis Bernard, is in a ski jumping competition. While Louis and Jill are on the crowded dance floor together at a party one evening, there is small popping noise among all the other noises in the room, that pop which ends up being a gunshot fired at Louis. Just before he dies in Jill's arms on the dance floor, Louis vows her to secrecy as to what he is about to say: that there is a brush in his hotel room - the key to which he slips to her - the brush which she must take to the British consul. Jill confiding only in Bill who takes the key, he is able to find the brush which contains a cryptic note inside the handle. They also find that a man in the skeet shoot competition - who they only know as Ramon - also wants the note in the brush, with he and his associates having kidnapped Betty to get it. The Lawrences are to say nothing to the authorities or they will kill Betty. Back in London without Betty, the Lawrences learn directly from the British Foreign Office that Louis worked for them, his latest case was about an upcoming assassination attempt on a high ranking foreign official, that piece of paper in the brush is probably the key to finding out the assassination plans, and a successful assassination could spark the start of a war. Bill and Jill believe that piece of paper, which they refuse to turn over, is what is keeping Betty alive. As such, the Lawrences have to decide how much investigation to do on their own with their loyal friend Clive, and how much to involve the Foreign Office, in their primary mission to save Betty, with thwarting the assassination a bonus if they are able.
Bob and Jill Lawrence are on a winter sports holiday with their teenage daughter Betty. When their friend Louis Bernard is shot whilst dancing with Jill, he tells Bob of an assassination about to take place in London. Fearing that their plot will be revealed, the assassins kidnap Betty in order to keep the Lawrence's quiet. Bob and Jill return to London and take matters into their own hands.
Bob Lawrence and his crack-shot wife, Jill are holidaying in Switzerland when their French friend, Louis Bernard is gunned down, warning them, with his dying breath, of an imminent diplomatic assassination. To ensure the couple's silence, the conspirators kidnap their daughter. However, Abbot and his comrades have fatally underestimated British pluck.
Jill and Bob Lawrence are on a winter holiday with their daughter, Betty. While he is dancing with Jill, the secret agent Louis Bernard is shot to death. With his last words he tells Jill about an assassination planned by some terrorists, about to take place in London. Fearing their plan would be revealed, the spies kidnap Betty and carry her off to London with them. Bob and Jill come back to London too, searching for their daughter.
Thrilling Hitchcockian adventure
where Banks &amp; Best run into intrigue
as their daughter is kidnapped, so
that they will not reveal information that has come into their possesion.
Sinister characters led by Lorre make sure they cannot approach the authorities. Thrilling climax for
even those of us jaded by decades
of thrillers produced since this gem was produced
