A deaf runaway arrives in San Francisco's Haight-Ashbury hippie district looking for her missing brother.
Jenny, a deaf runaway who has just arrived in San Francisco's Haight-Ashbury district to find her long-lost brother, a mysterious bearded sculptor known around town as The Seeker. She falls in with a psychedelic band, Mumblin' Jim, whose members include Stoney, Ben, and Elwood. They hide her from the fuzz in their crash pad, a Victorian house crowded with love beads and necking couples. Mumblin' Jim's truth-seeking friend Dave considers the band's pursuit of success "playing games," but he agrees to help Jennie anyway.
Straight-laced and innocent Jenny Davis, a deaf runaway, arrives in San Francisco in the Haight-Ashbury District, she on a quest to find her artist brother, Steve Davis. She has a last known address and a recent postcard with a cryptic and thus yet undeciphered note from him as the starting points to find him, while she needs to elude the police who are searching for her in order to send her home. In the process, she meets hippies Stoney, Ben and Elwood, who squat together in a communal house and are in a band together. The three friends end up helping Jenny in her San Francisco situation, including making space for her in their house. It is Stoney with who she makes a special connection. She, as an innocent, may be unaware of free love that Stoney lives, he who makes no commitment to any one woman. She may also be unprepared for the many aspects of counter-culture, from the hatred that some have for hippies, some who will use violence to show that hatred, to the effects of the vast array of psychedelic drugs making the rounds, to the choice to be unemployed which often means doing without what the mainstream pays money for. This latter point also places a wedge between Stoney and ex-band member Dave, who is also attracted to Jenny and feels that Stoney is selling out in the band pursuing paying gigs and other things in the music business that requires a contract.

