Girls are killed at a language-school in Spain.
Miguel, a young man with a horribly disfigured face, goes on a rampage at a masquerade party and rapes a girl. He then brutally hacks up the young woman with a pair of scissors. Miguel is institutionalized at a mental asylum for five years. Afterward, he is released into the care of his sister, Manuela. Along with their wheelchair bound mother, they operate a boarding school for young woman, called Europe's International Youth-Club Boarding School of Languages, on the Spanish resort of Costa Del Sol. Miguel is intrigued by Angela, a long-haired brunette, whom he first saw on the train ride from the sanitarium. The creepy Miguel follows her around. Miguel meets with Manuela to request that they resume their incestuous relationship. She reminds him that it was this relationship that made him emotionally unstable five years earlier. She says they cannot because nobody understands them: "Only if we could get rid of everyone, then things could go back to the way they were." Then Angela's friends are killed one by one. One, while topless, is skewered from behind by a 12-inch knife that exits her right nipple. Another is coerced by a romantic masked Spaniard who insists on tying her up in an abandoned lumber mill (which according to her is "kinky," but OK) and is decapitated quite nicely with a large power saw, complete with squirting blood from her neck. A young boy is run over mid-section by a Mercedes. Another friend is strangled by smoldering fireplace tongs. There is also the real decapitation of a snake. When the girls start to turn up missing, nobody believes Angela that there's a killer on the loose. She had seen the corpse of one girl, and it was gone as soon as she went for help. Confused and scared, Angela finally looks for help from the people who run the school.
A woman is seen rolled in a wheelchair at night. Miguel, a man with a heavily scarred face, hands around a dance outside. As a young couple enjoys some time together, Miguel steals the boy's mask and shirt and puts them on. He leads another dancing girl to believe that he is Ralph, and they go to her room, where they lie on the bed for some kissing. The girl takes away the mask, sees Miguel's face and kicks him away. Miguel grabs a pair of scissors and stabs the girl repeatedly in the stomach.Some time later, when Manuela drives to a clinic to pick up her brother Miguel, a doctor tells her to not remind Miguel of the incident. On a train, a seemingly irate Miguel eyes a young woman named Angela as she stands in her compartment.Alvaro arrives at the International Youth-Club Boarding School of Languages. He goes to see Manuela, whose aunt, Countess Maria Gonzales, states her belief that she is being plotting against and that Manuela only wants money. That night, as Maria lies in bed, someone shines a light in her face, the moves a flaming torch towards her. The countess screams and burns.Angela arrives at the school a little later then her friends, and she mentions the "awful experience" on the train. She is staying in Room 13 where (it is rumored) a girl was once killed with a pair of scissors. Angela unpacks, plays some music and prepares to shower. When she wipes the steamy bathroom mirror, she sees Miguel reflected and recognizes him as the guy from the train. At the estate, Manuela rolls her aunt around in a wheelchair.Angela goes outside, sees Miguel and walks faster. She is cared by her friend Inga, and then both go to see Laura, Eva and the flirtatious gardener, Antonio. Miguel goes to see his sister, and he proclaims his love to Manuela; the two kiss and touch. Manuela stops him, saying that it could be like it was before if they could get rid of the people who would judge them.After a night of dancing at the local disco, Antonio walks Angela home and asks her to play tennis with him tomorrow. Angela reads in bed and the lights in her room are turned off. "Who's there?" asks Angela. A person appears in her room with a knife. Angela looks around, finds nothing and goes back to bed. Before the killer can attack, Eva appears at the window; when she is let inside she asks to borrow a pullover. Angela gives her the clothing. As Eva changes, she is stabbed through the back with a knife. Angela finds Eva's body on the bed, screams and runs outside, finding Antonio. She tells him about Eva, but the corpse is gone when they return to the room. Inga and Alvaro also arrive at the room.The next day in the Spanish class that Alvaro teaches, the class is listening to tapes of Spanish dialect. On Angela's tape, the voice suddenly changes and threatens to cut her with a hacksaw. Seeing Miguel at the window, she screams, but he is gone when Alvaro's is there and the tape is back to its Spanish lessons.
Angela finds bloody clothes and a bloody show in Eva's place, and decides to look for her friend. At the dock, Angela sees Antonio arguing with Manuela, Later, a boulder rolls down a hill, nearly crushing Angela. She tells Laura that she cannot find Eva. Angela then talks to Antonio, who says he did not even know Eva. Manuela talks to her aunt and notices one of her snakes is missing. After agreeing to look for Eva, Antonio sees a snake and chops off its head with garden shears. Angela turns to see bloody and open shears, and runs. Antonio tries to stop her, but Alvaro calls out to him and tells him to stop bothering his students.Laura and her friends go into Room 13, where Inga, reportedly with someone named Ralph, is feigning a sexual act inside. She does not sees a dead Eva hanging in the closet. The girls finally sees Inga through the window, and they laugh at her. Angela, out walking, sees Inga drive back in a yellow car (similar to one Manuela drove). A person wearing a mask takes Inga somewhere (she has accompanied the person willingly), and she is tied with rope. The person turns on a saw and Inga slowly moves towards it. A young boy, seeing the couple arrive, walks inside, turns off the machine and runs. The saw is turned back on and Inga's head is sawed off. The killer gets in his car, chases the boy and runs him down.Manuela rolls the countess in her wheelchair. Angela goes to her room and packs. After seeing Antonio at the front door and Miguel at the window, the barricades herself in her room and sits and waits with a knife. As she looks around the room, Angela sees a shadow and stabs someone. After she lets Laura inside, she realizes that she only stabbed a dummy. Laura offers to stay for the night, and goes to the disco club to get some drinks. When Laura returns, the killer clamps large thongs around her neck and strangles her.Angela receives a phone call where the caller says: "prepare yourself to die!" Angela then finds the severed hand of Inga's on the bed and a lifeless Eva behind the curtain and Laura's hanging corpse outside. She is grabbed by the killer. Miguel runs in and the two of them struggle. Angela runs away. Later, she sees a figure in the dark, which turns out to be Alvaro. Alvaro gets in his car and drives away. Miguel, having been hit on the head by the killer, stands up and walks out the door of Room 13.Angela runs to Manuela's place and asks for help by screaming: "all my friends are dead". Manuela takes her to a room and gives her something to drink. Angela says that she did not get a good look at the killer's face but notes that the murder's eyes seemed familiar.Miguel is outside when Alvaro arrives at his place. Manuela and Alvaro discuss the killings that he has done, and Miguel hears them talk of blaming the murders on him. Manuela talks of how Miguel thinks she loves him, and she mentions his "repulsive face". Manuela tells Alvaro that she has already been paid and she tells him to kill Angela and get out. Miguel goes to a room, and eventually believing that Angela is his sister, chokes the girl until she shoves a spike through his neck. Angela runs downstairs, sees Alvaro and Manuela struggling and goes to a room and screams when she sees the countess... dead and crispy having been long dead (shades of the Norman Bates mother discovery in 'Psycho'). Alvaro runs into the room, grabs Angela and holds a knife to her, but Manuela arrives with a power saw and saws Alvaro's stomach wide open. She puts the saw to Angela's throat and tells her to remember that she has save her life. Angela nods and runs away from the mansion.Manuela then goes to her room and talks to her dead brother, but Miguel sits up and chokes Manuela until she is dead. As the police arrive and Antonio embraces Angela, Miguel collapses, holding onto his dead sister's hand.
