A young, lonely, emotionally challenged teenage girl finds solace in burying dead animals after the sudden traumatic death of a childhood friend 10 years earlier.
Seventeen year old Brydie White is emotionally stunted due to an accidental shooting death with which she was involved when she was an adolescent, the incident which she doesn't remember. Mrs. White, a widow, recluse and alcoholic, still treats her daughter like a child, although she pays her daughter little attention. However, Brydie is physically becoming a young woman. Always fascinated by death, Brydie's new pastime is to bury any dead animal in the local church graveyard. She has convinced all the young children of her small English rural town to do the same, the animal plots complete with grave markers. These animal burials are the last straw for many of the townsfolk, who see Brydie as a menace and bad influence who should be locked away. The vicar, Reverend Phillip Moss, although as perturbed by the animal graves as anyone, does understand Brydie's position more than anyone in the town and wants to do what is best for her. When it looks that Brydie is in some real danger, Roibin Krisenki, one in a band of gypsies recently settled in the area, takes it upon himself to be her savior.
Brydie White is a 17-year-old girl living in a rural English village whom finds solace in burying pet animals in the church cemetery. Her only friends are the village children and her dog. Her alcoholic and distant mothers along with the loathsome town drunkard get in the way of her overcoming her past trauma and furthering her emotional development.
A girl with learning difficulties is traumatised at a young age after witnessing an accidental death of a child. Essentially abandoned by her alcoholic mother and misunderstood and ostracized by the 1960s English rural community she lives in, suspicious of the circumstances of the accident, she finds solace in the natural world and animals around her. She eventually finds friendship and love with a Romany gypsy.
