In 1875 London, young Wheeler (who lives by scavenging) finds a cameo of Queen Victoria, which he thinks so beautiful, he risks his life to save it. Possessed of a desire to see the Queen, he slips past the Beefeaters and wanders about Windsor Castle, just when a state dinner is in preparation. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli is struggling hard to persuade the Queen to end her long seclusion.
Queen Victoria, widowed now for fifteen years, is still dealing with her grief, she chooses to spend all of her time in the comfort of the reminders of Prince Albert at their castles, primarily Windsor Castle, in the process, refusing to make any more public appearances. Despite not believing that her seclusion behind castle walls affects her ability to reign, as Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli still has access to her, she was willing to abdicate if she ever thought otherwise, Disraeli does tell her that her not being in the public eye may jeopardize some public policy initiatives important to her. Meanwhile, orphaned and uneducated ten-year-old Wheeler lives as a mudlark on the banks of the Thames. While digging through the mud, he stumbles upon a cameo. It becomes his prized possession, if only because of the female portrait on it, it being the kindest, motherly face he has ever seen. He does not know of whom it is a portrait, he doesn't even know who Queen Victoria is, when told that that is her portrait. As such, he becomes obsessed with seeing her in the flesh. His attempts to see the reclusive Queen may have an affect not only on what happens within the hallowed halls of Windsor Castle, but in the way Disraeli and the Queen work together for the good of their constituents.
"Mudlarks" are street children who subsist by scavenging on the banks of the River Thames. An orphan named Wheeler discovers a medallion of Queen Victoria. An older friend explains that "she is the mother of all England", and Wheeler promptly sets out to meet her. But Victoria has shut herself away in her palace for the last thirteen years, in mourning for her dead husband. Wheeler's misadventures in the palace coincide with Disraeli's attempts to convince her to end her seclusion. Amazing performance by Irene Dunne.
This is a wonderful movie to show young children today. They maintain interest and it is totally G rated.
