A happy family goes through turbulent times because of a big mistake by one of the family members.
D.K. Malhotra lives a comfortable lifestyle with his wife, Indu, and two school-going daughters, Pinky and Minni. He works in the office of an Architect. One day while the family is relaxing, D.K. gets a phone call that results in him bringing home a young school-going boy by the name of Rahul. Indu is shocked to learn that Rahul is D.K.'s son from another woman, Bhavana, who is no more. D.K. does his best to make Rahul comfortable, but fails. Rahul also feels that Indu does not really like him, though Pinky and Minni have taken to him in a big way. Finally, D.K. decides to admit Rahul in a boarding school in far off Nainital. Rahul reluctantly goes along with this new-found uncle/friend. It is when Rahul is asked to put his papers together for school that Rahul finds out that D.K. is his biological father. Watch what happens when Rahul disappears from D.K.'s house, and the impact this has on D.K., Indu, and her two daughters.
Happily married and with a young family, DK (Shah) and Indu (Azmi) couldn't wish for a better life. DK has a well-paid position at a top engineering firm. He and Indu move in enviable social circles, and their daughters, Pinky (Matondkar) and Minnie (Aradhana), are bright and adorable. The only mentionable "discord" in their family is that DK and his daughters would love to have a puppy, but Indu is staunchly against it.The scene is set for a more serious discord when DK suddenly receives a call from his old headmaster in Nainital, informing him that he has an illegitimate son. The son, Rahul (Hansraj), is the product of a one-night-stand between DK and an old schoolfriend, Bhavna (Pathak), when DK visited Nainital 9 years ago. Now that Bhavna is dead, Rahul is to be DK's responsibility.DK is shocked but does the only honest thing in the circumstances - he tells Indu about the affair and Rahul. Indu is devastated. While she allows DK to bring Rahul home, her relationship with DK reaches a stalemate. She can't forgive him and he can't fail in his duty towards his son.The girls take to Rahul immediately - not knowing, of course, that he is their half-brother. DK's natural affection for the boy deepens when he sees how affectionate and intelligent Rahul is. The only person who cannot accept Rahul's presence in the family is Indu: for her, Rahul is the living reminder of DK's unfaithfulness.Things reach a crisis when Rahul cuts his hand but Indu shuns him when he runs to her for help, albeit not realizing that he is hurt. DK is infuriated but realizes that he can't let Rahul stay on in the family. He decides to take Rahul on a holiday to Nainital, where he arranges for Rahul to be admitted into a respected boarding school.Before Rahul starts school, DK brings him back home for a short stay - nearly to a reconciliation with Indu, before she draws back, realizing that the root of the problem remains. However, the fragile truce between DK, Indu and Rahul seems to be going well until Rahul inadvertently discovers that DK is his true father. Despite his youth, Rahul knows enough to realize that he can never fit into his father's family from marriage. He runs away that evening.Rahul's disappearance jolts Indu enough to drop her studied indifference to the child. She joins DK in searching for Rahul. Nearly out of his mind with worry, DK calls the Police, where he admits publicly for the first time that Rahul is his son.Later in the evening, Rahul is brought back home by a police officer. At that time, Indu is the only one at home (with DK still at the police station). Half-relieved, half-angry, she confronts Rahul with the worry he has caused the family. Rahul discloses that he knows that DK is his father, and goes and hides in his room. Later, DK returns and tries to win back Rahul's confidence, but Rahul won't speak to him any more. Defeated, DK tells Indu that he must take Rahul to the boarding school the next morning. He can't see any other option.That night, for the first time, Indu goes to Rahul's bedroom to tuck him in. She thinks he is asleep, but he opens his eyes and tells her he is sorry. All of a sudden, Rahul's innocence dawns on Indu, and she flees the room in tears. She understands that she isn't the only victim of the events.Next morning, DK takes Rahul to the station as planned, to board him on the train to Nainital. Rahul is still not speaking with him. But just before boarding the train, the parting from his father becomes too much for Rahul to bear, and he falls in DK's arms, sobbing. DK doesn't know how to remedy the pain, and can only promise that he won't forget Rahul and will visit him often.A confusion about Rahul's water bottle leads to DK rushing back to the car just before the train is about to leave. By the time he returns to the platform, the train has left. A dejected DK heads back to the car park, thinking how miserably he has failed his son in every way, but a delightful surprise awaits him: he sees that Rahul is back inside the car, along with Indu, Pinky and Minnie. At the last moment, Indu has decided to forgive DK. She now welcomes Rahul into the family as the only way forward. DK and Indu exchange a happy, meaningful look as DK gets into the car and starts driving the family back home.The last shot shows a photograph of the now once-again-happy family, with Indu and DK holding their children - and Rahul sitting on Indu's lap.
