In Paris, a man clueless about fashion suddenly inherits his aunt's dress shop, while his bandleader friend reunites with his old flame.
Football player John Kent tags along as Huck Haines and the Wabash Indianians travel to an engagement in Paris, only to lose it immediately. John and company visit his aunt, owner of a posh fashion house run by her assistant, Stephanie. There they meet the singer Scharwenka (alias Huck's old friend Lizzie), who gets the band a job. Meanwhile, Madame Roberta passes away and leaves the business to John and he goes into partnership with Stephanie.
Huckleberry Haines and his band, the Wabash Indianians, arrive at Le Havre, in France, for a season in a Russian nightclub. However, there is a misunderstanding and the owner Alexander Petrovitch Moskovich Voyda expects the arrival of an Indian band and he calls off their contract with Haines. Haines and the band head to Paris, and his friend John Kent decides to visit his Aunt Minnie, who owns the fashion house Roberta, to use her influence to find a work for the band. John meets the manager Stephanie and they immediately feel attracted to each other. Huck Haines meets in the Roberta's salon his old friend Liz with the artistic identity of Comtesse Scharwenka and she helps him to get a job with Voyda. When Aunt Minnie passes away, John Kent is the heir of her fortune and also Roberta. However he decides to give the fashion house for Stephanie, but she proposes a partnership between them two. But when John's old passion, the gold digger Sophie Teale seeks out John, the infatuated Stephanie decides to leave the business and travel abroad with the Russian Prince Ladislaw.
Parisian couturier and deposed Russian princess Stephanie (Irene Dunne) has her hands full when her partner dies, leaving half of their business to American football player John Kent (Randolph Scott). Kent knows nothing about fashion, but sparks fly as the two try to learn to run a company together. Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers supply some fantastic dance numbers to standards including "Smoke Gets in Your Eyes" and "I'll Be Hard to Handle."
