Centuries-old vampire Dracula preys upon the innocent Eva and her friends.
In the early days of sound, it was common for Hollywood studios to produce Hollywood foreign-language versions of their films (usually in French, Spanish and German) using the same sets, costumes and etc. Unfortunately, most of these foreign language versions no longer exist. The Spanish version of Dracula is an exception. In recent years this version has become more highly praised by some than the English language version. The Spanish crew had the advantage of watching the dailies from the English crew's version when they came in for the evening and they would figure out better camera angles and more effective use of lighting in an attempt to "top" it. As a result, this version's supporters consider it to be much more artistically effective.
At midnight on Walpurgis Night, an English clerk, Renfield, arrives at Count Dracula's castle in the Carpathian Mountains. After signing papers to take over a ruined abbey near London, Dracula drives Renfield mad and commands obedience. Renfield escorts the boxed count on a death ship to London. From there, the Count is introduced into the society of his neighbor, Dr. Seward, who runs an asylum. Dracula makes short work of family friend, Lucia Weston, then begins his assault on Eva Seward, the doctor's daughter. A visiting expert in the occult, Van Helsing, recognizes Dracula for who he is, and there begins a battle for Eva's body and soul.
On Walpurgisnacht, Renfield [Pablo Álvarez Rubio] goes to Borgo Pass where he is met by Drácula's coach. The next day, Renfield and Drácula [Carlos Villarías] take 'the Vesta' to England. Ship arrives in Whitby harbor in a storm, captain lashed to boat, everyone dead, Renfield mad. Renfield is taken to Dr. Seward's [José Soriano Viosca] sanitarium near London. Dracula goes to a play where he is introduced to Dr. Seward, daughter Eva [Lupita Tovar], Lucía Weston [Carmen Guerrero], and Juan Harker [Barry Norton]. Drácula announces he has taken Carfax Abbey which adjoins the Sanitarium. That evening, Lucía dies of blood loss. In Switzerland, Professor Van Helsing [Eduardo Arozamena] analyses Renfield's blood, announces him a living vampire, and comes to England. In the meantime, Drácula has been feasting on Eva. Drácula visits the Seward home one day, and Van Helsing notes no reflection in mirror. While Van Helsing, Seward, and Harker discuss vampires, Drácula summons Eva outside. She is found, seemingly dead, on the lawn.A lady in white is reported by children in park. Eva admits that she has seen Lucía. Eva goes to bed wearing aconite (wolfbane) while Renfield talks to Van Helsing, Harker and Seward about Drácula. Drácula comes into the house, tells Van Helsing to return to his own country and that his blood now flows through Eva's veins. Harker rushes to Eva's room and finds her awake, dressed and on terrace. She is 'changed'. She attempts to bite him but Harker is saved by Van Helsing. Near dawn, Drácula comes to sleeping Eva and carries her off to the Abbey. Renfield escapes to abbey; Van Helsing and Harker follow. Drácula kills Renfield, and attempts to finish off Eva. Van Helsing and Harker find Drácula's coffin; Van Helsing stakes him. Eva is released from his hold. Drácula is dead. [Original synopsis by bj_kuehl]
