A young boy plants some strange seeds and they grow into a grandmother.
An imaginative lad of about ten has a couple of problems: he wets his bed, and his parents are abusive and disgusting. In a spare room, he finds a bag of seeds, which he plants in soil that he's placed in the middle of a single bed. The seed sprouts and grows into a grandmother, who's loving and approving. Life with his parents and with his imagination continues. Is a smiling grandmother enough to get him through?
A preteen boy has an unhappy home life, being abused by his father, and his mother being in too much of a continual stupor to be an effectual parent. One day, the boy finds a bag of seeds. He plants one of the seeds - the location symbolic to him - and nurtures the plant. What emerges from the plant is of his dreams, what he hopes will be the source of a happier life. But that panacea may not be all he wants in the natural course of life and death.
Abused and punished for his incontinence by his cruel parents when he should be loved, a lonely and innocent young boy with a rampant imagination stumbles upon a handful of ordinary-looking but magical seeds. Now, all he needs is a bucket of soil and plenty of water to witness firsthand the ripe oval spore's transcendent and mysterious wonders. At last, the once-unhappy child has found love and understanding in the most unusual of places--and even though he trembles with fear knowing that all good things must come to an end--the joy is so great, it only nurtures his fantasy. Will his prized possession be there in the morning?
A young boy (Richard White) lives with his mother (Virginia Maitland) and his father (Robert Chadwick). Both of the boy's parents don't like him and taunt him aggressively. The father in particular is not impressed in the boy's life because his son still wets his bed.One day, the boy has an idea to bring some stability and comfort into his life, he will get a grandmother by planting a seed on his bed, making sure there is adequate soil for her to grow. He tends the growing plant lovingly on a regular basis as it becomes a fully fledged grandmother pod. Finally it hatches and the boy helps his new grandmother (Dorothy McGuinnis) out of her pod and sits her down.The boy and his grandmother have a wonderful time. When tired, he coils contentedly in her arms. His parents still treat him cruelly, but that can be easily forgotten. However, all good things must come to an end.Grandmother becomes very ill and the boy is forced to go to his parents for help. But they laugh at him and his attempts to drag them upstairs to help grandmother are futile. The boy rushes upstairs to try to help grandmother on his own, but only to see that she is finally dead.
