Two seemingly dumb teens set off on a quest to prepare the ultimate historical presentation with the help of a time machine.
In the small town of San Dimas, a few miles away from Los Angeles, there are two nearly brain dead teenage boys going by the names of Bill S, Preston ESQ. and Ted Theodore Logan, they have a dream together of starting their own rock and roll band called the "Wyld Stallyns". Unfortunately, they are still in high school and on the verge of failing out of their school as well, and if they do not pass their upcoming history report, they will be separated as a result of Ted's father sending him to military school. But, what Bill and Ted do not know is that they must stay together to save the future. So, a man from the future named Rufus came to help them pass their report. So, both Bill and Ted decided to gather up historical figures which they need for their report. They are hoping that this will help them pass their report so they can stay together.
Bill S. Preston, ESQ. and Ted Logan are in deep trouble. They have to complete an oral report for History, and if they don't get an A+, they will flunk History. And if they flunk History, Ted will be sent to military school in Alaska. Fortunately for them, they receive help in the form of a time machine that they borrowed from a time traveler named Rufus. They bring back many historical figures, including Billy the Kid, Napoleon, Socrates, Joan of Arc, Genghis Khan, and others. Sadly, problems arise and all of the historical figures are jailed. Bill and Ted must rescue them in order to complete their report.
Ted "Theodore" Logan and Bill S. Preston esquire won't graduate if they don't do well in their history presentation. This would be both bogus and uncool! A dude called Rufus comes from the future in a telephone box to help them, as their lives are apparently rather important to the future of mankind! They travel through time doing some interesting research for their history presentation, and generally being excellent to each other!
With only a few days before their high-school graduation, Bill S. Preston, esquire and Ted 'Theodore' Logan are doomed to flunk out of school. The history teacher, Mr. Ryan, decides to give Bill and Ted a chance. If they can ace an oral exam on the topic of how a famous historical personality might react to modern times, they will be allowed to pass. If not, Ted's father will place Ted in military school, thereby disbanding the Wyld Stallyns, the heavy metal band that was formed by Bill and Ted. Bill and Ted get help from an unexpected source: Rufus, an Emissary from the Future. It seems that in Rufus' time, Bill and Ted's music is the basis of all existence, and if the Wild Stallyns are disbanded, Rufus's world will no longer exist. Bill and Ted are whisked off in a time machine to retrieve a few historical characters for their oral exam so they can pass, but Bill and Ted soon discover that finding the historical characters and getting them to the high school won't be easy.
When best friends Bill S. Preston and Ted "Theodore" Logan are in danger of being separated and having their band, Wyld Stallyns broken up because they're failing history, a time traveler from the future gives them a telephone booth so they can travel through time and ace their history report.
Two men,One time box,One awesome metal adventure
