A somewhat mentally handicapped 20-year-old man works as a laborer, but everyone abuses his naiveté. A nice 40-year-old American woman hires him one day and they become close. However, the town and his family see her as predatory.
Tim is a young man with below average intelligence. He works as a builder's labourer, and is often taken advantage of by his fellow workers and other people. Mary asks Tim to work around her yard for a day. The day stretches into a few weekends, and the two soon become good friends. Some people, however, are suspicious of their friendship which seems to be continually strengthening, accusing Mary of taking advantage of Tim's innocence. Will changing circumstances in Tim's family life change his relationship with Mary?
Tim is a 24 year old man who never completed school because he is slightly... simple. Mary is a single American woman well into her 40s. One day she meets Tim and asks him to do some work in the garden, at the end of the day she invites him over again. After being given permission by his father, Tim starts working for Mary weekly. The two form a special bond and Mary, unlike most other people, treats Tim like a proper person and teaches him to read and write properly.
In Australia, twenty-four year old Tim Melville knows that he is mentally slow. Working as a handyman/gardener, Tim knows how to use basic equipment such as lawn mowers. But he does not read, his blue collar parents, Ron and Em Melville, having taken him out of school when he was a teen. He also does not understand such concepts as death, tears of joy, marriage, and the different types of love. Because of his disability, Tim is often taken advantage of. Seeing Tim work at the house next to hers, middle-aged ex-pat American businesswoman Mary Horton hires Tim to do odd jobs around her garden and her house. That association blossoms into a deep friendship, which Ron and Em foster as they ask Mary to look after Tim during circumstances to which they would rather not expose him. Mary also wants to understand fully what Tim is capable of and nurture his learning to the full extent of those capabilities. However, many other people, without having conclusive facts, see Mary as taking advantage of Tim sexually. As Tim does fall in his concept of love with Mary and Mary does indeed fall in love romantically with Tim, Mary will have to decide whether to cross the social line which many have already accused her of doing. What may happen to their relationship if Ron and Em were ever out of the picture is also a question that arises as Tim's parents face health issues. This question becomes all the more important as Tim's sister, Dawnie, and her husband are among those who do not approve of Mary.

