The British army fights off rampaging locals in 1850s India.
In 1850, a British garrison defends Fort Kandahar on the North West Frontier of British India. Lieutenant Case is a mixed race British officer under the command of Colonel Drewe. Case is despised by his colonel and a few jealous fellow officers for being part-native. However, due to his background, Case is useful to the British who use him to infiltrate the local tribes. The tribes, united under a war chieftain named Ali Khan, have been fomenting revolt against the British colonial forces. Disguised as a native, Lieutenant Case collects valuable intelligence for his regiment. Unfortunately, during a spying mission, Case and a fellow officer, Captain Connelly are discovered. Case escapes under the cover of darkness but Connelly is captured. On his return to Fort Kandahar, Case is accused of deliberately abandoning Connelly to the enemy and of cowardice as he made no attempt to rescue Connelly. The love affair between Connelly's wife and Case is well-known at the fort and many officers suspect that Case abandoned Connelly to his fate in order to have Connelly's wife. When Case is court-martialed, he defends himself against these accusations but the court mercilessly discharges him from the army and sentences him to 10 years in the brig. Case's native man-servant comes to visit Case in the fort's prison and eliminates the guards, freeing Case. The two run away in the desert where the servant reveals to Case that he is in fact a spy of Ali Khan. He takes Case to the rebel chieftain who offers to hire Case to work for his rebellious tribes. Emboldened by revenge against his former commander, Case accepts to work for Ali Khan and train his troops, provided they don't attack or harm civilians or captured prisoners. Case and Khan's sister Ratina become good friends. Case and Khan gradually learn to trust one-another. But for the British, Case is an escaped prisoner and a traitor. The British place a bounty on Case's head. Unfazed by this, Case continues to train Khan's men, fight numerous skirmishes against small British patrols and prepare for the upcoming assault against Fort Kandahar. The fort's commandant requests and awaits reinforcements from other nearby forts. However, Case has conflicting feelings. On one side he hates his former commander and wishes to kill him and on the other side he still thinks of himself as being British.
In 1850 at Fort Kandahar, a British outpost on the North West frontier of India, a British Bengal Lancer officer Captain Boyd [Inigo Jackson] confronts Elsa Connelly [Katherine Woodville] in her quarters at the fort. Her husband is on an expedition with her lover, the half Indian Lieutenant Robert Case, and the officers do not condone Elsa and Case's affair.When Case [Ronald Lewis] returns to the fort he informs Colonel Drewe [Duncan Lamont] that Captain Connelly has been captured alive by Indian Ghilzhai rebel Eli Khan [Oliver Reed]. Case believes Khan will attack the fort at Kandahar but Drewe dismisses him. Instead Drewe decides to falsely charge Case for cowardice. Case is arrested and court marshalled. He is found guilty, discharged from the army and sentenced to 10 years in prison.Indian servant Rattu [Sean Lynch] rescues Case from the fort prison and leads him on an escape on horseback. When they stop to rest, they are surrounded by Khan's men. It transpires it was planned and Rattu is working for Khan. They lead Case to Khan's hideout in some mountain caves.At the hideout Khan introduces Case to his sister Ratina [Yvonne Romain] and asks Case to join him in the fight against the British who betrayed him. Case agrees on the condition that civilians and prisoners are spared. They agree and Case uses his military experience to help train Khan's men.At the fort, Drewe decides to send troops out to attack the rebels but the first patrol is attacked and defeated by Khan's men. Boyd sees Case is now assisting Khan so after Boyd returns to the fort, Drewe orders his men to search the surrounding villages for Case.Back at Khan's hideout, a few British prisoners are being forced to work as slaves including Connelly [Jeremy Burnham]. Case contemplates shooting him out of mercy because he is nearly dead but decides against it because he is being watched by Ratina.The British soldiers continue to search the villages, taking men prisoner for questioning. At the fort Drewe receives orders to offer his assistance to a reporter Marriott [Glyn Houston], who is travelling around North West India reporting on the conflicts. Marriott interviews Elsa about the disappearance of her husband. She is unwilling to talk openly but agrees she thinks Case is responsible. Meanwhile the junior officers question the village prisoners and try to threaten and bribe them but none of them will admit to knowing where Case is. Only when Drewe threatens to shoot one of the prisoners does he agree to talk.Drewe arranges a patrol to find Khan's hiding place and Marriott goes with them, but they are ambushed by Khan's men. Boyd is killed and Marriott and a couple of soldiers are taken prisoner. At Khan's camp, Case insists the prisoners are treated fairly. One of the prisoners tries to escape and is shot. Marriott tries to talk to Case about what happened to Connelly but Case is reluctant to talk to him.Khan is preparing for the final battle but Ratina is impatient and wants Case to lead the men against the British sooner. She still holds a grudge against Khan for killing their brother. Case is reluctant because he does not want to betray Khan.Case can no longer stand Connelly's suffering so he shoots him out of mercy. Case releases Marriott, sending him back to the fort to secure the safe release and passage of all prisoners and civilians before Khan's men attack. He gives his word they will be safe and only wants to kill Drewe because of his betrayal.At the fort Drewe agrees to release the civilians including Elsa with an escort of a few soldiers. One of Khan's men spots them and Ratina orders the slaughter of them all, going against the promise that Case made. All are killed except Marriott, who is knocked out, and Elsa who is taken prisoner. At Khan's hideout Elsa confronts Case and Ratina orders Elsa be shot. However, Case stops her from being executed. Khan returns and wants Elsa for himself but again Case intervenes so Khan challenges him to a fight. While everyone is distracted by the sword fight, Elsa makes her escape and finds Marriott outside the caves. After a lengthy fight, Case eventually overpowers Khan and strangles him.Marriott and Elsa return to the fort to warn Drewe of the impending attack by Khan's men. Led by Case the rebels ride towards the fort. They encounter a small group of soldiers on horseback lead by Drewe and pursue them, but are led into a trap and ambushed by a large number of soldiers. During an intense and lengthy battle, Case and Drewe have a sword fight but Case is shot and wounded. He and the surviving rebels retreat back towards the caves pursued by Drewe and a group of soldiers. At the caves they find Case and open fire wounding him further. Ratina appears and opens fire but is shot by Drewe. Case and Ratina crawl towards each other and die touching hands.As Marriott prepares to leave the fort he tells Drewe he could write about Case, the man who was loyal and brave but was betrayed by his commanding officer because of his love for another woman and the colour of his skin, but he'll actually write about the heroics of the British Lancers but not their commanding officer.
