A free-spirited woman "kidnaps" a yuppie for a weekend of adventure. But the fun quickly takes a dangerous turn when her ex-convict husband shows up.
The uneventful life of the businessman Charles Driggs suddenly changes when he meets the wild and sexy Lulu. When he accepts her offer to drive him back to his office, she instead takes him out of town and on a trip, leaving behind his old life. Posing as a married couple, Charles and "Audrey" (which turns out to be Lulu's real name) visit her mother and her high school reunion. At this reunion they meet Audrey's violent ex-husband Ray, who has just released from prison. When Ray makes it clear that he wants Audrey back, that is when the real trouble begins.
In New York, the yuppie newly promoted vice-president Charles Driggs meets the sexy and free-spirited "Lulu" after cheating a restaurant for fun. Lulu offers a ride for him in her convertible but she "abducts" Charles and they go to a motel in New Jersey, where they spend the night together. On the next morning, she heads to her hometown in Pennsylvania to spend the weekend with Charlie. When they arrive in her mother's home, she discloses her real name - "Audrey Hankel" - to him and she tells her mother that Charlie is her husband. In the night, they go to her high school reunion posing as husband and wife. But Audrey's ex-husband Ray Sinclair that has just been released from prison on parole meets her in the party. Audrey does not tell Charlie who Ray is and Charlie accepts Ray's invitation to drink some beer with him and his date Irene. After a while, Ray becomes violent, he hits Charlie, and he kidnaps Audrey. But Charlie does not intend to give up on her.
Charlie is the main character. He lives a quiet suburban life and his wife has recently run off with his two children. He likes to live on the edge and tries to get out of paying a check at a restaurant. Lulu calls Charlies bluff and takes him on a wild ride that ends up at a high school reunion in Pennsylvanian. Lulu's ex husband shows up at the reunion to reclaim his wife and decides to teach lulu and Charlie a lesson. The ex-husband is a violent ex-convict and Charlie learns what it's like to live dangerously. The tete a tete between these two adversaries is well played and makes for a delightful story that is a good diversion.

