Best friends and their daughters vacation in Rio de Janeiro only for one to fall for the other's daughter.
Sir Michael Caine plays Matthew Hollis; a man on vacation in Rio de Janeiro with his best friend Victor Lyons (Joseph Bologna). Both men have teenage daughters with them. When Caine falls for Victor's daughter Jennifer (Michelle Johnson), they embark on a secret, if slightly one-sided relationship. Victor is furious when he finds out about the "older man" in his daughter's life, and sets out to hunt him down with the aid of Matthew.
American businessman Victor (Joseph Bologna) and British-born entrepreneur Matthew (Michael Caine) are best friends who work for a major corporation in São Paulo, Brazil. Both are having problems in their marriages: Victor's wife wants to divorce him, while Matthew has no idea what is wrong and is baffled and irritated by the decision of his wife Karen (Valerie Harper) to take her vacation separately from her husband and daughter.The men decide to holiday in Rio de Janeiro. With them are their teenage offspring: Matthew's 15-year-old daughter Nikki (Demi Moore) and Victor's 16-year-old daughter Jennifer (Michelle Johnson). They rent a beautiful vacation home overlooking the city with a taciturn and disapproving housekeeper who treats all of them badly and avoids talking to any of them.Later, on the beach, Matthew and Victor greet their friends, Peter and Helaine, and are embarrassed to see Nicky and Jennifer sunbathing topless along with most of the other women on the beach.Afterward, the girls attend a Brazilian wedding, while Matthew and Victor go to a bar. Victor becomes occupied with a woman named Isabella, so Matthew returns to the beach to find the girls. Caught up in the wedding celebration, Jennifer and Matthew remove their clothes and join the party in the water. Jennifer kisses Matthew passionately, and then runs to a secluded cove. Matthew pursues her to protest, but the young girl seduces him and they make love.The next morning, while Victor and Nicky have breakfast, Jennifer teases Matthew as he shaves. He insists they act as if the previous night never happened, but she extracts a kiss. When Jennifer joins her father and Nicky, she has shaving cream on her face, but claims it is whipped cream. Nicky, who saw Jennifer kiss Matthew the previous night, leaves the table. Matthew becomes increasingly nervous when Jennifer flirts with him in front of her father.In the evening, Matthew and Victor prepare dinner while discussing discuss their daughters. Victor proudly informs Matthew that he forbade Jennifer from using birth control pills, since they have a pact that she will inform him before she loses her virginity. Nicky and Jennifer return, and Nicky begs off dinner to go out with a boy, Diego.During dinner, Jennifer rubs Matthew's leg under the table. Matthew is alarmed when Victor announces he is seeing Isabella again, leaving him and Jennifer alone. Matthew informs Jennifer that they must end the affair, but she seduces him again. Afterward, she confides that she used to fantasize about being married to him. In the early hours of the morning, Jennifer returns to the room she shares with Nicky, but bumps into Victor, and he wonders why she is up so late. When Jennifer asks Nicky if she hates her, the girl responds that she hates her father instead. Nicky warns Jennifer that her father has difficulty expressing his emotions.The next day, Jennifer consults a holy woman, who advises the girl to make gifts to a goddess and have the object of her affection wear a necklace with a fertility icon. During a beach outing, Jennifer places the necklace around Matthew's neck, hoping to insure his love, then asks him to tell Victor about their relationship. However, Matthew insists that the affair is over, even though he loves her.The following day, Matthew overhears Jennifer confess to Victor the she had an affair with a married man. Matthew hastily packs and plans to return to Sao Paolo, but Victor begs him to stay to learn the identity of Jennifer's lover. Pretending to help his friend, Matthew takes Jennifer to lunch and she offers him a nude photograph of herself. He refuses the gift, but decides to lie to Victor and tell him that Jennifer would not reveal her lover's identity. Matthew encourages Jennifer to go out with a nineteen-year-old boy named Bernardo. When the boy brings Jennifer home, she abruptly ends his kiss.Meanwhile, Nicky returns home from her date and is confronted by Matthew, who wants to know where she has been. She admits to her knowledge of his affair with Jennifer. Later, Matthew seeks guidance from the holy woman. At the house, Victor finds Jennifer's diary and shares it with Matthew, but her writings do not reveal her lover's name, only that he is 43-years-old and has blue eyes. Victor asks Nicky what she knows and she gives him a couple of false leads, including a singer in a club. Later, Victor and Matthew visit the club and Jennifer attempts to make Matthew jealous. Victor attacks the singer until Matthew points out that the man has brown eyes.At dinner, Jennifer attempts to tell Victor her lover's identity. Victor suspects a neighbor named Eduardo Marques, but Matthew confesses to save the man from Victor's vengeance. Victor is stunned, and cannot bring himself to hit his friend. Afterward, Matthew tells Jennifer that their affair is revealed, and now completely over. Nicky observes the two and telephones her mother, Karen, asking her to come immediately because Matthew is in trouble.In the morning, Victor plans to leave. He attacks Matthew, just as Karen arrives. Matthew admits to the affair with Jennifer, and learns that Karen and Victor have been sleeping together. Meanwhile, Jennifer takes an overdose of birth control pills. At the hospital, Victor and Matthew temporarily reconcile, and Karen tells Jennifer how furious she is. Back at the house, Karen and Nicky refuse to speak to Matthew; he is forced to share a room with Victor, and they resume fighting before the mute and unfriendly housekeeper interrupts them.In the morning, Jennifer and Nicky ask if they can stay another week after their parents leave. Karen ends her affair with Victor and asks Matthew join her in Bahia. One year later, Victor finalizes his divorce and remarries his wife.Matthew's final line of summation is: "You only live once, but it does help if you get to be young twice."
