The brother and fiancee of a dead policeman infiltrate a female-led biker gang to uncover his murderer.
A soldier comes back from the war and goes undercover to avenge the death of his cop brother. His link to the murder is the fiancée of his brother, who wants vengeance too, and knows he was an infiltrated cop with a drug-dealing biker gang, the Hellcats, who are employed by the mob to move the drugs from Mexico to the USA. The two would-be avengers infiltrate the Hellcats, the girl is abducted, and now it's the retired soldier against all the bad guys.
A member of a motorcycle gang is killed and at his funeral as his fellow gang members gather to say goodbye to him they are unaware that he was an informer for the police who are at the funeral watching them. Then as a police officer that was investigating the gang along with his fiancee were driving as they then decided to stop and take a walk. After walking awhile they then decided to sit down as he then realized that he had left his cigarettes in the car so he goes back to get them . As he approaches his car he is shot by a man that works for the mob boss that the motorcycle gang is running drugs for they had earlier received a shipment of drugs from one of the members of the gang. Soon the police officers brother arrives by airplane and is met at the airport by his fiancee as they decide to infiltrate the gang. Then a gang member is seen riding thru the desert and meets another gang member by the side of the road and he gives the drugs that he is smuggling to him as he then delivers the drugs to the mob boss as a group of bikers are then seen terrorizing a couple in the woods. The brother then gets a motorcycle and they go to the bar where the gang hangs out then as they enter the bar everyone is suspicious of them. But after he wins a fight with the gang leader he is accepted by them and they all go out in the country to have a party. As everybody is getting wild and crazy a rival gang shows up and wants to fight with them. It was decided that instead of fighting a contest of who can stand being pulled in two different directions while hanging on to two motorcycles. After the rival gang leader loses and is dragged behind behind the motorcycle as a fight soon breaks out as the brother then breaks it up as the party continues and he is soon is invited by one of the female gang members to have sex with her as everyone watches. His bothers fiancee is disgusted by what he is doing as she is pressured by one of one of the gang members to have sex with him.But one of the female gang members io go with her to get instructions for the next shipment of drugs from the mob boss and she accepts. Then when they arrive at the mob bosses office he is suspicious of the fiancee but the woman convinced him that she is okay as she then gets the instructions and they then leave as he and his girlfriend get ready to leave the country.. When they get back to the party a group of them leave to go pick up the drugs and when they are coming back a police car spots them and as they split up the one carrying the drugs crashes and crashes and dies while fleeing from the police officer. When a gang member and his fiancee goes to tell the mob boss that the shipment of drugs has been confiscated by the police and tells her to get it back as he as he roughs her up and forces the fiancee to stay behind as she leaves. He was unaware that the brother was following the two women and as he enters the building he confronts the men and after as short fight he is overpowered and tied up along with the fiancee. Then as the mob boss finishes packing up he sends one of his men to kill his girlfriend as he does so. They then leave taking the brother and fiancee with them as the gang member then arrives back at the bar and one of the gang members is sent to retrieve the drugs that was hidden in the headlight of the motorcycle. When he arrives at the impound yard he is arrested bay the police that were waiting there and after a consultation with a lawyer he decides to tell them everything. Then as the mob boss arrives at a ship the brother and fiancee are put in a barge compartment as the ships captain tries to get the ship ready to leave. Back at the bar when the gag member dosen't return they all decide to go to confront the mob boss as the woman that reported the loss of the drugs had overheard him talking about leaving on a ship. As they were getting ready to leave the bartender grabs a shotgun as he was loyal to the mob boss and tries to stop them but they overpower him as he is then beaten up. Then they arrive at the boat dock and a fight breaks out but soon the mob boss Andy his men are killed as the brother and fiancee are freed as the police then arrive. After getting everything in order he says good bye to the fiancee and takes off on his motorcycle.
