A movie producer who made a huge flop tries to salvage his career by revamping his film as an erotic production, where its family-friendly star takes her top off.
Felix Farmer is an extremely successful Hollywood producer, whose movies for Capitol Pictures have never lost money,... until now, with his latest, most expensive film to date, Night Wind, ending up being a major flop. The film, starring his popular Academy Award winning actress wife, Sally Miles, who has a G-rated screen image, almost bankrupts the studio. As such, the studio execs turn on Felix, who want to take over creative control of the movie and re-edit it to lessen the damage. It also turns Felix suicidal, his mental state which in turn leads to Sally leaving him and taking their two children with her. As Felix tries and tries again unsuccessfully to kill himself, he finally stumbles upon an idea which gets him out of his depression. He plans to use his and Sally's money to purchase the movie back from the studio, and re-imagine it by adding a few new scenes, to drastically altar it from the G-rated fantasy film it is, to an R-rated sex romp, complete with Sally baring her naked breasts on screen. In doing so, Felix believes it has the potential to become the most popular film to date. A major obstacle in being able to carry out his idea is Sally, who has long protected her good girl screen image. What ends up happening is largely dictated by those around them, from the major players to those on the periphery of their lives, each who is working on his or her own self interest, with even those at the far edge of the periphery having a profound effect on the proceedings.
A film-within-a-film: a fading movie producer has a plan for a successful movie: get a actress famous for her wholesome image to appear in the nude on the screen.... much like this film itself.
A scathing send-up of Hollywood, S.O.B. (the letters stand for "Standard Operational Bullshit") tells the story of Felix Farmer, a big-time producer who suffers a nervous breakdown after his big-budget, wholesome family film starring his actress-singer wife bombs at the box office. The desperate Farmer hits upon a desperate scheme: He'll buy the film from the studio, re-shoot several scenes to include R-rated material, then re-release the movie himself. But things don't go entirely according to plan...
The story is a satire of the film industry and Hollywood society. The main character, Felix Farmer (Richard Mulligan), is a phenomenally successful producer-director who has just made the first flop of his career, to the dismay of the studio and the loss of his own sanity. Felix attempts suicide several times:First, he attempts to die of carbon monoxide poisoning in his car, only to have it slip into gear and drive through the side of his garage, down a sand dune and ending up in the Pacific Ocean.Secondly, he turns on the gas in the kitchen oven, but is prevented from carrying out his intent by two house guests with other things on their mind.Thirdly, he attempts to hang himself from a rafter in an upstairs bedroom, only to fall through the floor, landing on a poisonous Hollywood gossip columnist named Polly Reed (Loretta Swift) standing in the living room below.Finally, he tries to shoot himself with a police officer's gun but is prevented from doing so by the ministrations of a sweet young thing in a pair of panties, and experiences a revelation of what was missing from his movie: Free Love!Thereafter he spends most of the time heavily sedated while his friends and hangers-on occupy his beach house. The occupation leads to a party which degenerates into an orgy.Newly energized, Felix resolves to save both the film and his reputation. With great difficulty he persuades the studio and his wife Sally Miles (Julie Andrews), a movie star with a goody-goody image, to allow him to revise the film into a soft-core pornographic musical in which she must appear topless. He liquidates most of his wealth to buy the existing footage and to bankroll further production. If he fails, both he and Sally will be impoverished, at least by Hollywood standards.At first the studio head David Blackman (Robert Vaughn) is keen to unload the film onto Felix and move on, but as it becomes apparent that it will be a success, they plot to regain control. Using California's community property laws, they get the distribution and final-cut rights by persuading Sally to sign them over. Felix then tries to get the movie negatives from a bank vault, armed with a water pistol, and is shot by police who think it is a real pistol.Felix's untimely and violent death creates yet another crisis, particularly for his cronies lawyer Tim Culley (William Holden), agent Ben Coogan (Robert Webber) and his personal doctor Dr. Finegarten (Robert Preston), who plan to give him a burial at sea. They kidnap his corpse from the funeral home, substituting the body of a well-known but underrated character (Paul Stewart) actor who died in the first scene of the movie, having a heart attack while jogging on the beach in front of Felix's home. Felix gets a Viking funeral, being sent out to sea in a burning dinghy, while the actor finally gets the Hollywood burial many thought he deserved.
