The stories of several people are told as they stay at a seaside hotel in Bournemouth which features dining at "Separate Tables."
It's the off-season at the lonely Beauregard Hotel in Bournemoth, and only the long-term tenants are still in residence. Life at the Beauregard is stirred up, however, when the beautiful Ann Shankland arrives to see her alcoholic ex-husband, John Malcolm, who is secretly engaged to Pat Cooper, the woman who runs the hotel. Meanwhile, snobbish Mrs Railton-Bell discovers that the kindly if rather doddering Major Pollock is not what he appears to be. The news is particularly shocking for her frail daughter, Sibyl, who is secretly in love with the Major.
In Bournemouth, England, the Beauregard Hotel is located three minutes from the sea and managed by Pat Cooper. It is off-season and only the resident guests are lodged in the hotel. The timid Sibyl is a spinster and hysterical woman totally controlled by her arrogant and snobbish mother Mrs. Maud Railton-Bell that does not want that she works. Sybil is secretly in love with the reformed Major David Angus Pollock and she enjoys listening to his stories. Lady Gladys Matheson is the only friend of Mrs. Railton-Bell. The medical student Charles wants to marry his fiancée Jean but she refuses. Miss Meacham and Mr. Fowler like to play billiards and she always wins the game. The American John Malcolm is an alcoholic writer that is secretly engaged of Pat. When the elegant and gorgeous Ann Shankland checks in the hotel, John is affected by her presence and Pat learns that Ann is his ex-wife that he had tried to kill five years ago. Meanwhile Major Pollock unsuccessfully tries to steal the newspaper West Hampshire Weekly News from the reception. However, Mrs. Railton-Bell arrives and finds an infamous article about him and she tries to expel him from the hotel. These events will affect the lives of the residents.
Managed by the efficient Pat Cooper, the Beauregard Hotel on the English coast in Bournemouth is a stuffy, second-rate establishment. Only a handful of mostly resident guests are currently staying at the hotel. They include: retired and decorated Major Angus Pollock; elderly Maud Railton-Bell, who needs to control everything, especially her timid and mousy spinster daughter, Sibyl Railton-Bell, who has a quiet bond with and crush on the Major; Lady Gladys Matheson, who follows whatever Mrs. Railton-Bell wants purely out of camaraderie; straightforward and slightly gruff Miss Meacham; staid schoolteacher Mr. Fowler; students Charles and Jean, a young unmarried couple who are the primary focus of Mrs. Railton-Bell's ire for probably doing it out of wedlock; and writer John Malcolm, a brash American who hides his issues behind his excessive drinking and who is in a secret liaison with Pat, to who he wants to get married. John and Pat's relationship is threatened with the unexpected arrival to the hotel of Ann Shankland, she and John who have a turbulent but passionate history. Ann's arrival is not by accident, she who says she wants to help John before she gets remarried, but who may have other more self-motivated reasons for coming to see John. The focus of the entire group changes when Mrs. Railton-Bell learns of a secret the Major is hiding. As Mrs. Railton-Bell tries to control the situation with the Major to her satisfaction, which includes bending the truth to suit her own needs, the others out of their own situations, especially Sibyl, may eventually come to their own conclusions on how best to deal with the Major's issue with respect to his stay at the hotel.
During the off-season at the Beauregard Hotel, the secrets of some guests are exposed. Lovely but vulnerable Ann Shankland travels to the hotel in hopes of starting over with her ex-husband, John, but she does not know that he is already engaged to Pat Cooper, the manager of the hotel. Meanwhile, Mrs. Railton-Bell and her daughter Sibyl discover the hidden truth about war veteran Major Pollack.
A look into the lives of several residents at a seaside hotel where guest have their meals at separate tables. John Malcolm is a hard-drinking man, engaged to the hotel owner Pat Cooper. His life is turned upside down however when a former love, Ann Shankland shows up after she hears of his engagement. She clearly wants him back but he sees nothing positive that can result from renewing their relationship. There is the domineering Mrs. Railton-Bell, a highly opinionated woman and her meek, sexless daughter Sybil. Finally, there is Major Angus Pollock who is constantly telling stories from his days in the war. Sybil has taken a liking to the man but her mother warns her to stay away from him. Her warnings appear warranted when they read in the newspaper that he was convicted of lewd conduct in a movie theatre.

