After a shaky first heist, a group of thieves plan an even more elaborate- and more risky- second heist.
Bank robbery in small town ends with one of the robbers being wounded. The loot from the robbery is just an asset for the even more spectacular heist. Simon, gang leader and Paris night club owner, must also deal with police comissaire Edouard Colemane, who happens to be his good friend.
A gang formed by Simon, Paul Weber, Louis Costa and Marc Albouis heist a remote bank during a stormy afternoon. However Marc is seriously wounded and they leave him in a clinic after hiding the money in a sophisticated scheme. Meanwhile the cold Police Inspector Edouard Coleman is investigating the murder of a woman and his informer, the travesty Gaby, tells about a shipment of heroin carried by the mule Suitcase Matthew by the train to Lisbon. Then Coleman heads to a nightclub owned by Simon, who is his friend, to meet his mistress Cathy. When Simon learns that the police force is tracking down the wounded thief in hospital and clinics and the dragnet will certainly find Marc, he goes with the gang and Cathy to kill him. Then Simon plots the robbery of Matthew's drug In the train using a helicopter. When Coleman intercepts Matthew, he does not find the drug shipment and believes that Gaby is not giving good information to him. But when Simon discover that Marc Albouis is dead, he connects him to Louis Costa and then to the unemployed middle-aged banker Paul Weber and Simon. They bug Simon's telephone and Soleman heads to confront his friend.
Paris Police Commissioner Edouard Coleman is able to detach himself from the gruesome and morbid details of the cases on which he works. He demands the respect of those with who he works, he not afraid to use his position to get what he needs from his associates or the supposed perpetrators. He is a night owl by necessity as that's when most of his life's major crimes occur. He is also somewhat detached from the notion that his friend, nightclub owner Simon, knows that he is cheating with his girlfriend, Cathy, the two men who remain friends and who do not talk about it. One of the cases on which he is currently working is a bank robbery in the provincial seaside town of Saint-Jean-de-Monts. It is known that four men committed the robbery, one who was seriously wounded in the process. What Edouard is unaware of is that Simon is one of the four, the mastermind in his methodical and calculating approach to his criminal work, and that Cathy knows and is thus an accessory. The dichotomy that is Edouard and Simon's lives also have the potential to converge when Edouard receives a tip from one of his snitches, a transvestite show girl at Simon's club named Gaby, she who is trying to avoid Edouard's wrath, that a professional mule coined Suitcase Mathieu will be carrying a cache or heroin across the border on a Paris to Lisbon train, Edouard who plans for the police to intercept Suitcase Mathieu with the goods, while Simon and his gang plan on stealing the heroin en route only to sell it back to the drug lords. In these games of cat and mouse, the question then becomes if Edouard the cat will discover the mouse is Simon and if so if the cat will get his prey including Cathy.

