Rocky struggles in family life after his bout with Apollo Creed, while the embarrassed champ insistently goads him to accept a challenge for a rematch.
Rocky Balboa is enjoying life. He has a lovely wife, Adrian, had a successful fight with Apollo Creed and is able to enjoy the money he earned from the fight and a new endorsement deal. Unfortunately, Rocky becomes embarrassed when failing to complete an advert and ends up working in a meat packing company. He believes that he will no longer have a career as a boxer. Apollo wants to rematch with Rocky to prove all his critics wrong that he can beat Rocky. Can Rocky once again have a successful fight?
In the aftermath of his celebrated match with World Heavyweight Champion Apollo Creed, Rocky Balboa enjoys his success, and the money he earned from the match (Which Apollo won by split decision and therefore retained the heavyweight championship.). He marries his fiancée Adrian, buys her an expensive fox fur, a sports car for himself, and a large new home. When a projected stint in TV commercials fails because he is unable to remember his lines and cannot read the 'dummy boards' being held for him, an embarrassed Rocky is forced to work for the meat packing company that Adrian's brother Paulie works for. When Rocky later gets laid off from the meat packing company, Adrian, who is now pregnant, tries to support them by continuing to work in the pet shop. Rocky believes he has no future as a boxer and accepts a menial job at the gym run by his former trainer Mickey. Apollo, angered by repeated taunts that his fight with Rocky was fixed, is eager for a high-profile rematch with Rocky to prove that the match was a fluke. Adrian is against it, and doctors have warned Rocky that with his injured eye, another fight could seriously damage his eyesight. With the family resources declining and his pride wounded, Rocky decides that fighting is all he knows how to do, and he makes the decision to get back in the ring with Apollo. Adrian's lack of support affects Rocky's training, much to Mickey's dismay. When Adrian lapses into a coma after giving birth to a baby boy named Rocky Balboa Jr, Rocky stops training. After Adrian later emerges from the coma and tells Rocky to beat Apollo, Rocky resumes his training. Adrian's love for Rocky is selfless, and Rocky, who feels the same way, is determined to win the title from Apollo this time.
After Rocky Balboa and Apollo Creed fought each other in the ring, they were rushed to the hospital. After both were released, Rocky moved on and lives up to his newfound fortune and his Marriage to Adrian. After failed attempts at making commercials, and being laid off at a local meat company, Rocky decides to go back to being a boxer, but Adrian disapproves Rocky's decision as she is concerned for his well-being, and it effects his training, even though his trainer, Mickey Goodmill now wants him to fight right-handed. Meanwhile, Apollo became exceedingly angry at the rude and nasty comments on his fight with Rocky, eager for a rematch with him, Apollo even went public about it. then, Adrian fell into a coma after delivering her and Rocky's baby, after a few days, she awakens and was given the baby, which was named Rocky Jr. Then, Rocky continues his training, and then the fight begins, Apollo is still angry, but Rocky is more determined than ever to win.
Picking up immediately after the events in the first Rocky movie, Rocky II begins with the events of 14th round of the Bicentennial New Years Day fight from the first movie. The fight lasts the entire 15 rounds with each fighter suffering many devastating injuries. After the fight, Rocky calls out for Adrian, who runs down to the ring. As Creed is announced the winner by split decision, Adrian and Rocky embrace, and Rocky tells her that he loves her.After their championship bout, Rocky (Sylvester Stalone) and Apollo (Carl Weathers) are taken by ambulance to Pennsylvania Hospital in Center City (a WCAU-TV Channel 10 news truck follows behind the ambulance), where they meet once again in the hospital lobby with a mob of reporters. Apollo Creed, who retained the championship on points, is furious at Rocky, the first man to go the distance with him, and starts clamoring for another chance to knock Rocky out. Rocky is taken into surgery where the doctor will fix his broken nose. He tells Rocky he may need eye surgery to repair a detached retina.Rocky goes to Apollo's room that night and asks "Did you give me your best?" to which Apollo answers "Yeah." Rocky declines talk of a rematch and tells Apollo that he is quitting boxing.Following his hospital stay, Rocky proposes to Adrian (Talie Shire) in front of the tiger paddock at the Philadelphia Zoo, and they later get married in a private church ceremony. Rocky begins to enjoy the profits from his fight with Apollo. He buys his first brand new car, a 1979 Pontiac Trans Am (even though it's still supposedly 1976), goes on a shopping spree (purchasing a black leather jacket with a tiger on the back for himself, a fur coat for Adrian, and some gold wristwatches), and buys a two-story row house in a nicer Philly neighborhood. He also convinces his previous employer, the loan shark Gazzo (Joe Spinell), to give Paulie (Burt Young) his old collecting job. Rocky then opts to earn money by appearing in television commercials. His new career, however, is quickly derailed by his sub-par reading skills, which leads to a clash with the director of his first commercial -- Rocky is unable to read the cue cards while wearing ridiculous costumes to promote a men's cologne. He is rudely dismissed by the director.Over the next few months, Rocky, unable to find white-collar work due to his lack of education beyond the 9th grade, and after being laid off (because of cutbacks) from the meat packing plant where Paulie previously worked, gets a job "helping out" as an assistant trainer at Mickey's gym, where the other fighters in training seem to have lost a large amount of respect for him, likely because he lost to Apollo and because he's taken on the job of sweeping the floor and rings and empty the spit buckets. Adrian, now pregnant, returns to her old job at the pet store. Running short on money from his unwise spending spree, Rocky also hands over his new Trans Am car to Paulie, who agrees to take over the insurance payments.Meanwhile, Apollo Creed has been receiving hate mail about his split-decision win over Rocky and is filled with anger and frustration: the letters alternately accuse him of deliberately carrying "that chump" (Rocky) the distance or state outright that he should have lost and has no business calling himself the champ. Determined to prove himself and win back the respect of his fans, Apollo elects to try and pressure Rocky into another fight, despite protests from his trainer, Tony "Duke" Evers, to find a new contender to fight against (when asked by Apollo what Tony is afraid of, Tony replies "He's all wrong for us. I saw you beat that man like I ain't never seen no man get beat before. And the man kept coming after you."). Rocky himself begins to have second thoughts about the fight, but because of the pressure applied by Apollo, Rocky decides to accept the challenge for a rematch against Apollo on Thanksgiving 1976 and begins training once again.Mickey is angrily unwilling to train Rocky at first, due to his bad eye. However, after seeing Apollo making fun of Rocky on public television, he becomes furious and agrees to train Rocky. Mickey decides he wants the left-handed Rocky to learn to fight right-handed in order to better protect the eye, and to give him a surprise advantage by switching back to left-handed with the intention of throwing off Apollo's timing and confusing him. He also focuses on improving Rocky's speed by using an old training method from his own boxing days: he forces Rocky to chase a chicken around a vacant lot, stating, "If you can catch this thing you can catch greased lightning." Rocky tells Mickey he feels like an idiot.However, Adrian's opposition saps Rocky's resolve and his training suffers. When Paulie confronts Adrian about her opinion, her angry reaction creates a serious medical condition that breaks her water prematurely. During the birth of their son, Adrian falls into a coma, and as a result of the premature birth, their son is placed into an incubator at the hospital ICU. Rocky breaks away from training to spend every waking moment either at her side or in the hospital chapel with Mickey, not even seeing his newborn son until several days later when she recovers. When Adrian emerges from the coma, she tells Rocky to "win" and he restarts training in earnest with Mickey for the rematch with Apollo. His condition improves dramatically with increased strength and speed and Mickey's idea of training Rock as a right-handed fighter. He runs pulling Mickey on a bicycle behind him and finally catches the chicken Mick had him chase, much to his trainer's delight.As with the first fight, Rocky's training includes his famous brisk run throughout the city of Philadelphia. This time, however, he is greeted with the cheers and encouragement of onlookers as he runs through the streets of South Philadelphia, having become a local celebrity following his narrow loss to Apollo. Along the way, children and pre-teens begin to follow him, their numbers increasing dramatically block by block. By the time he reaches the Benjamin Franklin Parkway in Center City, hundreds of young people have joined in. Ultimately, they follow Rocky to the top of the steps of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, surrounding him and enthusiastically chanting his name as he lifts his arms in a victory pose.Rocky and Apollo once again fight an intense battle in front of a standing-room-only crowd at the Philadelphia Spectrum. Paulie and a still-recovering Adrian stay home to watch the match on their TV set. Gazzo personally attends the match with a front-row seat as he did during the first match. Unlike the first match, Apollo gets off to a fast start, flooring Rocky twice in the first two rounds and building a huge lead on the scorecards as the fight goes on. But throughout the fight, Rocky pounds away at Apollo on and off, turning the fight into a brutal battle.At the start of the 15th and final round, Apollo's trainer begs him not to try to go for a knockout, as he can win simply by avoiding Rocky. Apollo, desperately wanting to prove he can knock out Rocky and very frustrated that he keeps coming back, disregards the advice. Mickey suddenly tells Rocky to switch back to boxing left-handed, and although Rocky initially refuses, he switches back, landing several crushing lefts. Rocky hits Apollo with a final punch that knocks him down, but from sheer exhaustion, Rocky also goes down to the canvas. The referee starts the final ten-count as the fighters struggle to their feet.At the count of 9, Apollo, finally realizing all but too late that the last fight was not fixed, collapses while reaching for the top rope, while Rocky picks himself up and is declared the victor. In his post-match speech, he thanks Apollo for another hard-fought battle, Mickey for training him, and God. Rocky states "Except for my kid being born, this is the greatest night in the history of my life, and I just want to say one thing to my wife who's home: Yo, Adrian! I did it!"
