A trader and his daughter set off in search of the fabled graveyard of the elephants in deepest Africa, only to encounter a wild man raised by apes.
James Parker and Harry Holt are on an expedition in Africa in search of the elephant burial grounds that will provide enough ivory to make them rich. Parker's beautiful young daughter Jane arrives unexpectedly to join them. Harry is obviously attracted to Jane and he does his best to help protect her from all the dangers that they experience in the jungle. Jane is terrified when Tarzan and his ape friends first abduct her, but when she returns to her father's expedition she has second thoughts about leaving Tarzan. After the expedition is captured by a tribe of violent dwarfs, Jane sends Cheetah to bring Tarzan to rescue them...
When Jane Parker unexpectedly arrives in Africa to visit her father, she also finds herself accompanying him and hunter Harry Holt on an expedition to a mysterious escarpment to find the legendary elephants graveyard and its treasure of ivory. Having reached the escarpment, they see a strange white man living in the trees like an ape. He promptly kidnaps Jane but means her no harm and he eventually sets her free, but not before her father and Holt kill one of the apes. When local tribesmen take Jane and her father prisoner, Tarzan comes to their rescue and causes a stampede through the native village. Jane is taken the mysterious ape man but she also feels it necessary to support her father, as she is all she has left in the world. In the end, she opts to make her life with Tarzan.
Yearning to discover the fabled Elephant's Graveyard rumoured to contain a million of pounds in ivory, the seasoned English explorer, James Parker, receives an unannounced guest in his African trading post--his only daughter, Jane. As the adventurous young woman insists on joining her father and his partner--the great hunter, Harry Holt--on an exploratory expedition deep into the dangerous green labyrinth of the sacred Mutia Escarpment, before long, a life-changing adventure will commence. Now, wild predators, tribal pygmy warriors that no white has ever seen before, and silent horrors await to put an end to the intrepid treasure hunters' ambitions, as an elusive but powerful man-like creature has already set his sights on his exotic prey, Jane. They say this is the hidden realm of Tarzan, the mighty Lord of the Jungle. Could that long and fearful yell belong to him?

