A door to door salesman of dentist's appliances encounters beautiful well-endowed nude women everywhere he goes.
Mr. Teas is a door to door salesman for dentists' appliances. Everywhere he goes he encounters beautiful "well-developed" nude women, which of course stir his interest. The only sound in the film is the voice of a narrator and a monotonic musical theme.
(Note: This entire film has no spoken dialogue; only a voice-over narration.)Mr. Bill Teas, a middle-aged denture deliveryman, has a similar routine each day: as he leaves his house, Teas passes a bratty girl twirling a hula hoop then catches the same bus to his office where he changes into an orange work jumpsuit, grabs his brown leather delivery suitcase and bicycles his route.One day when he takes a break at a bar, the bartender's blouse is unbuttoned enough for Teas to enjoy a glimpse of the woman's bosom. When Teas returns to the main office at the end of his day, he cannot believe his good fortune when the office secretary's blouse is also open wide, revealing her cleavage. However, he is soon disappointed when she leaves the office and embraces her lover.A few days later, Teas decides to spend some free time at the beach, where he finds a photographer shooting a young woman in a red bikini. Using his own camera, Teas secretly takes photos of the model, who then poses topless. Later, as Teas sits on an old tree stump to fish, he is suddenly joined by the woman in the red bikini, who decides to sunbathe topless. Unable to believe his vision is real, Teas jumps in the pond and swims away in fear.On another workday, during his ride, Teas is distracted by the shadow cast on a wall of a busty woman. On his first delivery, Teas meets the dental assistant, whose uniform is unbuttoned, revealing her busty chest. When he reports that he has a sore tooth, the dentist gives him an anesthesia injection to pull out his tooth. While Teas is in this dream state, he imagines that a nude assistant helps the doctor. After he regains consciousness, Teas gets a banana at a fruit stand and spots a nude female torso in window nearby.Continuing his route, Teas is summoned by a buxom young woman who appears to be soliciting him for sex, but after following her up a fire escape, Teas discovers that she wants a job ironing his clothes. Disappointed, Teas returns to the bar where he admires the bartender's buttocks and fantasizes that she is serving him wearing only a short apron. While delivering more dentures, Teas follows a performer through the back entrance of a burlesque house, where he watches from backstage as a striptease dancer performs for the audience.After being thrown out by a manager, Teas returns to his office where the secretary again wears a low cut blouse. Teas then fantasizes that the secretary is typing his dictation in the nude. Back in reality, Teas, concerned that he might be losing his mind, seeks the help of female psychiatrist Dr. C.P. Floodback, who sends him out after some friendly reassurance.On another day off, Teas goes fishing and, during a nap, fantasizes that the bartender, secretary and dental assistant are all sunbathing in the nude nearby. He eagerly follows them as they sail on the stream, swing from a tire and lounge in a hammock. When he wakes up, Teas moves to another spot hoping to rid himself of the fantasy, but another woman has undressed to go swimming and Teas's fishing line catches the woman's clothing as he casts his rod. Returning to the psychiatrist, Teas reiterates his problem, but Floodback also appears to him in the nude. Accepting his fate, Teas shrugs and smiles, enjoying the situation.
