In London, a recently wed American woman's sanity comes into question when she claims to be the victim of a threatening stalker.
In London, the American housewife Kit Preston (Doris Day) has been married for three months with the British executive Anthony Preston (Sir Rex Harrison). In a foggy day, while walking in a park, Kit is threatened by a voice that tells that she will be murdered soon. On the next day, Kit receives a phone call from the stalker threatening her death in the next month and she goes with Tony to the Scotland Yard, but Inspector Byrnes (John Williams) believes that Kit may be making-up the story to get more attention from Tony. Kit's Aunt Bea (Myrna Loy) arrives, but only Kit receives the phone call raising the question, is she losing her mind?
American heiress Kit Preston (Doris Day) has lived in London for the past three months, ever since she got married to British financier and executive Anthony Preston (Sir Rex Harrison). One foggy day, a terrified Kit hears a high pitched, sing-song like man's voice saying to her among other things that he will kill her soon. This threat is followed by more similar ones told to her over the telephone including the threat of her death by the end of the month, with no one ever hearing the voice but her. Anthony wants to believe her and tries on several occasions to assist her in finding out who is making the threats. Scotland Yard also gets involved, but Inspector Byrnes (John Williams), after hearing more and more about the calls from Kit, believes her stories stem from a neglected housewife trying to get some attention. Both she and Anthony would admit to Anthony neglecting her as he is kept preoccupied with work difficulties. Even Kit's visiting Aunt Bea (Myrna Loy) and the Preston's neighbor Peggy (Natasha Parry) want to believe her, but their actions sometimes say otherwise. Could the caller be the seemingly sympathetic Brian Younger (John Gavin), the foreman of the construction site next to the Preston's flat, he who seems to know more about Kit than Kit has told him? Or could it be Malcolm Stanley (Roddy McDowall), the Preston's housekeeper's parasite of a son? Kit has to find someone who can help her before the caller carries out his threat, which is increasingly making Kit hysterical as is her continued sighting of a man following her that she believes is the caller.
Kit Preston (Doris Day) is an American living in London with her husband of three months, Anthony (Sir Rex Harrison). One foggy night while walking home through a park alone, Kit hears an ominous voice that tells her she will be murdered soon. She tells Anthony, who chalks it up to a prankster. However, Kit soon begins receiving threatening phone calls from the anonymous stalker. She and Anthony inform the police, but they assume Kit is just a lonely wife in need of attention. Soon, even Kit's loved ones begin to doubt her sanity as she is seemingly hearing and seeing things that aren't there. Is Kit losing her mind, or is someone really targeting her?
Kit (Doris Day) and Anthony Preston (Sir Rex Harrison) never had a real honeymoon, and the midnight lace pajamas are for when they can finally get out of London on a trip to Venice. Anthony's business is very pressing these days. Then Kit is frightened one day in a London fog by a voice behind a statue. Next the telephone calls start. Then there is a new man on the block, the architect of a building going up next to the Prestons' vintage apartment. Could Kit merely have an overactive imagination?

