Two girls on the run get lost in the French countryside, and wind up in a haunted chateau occupied by an ailing vampire and his servants.
Two pubescent, pig-tailed, virgin schoolgirls, Michelle [Mirielle d'Argent] and Marie [Marie Pierre Castel], run away from their
school and find themselves lost in a cemetery which leads to a chateau
inhabited by vampires and naked women in chains. The girls try to escape,
but they are bitten by the vampires' aging Master. The Master decides to
initiate the girls in order to make them perpetrators of the vampire race
(which is about to die out). Eventually, of course, the girls will have to
be deflowered because 'you cannot be both virgin and vampire.' For now,
however, their job will be to hunt by day and lure victims back to the
chateau for the vampires to feed upon. Michelle brings back a victim, but
Marie takes pity on hers (Frédéric [Philippe Gasté]), begs him to be the one to deflower
her, and then sets him free.Tonight is to be the grand initiation. First goes Michelle. Then it's
Marie's turn. When the Master discovers that Marie is no longer a virgin,
the vampires set out to search the chateau for her defiler. Frederick
takes refuge in the Master's mausoleum. Then the Master takes Marie for a
walk and tells her a secret. He is the last vampire, and there will be no
more. Only Erica [Dominique Toussaint] has the chance to complete the change. The others will
change slightly over time, but they will never be full vampires. He then
sets Marie free and returns to his mausoleum.The next morning, Michelle confronts Marie and tells her that she
must reveal where Frédéric is hiding or they will both be killed. Marie
refuses, so Michelle chains her and spends the day whipping her, kissing
her, and apologizing for hurting her. But Marie refuses to talk. When
Erica threatens to poke out Marie's eye, Michelle helps Marie to escape.
Of course, Marie leads everyone directly to the mausoleum where Frédéric
is hiding. A gunfight ensues. All the vampires are killed except for the Master,
Erica, and Louise. The Master tells Louise to seal him and Erica in the
tomb and never let them out again. After their deaths, there will be no
more vampires. [Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.]
