A king exacts vengeance upon his faithless mistress and her lover.
In this movie suggested by Poe's "A Cask of Amontillado", The king constructs a cozy, windowless love-nest for himself and his concubine. However, she is not faithful to her sovereign, but consorts with the court troubadour. In fact, they use the king's new play chamber for their own lovecraft. When the king discovers this, he sends for his masons. With the faithless duo still inside, the masons use stone and mortar to quietly seal the only door to the vault...
The King is so deeply in love with his favored one that he contrives a sequestered dove-cote for themselves by sealing up a room in the tower, leaving but one entrance open. The room is finished and dedicated with pomp and ceremony. During these festivities, however, the King becomes suspicious of the attentions shown an Italian troubadour by his favored one, so plans to surprise them in order to convince himself. To this end a guard enters with a bogus order calling the King away for a time. The room cleared, the lady and troubadour declare their mutual love, and she, picking up the hour glass, intimates that they may enjoy each other's society for at least an hour. The troubadour pours out his soul's devotion in song, while the lady taking the rose allows the leaves to fall in time with dropping sands of the glass. While they are thus occupied the King returns: his fears are verified, and calling the masons orders them to seal up the only entrance. The love song of the troubadour has now, unknown to the couple, become a dirge. As the last grain of sand drops to the bottom bowl of the glass, the lovers make their way to the door only to be confronted with a cold immovable wall of stone. Like a flash the horror of the situation besieges them and they realize their fate. Their cries and beatings on the walls is answered only by the taunts of the King, who stands outside in fiendish satisfaction of the terrible punishment he has meted out for them. Slowly the torturing oppression of the air-tight room overcomes them, which death only can relieve.

