During the housing shortage of the Summer Olympic Games in 1964, two men and a woman share a small apartment in Tokyo, and the older man soon starts playing Cupid to the younger pair.
British industrialist Sir William Rutland (Cary Grant), "Bill" to his friends, is in Tokyo, Japan on a business trip during the time of the Summer Olympic Games there in 1964. Having arrived in Tokyo two days before his original planned arrival, he has problems finding a hotel room because of the Olympics. Spotting an ad posted on a British Embassy message board of a room available to sublet, Bill is able to wrangle his way into the apartment of Christine Easton (Samantha Eggar), who is renting out the sitting room of her one-bedroom apartment as a bedroom for the duration of the Olympics. Bill's short-term living situation in Christine's sitting room is despite her solely wanting a female roommate. Soon thereafter, Bill meets Steve Davis (Jim Hutton), an athlete with the American Olympic team who seems to be reluctant to disclose in which event he is competing. Like Bill, Steve has arrived in Tokyo two days early of his scheduled arrival, has nowhere to stay for those two days, and without Christine's knowledge also wrangles his way into Christine's flat to share her sitting room with Bill as Bill sublets half of the sitting room to Steve. Christine is reluctant to tell anyone of her new roommates because of the perceived impropriety. Those not in the know include her fiancé of twenty-two months, Julius D. Haversack (Sir John Standing), the Second Secretary to the Minister of Protocol at the British Embassy. Bill, who has met Mr. Haversack, considers him to be officious and obnoxious. Despite Christine being in a relationship with Mr. Haversack, she and Steve gradually fall for each other. Seeing what is happening between Christine and Steve, Bill does whatever he can to push the two together and to get Mr. Haversack out of the way. When the truth comes out about the roommate situation, Bill sees a different opportunity for Christine and Steve's joint happiness.
Sir William "Bill" Rutland (Cary Grant) arrives in Tokyo, Japan a couple of days early before the Olympic Games of 1964. With no hotel rooms available anywhere, Bill pulls a notice card from the British Embassy's bulletin board, and then he talks his way into subletting a room in Christine Easton's (Samantha Eggar's) apartment. Soon, Bill encounters Steve Davis (Jim Hutton), an architecture student and an Olympic athlete, (who always avoids any identification of his event) who also has no room for the night, and so he sublets part of her apartment to Davis. Bill next tries to play matchmaker to the younger pair.
This movie is set during the 1964 Olympics in Tokyo, Japan. Sir William Rutland (played by Cary grant) is an elderly English Businessman who comes to tokyo on business. While in Tokyo, he is unable to find housing because of the Olympics, when he comes across a room vacant advertisement, which leads him to Christine Eastons (played by the lovely Samantha Eggars) flat. She was looking for a woman, but eventually gives in and lets Rultand stay.William Rutland meets an American Olmpyian, Steve Davis, who is himself looking for a place to stay. Rutland offers to let him stay with him much to the dismay of Christine. Steve starts falling for Christine, and she starts getting closer to him, but is confused as she is engaged to boring and vague British diplomat Julius P. Haversack ( played by John Standing). Rutland notices the attraction between the lovers and plays cupid to bring them together.
