Trapped in Puerto Rico, a beautiful young Swede is torn between her passionate, but mildly abusive South American oligarch husband and her longing for her European homeland.
Astrée Sternhjelm is visiting Puerto Rico with her aunt Ana, and is enchanted by the island. The day before leaving she meets the wealthy Don Pedro at a bullfight arena, and is infatuated by him. Just before the ship takes off, she hears the song "La Habanera" sung by some natives at the quay. The song strikes a chord in her heart, and without hesitating she leaves the boat to find Don Pedro. After some weeks they get married. Ten years later her paradise has turned into hell. She is locked up with her son Juan in the big estate by her jealous and controlling husband. In Stockholm her aunt Ana is financing a foundation, which is sending two doctors to Puerto Rico to research a tropical fever. One of them, Dr. Sven Nagel, was once in love with Astrée, and the aunt asks him to find out what has happened to her niece. When the two doctors arrive to the island, they are met with hostility from the authorities and the local doctors, who are afraid that news about the tropical fever in the world press, would cause all investors to withdraw from Puerto Rico. The Swedish doctors succeed secretly to get a bacteriological sample and develop an antidote. Don Pedro invites them to a party in his house, as part of a plot to get them imprisoned.
Act 1 La Corrida The first opening shot is over the ocean as the camera pans over to the citizens of Puerto Rico on a mountaintop singing and dancing. Considerable amounts of people are watching a mariachi band play with the accompaniment of a women dancer. A man then begins to sing. The camera then pans to a shot of the main character Astree and her aunt as they watch the show. After the show has ended there is a big applause from the audience as flowers are thrown onto the performers. Astree thinks the show was wonderful while her aunt remains un-amused. They leave the show early due to the aunts displease and as a citizen informs them that the show is not yet over Astrees aunt states that she has had enough noise for her money. The Aunt refuses to see anymore and asks for a chuffer home while her nice is still intrigued with the music. As the women drive to their hotel the chuffer, with a flower placed in his hair begins to sing La Habanera pleasing Astree and annoying her aunt. The aunt finally demands for him to be quiet and the two women begin to exclaim their difference of opinion considering the city of Puerto Rico, Astree exclaiming its beauty and her want to stay while her aunt complains of the hot weather further stating that Astree is out of her mind for ever wanting to come much less stay. Astrees aunt refuses to let her niece stay and states that Astree will be going back to their home town of Stockholm whether she likes it or not. Astree claims that Stockholm is a cold place that knows nothing of true nature. The discussion ends with Astrees aunt stating that Astree is acting like a savage. The two women arrive at a small Puerto Rican town that Astree claims as paradise while gazing at the Riviera. Astrees aunt is displeased and states that the people residing in the town are un-civilized and not well bred to which Astree replies that she prefers savages. The two women then drive on to a bull show. On the way the chuffer runs into a Puerto Rican solider and they begin to get into a scuffle. The car cannot move forward because of a roadblock due to the yearly bullfight that takes place. Astrees aunt is infuriated that they cannot move on and begins to complain. As the driver tries to convince the solider to let them pass Don Pedro, a handsome and important figure in the Puerto Rican government, interrupts the conversation. Don Pedro exclaims his pleasure to meet the two women and then orders the solider to let them pass. The women and Don Pedro then arrive at the bullfight where many people have gathered to watch. Don Pedro graciously escorts the ladies to their seats after which he waves to his many admires. Here we begin to see Astree take a romantic interest in Don Pedro and is obvious power over the town she apparently loves so dearly. Don Pedro then throws his glove to the fighter in the ring signaling the show to being. While the fight is taking place Don Pedro explains how excellent the bull is while Astree seems a bit troubled and frightened at the danger of the fight. Don Pedro assures her that this is how the people prefer to see the show and the fight continues. Soon after Astrees aunt gets up in displease stating that the whole affair is barbaric. She thanks god that their ship leaves the next day. Don Pedro is saddened when he hears that Astree will be leaving him so soon. The bullfight then begins to get very intense as the bull nocks around the fighters one by one finally pulling one man to the ground. Astree then screams, Why dont you help him? to which Don Pedro replies As you command as he jumps into the ring to fight the bull himself. While doing so Astree ignores the call of her aunt to leave and watches as Don Pedro kills the bull with a sword handed to him from the audience. In all the excitement Astree drops her fan and then sighs in relieve when the fight is over. It is only after the fight does Astree return to her aunt who is greatly displeased with her niece. Astrees aunt further scorns her for admiring the town stating that Astree is acting as if she is under a spell. Astree is impervious to her aunts comments and is smitten by Don Pedros braveness. Astree states that she would gladly be the wife of a man like Don Pedro then that of a banker in Stockholm. Astrees aunt is convinced that her niece has gone mad. Don Pedro then steps in between the two of them after coming out of the bullfight and assures them that none of the men in the bullfight where hurt. Astrees aunt orders her to come home with her but not before Don Pedro graciously returns Astrees fan. Astrees aunt becomes displeased at this game because apparently in Puerto Rican culture a man begins courting a lady by presenting her with an open fan. Astree tries to calm her aunt by telling her that she truly didnt knowAct 2 Abandon ShipAstree and her aunt begin to board their ship back to Stockholm and as Don Pedro kindly sees them to their steamer the women pass many Puerto Rican attractions that temp Astree to stay. Don Pedro asks if Astree will ever come back to which Astree replies perhaps. Astrees aunt is appalled at her reply and orders her to get on the ship and wait while she arranges their rooms. In the distance Astree hears the tune of La Habanera and is convinced to get off the ship without informing her aunt and join Don Pedro. In a romantic reunion Astree and Don Pedro kiss while Astrees aunt begins to realize that her niece has stayed with the so-called savages.Act 3 The New MistressAstree and Don Pedro are then married in an elaborate Puerto Rican wedding and taken off to their estate. When the couple arrives at their home their servants bow to them and wish them luck as they enter their house to which Don Pedro and Astree thank them. Don Pedro then calls upon his servant and old nanny Rosita who had until know remained the mistress of the house. Don Pedro orders Rosita to hand his new wife the key to the household, which Rosita is obviously very reluctant to do. After another stern order Rosita hands over the key to Astree. Astree gives Rosita a ring as a friendly gesture in exchange for the keys, which Don Pedro must order Rosita to accept. After this Rosita then gives Astree a telegram from her aunt back in Stockholm stating that as a wedding gift she would gladly pay for the divorce, Astree gladly lets Don Pedro rip it up. We then see Rosita throw Astrees ring out her bedroom window.Act 4 Back in Stockholm Ten years later in the town of Stockholm there is a party-taking place in the mist of snowy white weather. Dr. Nagel (an old lover and friend of Astree) and Dr. Gomez are introduced to the guests as they enter the scene. After avoiding an annoying patient Dr. Nagel greets Astrees aunt, a founder of their tropics institute. The two doctors can only stay at the party for a few minutes before they have to make an urgent trip to Puerto Rico regarding an unknown fever affecting the town. When Astrees aunt hears that the handsome doctor is going to the town of Puerto Rico she asks him to find her niece, Astree, and bring her back to Stockholm.Act 5 The Meddlers ArriveWhen the doctors arrive in Puerto Rico they are referred to as intruders and snoops which Puerto Rican officials want nothing to do with. The officials state that their goal is to make the doctors lives miserable and that their salvation could never come from Sweden of all places. The officials also speak of Don Pedros annoyance with doctors. The officials reflect back on a time when the Rockefeller institute sent snoops to aid the Puerto Rican fever eight years ago stating that their serum was questionable. The officials also talk of the rumors regarding the fever, which decimated their trade for three years. The affects of which made the island plunge downhill. The officials state that their economys downward spiral is due to people like Dr. Nagel and Dr. Gomez who snoop to find germs and intern ruin Puerto Ricos reputation. The conversation ends with the officials claiming that the Puerto Rican fever does not exist and that Don Pedro himself stated this fact. The officials then plot to get Dr. Gomez and Dr. Nagel deported. Dr. Nagel and Dr. Gomez arrive at the Pedro De Avila Hospital. When Dr. Gomez asks whom Pedro Avila is Dr. Nagel describes him as the founder and local bigwig who tyrannizes the American prefect. The doctors who work within the hospital see Dr. Nagel and Dr. Gomez approaching the facilities. The doctors of Puerto Rico state that Dr. Nagel and Dr. Gomes must not see any of their research especially no cases of the Puerto Rican fever. The Doctors of Puerto Rico also state that their quests will no be allowed to take a single drop of blood from any of their patients in order to prevent any scandals. The doctors of Puerto Rico admit to the breakout of the fever and that the doctors could potentially help but do not want to upset their government or economy. Although the Doctors see the epidemic occurring before them they continue to stand by the governments official statement: There is no fever. The doctors of Puerto Rico feel an obligation to stick by Don Pedros believes because he founded the hospital.Act 6 A Jealous MasterWe are then brought to the home of Don Pedro and Astree. Don Pedro stands aside angrily exclaiming that their son Juan has turned nine years old and that it is customary for him to attend a bullfight on their patron saints day and that their is nothing Astree can do to stop him from raising their son as his successor. Don Pedro states that Astree has made their son Juan estranged from Pedro. Don Pedro angrily rips Astrees dress, which is lying on a chair next to him. He then calls Astree cruel and egotistical. He then commands her to obey him and states that he will not become a Swede. Astree reveals herself from her room and tells Don Pedro that he need not yell at her because she knows that he is the master of the house and of the entire island. Astree is shocked when she sees her torn up dress. Don Pedro explains that he tore it up because an English Marine officer told her she looked pretty in it once. Astree then says, Your jealousy is really incomprehensible Don Pedro and Astree then continue to argue about faithfulness and weather or not one would cheat on the other. Don Pedro states that Astree is only with him because of their son and if it where not for him she would have left a long time ago. Astree admits that he is correct. In the next room Rosita gets young Juan ready for his first bullfight, while Astree and Don Pedro continue to fight. During Astree and Pedros argument Astree admits that it was wrong of her to move to Puerto Rico and marry Pedro. Astree states that her aunt was right from the very beginning and that the land she dwells in is still foreign to her just as her husband is foreign to her. Astree states that everything she once loved about Puerto Rico has turned repulsive from the eternal summer to the very house she lives in and most of all the Habanera that drives her crazy. Astree claims that what she thought was paradise has turned into hell. After her confession Don Pedro states that their son Juan will be in the care of Rosita and not Astree. Pedro is angered by the fact that Astree is only with him because of the child and therefore threatens to take him away from her by letting Rosita have full care of him. Pedro then tells Astree to get it through her head that he is taking Juan away from her and that one-day Juan will regret that he was born of a Swedish mother. Don Pedro then walks out of the room in anger. Astree walks to her window and rings for a servant. She asks her servant to have a horse saddled so she can ride to the city.Act 7 Means of Escape The scene then cuts back to Dr. Nagel and Dr. Gomez walking down the halls of Avila hospital. The two converse about how uncomfortable the Puerto Rican doctors behaved and how odd it was that they where not presented flowers or wine. Dr. Gomez then replies, You already know from the Philippines how the natives act. When strangers come and stick their nose into everything. The two doctors then exit the hospital grounds and discuss what happened last time a serum was invented to treat the Puerto Rican fever. Dr. Nagel states that the serum was not even approved by the government and that he is certain that the medical superintendent appears to be on the defense because he doesnt want outside help due to the sensational press from the last occurrence. Dr. Nagel states that the Puerto Rican government wont be able to keep it secret for long because the fever is already in the air. Dr. Nagel then spots his long lost love Astree riding her carriage into town. The two doctors then head back to their hotel to unpack their things. The scene then transitions to Astree in a travel agency arranging for her and her sons secret departure to Stockholm. The agent informs Astree that the soonest departure is on Thursday, July 12. She arranges two first class cabins to New York with a connection to Europe. The agent asks for a small down payment of ten percent but Astree just gives him the full price of the trip. Back in her Puerto Rican home Astrees son Juan lays on a fur rug reading a comic while his mother plays him the piano. Little Juan exclaims, Mama, it must be beautiful in Sweden! To which Astree replies, Yes darling. Much more beautiful then here. Little Juan then asks, What is snow? Astree describes snow as millions and billions of frozen angel tears and masses of tiny little starts, very soft and cold that melt in your hand when you touch them. Astree tells Juan that when you taste snow it is slightly sweet and not bitter like human tears. She assures her son that he will soon see snow. Little Juan then asks his mother to sing a song she wrote for him. Astree begins to sing to Juan as he complements her beauty. Astree states that as long as Juan loves her she will always look pretty, just for him. Astree then begins to sing Juan her song about snow and wintertime in Stockholm. After the song Astree confesses to her son that they will be going to Sweden in 10 days.Act 8 There is no fever The scene cuts back to Avila hospital; two Puerto Rican doctors discuss how the first cases of the Puerto Rico fever are being reported. One doctor refuses to believe that the fever even exists. More and more people are being taken into the hospital for the fever. Over eleven cases in one night are reported and hospital becomes worried that they will soon run out of beds. Officials and doctors of the Puerto Rican government discuss the situation. Although the doctors are worried about the fever they are more concerned about Dr. Nagel and Dr. Gomez gathering materials regarding the fever such as infected blood-containing pathogens. The government decides to seal off the waterfront for preventative measures although it is inurn endangering the guards that do so. The government also decides to shadow Dr. Gomez and Dr. Nagel. The government official then resumes his plans to join Don Pedro at a club.Act 9 The Cuckoo SongBack at the Avila home Astree plays and sings the cuckoo song with her son Juan. In the Hotel of Dr. Gomez and Nagel the two discuss their frustrations with the Puerto Rican government as well as their determination to cure the disease. The doctors then continue to conduct experiments in their hotel room the doctors are determined to conduct a parallel analysis of a New York case study to the Puerto Rico fever. Before Dr. Nagel goes out to collect a sample Dr. Gomes warns him and suggest that he takes a revolver with him, to which Nr. Nagel jokingly denies. Dr. Nagel tells Gomez that the code for letting him back in the room is seven quick knocks at the door. Nagel then leaves to collect samples.Act 10 OutbreaksAt the waterfront Dr. Nagel tries slipping past a guard but is confronted by one of the solders. After trying to sweat talk the solider into letting him pass Dr. Nagle notices how sickly the solider is. The guard faints and Dr. Nagel takes a sample of his blood for testing. A group of men pass by the doctor and the victim lying in the street. Dr. Nagel tells the men to take the guard to the hospital and then returns back to his hotel room. Back in the Avila home Astree becomes very worried over her sickly son, but luckily his fever is not as serious as the other cases. In the hotel room of Dr. Gomez and Nagel we see Gomez enjoying a cold shower in the mist of the hot weather. During Gomezs shower there is a knock at the door, it is Dr. Nagel returning from his experience with the guard. Dr. Nagel tells Gomez what had happened and that this case of the fever happens more suddenly then the one that occurred in New York. The two Doctors are pleased when they see the specimen collected from the guard.Act 11 Memories of a FlameBack in the Avila home Don Pedro and the other officials play cards. When Don Pedro wins his friend makes a rude statement: Lucky in cards but unlucky in love which deeply upsets Don Pedro. Don Pedro is then informed of Astrees trip to Europe. Instead of acting surprised Don Pedro just says that it is a trip he had promised his wife. A government official then interrupts their conversation to inform Don Pedro that there is news of the two foreign doctors. The officials realize that Nagel and Gomez must have taken blood from the guard who had fainted at the waterfront. The officials become worried that Nagel and Gomez will spread news of the fever. Don Pedro decides to take the situation into his own hands by inviting the doctors to his home. While conducting their experiments back in the hotel room the two doctors become suspicious of spys outside their room but try to stay focused on their work. In the home of Avila Astree fans herself in bed and is startled when she hears her husband storm in the room. Astree tells Don Pedro that their son was not well but assures him that he will be fine. Don Pedro asks if Juan is well enough to go on a journey to which Astree replies: I am determined to go back to Europe. Don Pedro asks if Astree knows of a Dr. Sven Nagel. Astree confesses that they once had a relationship, which makes Don Pedro very jealous. Don Pedro then informs Astree that he has invited the doctor to their home, which makes Astree very distraught. Astree tells Don Pedro that she cant stand to be reminded of home. The couple then gets into a disagreement over the Puerto Rican fever. She agrees with the Dr. Nagel and Gomez while Don Pedro feels that his government can take care of their own people. The conversation ends with Don Pedro telling Astree to be prepared for the dinner, which will host twenty-five guests.Act 12 A Dinner EngagementIn the hotel room the two doctors celebrate their hard work. A knock at the door worries them. A piece of mail is slid under the door; it is an invitation to Don Pedros dinner party. In an excited frenzy Dr. Nagel runs off to get a haircut and shave before the party. In the Avila home Astree paces back and forth nervously awaiting her guests while young Juan sings and plays. When Don Pedro enters the room the laughing and playing end and Astree informs her son to put away his toys and go to his room. Don Pedro apologizes to Astree about being so stern with her about the trip to Europe and asks if he could accompany her. He tells her that he loves her although he doesnt display it very often. Astree tells Don Pedro that she does not want him to go to Europe with her and her son because she ultimately wants to stay in Sweden forever, not just a few months as Don Pedro had planed. Dr. Nagel and Dr. Gomez then walk into the household. Dr. Nagel spots little Juan with a sled and is intrigued. Dr. Nagel begins to play with Juan as they pretend to slide down a mountain of snow that is in fact that Avila staircase. In their moment of laugher Astree spots her son amusing the guests. Don Pedro is not amused with the games and orders Juan to put the sled away and go to his room. Introductions are then made as Astree informs the doctors that it was not her who invited them but rather her husband. While the two doctors are being entertained the government officials raid their hotel room.Act 13 La Habanera The party now begins to take full swing as Dr. Gomez and Don Pedro discuss the conditions of Puerto Rico. Don Pedro is annoyed with their presence and cannot understand why they feel obligated to intrude on Puerto Rican land. In the other room Dr. Nagel speaks to Astree in private. Dr. Nagel says that he never expected to see her so unhappy. Astree asks him to stop making such comments but Dr. Nagel continues his honest opinion stating that she has suffered far too much. She tells him that he is mistaken. Don Pedro notices his wife talking to Dr. Nagel and becomes jealous. Dr. Nagel assures Astree that she cannot deceive him and that he knows how truly unhappy she is. Dr. Nagel knows that Astree wants to return to Sweden. Unable to stand the sight of his wife talking to another man Don Pedro asks if the investigation of the doctors hotel room has been completed. Back in the hotel room the investigation of the Doctors private studies continues. In the Avila home a mariachi band starts to play as more quests arrive. Astree tells Dr. Nagel that he is in danger but he is not concerned with that. Astree asks him to go home and not worry about her. Dr. Nagel confesses that he is still in love with her and cannot leave her alone. Dr. Nagel is convinced that she too has feelings for him and reminds her of her sons wellbeing. Dr. Nagel tells Astree that her son will ruin if he continues to grow up in Puerto Rico. In all the emotion Astree drops her fan and Dr. Nagel picks it up and hands it to her. Astree then leaves Dr. Nagel to entertain her other guests. Astree goes to her husband and asks if she may sing La Habanera in an effort to make amends. Don Pedro is delighted to hear that Astree wants to sing and graciously lets her and his mood changes from that of jealously to excitement. Astree puts on the costume Don Pedro had made her and begins to sing La Habanera to the guests. After the song Don Pedro thanks her and states that she has given him a gift that all his wealth could never buy.Act 14 Arrests Two officials walk in the room and Astree asks why they are there. The officials say that they are going to arrest the two Doctors for conducting bacteriological experiments in a hotel room. Astree asks her husband to let the charges go but he is determined to ruin Dr. Nagel and Dr. Gomezs careers. Astree then flees to find Dr. Nagel and warn him. While warning Dr. Nagel about his arrest she asks if he will take her and her son back to Sweden with him. The two embrace and she confesses her torment in Puerto Rico. Astree goes to change while Don Pedro reviews the charges. While speaking to an official about the reports Don Pedro collapses to the ground and is diagnosed with the Puerto Rico fever. Dr. Nagel and Dr. Gomez run to his aid ready to eject him with the anecdote they created. The officials tell the doctors that while inspecting their hotel room they confiscated the anecdote and on Don Pedros orders destroyed it. Dr. Nagel then states that Don Pedro Avila has dug his own grave. Don Pedro quickly dies of the fever.Act 15 A New Day While morning the death of her husband Astree boards the ship back to Sweden with her son and the doctors Gomez and Nagel. As the ship pulls away Astree sees the Puerto Rican citizens sing and dance on the waterfront and waves goodbye. Astree returns to Sweden with her son and new lover Dr. Nagel and says that she has no regrets.
