Bad guy Craig Allen, gambler and town boss, tries to take a gold mine inherited by innocent Chip Williams on her seventeenth birthday. Roy and his pal 'Teddy' Bear ride to help the girl and her cousin.
Chip has inherited a supposedly worthless gold mine from her father and Craig Allen is about to buy it. Roy suspects the mine may be valuable and using a clue left by Chip's father, investigates. He finds the hidden shaft that contains the gold and with the posse chasing him on a trumped up robbery charge, races to town with ore samples hoping to get there before the ownership is transferred.
Roy Rogers (Roy Rogers) and his sidekick Teddy Bear (Guinn 'Big Boy' Williams) have been prospecting for gold with no success. They decide ti give it up and get a job in town. On the way, Teddy finds a girl's charm bracelet, bearing the inscription "Chip." They ride into town and find the citizens in an uproar over the disappearance of of a young girl. Believing her kidnapped they form a posse under the influence of Craig Allen (John Hubbard), proprietor of a gambling club and every other important business in town. He is engaged to Ysobel Martinez (Dale Evans), the cousin and only living relative of Chip Williams (Mary Lee), the 'kidnapped' girl. When Teddy tries to use a charm from the bracelet as a slug, Allen brands Roy and Teddy as the kidnappers, and starts taking them to jail. They escape and find Chip who has ran away because Ysobel , her cousin and not her sister, because Ysobel is selling a mine, left to her by her father, to Allen. The posse including Ysobel and Allen find the trio at the mine, and Chip clears Roy and Teddy. Ysobel, in gratitude, offers them jobs on her ranch. They go to the mine again and Chip finds the treasure left to to her...it is a tin box not to be opened until her sixteenth birthday, which begins at midnight this very night. Allen, cad that he is, knows the mine is rich in gold and is determined to dupe Chip and Ysobel, who do not know that, out of it. At the birthday party, the letter to be read disappears but through a lucky accident,Chip finds it and reads it aloud. Roy and Teddy, knowing that Allen has the bracelet , which show the location of the gold, fight Allen and his henchmen to get it for Chip, but Ysobel, still unaware of just how oily and sneaky Allen is, fires Roy and Teddy. Further complications arise.

