A married diplomat falls hopelessly under the spell of a predatory woman.
John Schuyler, happily married Wall Street lawyer, is appointed as special diplomatic representative to England. By an unhappy accident, his wife and child can't come along; but on the ship with him is "The Vampire," a "notorious woman" who lives off a succession of men she has seduced and ruined. Slighted by Mrs. Schuyler, she has set her sights on the husband. Two months later, we find the Fool languishing with the mistress who has him enmeshed in her toils. Will he follow the others to the depths of degradation?
"The Fool" and "His Wife" are happily married and living in a style commensurate with his large fortune at a country house at Larchmont. "The Fool," at the beginning of the play, is a virile, fine natured man, fond of his home, his wife and little child and devoted to wholesome sport. Then comes the meeting with "The Vampire" who is destined to ultimately ruin and drive him to a degraded death. "The Fool" at first resists the wiles of the sinuous, strangely fascinating Vampire. But she hides her time knowing by an experience, mile-stoned by blasted careers, that in due course she will be able to bend her victim to her will. "The Fool" is an emissary on an important foreign mission. On the steamer crossing over "The Vampire," in some strikingly conceived scenes, manages to tighten her grip on his already vacillating nature. By the time Italy is reached "The Man" is completely at her feet and ready to do her bidding in everything. In her arms he forgets his diplomatic duties, his wife and his own career. "The Vampire" has woven a spell about him that nothing short of death can break. Even his child ceases to exert any good influence over him. With curses and violence he repels all attempts to bring him to his senses. "The Vampire" shrugs and smiles as she sees her work progressing. Drink and drugs still further sap his will till, at "The Vampire's" behest, he leaves his wife and child altogether. It is the beginning of the tragic end of "The Pool." The "rag and a bone and a hank of hair" to whom he has "made his prayer" toys with him like a tigress with her prey. A smile from her sends him into the seventh heaven. If she frowns he is frenzied with jealousy and weakly violent. His fortune has slipped away and only one friend remains to him, a fine-charactered man who tries in vain, time and time again, to break the chains that bind "The Vampire's" miserable victim. She merely laughs at these attempts. She knows too well the strength and tenacity of the web she has woven. Ruined, broken in body and mind, "The Fool," at the last tries to break away from the association that has wrecked and blasted his life. But it is of no use. At the end he tries to crawl to the side of his enslaver, while she laughs cruelly at the spectacle he presents. She sees nothing but what is amusing in the pitiful semblance of manhood that begs her to free him. "Kiss me, my fool," she orders, but as he strives to reach her side he crumbles up. His tragedy is over. "The Vampire" with an inscrutable smile looks down at the huddled shape at her feet. Tearing some crimson roses from her corsage she scatters the petals, like crimson drops of blood, over all that remains of her wretched, broken victim.
Wealthy diplomat John Schuyler, a devoted husband and father, comes under the spell of a notorious femme fatale, while away from his family. After the resulting scandal brings about his dismissal, he returns home, with his seductress in tow, abandoning his wife and daughter. Completely mesmerized by this "vampire," his life deteriorates as all rehabilitation by his wife and friends fail.
In her first movie (which built the Hollywood empire of William Fox and launched her discoverer, director Frank Powell) Bara plays the sexual vampire to the hilt. This movie is the source of the world "vamp".

