Sequel to 3 Men and a Baby (1987), Mary starts school. Actress mom is now living in the apartment in NYC with the biological dad and 2 honorary dads, who are still actor, architect and cartoonist. Mom's English boyfriend proposes.
Sylvia's work increasingly takes her away from the three men who help raise her daughter Mary. When she decided to move to England and take Mary with her, the three men are heartbroken at losing the two most important females in their lives.
Five happy years after baby Mary's arrival in 3 Men and a Baby (1987), the ecstatic single fathers and still-unrepentant bachelors Peter, Michael, and Jack, are living under the same roof with Mary's British actress mother Sylvia. But after a promising business proposition combined with a welcome marriage proposal by her director beau Edward, she decides to move to the United Kingdom. In low spirits, the men travel to bustling London, where one of them discovers that he has deeper feelings for Sylvia and that Edward might have a secret agenda. Will the three men and their little lady let Edward break up their family?
Sylvia's work causes her to move to England with her daughter,Mary. It's not just her work, though--it's her new fiancé. Feeling that Mary is just as much their daughter as Sylvia's, Peter, Michael, and Jack don't like this new arrangement and travel to England to stop the wedding.
Peter (Tom Selleck), Michael (Steve Guttenberg) and Jack (Ted Danson) are now dedicated "fathers" to five year old Mary (Robin Weisman). Everything is going along fine until Mary's mother, Sylvia (Nancy Travis), begins thinking she needs more stability in her life and doesn't think any of her roomates are up to the task.Sylvia doesn't know that Peter has fallen in love with her but is hesitant to act since he feels his best friend, and Mary's biological father, Jack should step up and marry her so she accepts a marriage proposal from the director of her play, Edward (Christopher Cazenove). The wedding is to be in England and shortly we learn that Edward plans to move Sylvia and Mary there as well. Faced with the prospect of losing Mary from their lives Michael and Jack convince Peter to finally ask Sylvia to marry him instead of the unlikable, but willing, Edward and the three go to great lengths to break them up.In the end Sylvia realizes that Edward is a scoundrel and that she really likes Peter as well so we get the typical and expected happy ending with Sylvia leaving Edward at the alter to return to New York.
