The story of courtesan and dance-hall girl Emma Hamilton, including her relationships with Sir William Hamilton and Admiral Horatio Nelson and her rise and fall, set during the Napoleonic Wars.
Sir William Hamilton, a widower of mature years, is British ambassador to the Court of Naples. Emma, who comes for a visit with her mother, wouldn't cut the grade with London society, but she gets along well with the Queen of Naples. Emma likes being Lady Hamilton, and life goes smoothly until Lord Nelson pays a visit. Sir William decides at first to let his young wife have her fling, and pretends not to know what is going on. But the real-life lovers, whose first screen romance was in Fire Over England (1937) have an even more burning passion for each other in this movie.
Emma Hart, a beautiful dance hall girl who's been passed around numerous nobilities, is sent by her latest lover, Charles Greville, to stay with his uncle Sir William Hamilton, the British ambassador to Naples. Emma is to learn French, Italian and upper-class manners in a month's time, then marry Charles.Sir William is a passionate art collector and considers Emma a rare piece of art he must possess. He deceives Emma, saying that Charles never intends to marry her and only sent her to Naples to get rid of her. Sir William comforts her by introducing her to Naples' elite society, offering an opportunity to enter the upper-class world. Soon Emma forgets about Charles and marries Sir William - the dance hall girl turned courtesan is now Lady Hamilton, Her Excellency.Three years later, the whole of Naples is awaken by cannon salutes from a battleship. Horatio Nelson, a famous English Naval officer, has arrived. Nelson requests that Naples honour its treaty with England and supply troops to aid the British war effort against France. Emma uses her relationship with the Queen of Naples and gets Nelson his reinforcements. Nelson leaves immediately, with a vivid impression of the most beautiful woman in Europe.The war continues for another five years, and Nelson finds himself in Naples, again in need of supplies. But this time English ships are not allowed to enter Naples, as the King does not wish to provoke an attack by the French. Seeing that Sir William is unable to persuade the King, Emma again uses her influence over the Queen and Nelson is granted permission to receive supplies from any Neapolitan port. Emma delivers the mandate to Nelson, and the ship leaves.Nelson does not stay away long. He returns to Naples after his victory in Egypt, warning the king about advancing French troops, but fails to persuade the king to take action. Exhausted and in poor health, Lord Nelson collapses and is confined to bedrest for an extended time.Emma takes charge of looking after Lord Nelson; and although Nelson, having lost an arm and an eye in battle, is not attractive or socially adept, the two fall in love. They don't have much time together though; as soon as Nelson recovers, he is ordered to return to war.The affair between Nelson and Emma grows serious, leading Nelson to disobey his orders and rescue the Hamiltons and the royal family before Napoleon takes Naples. The Admiralty orders Nelson to return to London immediately, while Sir William is instructed to take his wife to Turkey. The lovers are determined to stay together after so many partings, so Emma, her mother, and Sir William return to England with Nelson.Due to Nelson's popularity as a war hero, he is spared court martial and offered a seat in the House of Lords. Emma realises that if their affair continues she will destroy Nelson's career, and calls off their plan to divorce their respective spouses. As she is about to leave Nelson, she finds she is pregnant.Lord Nelson leaves again, to fight the Danish fleet, and returns a year later to find Emma preparing a return to the stage. Sir William's entire art collection was lost in a shipwreck and the blow proved too much for him; he died and left his inheritance to his nephew. Now penniless, Emma is abandoned by her high-society friends and has to earn her own living to support her mother and her illegimate daughter, Horatia.Disillusioned by the prime minister's decision to sign the peace treaty with France, and infuriated by his own neglect and failure to protect Emma, Lord Nelson retires and takes Emma's little family to the country. She finally achieves her fairy tale life.Emma's bliss is short-lived. Napoleon breaks the treaty and invades England, and Nelson is called out of retirement to defend his country. This time, he does not return. And Emma's life becomes a living death.
