A rich girl steals her dad's Rolls Royce and heads off to Las Vegas to get married. However, her angry parents, a jealous suitor, and a bunch of reward seekers are determined to stop her.
Paula Powers, daughter of wealthy gubernatorial candidate Bigby Powers, decides to reject her parents' attempt at matchmaking and run off to Vegas to marry her sweetheart, Sam Freeman. As they drive away in a stolen Rolls-Royce, spurned suitor Collins Hedgeworth follows behind in hot pursuit, along with a cadre of goons hoping to get the $25,000 reward that's been offered for Paula's return. Can the young lovers make it to Vegas for a quickie wedding before the forces of conformity and privilege arrive to put a stop to their romance?
Paula Powers (Nancy Morgan) is a wealthy young woman who is engaged to fellow schoolmate Sam Freeman (Ron Howard). This does not sit well with her parents Bigby (Barry Cahill) and Priscilla (Elizabeth Rogers), as they think it will destroy Bigby's chances of running for governor of California. Sam learns that Paula is already in an arranged engagement to another wealthy young man, Collins Hedgeworth (Paul Linke) and is ordered by Bigby to leave the property. Paula stands her ground saying that she will marry Sam in Las Vegas and Bigby strongly warns her that her inheritance and credit will be cut off, if she does and takes the keys to her sports car to prevent her from leaving. Paula storms to her room, but decides to trick her parents by climbing out her window and taking off in her father's priceless Rolls-Royce. Bigby witnesses this and prepares to give chase in the sports car, but discovers that she took off the front tires off it. Paula stops at the end of the driveway, where Sam is standing and they drive off.A desperate Bigby is forced to hire private detective Ned Slinker (Rance Howard) to stop them before they get to Las Vegas and makes strict orders not to get the police and media involved. As Bigby and Priscilla prepare to leave for the airport, Collins calls the house and Priscilla delivers the bad news to him. Collins snaps and speeds off in his Porsche, which he, soon after, destroys after jumping over a dirt mound on a construction site. He then steals a Dodge Charger from a used car dealership, forcing the police to call his mother, Vivian (Marion Ross), who is in the middle of a therapy session. Because she does not want the police to harm Collins, she volunteers to go after him herself in a Volkswagen belonging to her neighbor. Collins catches up with Paula and Sam and unsuccessfully tries to talk her out of it. He then loses control of the Charger and lands upside down. Shortly after, Collins calls into local radio station 10 Q to offer a $25,000 reward for the safe return of Paula, which triggers curiousness for mechanics Ace (Clint Howard) and Sparky (Peter Isacksen), who decide to speed off on an unfinished race car they are working on. Collins eventually steals an old work truck from a nearby gas station, while Vivian offers another $25,000 reward over the radio for the safe return of her son.Meanwhile, Sam begins to think they should change their plans and go somewhere else to elope, but Paula refuses to let anybody intimidate them. Vivian runs a red light and is pursued by overzealous police officer Norman Tad (James Ritz). When the Volkswagen slams into a tree, not far away from a preacher (Hoke Howell) delivering his outside church sermon. Tad moves in to arrest her. but his squad car is stolen by the preacher when he catches wind of the $25,000 reward she offered for Collins' return. When Vivian speeds off again, Tad is forced to commander a church bus full of senior citizens. Sparky and Ace catch up to Paula and Sam and chase them onto a desert road, but the bumps take its toll on the car they are in and it falls to pieces. They manage to steal a truck from a newlywed couple who tumble out the back s they speed away. Paula and Sam are also pursued by a helicopter containing Slinker's right-hand man Eagle 1 (Ken Lerner), as well as 10 Q DJ Curly Q. Brown (Don Steele) hovering above in another helicopter. Sam is angry to discover that Curly had promoted the whole thing as a gimmick for others to stop the two at any costs to collect the $25,000 reward.Shortly after, three desert workmen (Bill Conklin, Robby Weaver, and Rick Seaman) hear about the reward and they give chase, as well. When the preacher spots Collins, he rolls the truck over in panic and is captured by the preacher, but Collins tells him he will get $50,000 if he helps Collins stop Paula, which he joyfully agrees. Not along after, even the Las Vegas mob are called in to stop the couple. With nobody in sight, they pull into an abandoned junkyard where Sam vents on how Paula was so stubborn to change their route and blames Collins by turning the whole thing into a fiasco. He also questions Paula that she will miss being rich, if she marries him. Paula breaks down and tells him if they do not have a connection in true love, the elopement is off. Sam understands where she is coming from and the two make up.Now on the outskirts of Las Vegas, Paula and Sam run into the main pursuers and are chased yet again, this time into a demolition derby arena, where all the vehicles get destroyed, including the Rolls-Royce, the two lovers manage to escape the arena as a convoy of police officers swarm in and arrest all the people involved. Bigby discovers that Collins was the cause of all this and thinks he is not a suitable husband for Paula and thinks she met the right guy, meaning Sam. After the two are married and get into a limo to take them to the hotel. They are pursued one last time by Curly, who's driving a car belonging to his radio station. He tries to persuade them to stop for an interview, but Curly loses control and plows straight through a suburban house and crashes into a swimming pool in its backyard. The two laugh at the situation, then they kiss.
