A busboy in requited love with a nightclub performer grows closer to her after she is paralyzed in an attack by her gangster boyfriend.
Little Pinks is in love with a nightclub singer named Gloria. But it is a unrequited love as she does not know that he exists. Pinks is a shy busboy and Gloria only goes out with men who are loaded. When she tries to dump Case for richer Reed, Case dumps her down the stairs. After months of treatment, she will never walk, but Pinks is the only one who takes care of her. He pays all her bills and sends her flowers with unsigned cards. But to Gloria, he is nothing in her eyes. When she wants to leave New York for Florida, to be with the money set, he takes her.
In New York City, a busboy named Augustus Pinkerton Jr. - Little Pinks to his friends - has been in unrequited love with nightclub performer Gloria Lyons ever since he first saw her sing and dance when they worked in the same club. She, however, doesn't even notice him in her self-absorbed world. Even if she did notice him, Little Picks wouldn't have a chance with her as she is the kept girlfriend of powerful and crooked club owner Case Ables. It isn't until Pinks does her a favor that Gloria notices him for the first time, that favor which costs him his job working at Case's club. Pinks and Gloria's lives become more ensconced when she, in a return favor, gets him a job as a busboy in the club where she is currently performing. It is then that Pinks fondly gives her the nickname "Your Highness", which becomes a moniker all in their mutual circle use for her in her callous regard for everyone around her. Gloria's life changes when she decides to leave Case for a high rolling glamour boy named Decatur Reed. Case, in a fit of jealousy, is able effectively to take away her livelihood, perhaps for good. Pinks had anonymously provided small gifts to Gloria in the past, she believing they all from Decatur. But now Pinks decides to take care of Gloria in all aspects of her life, some of those actions of which she is well aware, but most which she isn't. Those that know both Pinks and Gloria believe he is a fool for his devotion to her, but they nonetheless help him help her in any way they can without any question of what they will get in return. The questions become how far poor Pinks will go to help her, and through all these acts of kindness whether Gloria will ever come to a new perspective about Pinks and those that have helped her.

