When Dr Frankenstein decides to retire from the monster-making business, he calls an international roster of monsters to a creepy convention to elect his successor. Everyone is there including Dracula, The Werewolf, The Creature, Dr Jekyll &amp; Mr Hyde and many more. But Frankenstein's title is not all that is at stake. The famous doctor has also discovered the secret of total destruction that must not fall into the wrong hands!
NOTE: All voices by Allen Swift, except where noted.Baron von Frankenstein [voice of Boris Karloff], the scientist who discovered the secret to creation, has just perfected the secret to destruction. In order to celebrate his discovery, the baron invites all his monster friends -- Dracula, the Werewolf, the Mummy, the Invisible Man, Dr Jekyll/Mr Hyde, the Creature from the Black Lagoon, and the Hunchback of Notre Dame -- to his Caribbean Island of Evil for a big party. The baron also has another reason for hosting such a gala. He has decided to retire as head of Monsters Incorporated and to pass on his secrets to his only "living" heir -- geeky, allergy-ridden pharmacist Felix Flankin, son of the baron's sister, the white sheep of the family. As the SS Herring bearing all the guests nears the island, the baron briefs his zombies about the necessity of remaining calm and collected no matter what happens. Only Yetch is having trouble keeping his head (and hands) attached. This is partly because it's been so long since Yetch has seen all their friends, but also because he is besotted with the baron's secretary, the lovely, well-stacked, red-headed, cool-as-a-cucumber Francesca [Gale Garnet].As the baron and Francesca prepare to greet their guests, they are joined by Frankenstein's Monster and his Mate [Phyllis Diller]. First to arrive is Dracula, who is enchanted to see Francesca. ("You have always been my type...O-negative, isn't it?") Next is the Werewolf. ("Wolfie, you old dog! This convention is going to be a howling success!") The Invisible Man arrives. ("You're looking well...I think.") The Hunchback carries in the Mummy, then comes Dr Jekyll/Mr Hyde, followed by the Creature. Meanwhile, in the kitchen, Chef Mafia Machiavelli is preparing the menu for the party. There's octopus soup and a poison ivy salad with toadstools, poison berries, and three kinds of dressings -- arsenic, cyanide, and nitroglycerin. The antipasto consists of black widows marinated in their own poison, smoked lizards and snakes, and marinated mice. For the main course, there is boar's head, roasted vulture, and minced hyena casserole. In addition, entertainment is to be provided by Little Tibia and the Fibulas. As the dinner commences, the guests are all trying to figure out who will be the baron's successor. Dracula is assured that there is no one more evil, treacherous, and sneaky than he. Francesca thinks she might be able to use Dracula in order to attain the secrets for herself. The Monster and his Mate feel there can be no one closer to the baron than themselves ("He CREATED us!"). Ultimately, a big fight breaks out, and the guests spend the rest of the night trying to sleep it off.The next morning, the baron's nephew Felix arrives. The baron's plan is to have Francesca show Felix around the island. Francesca's plan is to set Felix up for an ambush along the way. Fortunately, Felix bumbles himself from Dracula, the Mummy, and the Werewolf and all attempts to knock him off. Feeling betrayed by Dracula, Francesca concocts a new plan which involves inviting the diabolical IT to the island. In an attempt to escape from the wrath of the other monsters, however, Francesca finds herself falling in love with Felix. As the two lovers make their way to the opposite side of the island where Francesca has a boat hidden, they are followed by the monsters who have decided unanimously to kill Felix. Just as the monsters capture Francesca and catch up with Felix, IT (King Kong) arrives. IT storms the castle, but when he finds a photo of Francesca, he falls madly in love with her. Grabbing Francesca in his oversized palm, IT climbs to the highest mountain where he is swarmed by airplanes flown by Baron von Frankenstein and his zombies. In his final act, the baron drops the vial of destruction, and the island blows up. Safe at sea, Felix makes plans to marry Francesca, but Francesca reveals that she cannot marry him because she is really only a machine fashioned by the baron. Felix consoles her. "Don't worry, Francesca. None of us is perfect...is perfect...is perfect...is perfect...is perfect." [Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.]
