Sisters Kay and Barbara arrive in Miami from Texas looking for rich husbands.
Kay, Barbara and Susan Latimer come into a small legacy when they expected a large one, then abandon the Texas greasy-spoon where they work to hunt in Miami for rich husbands, said to be plentiful there. Barbara and Susan posing as the secretary and maid of "wealthy" Kay, they check into a posh hotel, and soon Kay is in the delightful predicament of being pursued by two handsome, wealthy bachelors at once. But Musical Comedy Complications arise...
After the main title and opening credits, the audience enters Texas Tommys drive-in greasy-spoon on Texas State Highway 73 (Texas Tommys slogan is Service with a Song) where the carhop sisters, Kay and Barbara Latimer, sing What Can I Do for You? A much anticipated letter from a lawyer arrives. Together with their Aunt Sue, the drive-ins cook, the sisters open the letter to discover they have inherited $55,000. They are ecstatic until they learn that their share after court cost, lawyer fees, and taxes is only $4,287.96. Terribly disappointed, they decide to invest the money by heading to Miami, the millionaires playground, to look for husbands.
The next scene is a Miami travelogue as an off-screen chorus sings Oh Me, Oh Mi-ami. Kay, dressed in finery that looks like they spent most of their inheritance on her outfit, Barbara, as Miss Sears, Kays secretary and Aunt Sue, as Kays maid, arrive at their bungalow. They sing and dance their version of Oh Me, Oh Mi-ami.
Jack, one of the resorts waiters, delivers champagne compliments of Mr. Jeffrey Bolton. During Jacks visit to their bungalow, he flirts with Aunt Sue. He also agrees to help Kay discern the difference between male fortune hunters and actual millionaires.
Kay telephones Mr. Bolton to thank him for the champagne, but complains about its flatness. When Jeffrey comes over to check out the problem, he is so impressed with Kay that he invites her to a party at his suite, where most of the guests are asleep (the party has been going for days). Once the band leaves after having played for sixteen hours, Jeff plays the piano and sings You Started Something. Another band arrives and joins in as Kay sings. After a short duet by Jeff and Kay, she performs a cute seated tap routine with the Condos Brothers.
Kay meets Phil, apparently another wealthy playboy, at the party. Thereafter throughout the film, Jeff tries to get Kay away from Phil or visa versa. When Phil and Kay dance at the party, Phil sings a reprise of You Started Something. In the following scene, while Phil and Kay drive in a convertible, Phil sings Ive Got You All to Myself, but Jeff pops up in the backseat.
The next few scenes were quite obviously not shot in Miami a speed boat chase between the two guys was filmed in Lake Eloise and the grounds of Cypress Gardens, near Winter Haven, Florida, while Phil and Kay are shown at Silver Springs, near Ocala, Florida and, Phils and Kays romantic underwater tête-à-tête was filmed at Rainbow Springs in Dunnellon, Florida all three locales are hundreds of miles north of Miami.
Kay is having difficulty choosing between these two handsome millionaires, so she brings her sister, disguised as her secretary along to a dinner dance. Back at the bungalow, Jack kisses Sue and they sing and dance to Is That Good? During the dinner, while Kay and Phil dance, Barbara/Miss Sears gives Jeff a pep-talk about his ability to amount to something without relying on his fathers wealth.
Later that evening, in another Cypress Gardens scene, Phil and Kay cruise some canals in an electric boat. They sing Loveliness and Love, and kiss. After this romantic scene, however, Phil confesses to Kay that he is broke and Kay confesses she was going to marry him for his money.
Later, Phil tells Jeff that Kay is more interested in him, so he immediately proposes. She accepts.
At a party honoring Kays and Jeffs engagement, she sings Kindergarten Conga. She and the crowd dance the conga, and then she and a guy (Hermes Pan, the films choreographer) perform a tap routine.
It appears that Phil has turned his attention to Connie Fentress (Cobina Wright, Jr.), a grocery store heiress and Kay is jealous. Jack, who has been hired to help serve at the party, tries to tell Jeff that Kay is only marrying him for his money, but he gets locked in the bathroom.
Jeff, Kay and Miss Sears/Barbara travel to Jeffs island home where Jeff introduces the girls to his wealthy father (William Willie Bolton is played by George Lessey ). Willie is cooking gas-house eggs. At breakfast the next morning, Jeff and Barbara/Miss Sears have been horseback riding. Phil shows up because he says he is Jeffs best man. Jack, finally out of the locked bathroom, arrives on the island to inform Jeff that Kay is a gold digger, but the Latimer girls convince him not to tell Jeff for a little while. At another party for Jeff and Kay on the island, a group of dancers (Jack Cole and Co. and the Condos Brothers) perform a big production number to Solitary Seminole.
When Phil and Kay dance together at the party, he can sense she is unhappy. Shes in love with Phil even though shes supposed to marry Jeff. Jeff, due to Barbaras influence, takes a job in Brazil to prove he can accomplish something on his own without his fathers money. When Kay runs upstairs and starts packing, Phil follows. He tells her they are going away together. Before they can depart, Jeff comes upstairs and informs them he wants to marry Miss Sears.
In the last scene, the audience sees three happy couples: Phil and Kay, Jeff and Barbara, and Jack and Aunt Sue (skiing with Sue on Jacks shoulders).
