Living in India with her crude husband, a British aristocrat is reunited with an old flame at a party, though she truly has her sights set on a handsome doctor.
The adventurous Lady Edwina Esketh travels to the princely state of Ranchipur in India with her husband, Lord Albert Esketh, who is there to purchase some of the Maharajah's horses. She's surprised to meet an old friend, Tom Ransome who came to Ranchipur seven years before to paint the Maharajah's portrait and just stayed on. Ransome has developed something of a reputation - for womanizing and drinking too much - but that's OK with Edwina who is bored and looking for fun. She soon meets the local doctor, the hard working and serious Major Rama Safti. He doesn't immediately respond to her advances but when the seasonal rains come, disaster strikes when a dam fails, flooding much of the countryside. Disease soon sets in and everyone, including Ransome and Edwina, work at a non-stop pace to save as many as possible. Safti deeply admires Edwina's sacrifice but fate intervenes.
An Indian aristocrat Rama Safti returns from medical training in the U.S. to give his life to the poor folk of Ranchipur. Lady Edwina and her drunken artist ex-lover Ransome get in the way, but everyone shapes up when faced by plague, earthquakes and flooding.
The year is 1938 in British India, and our story takes place in the picturesque city of Ranchipur, presently sweltering under the heat, with locals praying for much needed rains and relief. In this scenario we have an elegant Maharaja, Man Singh Bahadur, and his astute and wise wife, the Maharani of Ranchipur; a perpetual drunk and womanizer, Tom Ransome, who is presently courting an 18 year old runaway from the local Mission by the name of Fern; Lord Albert Esketh, and his wife, Edwina, a former lover of Tom, who are on a visit to Ranchipur, and wish to purchase some of the Maharaja's horses; Then there is Dr. Major Rama Safti, a Hindu who is currently having an affair with Lord Albert's wife, and who is the heir apparent to the throne of Ranchipur. All plans of the citizens of Ranchipur are cut short with heavy incessant rains, followed by earthquakes, flooding, polluted waters, and then - plague. And as well we all know disasters and disease have never discriminated against the Christians or Hindus; the Caucasians or the Asians; nor between the rich and the poor.
Myrna Loy shines as Lady Edwina Esketh, a young woman stranded in India who becomes the center of attention for a local aristocrat attempting to win her heart in this sweeping MGM romance. Tom Ransome , a well-born womanizer, has been living a carefree life in India for several years. He and his closest friend, Major Rama Safti , spend leisure time contemplating India's uncertain future. But the tranquillity of Tom's simple life is disturbed by Fern Simon , the flirtatious daughter of American missionaries. Fern wants Tom to help her escape her sheltered life by creating a sexual scandal. Later that night, at the maharajah's palace party, Tom sees Edwina, an old girlfriend who is now the titled wife of Lord Albert Esketh. But no sooner are they reunited than Lady Edwina is up to her usual tricks. Attracted to Rama Safti, she pursues him even though Tom warns that her that Rama is completely dedicated to his medical practice. When a devastating natural disaster hits, everyone must reevaluate what is really important to them.

