Pursued by the big-time gambler he robbed, John Muller takes a new identity, with ironic results.
John Muller, medical school dropout and brilliant crook, plans a holdup which goes a little bit wrong, and finds vindictive gambler Rocky Stansyck after him. At the end of his tether, he stumbles onto a lucky chance to assume an impenetrable new identity as psychiatrist Victor Bartok. But irony piles on as Muller finds it's out of the frying pan, into the fire.
The educated criminal John Muller is released from prison and reunites his gang. He plots a scheme to heist the casino owned by the dangerous and powerful mobster Rocky Stansyck, but the holdup goes wrong. Two thieves are captured by the Stansyck's gangsters and they disclose the identities of Muller and his partner Marcy before being murdered. Marcy travels to Mexico and Muller hides in a city. Soon Marcy is killed in Mexico and Muller is jumpy. One day he is followed by a man and he learns that the man is the dentist Dr. Swangron that tells that Muller is the doppelganger of hie neighbor, the psychoanalyst Dr. Bartok, and the only difference is a scar on the face of Bartok. Muller visit's Bartok's office and meets his secretary, Evelyn Hahn. He also studies and prepares to impersonate Dr. Bartok. Will his plan work?
Recently paroled from prison for practicing medicine without a license and selling phony stock, John Muller (Paul Henreid) is given a boring menial job by the parole board, but seeks a big score and pulls together his old crew to knock over a local casino owned by Rocky Stansyck (Thomas Brown Henry). Overlooking a few details on the casino's security Muller barely gets away while some of his cronies are killed. While laying low with yet another menial job, Muller is mistaken for a psychologist Dr. Bartok who looks like Muller except for a large scar running down one cheek. When Muller snoops into the doctors business he meets his secretary and lover Evelyn Nash (Joan Bennett) and continuing to spend more time with her to get information, he falls in love with her. Muller studies books on psychology and also studies the doctor's patient files and stalks the doctor and takes a photo of him and, with surgical tools, scars his face just like the doctor but when he knocks off the doctor he realizes that he has scarred his own face on the wrong side. Muller continues with the charade but when his brother Frederick Muller (Eduard Franz) tracks him down Evelyn realizes the truth but decides to leave town with Muller. But Muller has overlooked some details of the good doctor's lifestyle and some involvement with gamblers that catch up to the man at an unexpected surprising moment.
