Ten people are invited to a luxury mountaintop mansion, only to find that an unseen person is killing them one by one. Could one of them be the killer?
Up to a house high on a mountain top have been invited ten people who are strangers to each other. When they are all gathered, they hear from their host that each one of them has in someway caused the death of an innocent person and that justice had not be served in their cases. There are eight guests and two servants there for the weekend, but one by one, they are being knocked off according to the poem of "Ten Little Indians". As the number of survivors decreases, they begin to believe that the killer is one of the group, but are unable to decide on which one he or she may be.
Eight disparate people, who have never met each other or their host, are invited to an all expenses paid weekend house party at the luxury mountaintop mansion of the wealthy U.N. Owen. Unless one is an experienced mountain climber, the mansion is accessible only via gondola. Those eight are Dr. Edward Armstrong, actress Ilona Bergen, private detective William Blore, Judge Arthur Cannon, Owen's new assistant Ann Clyde, engineer Hugh Lombard, General John Mandrake and pop singer Mike Raven. Even Ann and the two housekeepers, husband and wife Joseph and Elsa Grohmann, have never met Owen. Upon their arrival, Owen is nowhere to be seen. However, he leaves them a tape recorded message stating that each of them, including the Grohmanns, is responsible for the death of an innocent person or has caused murder. All around the mansion are references to the nursery rhyme Ten Little Indians, including a miniature statuary of ten little Indians. After one of the guests dies from arsenic poisoning, he who admitted before his death his guilt in the incident mentioned on the tape, one of the Indians from the statuary goes missing. The remaining nine guests, who are stranded for at least two days since the gondola has broken down for the weekend, know that Owen's mission is to kill them all, a missing Indian on the statuary a sign that yet another one of the ten has died. As they search the mansion and find no trace of anyone else, they come to the realization that Owen is one of them. This discovery leads to suspicion of the others as Owen as they try to evade Owen's planned end for them. But as one by one the guests are killed, it narrows down the one who is Owen.
A group of strangers, ten in all, are invited by a Mr. Owens to spend a weekend at his remote mountaintop home. After dinner, they learn via a tape recording that they've been invited to the house to pay for their crimes. The accusations are well-founded and unable to leave the house, the guests are being killed off one by one. The private detective in the group thinks that their host is likely hiding in the house somewhere. Judge Arthur Cannon thinks the killer is a member of the group and he proves to be correct.

