When two men break out of prison, they join up with another and restart their criminal ways, robbing banks across the South.
Two convicts break out of Mississippi State Penitentiary in 1936 to join a third on a long spree of bank robbing, their special talent and claim to fame. The youngest of the three falls in love along the way with a girl met at their hideout, the older man is a happy professional criminal with a romance of his own, the third is a fast lover and hard drinker fond of his work. The young lovers begin to move out of the sphere in which they have met, a last robbery in Yazoo City goes badly and puts paid to the gang once and for all as a profitable venture, but isn't the end of the story quite yet, as all three are wanted and notorious men with altogether different points of view on the situation they are faced with.
In the 1930s Bowie (Keith Carradine), T-Dub (Bert Remsen) and Chicamaw (John Schuck) escape prison and begin robbing banks to get above the poverty that has saturated the nation and stay ahead of the law. They hide out with Dee Mobley (Tom Skerrit) and Keechie (Shelly Duvall) and later with T-Dubs in-law Mattie (Louise Fletcher) planning their next bank holdups and keeping abreast of the news by listening to the radio and reading the newspapers. Their bond as a gang is threatened by the constant more sensationally reported accounts of their exploits, which excites the gang but causes jealously in Chicamaw. When Chicamaw shoots a bank teller the act sobers the criminals as they are bumped up to wanted dead or alive. The gang separates, agreeing to meet later and plan another bank job but Bowie is injured when he smashes his car and Chicamaw takes him to Dee Mobleys so Keechie can nurse him back to health. Bowie and Keechie fall in love and the two envision a life together in peace if they can escape to Mexico. When T-Dub is killed by police and Chicamaw put in prison Bowie makes a daring act to get his partner out of jail, but abandons his former pal in an act of conscience. The law has tightened the net too much for Bowie and Keechie to see their dreams come to life.
