While receiving a routine check-up, a woman finds herself stranded on the hospital's eighth floor, while someone dressed as a doctor is intent on her never leaving, even if it means killing any staff member who comes into contact with her.
Divorcee Susan Jeremy goes to a local Los Angeles county hospital for a routine exam and finds herself stranded there while a maniac, dressed in a doctor's surgical mask and clothing, goes around killing all the staff are associated with her. Could it possibly be the psycho Harold, who killed a friend of Susan's on Valentine's Day 19 years earlier?
In 1961, young Susan (Elizabeth Hoy) and David are playing with a train with paper Valentine's Day hearts all around the room. A boy watching from outside leaves a red envelope at the front door and knocks. Susan answers, and she shows David and Valentine's card from Harold. The two laugh and crumple it up. Susan goes to the kitchen to cut some cake and when she walks back into the living room, David is dead and hanging on a coat rack. Susan turns and sees a smiling Harold standing by the open window. She screams and the young killer runs away.19 years later on Valentine's Day 1980. The grown-up Susan Jeremy (Barbi Benton) has to go to the L.A. County hospital for cancer test results and she tells her ex-husband Tom (Jimmy Stathis) to watch their eight-year-old daughter Eva. Susan's fiancee, Jack (Jon Van Ness), drives her to the hospital and he asks if it is the same hospital where a patient once ran amok. Susan goes inside and heads for Dr. Jacob's office. In the elevator, Susan meets hospital patient Hal (Lanny Duncan), who at first appears bloody and dead but is only napping after enjoying a burger with excessive ketchup. Susan inadvertently goes to the cloudy ninth floor where three men in gas masks are fumigating the tell her to leave. The elevator stops and Susan bangs on the door for help. Meanwhile, Dr. Jacobs is called to the ninth floor (she uses the stairs). Suddenly, the doctor is murdered by someone wearing OR scrubs and a doctor's surgical mask.The elevator starts again, and Susan gets off on the eighth floor. The masked killer goes to Dr. Jacob's office where he takes Susan's file and writes her name on another folder. Susan knocks on the office, forcing the killer to hide in a closet. Susan looks around the empty office and waits on a bench outside. The janitor goes to a room on the ninth floor and finds Jacobs' body hanging upside down in a locker. The killer is at the door and the janitor follows him to another room. The janitor calls out: "hey man, who are you?" The killer grabs the janitor and dunks his face into a sink full of acid. (The killer is wearing appropriate rubber gloves).Susan calls Tom, but her stubborn ex-husband refuses to answer and will not let Eva pick up the phone. A doctor suggests that Susan check the doctor's lounge for the missing Jacobs. Susan meets Harry (Chip Lucia), another doctor, and they go to Jacobs office where Harry looks at Susan's file. After checking the switched X-ray (which shows an advanced state of intestinal cancer), Harry tells Susan that he needs to find an MD to sign the report because he is only an intern.Harry and Susan go to Dr. Saxon's office where Harry (whispering something) gets Saxon to look at Susan's report. Harry leaves and Saxon excuses himself. Susan calls Tom again, and Eva answers. She tells Susan that Tom just went out and left her alone. Susan tells her daughter that she is going to be a little late in picking her up. Just then, nurses Dora and Kitty take Susan to a room where Saxon tells Susan that her cancer test results were inconclusive and that more tests are necessary. Saxon check's Susan, takes some blood samples, and sends her to a room occupied by three strange elderly women. Susan uses the room telephone to call Tom again but the receiver is off the hook (Tom is now home at the house with Eva).Nurse Suzy is in a room typing Susan's report, and Nancy comes in and asks her for a bite to eat. Suzy stays to finish the report and the killer murders the woman by stabbing her to death. The masked killer takes the report out of the typewriter and puts another on in its place. Harry walks in, sees no one, and takes the report sitting in the typewriter. He gives the report to Saxon and Dr. Beam and they determine among themselves that the report is "practically a death warrant." They secretly agree not to tell Susan about her cancer test results to avoid freaking her out.Nancy finds the dead Suzy and she runs out of the room until she finds the masked killer, who breaks her neck with his hands.Dr. Saxon goes to Susan and tells her that she has to stay in the hospital a while due to "discrepancies" in her tests and he admits that the results are serious but refuses to tell her about the results. After Saxon leaves, Susan leaves the room to get away from the eerie women and sees Harry in the hall. The two of them go to Jacobs' office and look at her files. He reads a file, and the tells Susan that someone is playing a con job on her and to wait in her room. He goes to Saxon's office, answers the ringing phone and says to someone on the other end that he will be right up.Meanwhile, Jake awakes, still waiting in his car in the hospital parking garage. He walks into the hospital and is sent by the ground floor receptionist to the eighth floor to look for Susan. He gets to her room and Susan tells him that the doctors will not get her go and they refuse to tell her anything about her medical condition. Jake and Susan head for the elevators but are stopped by Saxon and two nurses. Susan is taken back to her room and Jack is told to wait on the bench by Saxon's office. While waiting there, Jack is called to the ninth floor. He enters a room to see someone sitting in a wheelchair behind a dressing curtain. A voice tells him to come closer; a dead body is sitting in the wheelchair. The killer appears and kills Jack with a surgical drill.Susan is alone in her room (the three women are wondering around on the ninth floor when Jack was walking around), and the killer enters with a big red box, leaving it on the stand next to the bed. Susan sits up, opens the box, and finds Jack's severed head inside. She screams and runs into the doctors lounge. Saxon and Kitty enter and take Susan back to her room, where they find only a cake inside the box. Susan tells Saxon about her file in Jacobs' office (which Harry has).Susan goes to the elevator and hides behind a dressing curtain in the hallway when she hears someone approaching. She sees the masked killer standing by the elevator with a hatchet. She is almost discovered when she drops her lighter, but the killer leaves on the elevator. Susan runs down the stairs to the archive room (for another copy on her file). Saxon is there and tells Susan to go back to her room and again refuses to talk about her file. The killer arrives a minute later and murders Saxon by putting the hatchet into the doctor's head. Susan runs screaming down the hall, but is subdued and strapped to her bed by Dora, Kitty and another doctor.A little later, Dr. Beam comes in to see Susan and he refuses to listen to her rambling that there is a killer loose in the hospital. She bites his finger which results in him sedating her. Meanwhile, Dora is walking down the hall when she is attacked by the killer who stabs her with a giant syringe. The killer then follows Dr. Beam and stabs him in his neck with a large surgical blade as he is looking at Susan's forged X-ray.The killer then moves the unconscious Susan out her room and to a nearby operating room where he unstraps Susan and puts her on an operating table. Susan regains consciousness and tears off the killer's mask and the killer is revealed to be Harry. When she cries out his name, he says "It's not Harry, it's Harold". Harry is the young Harold who murdered David 19 years earlier. When Susan asks why is he doing all this and what does he want. Harry replies: "What I've always wanted: your heart!" Before he can attack, Susan grabs a scalpel off the surgical tray and stabs him with it. She unstraps herself and runs out of the room. Harry chases her to another room where she dumps a jar of flammable liquid on him. The chase leads up to the roof of the hospital where Susan ambushes Harry and beats him with a lead pipe a few times, but Harry still will not go down that easy. When he attacks again, she flicks her lighter and sets Harry afire. Running across the roof in flames, Harry jumps off the roof of the building and falls to a fiery death.The next day, Susan leaves the hospital and is greeted by Tom and Eva.
