When a South American drug lord pays Pace to steal 48 cars for him, all but one is in the bag - thereby, the police precipitate in a desperate car chase against Pace and his Eleanor across Southern California.
Insurance investigator Maindrian Pace and his team lead double-lives as unstoppable car thieves. When a South American drug lord pays Pace to steal 48 cars for him, all but one, a 1973 Ford Mustang, are in the bag. As Pace prepares to rip-off the fastback, codenamed "Eleanor", in Long Beach, he is unaware that his boss has tipped off the police after a business dispute. Detectives are waiting and pursue Pace through five cities as he desperately tries to get away.
Mandarian Pace (H.B. Halicki) is an insurance investigator in Los Angeles who moonlights as a professional car thief with his crew, Atlee Jackson (George Cole), his brother Corlis (Ronald Halicki), and Stanley Chase (James McIntyre). He also maintains a relationship with Stanley's sister Pumpkin (Marion Busia), whose other brother Eugene (Jerry Daguirda) is Pace's boss at the insurance agency, which the two have a very toxic relationship. One day, he receives an offer from a South American drug lord to steal 48 cars in one week. He is forced to break the bad news to Eugene about canceling his honeymoon when he flies to Dunkirk, New York for his wedding.Back in Los Angeles, the crew, with strict instructions from Pumpkin that no uninsured cars will be stolen and by Pace that their CB radios are to be on at all times, immediately get to work on the assignment. Stealing most of the cars is a success, only one: a 1973 Ford Mustang Mach 1 code-named Eleanor gives the crew headaches. They steal the first Eleanor from drunken Harold Smith (Ed Abrams), who retaliates by giving chase in his Plymouth Satellite, only to cause an auto accident and get pulled over and arrested by police. They manage to steal a second one, which is not insured and they are forced to return it. However, Eugene, who is angered that Pace torched a white Cadillac El Dorado they stole containing one million dollars worth of heroin hidden throughout the car, tips off the police about the car theft ring and tells them to put a stakeout at the Long Beach International Towers where a third Eleanor is parked at owned by local disc jockey Hal McClain (himself). When Stanley drops Pace off at the location, he double-crosses Pace by switching off his CB radio before driving off, out of loyalty to Eugene. Two unmarked detectives (Butch Stockton and Phil Woods), in a gray Mercury Montego, across the street, spot Pace driving it out of the parking garage. Pace sees the detectives and roars off, leading them and the police on a wild car chase through five different cities.When Pace finally loses the police, he spots another Eleanor at a nearby car wash. He pulls the now banged-up Mustang in the lot. He poses as the owner of the car wash and dupes the Mustang owner by informing her that the car needs to be rewashed. The ruse works and Pace drives off with it, taking off his disguise in the process. However, the real owner, not sure what is going on, tries to straighten things out with the Mustang owner, who faints when she sees the banged-up one coming out of the wash. At the same time, the cops spot the owner, since he matches the description of Pace's old man disguise and arrest him on the spot. Pace subsequently bumps into a carload of low riders, whose Cadillac he wound up destroying during the pursuit. He happily bids them goodbye before driving off into the sunset.
