When Snoopy turns Charlie Brown invisible in a magic act, he has trouble changing him back.
Taking advantage of a newly acquired magic tricks kit, Snoopy decides to put on a magic act. For the finale, he turns Charlie Brown invisible, but he can't change him back right away. While Snoopy searches for the counter spell, Charlie Brown struggles with this bizarre problem, but realizes that he has a golden opportunity to finally kick Lucy's football.
Charlie Brown suggests Snoopy go down to the library and take out some books. Snoopy gets there and finds only one book he likes; a book on magic. Upon learning enough, he builds a stage, and puts on a magic show as The Great Houndini, enlisting Marcie and Sally as assistants. Some tricks work and some don't (much to the delight of most of the audience either way), but the biggest surprise is when Charlie Brown is brought on-stage for the disappearing act...and the trick works. However, rain forces a sudden end to the show, and Charlie Brown is stuck invisible. Snoopy is now forced to figure out how to make him visible again. Meanwhile, as annoyed as Charlie Brown is at this predicament, he finds his chance to get back at Lucy for all the times she has pulled the football away from him.
Charlie Brown gives Snoopy a library card, and soon after, Snoopy checks out a book on magic.Pretty soon, Snoopy decides to put on a magic show, with Sally, Marcie, and Woodstock as his assistants. Going under the name 'The Great Houndini,' Snoopy does numerous tricks, most of which end up backfiring. They include:pulling a rabbit out of a hat.penetrating a box and person with a stick.putting someone in a box, and cutting them into pieces.blindfolded and guessing what audience members have on them.levitating a person into the air.turning someone invisible.The last trick is done with Charlie Brown, but before Snoopy can make him reappear, the performance is rained out, and everyone goes home.Soon after, Charlie requests Snoopy to turn him back, but Snoopy doesn't seem to know how. Wandering the neighborhood, Charlie is surprised to see Lucy holding a football in an open field. Having some fun with his invisibility, he kicks the football out of her hand, before taunting her.Furious that Charlie seems to have put one over on her, she demands Snoopy make Charlie Brown reappear, or she'll pound him.Eventually, Snoopy finds the reversal spell, and manages to turn Charlie back, just as he attempts to kick the football out of Lucy's hands again. However, Lucy sees Charlie reappearing, and pulls it away this time.Even so, Charlie claims that he's ecstatic that he kicked the ball while he was invisible, while Lucy says no one will believe him. When Charlie claims that it's thanks to Snoopy, Lucy insults his magic powers, and Snoopy angrily levitates her above the ground, leaving her there, as Charlie and Snoopy merrily dance away to conclude a most satisfying day.In the aftermath, Linus finds Lucy levitating, and using his blanket, pulls her down.
