There's just something not quite right when Bette Davis stars as an English nanny. And is her 10-year-old charge an emotionally disturbed murderer or just an insolent brat?
Bette Davis is an English nanny whose charge is a rude 10-year-old Joey, just discharged from a disturbed children's home where he'd spent two years undergoing treatment for drowning his little sister in the bath. He returns to an unloving father, fragile mother, and doting nanny -- whom he hates. Suspicion arises again when his mother is poisoned, and Joey continues to insist Nanny is responsible. Joey contends the nanny was responsible for his little sister's death, and only the upstairs neighbour girl believes him.
Ten year old Joey Fane has been institutionalized for two years for behavior issues following the "accidental" bathtub drowning death of his younger sister, Susy Fane. Despite those behavior issues not having improved, Joey is being released and is going home. His father, Bill Fane, sees Joey's homecoming as a nuisance as having to deal with Joey's bad behavior takes time away from his work. Joey's mother, Virginia Fane, is a quivering nervous wreck as she doesn't think she can cope with Joey. The only person who seems even remotely happy about Joey coming home is Nanny, a longtime servant who was Virginia and Virginia's sister Pen's nanny when they were children. Nanny still acts much as such to the childlike Virginia and sickly Pen. However, Joey has always hated Nanny, who he wanted and still wants fired. Joey is openly antagonistic to Nanny, he especially refusing to eat anything she cooks and making her swear that she won't come into the bathroom while he's taking his baths. He accuses Nanny of trying to kill him. While at home, Joey befriends precocious fifteen year old Bobbie Medman, the girl who lives upstairs. Bobbie eventually gets caught up in Joey's stories of Nanny.
With Joey Fane back home, all Virginia and Bill Fane want is a calm and respectful atmosphere amongst the house. Only something is still disturbing Joey and that one thing is the Nanny. Whilst Nanny is a loving woman who helps around the house, Joey sees her as someone else someone who believes is responsible for the death of his sister.

