Henry Steele is a basketball phenom at his small town high school, but when he matriculates to a big city university on a scholarship, soon realizes that he has few skills outside the sport. Expected by his coach to contribute significantly to the team, Henry is overwhelmed by the demands on his time, the "big business" aspect of college sports, and the fact that he never fully learned to read. Things look bleak for Henry when Janet Hays, a pretty graduate student, is assigned as Henry's tutor. Her intellect and strength lift Henry out of his doldrums just in time to battle the coach, who attempts to rescind Henry's scholarship.
Having turned down other scholarships, high school basketball star Henry Steele of small town Colorado accepts a four year basketball scholarship to attend Western University in Los Angeles, he recruited personally by the college's renowned and winning basketball coach, Moreland Smith. The offer includes the basketball program handling almost every aspect of his life on campus, from the provision of housing in the dorm, to paying for a tutor to help him with all his courses - his assigned tutor being senior, Janet Hays - to provision of a job in name only for some pocket money, all in the goal of being able to focus on basketball. This situation is Henry and his parents' dream as all his future hopes are pinned on basketball. Henry quickly shows his naivety about his new situation in many respects, especially that while his showboating style wowed crowds and won games back home, it doesn't sit well with especially the Coach as the other teams members are as good or better players as Henry. On top of everything, Janet has a well-founded condescending attitude toward Henry, she having seen many a "Henry" before in his expectation that he doesn't have to do any school work to get by. Through it all, Henry will also learn of the corruption that exists within the system, which allows Coach Smith's administrative assistant B.J. Rudolph use her position to try and gain sexual favors from the basketball players, Henry her latest target, and allows Coach Smith himself to use less than ethical tactics in order to reach his end goal of a perfect and untainted record, both on the basketball court and for himself personally. With someone unexpectedly on his side within this environment, Henry has to prove to himself and others that he belongs, while hopefully seeing the bigger picture of there being more to his life than just basketball.

