After a sexual encounter with a beautiful client, a teenage delivery boy finds himself being turned into a vampire.
Young student finds himself being transformed to a vampire after a night with a quite attractive female vampire. First, he does not quite believe it himself, but with the help of a 300 year old teacher and the handbook "vampirism - a guide to an alternative lifestyle", he finds out that blood does not taste as bad as he expected. Of course, he does not bite women, as a good guy he sticks to pig blood which is offered by the local butcher as a special offer for vampires. Trouble rises when a vampire hunter tries to track him down with wooden sticks and silver bullets...
In Houston, the teenager Jeremy Capello is a normal middle-class boy, who lives with his beloved parents and has Ralph as his best friend. He has a crush on Darla Blake, but he is shy and does not date her. He works making deliveries for a supermarket and is seduced by his sexy client Nora. While having his first intercourse with her, Jeremy is transformed in a vampire. His friend Ralph is mistakenly chased by two weird vampire hunters, Prof. Leopold McCarthy and his assistant Grimsdyke, that believe he is a creature of the night. Meanwhile, Jeremy learns how to use his new powers with Modoc, and falls definitively in love for Darla.
High schooler Jeremy Capella [Robert Sean Leonard] makes a delivery to the Gardner Mansion and comes away vampire. He thinks the guys chasing him in the white van are from the husband of the lady he bedded at the mansion. When the mansion is burnt down, Jeremy thinks the other guy following him is a detective. When the detective shows up in Jeremy's bedroom one night, Jeremy learns he is Modoc [Rene Auberjonois], a vampire. Modoc informs Jeremy that the strange things that have been happening to him the last few days are due to his changing into a vampire. Modoc also tells him that the guys in the white van are vampire hunters and they want to kill him. Actually they want Jeremy's friend Ralph [Evan Mirand] because they think Ralph is the vampire. They almost succeed, but Jeremy saves Ralph from the stake, Modoc's friends make an ally of Professor Leopold McCarthy [David Warner], and Jeremy gets a girlfriend, Darla Blake [Cheryl Pollack].
