After a mix-up with application photograph, an aspiring actor is invited to a test screening and goes off to Hollywood.
Harold Hall, an accident prone young man with little or no acting ability, desperately wants to be in pictures. After a mix-up with his application photograph, he gets an offer to have a screen-test, and goes off to Hollywood. At the studio, he does everything wrong and causes all sorts of trouble. But he catches the fancy of a beautiful actress, and eventually the studio owner recognizes him as a comic genius.
Harold Hall of Littleton, Kansas, a slightly funny looking young man, is absentminded and is always getting into trouble due largely to his single-minded focus on wanting to be a movie star in Hollywood, he seeing himself mostly as a romantic lead. A mix-up results in Harold being offered a screen test by J.L. O'Brien, Production Chief of Planet Studios in Hollywood, he who believes Harold is a man with stereotypical masculine leading man good looks based on the photograph of another man part of Harold's submission. At Planet Studios, Harold continues to get into one mess after another because of his innate ability to get into and cause trouble. Part of those problems stem from the fact that O'Brien wants who he believes is Harold to do that screen test, while the real Harold, who is causing no end of grief for O'Brien, tries to get that screen test done. Further complications ensue when Harold falls in love at first sight with a dark-haired Spanish actress, who he mistakenly believes is flirting with him. Harold later meets one of Planet's contract players, blonde-haired Mary Sears. Despite the antagonistic situation of their first meeting, Mary becomes enamored with Harold as a decent man, a rarity in Hollywood. Harold too likes Mary but can't stop thinking about the Spanish actress, unaware that Mary and the Spanish actress are one and the same. Harold trying to woo the Spanish actress may threaten his friendship and burgeoning romantic relationship with Mary, who is aware of every move Harold is making with her alter ego of the Spanish actress.

