Fred wants to start a new life with a new wife, but it isn't easy to give Paulette the gate for another mate.
Captain Mary Morley (Paulette Goddard), WAC marital-relations expert, known as "Captain Lonelyhearts", returns from overseas as escort to some G.I. war brides, and she hopes to patch up the estrangement from Peter Morley (Fred MacMurray), her husband and former law partner. The latter has fallen for beautiful Gloria Fay (Arleen Whelan) and is waiting at the pier with a divorce consent requiring Mary's signature. Peter, hoping to be more persuasive later, asks her to have dinner with him later at the Ski Club. Jack Lindsay (Macdonald Carey), a client of Peter's who has been using their apartment mistakes Mary for one of the intended bridesmaids and asks about Gloria. Now that Mary knows about Gloria, she asks Jack to bring Gloria to the Ski Club dinner. Still in love with Peter, Mary refuses to sign the divorce paper and asks Jack to take her home. Mary is ordered to Fort Sheridan and Peter and Jack board her train - Peter still after her signature and Jack also hoping she will sign as he has fallen for her. Jack advises Peter to make himself so repulsive that Mary will be glad to get rid of him. When Mary reaches Chicago, she is met by three WAC officers and Peter, puffing a king-size cigar, who swoops in and scoops her into his arms. Realizing that Peter must want a divorce badly by staging such a performance, Mary finally consents. Later, when Mary and Peter are going through their personal effects, they begin to reminisce and realize their disagreements were over trivial matters. They embrace, leaving Jack and Gloria out in the cold.
1941. Before they both enlist in the army and go to their separate respective assignments, married Peter and Mary Morely of Morely &amp; Morely Attorneys-at-Law of New York City, decide, on Mary's suggestion, to divorce after the war, they now seeing each other more as business partners than romantic lovers. Fast forward four years to 1945 and the end of the war. Pete, who has been home for a while and resumed his legal work at their firm, still has divorce on his mind as he wants to marry divorcée Gloria Fay. As such, he, who doesn't want to divulge to Mary that there is another woman in the picture, has the divorce papers all ready for her to sign as soon as she returns home. Pete's urgency in getting Mary to sign is largely the result of Gloria being on his back, she who refuses to associate with him until he is legally available. Mary, who worked as a marital relations expert in the war and is still doing so for the army not yet being decommissioned, has convinced herself because of her work that she wants to make a go of their marriage, she who in turn doesn't want to tell him outright that that is what she wants because of his eagerness for the divorce. When the issue of Gloria comes out in the open and Pete guesses that Mary still wants to stay married, their situation becomes even more complicated. Adding to that complicated triangle is someone making it a square, Jack Lindsay, a relatively new client of Pete's from Washington DC and Pete's new best friend, who helps Mary as much as he can, while still helping Pete, all in an effort to be the man in the picture for Mary when she and Pete are no longer officially a couple.

