The naughty high schoolers of Angel Beach High now seek revenge on a group of KKK religious fanatics and corrupt politicians who want to shut down their Shakespeare production after they cast a Seminole transfer student in the lead.
When the students of Angel Beach High decide to stage "An Evening With Shakespeare," their efforts are threatened by Miss Balbricker, who views the works of Shakespeare as obscene. She enlists the help of Reverend Bubba Flavel, a religious fanatic who brings along his flock of followers to pressure the school into shutting down the production. When they succeed with the help of corrupt city officials seeking re-election, the gang don't get mad... they get even!
A day after the Angel Beach gang got revenge on Porky, the gain's Drama class experiences some troubles. Ms. Balbricker, Reverend Bubba Flavel, and politcal groups earning to get themselves re-elected. They all pressure the school to ban the new Shakespeare play for being obscene. The play hasd also got the attention of the KKK because the role of Romero went to a Seminole Indian. With threats against the school and the Native himself, the boys team together again for another scheme to get back at anyone trying to mess with Angel Beach.
The film opens with images from the first part of Porky's.Edward "Pee Wee" Morris (Dan Monahan) wakes up shouting "I've been laid!" with joy. It's the following morning, after all the events in the first film. He increases the line in his maturity chart - the one he keeps under his mattress. His penis doesn't look as responsive as always, but he thinks it may be a resting time after the novelty of sex with a woman. His mother (Ilse Erl) enters his bedroom while he's got a boner - after watching topless women at  The National Geographic  magazine. Mrs. Morris is dumbfounded when she looks at Pee Wee's chart.Back at Angel Beach High School, Pee Wee brags about having Wendy Williams (Kaki Hunter) snatched from everybody else. His friends tease Pee Wee, saying that Wendy didn't think it was such a big thing. Wendy wants a better man - Wendy admits that it was all a prank planned by his friends: she really ended up satisfied.The Drama Club is producing a Shakespeare-based play for a theater festival. All the boys in the festival are participating. Pee Wee interrupts a natural sciences lesson - the vivisected frogs are disgusting. Pee Wee is blamed for a joke which was not even his, but the science teacher (Howard Neu) tells him off. Pee Wee is jealous of Wendy, who is talked about a lot. She says that she's faithful, that people will talk about her without really knowing her, and that boys will always brag about things they haven't really done. Pee Wee tries to trust her, and says that he'll "kick the ass" of any boy who badmouths her from that moment on.Tommy Turner (Wyatt Knight), Tim Cavanaugh (Cyril O'Reilly), Billy McCarthy (Mark Herrier) and Anthony "Meat" Tuperello (Tony Ganios) are part of Pee Wee's gang. They are on friendly terms with new student Johnny Henry (Joseph Runningfox), who says hello to them. He'll participate in Shakespeare's play as well, alongside with Pee Wee and Tommy.Anthony has to dress up as a god fairy, which creates plenty of mockery around, especially with Pee Wee. Later, they disguise themselves to go to a carnival to see a well-endowed girl to dance something similar to the dance of the seven veils. The boys visit Gloria, and her MC (Peter Conrad). Pee Wee refuses to get on stage wearing his costume. When he is forced to come out on stage, he looks like a green Puck.Just then, Coach Ms. Beulah Balbricker (Nancy Parsons) and Reverend Bubba Flavel (Bill Wiley) arrive, demanding that the play be shut down for its content and that Johnny Henry has been cast as the lead role. The group takes their case to principal Mr. Floyd J. Carter (Eric Christmas) where the fanatical Rev. Flavel makes his case over it. Mr. Carter cannot stand up to Flavel's shouts and screams. Flavel and Balbricker allege that Shakespeare is filth. Carter dismisses them after reading romantic passages from the Bible to counter Flavel's ranting.That evening, Pee Wee finds another girl, and he takes her to the cemetery. He runs away. It's a prank; as Pee Wee shows himself stark naked. Laura gets undressed and wraps herself around Pee Wee. It looks like Laura is choking to death. Steve and Tommy say that Pee Wee is to blame for Laura's death. They can't call Ted (Art Hindle), the same cop who helped them out in the first film. Steve frightens Pee Wee, dressed as a zombie. So now, they accuse Pee Wee of killing two people; he runs away butt naked. Ted and another cop see Pee Wee naked running on the road, but they don't stop to pick him up. They are dumb folded by Steve's disguise, but not afraid. He passes out.The next day, Somebody (Will Knickerbocker) has thrust a dummy against Johnny Henry, a Native American, kissing a white girl. The commissioners arrive; they are Hurley (Fred Buch), Couch (Richard Liberty) and Gebhardt (Edward Winter). The commissioners will support the play, in spite of the racist comments.The next day, Pee Wee and the others stage a prank at Coach Balbricker. Noticing how she always goes to the bathroom on the hour every day, the gang sneaks away from gym practice to the basement to place a live corn snake in the pipe leading up to the very toilet where Balbricker is releving herself. Balbricker sings and dances  Black Magic  while on the toilet. They open up the pipe and push the corn snake up. Balbricker runs in panic with her pants and panties down to the gym of the high school. All the school hears her screams and sees her. Everybody panics, especially two cheerleaders (Francine Joyce and Wendy Becker), when they see the snake crawl out of the girls locker room. Tommy picks up the harmless snake and the coaches congratulate him for that.Later that day, Carter interrupts rehearsals, when Johnny Henry was taking his role too realistically. Officially, the Shakespeare production is called off, but the classroom can rehearse as a private project classroom. One of them mentions that one of the commissioners exposed himself.Seward County Commissioner Gebhardt initially gestures Steve, Pee Wee, Wendy and the rest of the gang that Flavel's demands are ludicrous and unreasonable. The commissioners seem to think well of the production; Gebhardt praises them to fight for their ideals and for what they want. He tells them that he'll do a favor, in return of which he'll be offered another favor, and that's how things work, so they have nothing to worry about.The next evening, the gang finds John beaten to a pulp. The KKK opposes a Seminole character - his role is Romeo - to kiss a white girl - Wendy's role which is Juliet. A cross is burning next to him. 5,000 signatures are given to Geghardt against the play.The play neverless goes on. During the swordfight scene, Johnny's sword breaks and he has to pretend to keep on fighting with a broken sword in an absurd way. They give him the leg of a female mannequin.Flavel arrives and insists in shutting the production down just as Pee Wee in his green-skinned costume is giving his monologue. Anthony shows Flavel his balls. Mrs Morris tells him that the gesture wasn't helpful. Gebhardt gestures for the gang to keep calm, but he finally betrays them. Gebhardt is a pervert who will go out with Wendy, who is 17 and therefore still a minor. Wendy wants revenge.At Seward Court, in the basement, commissioners love silent black-and-white porn flicks (stag films). They make derogatory terms. Tommy records them with a tape audio recorder.Wendy prepares a punch which looks like vomit. She goes to La Fontana di voglio, a fancy restaurant to meet with Gebhardt for their date as he is friends with the Maitre d's (Robin Paradise and Ted Richert). Wendy is wearing large fake breasts with the fake vomit in them.At the rally, the KKK is led to the school gym away from the gathering talk to John. The gym is packed with Seminole Indians and hostile looking African American locals. Pee Wee and the gang tells the KKK that they want to shave the KKK members' heads in retribution for their assault on Johnny.At the restaurant, Wendy enters dressed and talking like a prostitute, shouting and making a big scene out of it so that everybody looks at her... which everybody does. She jumps on top of Gebhardt and tries to shag him there. She puts her boa hat on a gentleman (William Kerwin)'s head, and she sings that she's turning on 17 that day, and that she was 14 when she first met him. Wendy will cry rape if he goes away: she says that she's pregnant of him.Back at the rally, during Rev. Flavel's speech, he sees he KKK members appear stark naked with shaved heads. Then, the recording with the commissioners badmouthing Flavel and talking about the porn flick is played for everybody to hear. The public gets restless and Flavel loses it, swearing like a maniac to the press.At the restaurant, Wendy further humiliates herself and Gebhardt by getting drunk and drinks the gentleman's cup, and she repeats her date's name and position. Wendy then uses the fake vomit in her fake breasts and vomits in a pool, and all the restaurant-goers leave. The gentleman even saw Wendy take out the vomit from one of her fake breasts. Pee Wee appears and takes a picture of Gerbhardt in the fountain pool. They leave to the sound of  We're going to see the Wizard, the wonderful Wizard of Oz, because because because.... The news jumps to the newspapers and Gernhardt quits his post.In a montage of the closing;The Shakesperean Festival is on again, announced on the first page.Johnny is a hero with the play and the community.Wendy and Pee Wee are together again.The KKK members try to discreetly leave. One of them is kicked in the head by sweet ladies with umbrellas.The restaurant will be no more.Flavel tries to strangle one of his old accomplices.
