Catherine Morland is a young woman who enjoys reading Gothic Novels. She is invited to Bath by a family friend, Mrs. Allen, and there she meets Henry Tilney and his sister Eleanor. Upon returning to her home with her family, Eleanor invites Catherine to come along as her guest and companion. There Catherine's imagination continues to flourish and she begins to suspect a dark secret at Northanger Abbey.
Catherine Morland is eighteen years and the daughter of a vicar in Fullerton. Her world consists of reading Gothic novels and helping with her younger siblings. Mr. and Mrs. Allen, a wealthy childless couple who live nearby, invite her to Bath. Catherine is very excited to be going, although when they arrive it is hard to get acquainted. Outfitted by Mrs. Allen with the proper clothing, Catherine attends her first dance. She and Mrs. Allen exchange a few words with a handsome young man but there is no one to introduce them. Later, Catherine sees him with a young woman and assumes they are a couple.The next day, Catherine is depressed because rain keeps them indoors. She wants to go out anyway but Mrs. Allen won't permit it. She is surprised and pleased when her brother James and a friend drop by. James introduces her to John Thorpe. John's mother was a schoolmate of Mrs. Allen's. Catherine and Mrs. Allen accept John's invitation to meet his family. But the Thorpes do not make a good impression. John and his sisters are loud and vulgar. Their mother comes across as greedy. His sister Isabella attaches herself to Catherine and predicts they will become the best of friends.Catherine is currently reading "The Mysteries of Udolpho" by Mrs. Radcliffe. She often dreams that she is the heroine of the novel. Isabella comes to call and announces that she and James are in love. He has ridden home to ask his father for permission to marry. Catherine is startled but approves of the match, reassuring Isabella that her father will no doubt give them his blessing.John takes Catherine riding in an open carriage. She doesn't realize that this is not proper. When she returns to the hotel, Mrs. Allen reprimands her. As it turns out, Mrs. Allen has just been introduced to the young man she and Catherine saw on the night of the dance. He is Henry Tilney, son of General Tilney who owns Northanger Abbey. The young woman with him that night was his sister, Eleanor.Mrs. Allen, the Thorpes, and Catherine visit the pump room. Mrs. Allen makes a disparaging remark about Isabella. Catherine is introduced to Eleanor Tilney and accepts an invitation to go walking with her and Henry the next day. Isabella and John Thorpe overhear the conversation. He wants Catherine for himself because he believes she is the Allens' heiress.As Catherine is leaving to meet Eleanor, John and Isabella show up and invite her to accompany them. Catherine refuses, explaining that she has a prior commitment with the Tilneys. John lies and says he just met the Tilneys and they asked him to tell her that they cannot go walking after all. But Catherine soon learns the truth and hurries to the Tilneys' lodgings. Breathlessly she explains what happened and her apology is graciously accepted. They arrange to go walking the next day.Catherine enjoys getting acquainted with the Tilneys. She is delighted that Henry and Eleanor have both read "The Mysteries of Udolpho." They go rowing and are caught in a rainstorm. General Tilney appears with his carriage to rescue them.At the next dance, Catherine is partnered by Henry. John is angry and Catherine tries to avoid him. General Tilney seems to be watching her with intense scrutiny. Catherine sees him talking with an odd-looking woman who she later learns is a Marchioness.Since Isabella is now engaged, Catherine expects her to sit out the dances. To her horror, Isabella flirts with several men and dances with Henry's older brother Frederick, an army officer. She demands that Henry tell his brother at once that Isabella is engaged, but Henry refuses. He insists that Frederick knows what he is doing. Isabella is distraught when a letter arrives from James, announcing that they cannot marry for two years. At that time James will receive a living (pastorate) from his father, worth about four hundred pounds a year. It will be very difficult to live on such a small income. Isabella declares that she doesn't mind but it is obvious that she does. The Tilneys are returning to Northanger Abbey and Eleanor asks her father's permission for Catherine to accompany them. She is often lonely, since Henry has an estate of his own and the General is frequently away. The Allens agree that Catherine may go even though it will mean cutting short her visit to Bath.Northanger Abbey reminds Catherine of the castles in Gothic novels. She is eager to explore but it is nearly time for dinner. Eleanor asks Catherine to hurry and get ready, as her father insists on promptness. Catherine gets lost on her way to the dining room and incurs the General's displeasure. During dinner, he asks Catherine several questions about the Allens.The next morning, Eleanor and Catherine meet in the gardens. Eleanor points out the walk which was her late mother's favorite. Catherine is curious about Mrs. Tilney's death and asks Eleanor. She learns that her friend was not at home at the time and that since his wife's death, General Tilney won't allow anyone to enter her bedroom. The General has not made a good impression on Catherine and she wonders if he had anything to do with his wife's death. She asks to see the room and Eleanor agrees, telling her where it is located. But the General's sudden appearance thwarts their plans.The Tilneys invite several guests to dinner, including the Marchioness. Catherine learns that she is a very good friend of General Tilney's. Feeling left out when Henry sings a duet with an attractive young woman, Catherine allows herself to be drawn outside by the little boy who is the Marchioness's servant. To impress her, he turns a series of cartwheels.At bedtime, Catherine explores a large chest in her room and retrieves several papers. Before she can examine them, she hears someone coming. Frightened, she drops the candle and jumps into bed. She has troubling dreams about the General and is relieved to awaken. The maid scolds her for dropping the candle and tries to take the papers away. Catherine demands to keep them but discovers they are old laundry lists. All except for one, which has brief directions for a meeting in the garden.One of the dinner guests has arranged for them all to go riding. Catherine is forced to wear a habit belonging to the late Mrs. Tilney. She pleads a headache and stays behind, determined to visit Mrs. Tilney's bedroom. But Henry catches her there. He returned because he was worried that Catherine might be ill. She realizes he is angry and tries to explain. Henry is even angrier when he hears that Catherine suspects his father of murder. He agrees that the General married his wife for her money; indeed she had often joked about it. But he loved her in his own way and was sincerely sorry when she died. He tells Catherine she reads too many novels. Catherine bursts into tears and runs to her room. Grabbing "The Mysteries of Udolpho", she rips it to pieces and tosses it into the fireplace. Then she cries herself to sleep.Eleanor awakens her with a letter from James. Isabella has called off the engagement and proven herself to be two-faced. James learned of her flirtations with other men. He warns Catherine to be careful when giving her heart.Catherine tells Eleanor that she is afraid Henry will never speak to her again. Eleanor reassures her that it isn't true. Then she confides her own romance. She is in love with a man of whom her father doesn't approve because he is poor. He and Eleanor often meet in a secluded part of the garden, which is what the message meant that Catherine saw. She is surprised to learn that the Tilneys have lost a great deal of their money. The Marchioness is addicted to gambling and General Tilney often joins her. Only Henry is still wealthy because he inherited his mother's money and property.To Catherine's relief, Henry does not mention the incident in his mother's room. The General suddenly leaves for London and Henry goes to check on his own estate. Before he returns, the General comes back. The next scene shows Catherine climbing into the carriage, dressed for travel. The General has apparently ordered that she be sent home. Henry is furious at his father and demands an explanation. The Marchioness had heard rumors about Catherine that warranted an investigation. It is likely that John Thorpe started the rumors to get back at Catherine for rejecting him. General Tilney learned that Catherine was not an heiress as she claimed, but a penniless vicar's daughter. Henry points out that Catherine never claimed to be an heiress and although her father was a vicar, he was not as poor as all that. When Catherine married she would receive four hundred pounds. That doesn't pacify the General but Henry is not about to let his father interfere in his relationship with Catherine. Back at Fullerton, Mrs. Allen and Catherine's parents discuss the situation. Mrs. Morland is proud of Catherine for being able to shift for herself. Bored with the conversation, Catherine goes outside. Suddenly Henry Tilney rides up. They embrace and kiss.
