The "Angels", a San Pedro motorcycle gang, parties in the Coachella Valley's Palm Springs Indian Canyons, California, and wreaks havoc with the local police.
Peter Fonda plays 'Heavenly Blues', the leader of the Angels, a motorcycle gang from San Pedro, California; Bruce Dern plays 'Loser', his best pal. When they both botch their attempt to retrieve Loser's stolen bike, Loser ends up in the hospital. When the Angels bust him out, he dies, and they bury him. Nancy Sinatra plays Mike, Blues' "old lady" and Diane Ladd plays Loser's wife (Dern's real-life wife at the time). The plot is basically a buildup to the last half-hour of the film in which Loser's funeral becomes another wild party.
In Palm Springs, California, the leader of the Angels, (a motorcycle gang) Heavenly Blues (the President) tells his friend Joe 'Loser' Kearns that he had located his stolen motorcycle in Mecca. While trying to retrieve the bike, Loser is shot on the back by a police patrol end goes to the hospital. After the surgery, Blues and the Hell's Angels take Loser from the hospital and he dies. The troublemakers prepare his funeral at Sequoia Groves with a wild party.
Loser, a member of the Angels, has his bike stolen by a group of Mexicans. He calls in his fellow member Blues as well as several of the other members to help him get his bike back and beat up the guys who stole it. When they get to where Loser's bike is, a huge fight breaks out and several of the guys who stole the bike are beaten to a pulp. However, the police soon arrive and the gang splits. Loser, finding himself without a bike, steals the bike of one of the officers and is chased down and shot. Loser is then taken to the hospital, so he can recover before being prosecuted. The gang then comes and takes him out of the hospital, but in the process they break the bottle of blood that is keeping him alive and one of them attempts to rape a nurse that catches them in the act. But with all the trouble they go through, Loser still winds up dying.

