On a Sunday, Eileen Tyler, still a virgin, leaves Albany to visit her airline pilot brother in New York but a chance encounter with a man on a city bus threatens to derail her upcoming marriage to boyfriend Russ.
Eileen is 22 and is smarting from her breakup with Russ. She comes to New York to visit her brother, Adam, who is an airline pilot. Eileen confides to her brother that she thinks she may be the only 22 year old virgin left in the world. Adam assures her that sex is not what all men look for and insists he hasn't slept around. Of course, Adam is lying and is in hot pursuit of a tryst with his occasional girlfriend Mona. However, Adam's date with Mona has a series of job related interruptions. Meanwhile, Eileen decides to see if she can have some fun for herself in New York, and seems to find the perfect candidate in Mike, a man she meets on the bus. But things get complicated when Russ pops in with a proposal and a mistaken assumption.
One Sunday, twenty-two year old virgin Eileen Tyler decides to take the train from her home in Albany to visit her older brother, airline pilot Adam Tyler, in New York City. The surprise visit is in part to commiserate about the break-up with her fiancé, Russ Wilson, but also to ask Adam for some advice about the issue which led to her and Russ' break-up: if it's all right to have premarital sex. Adam tells her no - that men marry "decent" women - all the while not telling Eileen that he is a chronic womanizer who has sex regularly. Eileen's visit has actually placed a crimp in his plans to spend a sex-filled day with his primary girlfriend, Mona Harris. Being on call may also factor into how Adam spends his day with or without Mona. Regardless of Adam's advice, Eileen decides that she's going to attempt to seduce a stranger while in New York leading to her first sexual experience. Despite the rocky start they have, she thinks that person is Mike Mitchell, a Philadelphia based music critic who was in New York for the day to meet up with a woman, who ultimately stood him up. As Eileen and Mike's relationship goes through its ups and downs during the day, Eileen's decision to seduce Mike may hit a road bump when Russ unexpectedly comes into New York to reconcile with Eileen. Russ comes to his own wrong conclusions about who Mike is in Eileen's life. Russ, Eileen and Mike ultimately have to decide what is important in their respective dating lives.
22 year old Eileen who is a virgin and music critic in Albany, NY visits her womanizing pilot brother, Adam, who lives in New York. She wishes to talk with Adam about her boyfriend, Russ. Russ is a member of the richest family in Albany and even though Eileen is in love with him he has not proposed. She feels Russ won't propose because she is a virgin. Adam tells Eileen that he has not "slept" with women and tells her it's best to remain virtuous. Eileen meets Mike, who is also a critic for a newspaper, on a bus in NYC. Adam has been romancing Mona and they have been trying to find some alone time. What ensues is enjoyable chaos and mix ups with Adam and Mona as well as Eileen, Mike and Russ who very unexpectedly drops in to propose and mistakes Mike for Adam.
Eileen is 22 and engaged to Russ. She comes to New York to visit her brother, Adam, who is an airline pilot. One of Eileen's concerns is that she may be the only 22 year old virgin left in the world. Russ assures her that sex is not want all men look for and that he does not, in fact, concern himself about different women every time. Of course, Adam is lying and is hot on a date with his occasional girlfriend Mona. However, Adam's date with Mona has a series of job related interruptions. Eileen is unsure about marrying Russ, and decides to see if she can have some fun for herself in New York. But can she have that kind of fun with Mike who she meets on the bus?
A philandering pilot gets real moral, real fast when his sister contemplates a premarital fling.
