An agent has his only client pose as both a French chanteuse and Brazilian bombshell to fool a nightclub owner.
Talent agent Lionel Devereaux sells his girlfriend/client Carmen Novarro to New York City's famous Copacabana nightclub as a Latin-American singer/dancer and, pressed for another act, he sells her again, this time with a blonde wig and Moroccan veil, as a French singer...for the same presentation. The wear and tear on Carmen, changing back-and-forth between numbers, leaves to a heated exchange of words between the performer and her fiancé agent. This leads to the disappearance of Carmen's alter ego, which arouses suspicions by the management...and the police.
The eyebrow-wagging Lionel Q. Deveraux is tired of dragging down the career of his fiancée, Carmen Novarro, as the untalented half of their nightclub act and quits to become her agent. His powers of persuasion soon get the Brazilian singer a job as a featured performer at the Copacabana - twice over. She is forced to do double duty as herself and as Mlle. Fifi, a veil-covered Parisian chanteuse. The owner of the Copacabana, Steve Hunt, insists on romancing Mlle. Fifi, much to the frustration of Deveraux, who has already staked his claim to Carmen. Also frustrated is Anne Stuart, Steve's dutiful secretary, who is secretly in love with her boss. Another Copacabana singer, Andy Russell, plays Cupid.
In New York City, Lionel Q. Devereaux and his fiancée Carmen Novarro are unsuccessfully trying to find a spot in the show business. Lionel introduces himself to Steve Hunt, who owns the famous Copacabana nightclub, as an important agent and convinces Steve to see Carmen's act. He enjoys the show and asks for something in addition. Lionel convinces Carmen to wear a veil and perform another song and introduces her to Steve as the French singer Mademoiselle Fifi. Steve hires both singers and Carmen has to change clothes and identities between her performances. When she sees Lionel flirting with a Copa Girl, Mlle. Fifi accepts the invitation to have dinner with Steve, hurting the feelings of his secretary Anne Stuart who is in love with him. The situation gets complicated and Carmen simulates an argument with Mlle. Fifi and her subsequent disappearance starts a police investigation where the prime suspect is Lionel.

