A black doctor is assigned to treat two white racist suspects who are brothers, and when one dies, it causes tension that could start a race riot.
The Biddle brothers, shot while robbing a gas station, are taken to the prison ward of the County Hospital; Ray Biddle, a rabid racist, wants no treatment from black resident Dr. Luther Brooks. When brother John dies while Luther tries to save him, Ray is certain it's murder and becomes obsessed with vengeance. But there are black racists around too, and the situation slides rapidly toward violence.
Luther Brooks, a black man, has just passed his Board exams to become a certified doctor. Rather than work under a black doctor as his family expects, Dr. Brooks decides to stay at County Hospital where he did his internship to do his junior residency under his mentor, Dr. Dan Wharton, a white man, the most supportive person in authority he has ever known. Dr. Brooks wants to continue working under Dr. Wharton if only because he is still somewhat unsure of his abilities despite being at the top of his class and having the full confidence of Dr. Wharton. His first assignment is working as the head of the prison ward, where criminal brothers, Johnny and Ray Biddle, are brought in, both shot in the leg after a botched robbery. Upon a quick examination and obtaining some information about Johnny, Dr. Brooks believes that the gunshot wound is only secondary to Johnny's bigger problem of a previously undiagnosed brain tumor. Alone in the room with Ray and Johnny, Dr. Brooks conducts a spinal tap on Johnny to confirm his diagnosis, during which Johnny dies. An unabashed racist, Ray accuses Dr. Brooks of purposefully killing Johnny. Dr. Brooks wants to have an autopsy conducted on Johnny to confirm his diagnosis and that he did not kill Johnny, something that requires family consent, which Ray or any of the the other Biddles is unwilling to provide if only not to cooperate with anything that would help Dr. Brooks. When news of what happened between Dr. Brooks and Johnny gets back to Johnny and Ray's primarily white, lower class, crime ridden and racist neighborhood of Beaver Canal, another full out race riot seems a real possibility. Other such riots are still fresh on the minds of many in the black community, such as with Lefty, an elevator operator at the hospital who sports a facial scar and whose sister is permanently wheelchair-bound from a previous riot. Caught between the two worlds is Edie Johnson, Johnny's ex-wife who too has deep seated racist views if only because of her background, yet hates the Biddles and what they represent. Beyond the issue of the autopsy, Ray is determined to ruin the life of Dr. Brooks, not because of Johnny's death but because he is an upwardly mobile black man.
When the thieves Ray Biddle and his brother Johnny Biddle are brought to the prison wing of the City Hospital shot in the leg by a police officer, the black intern Dr. Luther Brooks is assigned by Dr. Dan Wharton to treat them. Dr. Brooks is insulted by the racist Ray and finds Johnny completely disoriented. Suspecting of a brain tumor, he begins a procedure but Johnny dies. The racist Ray accuses him of killing his brother and does not authorize the autopsy to confirm Dr. Brooks' diagnosis. Dr. Wharton and Brooks decide to seek out Johnny's widow Edie Johnson to get the authorization but she explains that they had divorced. Edie visits Ray to ask him to authorize the autopsy, but he convinces her to organize an attack of the black sector with the lowlife people from Beaver Canal. After the riot with many casualties, Dr. Brooks takes the ultimate decision to have the requested autopsy.
Although he successfully earns a license to practice, black physician Dr. Luther Brooks (Sidney Poitier) remains uncertain of himself and chooses to prolong his residency as an intern at the county hospital. Assigned to the prison ward, it's there that he's tasked with caring for white racist criminals Ray Biddle (Richard Widmark) and his brother Johnny after they're shot while robbing a gas station. Dr. Brooks manages to remain professional as the brothers discharge their toxic prejudices. Johnny dies in Brooks' care and orders an autopsy to confirm his chosen protocol but brother Ray refuses and manipulates Johnny's ex-wife (Linda Darnell) into calling on their neighborhood gang to sack the black community. With a race war on the horizon, Dr. Brooks launches a plan to prove his innocence in hopes of diffusing the violence.

