After their orphanage burns down, a group of children are being transported west by train to Manitoba. All of them are available for adoption and at a stop at Scourie, Ontario little Patsy meets Victoria McChesney. Victoria and her husband Patrick have no children and she immediately decides to adopt the girl. The only condition imposed on them is that as Patsy has been baptized a Roman Catholic the Protestant McChesneys agree to raise her as a Catholic. Patsy is a well-behaved little girl whose only real problem is a school bully, also one of the orphans, who spreads stories that she set their orphanage on fire. Problems arise when the local newspaper goes after Patrick, the town reeve and prominent member of his political party. Patrick decides they can't go forward with the adoption. Patsy overhears him and runs away but does so just as the school catches fire. The community quickly decides Patsy is responsible but it's Patrick who comes to her defense. It all ends well.
Late nineteenth century Québec. An adolescent named Patsy is a shy, sensitive child being an orphan, she, illegitimate, having been dropped off anonymously as a baby at the Catholic orphanage where she was raised. Her already fragile self-esteem takes an even bigger hit when the convent and orphanage burn down as she accidentally knocks over a lantern, some of the other children who blame her, especially a boy named Edward who plain just does not like her. The biggest concern for the nuns, who don't blame Patsy for the situation, is to have as many of the children adopted by good Catholic families as there are no other Catholic orphanages that can take them all. The nuns and children travel all over Québec and Ontario in their mission, advance word being made to the Catholic diocese in each town they visit. A conundrum occurs in the small town of Scourie, Ontario when, having no idea of the situation before the nuns and children's arrival, leading citizen Victoria McChesney falls under Patsy's spell, she who ultimately wants to adopt her. The issue is is that the McChesneys, a childless couple, are Protestants. Victoria arranges with the nuns to adopt Patsy on the condition that she be raised as a Catholic. Victoria arranges all of this without her husband's knowledge, Patrick McChesney who is the town reeve, a mercantile owner/operator, and aspiring provincial politician who some say is potential Prime Ministerial material. He, unlike Victoria who is proceeding on unconditional love, sees the many pitfalls in their lives, including Patsy's, because of the adoption. Indeed, they do face problems, from both Catholics and Protestants who don't understand why they just didn't adopt a Protestant child if they wanted children, from Patrick's political opponents who exploit the issue for their own personal gain, and from some of Patsy's classmates, whose minds have been poisoned by another new child to the town, namely Edward. The question becomes if they can overcome all these obstacles.

