When Castle Dracula is exorcised by the Monsignor, it accidentally brings the Count back from the dead. Dracula follows the Monsignor back to his hometown, preying on the holy man's beautiful niece and her friends.
When his castle is exorcised, Dracula plots his revenge against the Monsignor who performed the rites by attempting to make the holy man's young niece his bride.
A year after the events in Dracula: Prince of Darkness (1966) Monsignor Ernest Mueller visits the village to ensure that all is well. He learns that the locals no longer attend mass, even though Dracula is dead, because the shadow of his castle touches the church and they feel that the castle still contains evil. To allay their fears, the Monsignor performs a ritual at the castle to rid it of all evil. The local village priest however accidentally reawakens the frozen Dracula who seeks his revenge on Monsignor Mueller, specifically targeting his niece Maria.
One year after destroying Dracula, Monsignor returns to his castle in the mountains with the local priest to exorcise his castle. However, the priest accidentally resurrects Dracula and becomes his slave. Meanwhile Monsignor returns home in Keinenberg on the day of the birthday of his niece Maria, who lives with her mother Anna in his house. Maria is in love with the atheist Paul, who works with the waitress Zena in the bar owned by his friend Max where he also lives. Dracula decides to revenge on Monsignor and travels with the priest to Keinenberg. What will Dracula do next?
NOTE: Sequel to "Prince of Darkness" (1966).A year has passed since the demise of Dracula, buried under the ice in the river that flows past his castle. Ernst Mueller [Rupert Davies], monsignor of the monastery at Keinenberg, has decided to visit the village to see that all is well. What he finds is appalling. The village priest [Ewan Hooper] has become an alcoholic. The villagers will not attend Sunday Mass because the shadow of Dracula's castle touches the church during the evening hours. The Monsignor decides to exorcise the castle and prove to the villagers that the evil is gone. He and the priest climb the hill to the castle, but the priest chickens out halfway. The Monsignor continues alone to the castle door where he performs his exorcism and seals the castle door with a large cross. The priest, in the meantime, is taking swigs from his hipflask. He stumbles over a cliff, cuts his head, lands on the river ice, causing it to crack open just above Dracula's body. The priest's blood drips through the cracked ice, flowing into Dracula's mouth, and Dracula is thus resurrected.Barred from his castle by the cross on the door, Dracula [Christopher Lee] must now find other lodgings. He enslaves the priest, forcing him to dig up a new coffin for him. He also forces him to reveal who is responsible for the exorcism. The coffin is loaded onto a funeral coach, and the priest and Dracula head toward Keinenberg. His exorcism finished, the Monsignor also returns to Keinenberg where he lives with his brother's widow Anna [Marion Mathe] and his niece Maria [Veronica Carlson]. It is Maria's birthday, and a dinner party is planned for her. Tonight, Maria will introduce her boyfriend Paul [Barry Anderson], who she has been climbing over the rooftops to meet secretly) to her family. Paul works as a baker at the Johann Cafe and engages in scholarly studies during his spare time. Scared to meet Maria's family for the first time, Paul's plight is not helped when his friends at the cafe spill beer down his shirt. Still, all goes well at the dinner until Paul, in a fit of truthfulness, admits to the Monsignor that he is an atheist. Paul returns to the cafe, downs 3 glasses of Schnapps, and passes out. The waitress Zena [Barbara Ewing] carries him up to bed just as Maria enters through a window.On her way home, Zena is attacked by Dracula. With Zena's help, Dracula and his coffin are moved into a storage room in the cafe cellar, and the priest takes a room at the cafe. The next evening, when Maria drops by the cafe to see Paul, Zena leads her into the bakery, covers her head with a bag, and takes her to see Dracula. Maria escapes, however, when Paul comes looking for her, and she tells of being attacked by a man "with burning eyes." Angry at the failed attempt, Dracula kills Zena and orders the priest to destroy her in the furnace fire. Later that night, Dracula comes to Maria's bedside and drinks from her. He returns the next night but, just as he prepares to drink from her, the Monsignor enters the room. Dracula sees the cross in the Monsignor's hand and leaps from the window. The Monsignor attempts to follow but is knocked out by the priest. As the Monsignor lies dying, he sends for Paul and tells him what he must do to save Maria. Paul finds Dracula's coffin and drives a stake through his heart but, because neither he nor the priest can pray to God, Dracula succeeds in removing the stake. He escapes, summons Maria and, together with the priest, they return to Dracula's castle. Paul gets a horse and follows.Upon reaching the castle, Dracula forces Maria to remove the cross from the castle door. As she throws it down the cliff, Paul arrives. He and Dracula battle. They both fall off the porch. Paul catches a branch on the way down but Dracula falls to the ground where he is impaled upon the cross just tossed away by Maria. As the priest recites the Pater Noster, Dracula turns to dust. [Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.]
