Russian soldiers accidentally unleash the servant of Dracula, as well as his dog, during excavations of Romania. Together, they set out for America, to find the last descendant of the great Count.
Russian soldiers are doing some blasting in a field in Romania when
they unearth a tomb filled with the coffins of the Dracula family. There's
Eva Dracula, Mikhail Dracula, Frederic Dracula, and Igor Dracula, along
with two unnamed coffins. While Major Hessle [Arlene Martel] sends for Inspector Branco [Jose Ferrer], a
young soldier guards the tomb. When an earthquake breaks open one of the
unnamed coffins, the soldier opens the lid and pulls the stake out of the
shrouded body. Suddenly, a big black dog leaps out and bites the soldier's
neck. Years ago, the big black dog Zoltan was bitten by Igor Dracula
himself and was turned into a vampire dog. Zoltan then proceeds to unearth
the other unnamed tomb, that of Igor's renfield Veidt Smith [Reggie Nalder]. Unfortunately,
neither Zoltan nor Veidt can survive without a Dracula master. The
last Dracula descendent, Michael Drake (Drake-ula, get it?), is a
psychologist living [literally] in Los Angeles with wife Marla [Jan Shutan], daughter
Linda [Libby Chase], and son Steve [John Levin]. The only thing for Veidt and Zoltan to do is to
travel to the United States, find Michael Drake Michael Pataki], and turn him into a
master vampire.The Drake family is all excited about their upcoming vacation, a
month long camping trip to Clear Lake, away from civilization. Marla has
even talked Michael into taking their four German shepherds--Annie,
Samson, and the two puppies. They know that they're going to have fun.
What they don't know is that Veidt Smith is following them in a hearse
bearing the body of Zoltan.Day 1: The Drakes set up camp while Veidt and Zoltan park the hearse
on a ridge overlooking the Drakes' camp. While the Drakes eat dinner, one
of the puppies runs off and becomes dinner for Zoltan. That night, while
Linda and Steve are sleeping outside the camper, Zoltan sneaks into camp,
but Samson runs him off. "Wolf," concludes Michael.Day 2: Michael and Steve find the dead puppy and bury it, thinking
that the fang marks on the puppy's neck were from a rattlesnake bite. That
night, the puppy digs his way out of the grave. Meanwhile, Zoltan bites
Buster, the dog of two fishermen [Simmy Bow and Jojo D'Amore].
Zoltan and Buster sneak into the Drakes'
camp. Zoltan attacks Michael, but, when Zoltan sees the crucifix on
Michael's neck, he runs off. Michael shoots at Zoltan, but apparently
misses. "Wild dogs," concludes Michael.Day 3: Inspector Branco arrives at L.A. international, rents a
convertible, and goes to Michael's house. A neighbor tells him that the
Drakes are camping on Clear Lake, so he heads in that direction. That
night, Annie runs off to join Zoltan and Buster. Linda hears Annie howling
and follows. Linda is attacked by Zoltan and Buster, but the two fishermen
scare off the dogs. They bring Linda back to her camp. While they are
relating what happened, the howling starts again. This time, Samson runs
off.Day 4: Michael decides that the vacation is over. As they pack up to
leave, Inspector Branco arrives. Branco informs Michael about his heritage
as the last Dracula. He also tells him about Veidt Smith and advises him
to send home his family and join him at a hunting cottage he has rented.
Together, they will hunt down Veidt and do what must be done. Marla takes
the kids home, and Michael moves into the hunting shack with Branco. That
night, they are attacked by four dogs who try all night to get into the
shack, tearing through doors, walls, and the ceiling. "Canyon dogs," say
the police when they see the place the next morning.Day 5: Michael and Branco go back to the spot where the Drakes had
set up their camp. That night, armed with stakes, they split up and go
looking around. Branco finds Veidt Smith and puts a stake through his
chest. The dogs find Michael, and he barely makes it back to the
convertible in time to put up the top. Michael gets a good look at Zoltan
and recognizes him from a photo he saw of the dog with Veidt Smith. While
the dogs try to tear through, Michael drives off. When he notices Samson,
he opens the car door and invites him into the back seat. Bad move. Samson
has become a vampire dog, too. Michael manages to drive a stake into
Samson, while the fishermen and Branco do the same to Buster and Annie,
leaving only Zoltan still amongst the undead. Michael takes off after
Zoltan. He corners Zoltan on top of a cliff, exposes his crucifix, Zoltan
goes over the edge and is impaled on a fence. "That was the last of them,"
says Branco.Remember the puppy?Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.
