Cleo, a singer and hypochondriac, becomes increasingly worried that she might have cancer while awaiting test results from her doctor.
Two hours from 17:00 to 19:00h on the longest day of the year in the life of a young Parisienne is presented. Florence Victoire, who is better known by her stage name Cléo Victoire (as in Cleopatra), is a singer with three hit singles to her name, and as such some renown. Two days ago, she went in for some tests for abdominal issues to see if it is cancer. She will be getting the results today at 18:30h. She is certain that it will be a terminal cancer diagnosis, her mind fixated on that outcome and what it actually means. This belief affects how she approaches the day, from her encounters with friends and acquaintances to what she observes in total strangers around her. It could be as simple as how she views the lyrics to new songs presented to her from her songwriting team, to her feelings about a conversation she overhears in a café between a couple having relationship problems, to the typical sweet nothings spoken to her from her lover, José. There are certain things that do temporarily take her mind off of waiting for the test results, but something will always bring her back to that as the issue of her day. It isn't until just before she is ready to call the doctor that she may get a different perspective of the day and thus her life in a chance meeting with a stranger named Antoine, a French soldier at the very end of a three week leave from the Algerian War.
This movie shows us Cléo, a French singer, who is afraid of getting the result of a test from her doctor. She believes that she has cancer and will die of the disease. We follow her for two hours while she cruises through the streets of Paris. At the end, she meets a soldier who is going to the war in Algeria the next day.
While waiting for the result of a biopsy, the French singer Cléo, A.K.A. Florence, visits a fortune teller; drinks coffee and buys a new hat with her house-keeper; is visited by her lover and her composers; visits her model friend; and meets and has a brief affair with a military man. Finally, she meets her doctor who gives her his diagnosis.
An hour and a half (despite the title) of the life of a singer who learns she is merely being put on display. She visits a fortune teller who predicts stomach cancer (although after she has left), which is what she is afraid of what she might be dying. During this period, she meets with her boyfriend in a room full of cats and swings, then her composers in the same place. After deciding to work against the capriciousness with which the composers pigeonhole her, she puts on a black dress, takes off her wig, and tries to see things from a different perspective, learning much from her friend Dorothée, who poses nude for sculptors, and a passing soldier named Antoine.

