Ajay Mehra, an amateur boxer, takes revenge against Balwant Rai, a crooked businessman, after his elder brother is killed.
Ajay Mehra lives with his elder brother Ashok and sister-in-law Indu. He leaves for Bangalore in order to train to become an international boxer. On his return to New Delhi, he finds that Ashok is missing. He lodges a complaint at the police station but to no avail. He decides to search for his brother himself but still does not find him. Later on, Ashok's body is found and Ajay is accused of killing him as well as having an illicit relationship with his sister-in-law. While in jail, Ajay makes friends with some other hardcore convicts, who are good at heart. Then one day, they escape the jail by overpowering the guards. Ajay only has one thing on his mind: to kill Balwant Rai, a wealthy, powerful and corrupt businessman who had used Ashok's business as a front for his illegal activities. Ajay's new friends and his love interest Varsha, a journalist, help him in his mission.
Amateur boxer, Ajay Mehra return home only to learn that his elder brother, Ashok is missing. His searches and a police complaint only leads to frustration and violence outburst. Eventually Ashok's dead body is found and Ajay is charged with killing him as well as having an illicit relationship with his sister in law Indu. Then Ajay along with three other inmates escape from jail in order to punish the real culprit, Balwant Rai.
Ajay Mehra is a boxing champion living with his brother Ashok and his wife Indu.He is marriage to Varsha has been approved by his brother and his wife.Ashok is facing losses in business and hides it from Ajay.When Ajay goes for a boxing camp in Bangalore and finds Ashok comes to meet him he realizes that he is in trouble.When Ajay returns from Bangalore he finds that Ashok has been missing since many days.The cops to don't take action on his complaint.Ajay somehow meets Balwant Rai his business partner who promises to help him.But he finds that Balwant Rai is the actual culprit who has held Ashok captive as he came to know about his illegal activities.Balwant Rai is attacked by Ajay following which Balwant Rai kills Ashok and Ajay his held for the murder.During the court sessions Pramodsharan Gupta a lawyer and family friends also testifies that Ajay killed Ashok as he was having illegitimate relationship with Indu.Indu then commits suicide and Ajay his jailed fro killing Ashok.While in the prison he befriends inmates Rajan,Mitwa and Bashir who plan their escape from jail and support Ajay to fight against Balwant Rai.

