When his team is offered membership in the Little League, Charlie Brown finds he must make a difficult moral decision.
At the end of their patience after yet another humiliating defeat of Charlie Brown's baseball team, the whole team quits on him. All seems lost until Charlie Brown learns that his team can join the Little League and become a member team with real uniforms. The team's enthusiasm is rekindled, but unknown to them Charlie Browns learns that neither the girls nor his dog, Snoopy, would be allowed to play. With great difficulty, Charlie Brown has to make a difficult moral decision and live with the consequences.
Charlie Brown's baseball team is pathetic (but you didn't have to be reminded of that), and after dropping two easy-as-pie pop flies in two games that would've helped them win, he doesn't deserve any slack either. So much so that the entire team finally decides to bail on him and enjoy summer like the other kids. Shortly after this happens, he gets a call from the owner of a local hardware store who wants to sponsor his team, bring them into organized little league, and (most importantly) get them uniforms. Charlie Brown manages to catch all the kids in one place and give them the good news. They get so excited at this idea that all of them (including the always crabby and skeptical Lucy) decide to pick up their caps, gloves, and bats and take the field again. Unfortunately, shortly thereafter, the hardware store owner calls again and breaks it to Charlie Brown that the league rules forbid him to have the girls and Snoopy on his team, so Charlie Brown makes the moral decision to keep the team together rather then accept the invitation and uniforms. However, now faced with the inevitable backlash from his team (especially the girls and Snoopy, who would've been disgusted with him no matter which choice he made), he decides to wait until the end of the next game in hopes that a victory would boost their morale to the point they'd stay together, no matter what he told them about this. The pressure is on for Charlie Brown more then ever, as one more loss could destroy EVERYTHING for him beyond repair.
A new baseball season is starting, and Charlie Brown is the only person on his team that is willing to take a positive attitude to the game. However, in the end, Charlie ends up dropping a flyball, and the team loses, 120-0. After the game, the entire team (including Snoopy) turn in their baseball caps, refusing to play further.The next day, Charlie Brown is surprised when Linus tells him that Mr Henessey who owns a local hardware store, would like to sponsor their team, and provide them with uniforms.Charlie attempts to get the rest of the team excited about this prospect, but several are not sure why "anyone would want to waste uniforms" on their team. However, Charlie persists, with Lucy telling him they'll rejoin his team if they get the uniforms.Shortly thereafter, Charlie receives a call from Mr Henessey, but finds out that the league the team would play in, will not accept the girls or Snoopy on their team. Refusing to give in to this stipulation, Charlie turns down the offer. At first dejected, Charlie then hatches a plan: if they can win their next game, it'll most likely make the others forget about needing/wanting the team uniforms.The next game, with the team playing better at the thought of having new uniforms, it looks like they may finally win. However, Charlie ends up being the teams only hope to score a win, when he gets a hit, and starts rounding the bases. However, in his attempts to steal home base, he slides too far, and loses the game for the team.At first the team is angry, but their attitude grows even moreso when Charlie tells them that he refused Mr Henessey's uniform offer.The team angrily storms off, but it is only afterwards that Linus explains to them, that Charlie Brown turned down the offer when he was told he would need to get rid of Snoopy and the girls.Needless to say, the team
