A sheriff's milquetoast son has a chance to prove himself when a medicine show run by con artists comes into town.
The most important family in Hickoryville is (naturally enough) the Hickorys, with sheriff Jim and his tough manly sons Leo and Olin. The timid youngest son, Harold, doesn't have the muscles to match up to them, so he has to use his wits to win the respect of his strong father and also the love of beautiful Mary.
In the farming town of Hickoryville, bespectacled and slight Harold Hickory is the youngest of three sons of the town sheriff, Jim Hickory. Because Harold is not big and brawny like his brothers - he who spends his time devising contraptions that make physical work easier and/or faster, unlike his father and brothers who just muscle their way through their work - he is often neglected by his family, who relegate him to domestic duties, and do not include him in any matters of importance either within the farm work or the town. He is treated just as badly by Hank Hooper, one of the town bullies. Two things happen in town concurrently. First, Prof. Powers Original Mammoth Medicine Show arrives, and with it Mary Powers, the daughter of recently deceased Prof. Powers. That death has left the show in the hands of ruthless "Flash" Farrell. For Mary and Harold however, it's love at first sight, although Harold isn't sure if he is worthy of her. And second, Jim has just collected all the money from the town's residents for the long planned dam, which will support farming in the area. Jim will keep the money locked in his safe until the imminent celebration event at which time he will turn over the moneys to the state. These two items combined lead to issues which need to be resolved. If given the chance to help resolve these issue, Harold may show his family, Mary, Hank and the other townsfolk just what type of man he can be.
Meek country boy, Harold Hickory (Lloyd) is smitten by Mary Powers (Ralston), travelling with her late father's medicine show. When the show burns down, Harold invites her to stay at his house with his father and brothers. When the town's money is stolen by thugs from the medicine show, Harold's father is accused, and with encouragement from Mary, Harold sets out to find the real crooks.
The Hickorys are a respected family in Hickoryville. Sheriff Jim and his big, strong sons Leo and Olin have little respect for the youngest son, Harold, who does not have their muscles.When Jim, Leo and Olin go to an important town meeting to discuss a dam, Harold is left behind. He puts on his father's gun and badge and is mistaken for the sheriff by "Flash" Farrell, who runs a traveling medicine show for Mary after the death of her father. Farrell talks Harold into signing a permit to let him, strongman Sandoni and dancer Mary perform. Later, Mary tries to avoid the unwanted attentions of Sandoni and encounters Harold. They are attracted to each other.When Jim finds out that Harold authorized the medicine show, he orders his son to shut down the performance. Harold tries, but Farrell makes a fool of him, then has him tied up. Harold's sworn enemy, Hank Hooper, pelts him and accidentally starts a fire that consumes the medicine show wagon. Harold invites Mary to spend the night in the family home. Jim is asleep, so Harold cannot get his permission; Harold has to use his wits to overcome the opposition of his brothers. However, Mrs. Hooper and her son Hank show up and take Mary with them, as it would not be decent for Mary to spend the night in a house without "womenfolk".The next day is a town celebration, where Jim is supposed to turn over to a state official the funds raised by the residents to help build the dam. However, the money is gone. Jim strongly suspects Farrell and Sandoni of being responsible, but Sam Hooper accuses him of the theft and refuses to let him go after them. Jim sends Leo and Olin, but not Harold, after them. When they return empty-handed, Jim allows himself to be tied up. There is talk of lynching.Harold confesses to Mary that he is not the person he pretended to be, but she tells him she has faith in him. Then Hank accuses her of being in on the robbery. Harold fights back when some men grab her, only to have Hank knock him out and set him adrift in a rowboat. He awakens after the boat reaches an abandoned, beached ship. Aboard he finds the real thieves. Sandoni disposes of Farrell after they argue over the division of the loot. Then the strongman spots Harold and chases him all over the ship. Eventually, Harold subdues Sandoni and races back to town with his prisoner and the money to save his father. An impressed Jim tells him, "Son, you're a real Hickory." As Harold and Mary walk away, they encounter Hank. Harold musters the courage to fight his longtime nemesis and beats him up.Source: Wikipedia
