The story of Manfred von Richthofen, the German air ace during World War I and his struggle with the enemy aces and some jealous German officers.
Manfred von Richthofen (John Phillip Law) arrives from the Cavalry, at a squadron in the German air force under the command of Oswald Boelcke. He quickly becomes an ace. Meanwhile, a Canadian pilot named Roy Brown arrives at a British squadron, where the top scoring pilot is Victoria Cross winner, Major Lanoe Hawker. Brown ruffles the feathers of his squadron mates by refusing to drink a toast to von Richthofen. Von Richthofen and fellow squadron pilot, Hermann Goering clash when squadron commander Boelcke is killed after a mid air collision( Boelcke's upper left wing struck the undercarriage of Böhme's Albatros ). von Richthofen is given command of the squadron. Outraged when he is ordered to have his aircraft camouflaged, von Richthofen has the squadron's aircraft painted in bright conspicuous colors, claiming that gentlemen should not hide from their enemies. Later, von Richthofen is wounded during an aerial battle; meanwhile Lanoe Hawker is killed. Brown and his squadron decide to attack von Richthofen's airfield, destroying their aircraft on the ground. However, von Richthofen, with the help of a batch of new fighters from Anthony Fokker, the 'Richthofen Flying Circus' launches a counter attack on the British airfield. Brown later kills von Richthofen during an aerial combat, and Hermann Goering takes over command of the 'Flying Circus'.
World War I: an allied squadron and a German squadron face off daily in the skies. Manfred von Richthofen, the Red Baron, leads one, and, although one of his decisions cost the life of his predecessor, he expects his men to honor codes of conduct. The allied squad has similar class divisions: its colonel, an aristocrat, laments that men he considers peasants are now fliers, including a cynical and ruthless Canadian, Roy Brown, the squad's ace. As the tactics of both sides break more rules and become more destructive, the Baron must decide if he is a soldier first or part of the ruling class. He and Brown have two aerial battles, trivial in the larger scheme yet tragic.
Manfred von Richthofen (John Phillip Law) arrives from the Cavalry, at a squadron in the German airforce under the command of Oswald Boelcke. He quickly becomes an ace. Meanwhile, a Canadian pilot named Roy Brown arrives at a British squadron, where the top scoring pilot is Victoria Cross winner, Major Lanoe Hawker. Brown ruffles the feathers of his squadron mates by refusing to drink a toast to von Richthofen. Von Richthofen and fellow squadron pilot, Hermann Goering clash when squadron commander Boelcke is killed after a mid air collision. von Richthofen is given command of the squadron. Outraged when he is ordered to have his aircraft camouflaged, von Richthofen has the squadron's aircraft painted in bright conspicuous colours, claiming that gentlemen should not hide from their enemies. Later, von Richthofen is wounded during an aerial battle; meanwhile Lanoe Hawker is killed. Brown and his squadron decide to attack von Richthofen's airfield, destroying their aircraft on the ground. However, von Richthofen, with the help of a batch of new fighters from Anthony Fokker, the 'Richthofen Flying Circus' launches a counter attack on the British airfield. Brown later kills von Richthofen during an aerial combat, and Hermann Goering takes over command of the 'Flying Circus'.
