A cabaret singer and a Legionnaire fall in love, but their relationship is complicated by the results of his womanizing and due to the appearance of a rich man who wants her for himself.
The Foreign Legion marches in to Mogador with booze and women in mind just as singer Amy Jolly arrives from Paris to work at Lo Tinto's cabaret. That night, insouciant legionnaire Tom Brown catches her inimitably seductive, tuxedo-clad act. Both bruised by their past lives, the two edge cautiously into a no-strings relationship while being pursued by others. But Tom must leave on a perilous mission: is it too late for them?
Parisian chanteuse Amy Jolly has just arrived in Morocco to work in a nightclub. At the club, her scandalous behavior attracts the attention of many in the crowd, but most specifically the womanizing Legionnaire Tom Brown, and the wealthy Monsieur La Bessiere, who Amy previously met en route to Morocco. Tom and Amy quickly fall in love, but Tom questions whether she is in love with him, he believing that she is really in love with La Bessiere's money. So instead of deserting the Legion and running off with Amy as they had discussed, Tom is called off into battle with both he and Amy never knowing if they will see each other again. While Tom is away, La Bessiere hopes to prove that Tom is correct as La Bessiere, who is also in love with Amy and will do anything for her, tries to woo her.
While traveling from Europe to Morocco by ship, cabaret singer Mademoiselle Amy Jolly meets wealthy Monsieur La Bessiere that offers to "help" her in Morocco, but May refuses his offer. Mademoiselle Amy Jolly is hired by Lo Tinto to sing in his nightclub and in her debut, she meets Monsieur La Bessiere again having dinner with his friends Adjutant Caesar and his wife Madame Caesar. He invites Amy to stay with him, but the singer feels attracted by the lady-killer Legionnaire Tom Brown. Amy invites Tom to go to her apartment after the show but their encounter does not work very well. Tom leaves her apartment and Amy follows him. Meanwhile Madame Caesar stalks Tom on the street but he returns with Amy to her apartment. However two thieves attack him and he self-defends and kills the guys. Tom is arrested and Adjutant Caesar unsuccessfully tries to force him to confess that he had met his wife. Monsieur La Bessiere offers to help Tom but he is assigned to a suicide mission with the Foreign Legion. La Bessiere proposes marriage to Amy, but she is divided between her true love with Tom and the comfortable life she might have with the millionaire.

