A Parisian courtesan must choose between the young man who loves her and the callous baron who wants her, even as her own health begins to fail.
An attractive woman going by the name Marguerite lives in Paris and is a courtesan, kept by the rich aristocrat Baron de Varville. When the handsome young Armand sees her for the first time, he immediately falls in love. Camille is not so easy as to fall for his charms immediately. She lives a comfortable life, after all. As she comes to have feelings for him, Armand's father intervenes asking her not to cast a shadow on his son's future prospects and she agrees. In her greatest time of need however, the loving Armand returns to her.
1847 Paris. From a humble, provincial background, Marguerite Gautier runs among the fast and loose crowd, she having amassed whatever finery from gentlemen callers, as well as having gone deep into debt. Within this situation, she is courted by two very different men. The first is Baron de Varville, a man she doesn't love or even really like, but who can not only keep her in the lifestyle to which she has been accustomed, but also pay off her massive debt load. The second is Armand Duval, a working stiff with little money who works in the foreign service, his ultimate professional goal to obtain a posting outside of France. Armand is a sincere, patient man who truly loves Marguerite, who in turn falls in love with him. What happens in this triangle is affected by some moral suasion in that name of love. But something that Marguerite suspects about her life may override all else in the matter.
Marguerite is a courtesan in Paris. She falls deeply in love with a young man of promise, Armand Duval. When Armand's father begs her not to ruin his hope of a career and position by marrying Armand, she acquiesces and leaves her lover. However, when poverty and terminal illness overwhelm her, Marguerite discovers that Armand has not lost his love for her.
1847 - In the gay half-world of Paris, the gentlemen of the day met the girls of the moment at certain theatre, balls and gambling clubs where the code was discretion ... but the game was romance. This is the story of one of those pretty creatures who lived on the quicksands of popularity - Marguerite Gautier, who brightened her wit with champagne, and sometimes her eyes with tears. From the novel of Alexandre Dumas fils this is the story which Giuseppe Verdi took for La Traviata.

