A not so popular young man wants to pledge to a popular fraternity at his historically black college.
In the South of the United States are taking place confrontations between two groups of students who have different ideas and are not able to accept the one of the opponent.
A contemporary comedic look at black college life. Dap (Fishburne) and Big Brother Almighty (Esposito) conflict over the greek frat system while the Wanna-be's and Jigaboo's conflict over self-identity and self-esteem.
On Friday of homecoming weekend at the historical African-American college, Mission College in Georgia, senior Vaughn "Dap" Dunlap (Laurence Fishburne) leads a protest rally regarding the school's involvement with apartheid in South Africa. However, the fraternity Gamma Phi Gamma and their pledge class, the Gammites, arrive to interrupt the demonstration. Julian "Big Brother Almighty" Eaves (Giancarlo Esposito), Gamma leader and Dap's former friend, informs Dap he does not agree with his protest. Upset, Dap and Julian began to fight, but Student Government Association president Virgil Cloyd breaks up the rally.At the administration building, Board of Trustees Chairman "Cedar Cloud" (Art Evans) orders College President Harold McPherson (Joe Seneca) to stop Dap from protesting. Later, Julian taunts Gammites pledge Darrell "Half-Pint," (Spike Lee) saying he will drop out of pledging just as his cousin Dap did years earlier.In the evening, Dap asks his activist friends, Grady (Bill Nunn), Monroe (James Bond III), Jordan (Branford Marsalis), Edge (Kadeem Hardison), and Booker T. (Eric A. Payne), to return with him to the administration building to protest. Although supporters of Dap's cause, they want to complete their college education and get good jobs in the future.The following day, Dap is called into President McPherson's office and informed by Cedar Cloud that if he continues with his protests he will be expelled.That evening, Half-Pint and the Gammites complete their pledging and become fraternity brothers. During the celebration with the Gamma Ray sorority, Julian becomes annoyed with his girl friend, Jane Toussaint (Tisha Campbell). Singling out Half-Pint, Julian orders him to sleep with Jane as a final test. Although Half-Pint is uncomfortable with Julian's request, Jane insists she would do anything for Julian. Afterward, Julian accuses Jane of loving the fraternity and his position as leader "Big Brother Almighty" instead of him, and breaks up with her.Meanwhile, Half-Pint brags to Dap that he slept with Jane by Julian's orders. Seeing his cousin turned into an entitled Gamma, Dap runs to the center of the campus quad. Ringing a bell, Dap awakens the student body and administration. As they gather, Julian, remorseful of his treatment of Half-Pint and Jane, joins Dap. Looking out to the gathered crowd, Dap tells them, "Wake up!"
