Aquatic creatures threaten the existence of a mysterious island.
After their prison ship sinks in the Caribbean, a group of prisoners and a doctor wash ashore on a seemingly deserted island. They soon discover a strange couple, who invite them to stay at their house. While the prisoners try to plan an escape, the doctor does some investigating, and soon finds out just what the pair are really doing, and why the prisoners keep disappearing mysteriously.
A hybrid of three movies based on Jules Verne's, 20,000 Leagues Under The Sea http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0046672/ , H.G. Wells, Island Of Dr. Moreau , http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0076210/ and The Food of the Gods , http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0074540/ . All three of which are better made but Island Of The Fishmen is entertaining as well.Like all Sci-Fi, it's a dramatic fantasy contemplating where current technological discoveries may bring us. Like all dated Sci-Fi, this movie's quaint as the current technology of which it's based has now been far surpassed.A prison ship is wrecked, several crew members along with several prisoners make it to shore on an unchartered island only to meet violent ends due to the perils on the island. All except the ships doctor and his mate who discover an insane recluse doctor, his beautiful daughter (Bond Girl, Barbara Bach, a group of voodoo tribes people who serve the bad guy, the final inhabitant that intends on scavenging the riches of Atlantis, 2,000 feet underwater and will stop at nothing to do so.The recluse doctor has been using the protection of the island to perform biological experiments, creating the perfect cross of human and fish whom can survive any world catastrophy. He does this with a white fluid which turns ordinary men into fishmen and since his daughter is the one who keeps the fishmen fed with this fluid, they love and protect her, unfortunatly for anyone that threatens her.The bad guy is using the fishmen to collect the riches of underwater Atlantis, while we get some lame dramas of mad scientist turns people into gilled ubermenschen, voodoo rituals, bad guy wants beautiful daughter but his rough advances are spurned, prisoner wants beautiful daughter but his even rougher advances are abrutly ended by her protective fishmen, volcano erupts, ships doctor gets the girl, and are saved from eruptong volcano by fishmen.There's excellent footage of real flowing lava, the underwater sounds are cool, and Barbara Bach has never been more alluring in long cotton skirts, damp hair laying heavy off her head, gemstone eyes and "the way she moves" about her.
