An English cat burglar needs a Eurasian dancer's help to pull off the perfect heist, but even the most foolproof schemes have a way of backfiring.
Cockney cat burglar Harry Dean needs Hong Kong dancer Nicole Chang's help to pull off the perfect heist. With a simple makeover and a new wardrobe; Nicole's resemblance to wealthy recluse Mr. Shahbandar's late wife is uncanny. While Shahbandar is distracted by the mesmerizing Nicole, Harry takes steps to swipe a priceless artifact from under the tycoon's nose. But even the most foolproof schemes have a way of backfiring.
In Hong Kong, Eurasian exotic dancer Nicole Chang catches the attention of British high stakes cat burglar Harry Dean, who wants to use her in his latest scheme which also includes his partner, art expert Emile Fournier. The end goal is to steal the priceless statue of the Chinese Empress Li Soo from Ahmed Shahbandar, the richest man in the world who lives in the Middle Eastern country of Dammuz. Harry chose Nicole as his accomplice since she resembles Shahbandar's long deceased wife, who was the only love of his life, and Empress Li Soo herself. The plot involves Harry and Nicole traveling to Dammuz masquerading as Sir Harold and Lady Dean. There, news of Nicole being Shahbandar's wife and Li Soo's look-a-like will make its way back to Shahbandar. He in turn will invite Harry and Nicole to his apartment, where Harry will scope out the situation to steal the statue. While Nicole keeps Shahbandar occupied for the evening, Harry will steal the statue. Nicole will excuse herself temporarily from Shahbandar's company, in reality making her way to the airport, where she will meet Harry who will give her her passport, plane ticket back to Hong Kong and her five thousand U.S. dollar cut, the two never to see each other again. Harry will tell her only as much as she needs to know to carry out the plan. Harry's thoughts for the scheme don't come off quite as he anticipates, primarily because of Nicole and Shahbandar not reacting the way he anticipates. Nicole is difficult to convince, and she isn't the demure and refined Asian he had pictured, but rather a strong willed and chatterbox of a woman, who has a mind of her own and who says what she wants. And Shahbandar believes that Nicole looking exactly like his deceased wife, down to the hair and clothes, is just a little too coincidental for his comfort, he who has his eyes on the collective movements of "Sir Harold and Lady Dean", which he is certain are aliases. But these two wrongs may result in a right end goal for Harry. However, there is one other factor which Harry does not count on, namely what happens between him and Nicole.

