When a young woman with dreams of fame rents a billboard to advertise herself, her life changes overnight.
Gladys Glover has just lost her modelling job when she meets filmmaker Pete Sheppard shooting a documentary in Central Park. For Pete it's love at first sight, but Gladys has her mind on other things -- like making a name for herself. Through a fluke of advertising she winds up with her name plastered over 10 billboards throughout city. Suddenly all of New York is clamoring for Gladys Glover without knowing why and playboy Evan Adams III is making a play for Gladys that even Pete knows will be hard to beat.
Gladys Glover, a naive and starry eyed young woman, came to New York City less than two years ago from upstate to make a name for herself. Not only has that not happened, but she just got fired from her latest job as a girdle model. Documentary filmmaker Pete Sheppard, who she meets by chance and who falls in love with her at first sight, predicts that if an opportunity presents itself, she will be able to seize it. Based on that idea, Gladys, seeing that it is available and using her life savings, decides to rent out a giant billboard in busy Columbus Circle for three months, the signage to be only her name in large lettering. While Gladys loves the billboard and takes any opportunity to stare at it, Pete believes it is a wacky idea since it means nothing, and if it does attract attention, it will only be of the kind that will brand Gladys as a nut. It does attract some attention, most specifically of wealthy playboy Evan Adams III of Adams Soap, the company which wants to use the billboard for their regular summer advertising campaign. Despite Gladys and Evan's antagonistic first meeting, Evan sees in Gladys his next romantic conquest. In Gladys and Evan's negotiations for that billboard space, Evan may be able to parlay Gladys' want for notoriety into his own amorous gains. Gladys has to weigh if this wanted fame is worth it any any cost, even at the expense of losing Pete, for who she also seems to be falling.

