Gene heads some cattlemen who have been swindled by McCoy. McCoy needed their money to pay off his gambling debt.
Cattle buyer McCoy has run up gambling debts. When Gene and the other ranchers are ready to sell their cattle, he undercuts his bosses price planning to pocket the profit. The ranchers then try to drive their cattle to another market but McCoy's men set off an explosion and a rancher is killed. Knowing McCoy listens to the horse race results, Gene sets up a phony radio broadcast hoping to trap him.
Gene Autry (Gene Autry) is leading a group of cattlemen in rebellion against the efforts of Thomas McCoy (Edmund MacDonald) , the agent of a big meat-packing company, who is trying to collect some private graft bu undercutting the buying price for beef. McCoy is heavily indebted to gangster-bookies and plans to appropriate the difference between the amount the owner of the packing company,Grantley B. Johnson (Thurston Hall) is willing to pay and that which McCoy will pay the cattlemen. Meanwhile, not back at the ranch, Katherine 'Kit" Carson (Ruth Terry), an attractive young career woman, whose future depends largely on obtaining the Johnson radio-advertising account. Johnson likes the idea of a western program emanating from a real ranch sells to him. Obliged now to prepare such a program, Kit and her company of friends frantically head west and end up renting Autry's ranch from Frog Millhouse while Gene is out of town. Back at the ranch, an astonished Autry, and Johnson, who has come west to check on his investment, both arrive at the same time. Johnson finds the cattlemen gunning for his scalp, so he hides his identity until he can find out why. When he does his fighting spirit drives him to beat McCoy at his own game. McCoy, desperate because of the demands of his bookie, arranges to dynamite a tunnel through which the cattle are driven. A rancher is killed and Tadpole Millhouse (Joe Strauch Jr.) is injured and Autry and Johnson join forces to secure evidence to expose and arrest McCoy.

