The life of super-yuppie J.C. is thrown into turmoil when she inherits a baby from a distant relative.
J.C. Wiatt is a successful New York business woman known around town as the "tiger lady." She gets news of an inheritance from a relative from another country and off the bat she suspects it's money. Well it's not money, it's a baby girl. At first she doesn't accept until the lady that gives the baby to her has to catch her flight. J.C. is now stuck with an annoying baby girl. Her boyfriend doesn't like the idea of a baby living with them and he leaves her. J.C. has enough of it and takes her to meet a family ready to adopt her. She leaves but hears the baby cry while walking away and has to go back. The baby is too attached to her now and won't let her go. Later, her baby gets into mischief which causes her to get fired. Now, she sets her eyes on an old two story cottage in Vermont to get out of the New York life. When she arrives, the house needs more help than originally thought. She gets bored one snowy day and decides to make apple sauce. Her baby loves it and she decides to sell it. Pretty soon everyone wants some of the baby apple sauce. J.C. hits it big and falls in love with a local veterinarian. Was this fate or destiny?
Management consultant J.C. Wiatt is a workaholic whose sole focus in life is her job at Sloane Curtis. She works 80 hour weeks and expects others around her to do the same. She is in a relationship with Steven Buchner, an equally driven investment banker; their life together works only because of their lack of need for a truly committed time together. J.C. is well on her way to making partner at the company. On the eve of the biggest business meeting of her career, she finds out that she has been deeded an infant named Elizabeth from a distant relative who has just passed away. A baby does not fit her life plan, but after exhausting all the other options, she decides to keep Elizabeth, while still believing she can successfully climb the corporate ladder. A child also does not fit Steven's life plan, he who leaves. As J.C.'s focus begins to change, a baby of a single female executive also does not fit the ideal of managing partner Fritz Curtis, prodded indirectly by J.C.'s equally ambitious assistant Ken Arrenberg. J.C. decides to pack it all in and buy and move to a Vermont country "estate" with Elizabeth. J.C. quickly learns that country life, especially on that estate, is not what she was expecting. With no options to move back to the city, J.C. has to decide how best to move on with her life. She also has to figure out her priorities when a business opportunity arises. Dr. Jeff Cooper, the local veterinarian, factors into her decision making.
In New York, the executive J.C. Wiatt is a successful business woman that prioritizes her work in a publicity agency over her personal life. Her boss Fritz Curtis calls her tiger lady and invites J.C. to be partner of the agency provided she brings the account of the company owned by Hughes Larrabee to the agency. One night, J.C. is sleeping with her boyfriend Steven Buchner and receives a phone call from England telling that she has an inheritance something from her cousin that died in an accident with his wife. J.C. believes it is money but receives their daughter, the baby girl Elizabeth, instead. Soon she feels connected to the baby, turning her life upside-down: Steven breaks with her; her assistant Ken Arrenberg steals Larrabee's account in the agency; and J.C. loses her job. She decides to buy a huge real estate in Vermont to raise Elizabeth and finds many unexpected problems in the old house. But soon she sees an opportunity to develop new business while she meets the veterinarian Dr. Jeff Cooper giving another sense to her life.

