A simple, small town man inherits a massive fortune, making him the target for scammers and publicity-seekers. Overwhelmed by the turn his life has taken, and awoken to another use for his new-found fortune, he makes a momentous decision.
Longfellow Deeds lives in a small town, leading a small town kind of life - including playing the tuba in the town band. When a relative dies and leaves Deeds a fortune, Longfellow picks up his tuba and moves to the big city where he becomes an instant target for everyone from the greedy opera committee to the sensationist daily newspaper. Deeds outwits them all until Babe Bennett comes along. Babe is a hot-shot reporter who figures the best way to get close to Deeds is to pose as a damsel in distress. When small-town boy meets big-city girl anything can, and does, happen.
Longfellow Deeds leads a simple and quiet life living in the small town of Mandrake Falls. He's never traveled and makes a living writing little ditties for postcards and the like. When his rich uncle dies, he learns that he has inherited $20 million. He moves to New York where everybody tries get something from him. The estate's lawyer is desperate to get Deeds' power of attorney if for no other reason than to cover up a deficit in the account. They all view Deeds as a country bumpkin but in his own simple way, Deeds just uses common sense and usually ends up making the right decision. He can't resist a damsel in distress however which is what ambitious reporter Babe Bennett is counting on. Love gets in the way however. When Deeds tries to give his money away, he finds himself in court defending his sanity.
Longfellow Deeds of Mandrake Falls, Vermont is a simple man in that he needs little in his life to be happy, those needs basically time to play the tuba or come up with rhymes for his poems. Although barely knowing him except by name, Longfellow learns that he is the sole beneficiary to the $20 million estate of his New York City based Uncle Martin Semple, who died in a car accident in Italy. Never having left Mandrake Falls, Longfellow is excited to travel to New York in dealing with the estate if only to see the sights of the big city. Certain people seem to come along with the inheritance, including a mansion full of servants, and Cornelius Cobb who is tasked with protecting Longfellow from any predators on behalf of his employer, Uncle Martin's lawyer John Cedar who wants to continue to have power of attorney over the estate for his own benefit. Beyond Cedar, people and organizations come out of the woodwork wanting their piece of the estate, believing they can run roughshod over who they see as simpleminded country bumpkin Longfellow, who is not as simpleminded as he appears. The one person who is able to get past Cobb's wall to fleece Longfellow is Pulitzer prize winning journalist Babe Bennett, she playing the down on her luck working girl "Mary Dawson" to play to Longfellow's humanity. Babe's mission is to write an exclusive series on Longfellow, she managing to do so indeed portraying him as a backward sap. Babe's articles have the potential to ruin Longfellow's life and his selfless plan for the all the money, and even if she develops a conscious and comes to his aid in being converted to his simple and more humanistic way of thinking, his fate may already be sealed not only in being classified as backward, but more importantly certifiable.
One of the wealthiest men in the country dies and leaves his entire fortune to his nephew, Longfellow Deeds. Deeds is a simple, satisfied man of moderate means living in a small town. In an instant he is whisked to New York where he is waited on hand and foot and becomes the target for scammers, lawyers and publicity-seekers. Overwhelmed by the turn his life has taken, and awoken to another use for his new-found fortune, Mr. Deeds makes a momentous decision.
Longfellow Deeds, a resident of small-town Vermont, leads a simple life until he inherits a vast fortune from a late uncle. Soon, unscrupulous lawyer John Cedar brings Deeds to New York City, where the unassuming heir is the object of much media attention. When wily reporter Babe Bennett gains the trust and affection of Deeds, she uses her position to publish condescending articles about him -- but are her feelings for him really that shallow?
The heir of wealthy, deceased Martin Semple proves surprisingly to be one Longfellow Deeds of Mandrake Falls, Vermont. The bemused lawyers in the land of taciturn Yankees find Deeds a simple-hearted greeting card poet, his favorite pastime playing the tuba. Will he be any match for city slickers, embezzlers, moochers, fundraisers, and phonies? Enter brash reporter Babe Bennett, who (for a story) gains Deeds' friendship and seems to be on his side. With friends like these...

