An investigation of a horse-racing scam leads 007 to a mad industrialist who plans to create a worldwide microchip monopoly by destroying California's Silicon Valley.
James Bond has one more mission. Bond returns from his travels in the U.S.S.R. with a computer chip. This chip is capable of withstanding a nuclear electromagnetic pulse that would otherwise destroy a normal chip. The chip was created by Zorin Industries, and Bond heads off to investigate its owner, Max Zorin. Zorin may only seem like an innocent man, but is really planning to set off an earthquake in San Andreas, which will wipe out all of Silicon Valley. As well as Zorin, Bond must also tackle May Day and equally menacing companion of Zorin, while dragging Stacy Sutton along for the ride.
A silicon chip is captured from the Soviets and found to be identical to a prototype British design capable of withstanding the intense electromagnetic radiation of a nuclear blast. The British suspect industrialist Max Zorin of leaking details of the design to the Russians. When James Bond is sent to investigate he finds that Zorin is stockpiling silicon chips and mysteriously drilling near the San Andreas fault.
James Bond returns from the U.S.S.R. with a new computer chip; one that is invulnerable to the magnetic pulse of a nuclear explosion. The chip is being manufactured by Zorin Industries, headed up by a sociopathic businessman named Max Zorin who is planning to corner the world microchip market by using explosives to cause an earthquake in the San Andreas fault that will wipe out Silicon Valley, and the millions who live and work there. Bond must face not only Zorin, but the equally twisted May Day and Scarpine, another one of Zorin's henchmen. Assisted by San Francisco city employee Stacy, Bond goes after the computer magnate in a series of frightening confrontations, including fire in the San Francisco City Hall, a wild chase through the city with Stacy at the wheel of a Fire Department ladder truck, and finally in a hand-to-hand fight atop San Francisco's Golden Gate Bridge.
James Bond takes on one of his most maniacal villians to date, Max Zorin, a leading French Industrialist. Zorin plans to detonate a series of explosions in the Silicon Valley causing an earthquake so he can get his hands on the world's leading microchip market. It is up to 007 to stop him.
When Bond is sent to investigate a security leak at the high-tech Zorin Industries, he discovers a hotbed of murder and deception. The company's mysterious owner, Max Zorin has devised a plan to corner the world microchip market, even if he has to kill millions to do it. But before Bond can stop Zorin, he must confront the madman's beautiful and deadly companion May Day. With help from the gorgeous Stacey, Bond will launch an all-out assault on Zorin's deadly scheme, climaxing in a spine-tingling duel on the upper spans of the Golden Gate Bridge.
James Bond (Roger Moore) is sent to Siberia to locate the body of 003 and to recover a microchip. Upon doing so, he is ambushed by Soviet troops but flees in a submarine built to resemble an iceberg.After Bond returns to England a week later, Q (Desmond Llewelyn) has the microchip analysed and informs M (Robert Brown), Bond and the Minister of Defense that its design is an exact match of a microchip made by Zorin Industries. The retrieved microchip is also designed to withstand the damage caused to other chips by the electromagnetic pulse of a nuclear explosion.Bond and his superiors visit the Ascot Racecourse to observe the company's founder and CEO, Max Zorin (Christopher Walken). While at the track, Zorin's horse Pegasus miraculously pulls ahead to win the race. Later, Pegasus throws a fit and it takes some effort to get him under control -- the person who regains Pegasus' control is a mysterious woman named May Day (Grace Jones).Sir Godfrey Tibbett (Patrick Macnee), an MI6 agent who works as a horse trainer, believes Zorin's horse was given drugs, although when screened by officials prior to the race, it did not show any drugs in its bloodstream. Through Tibbett, Bond meets a French private detective named Achille Aubergine (Jean Rougerie) at the restaurant on the Eiffel Tower to discuss how the horse may have won. Aubergine informs Bond that Zorin is holding an annual horse sale later in the month. Moments later, Aubergine is assassinated by May Day (Grace Jones). Bond chases her to an upper level of the tower but she parachutes off before he can catch her. Bond rides the top of an elevator to the bottom, steals a Renault taxi and chases her through the city but is unable to apprehend her. A boat driven by Zorin later picks her up on the Seine and Bond is arrested.Bond and Tibbett travel to Chantilly, France where Bond poses as James St. John Smythe (pronounced "sin-jin-smythe"), a rich dilettante who recently inherited horses, with Tibbett posing as his valet. During a reception party, they meet Zorin's head of security, Scarpine (Patrick Bauchau), and Dr Mortner (Willoughby Gray), a horse vet who specializes in selective breeding to produce Zorin's prize animals. Bond also meets an American named Stacey Sutton (Tanya Roberts). Bond thinks the woman "bares closer inspection," but Tibbett reminds him of their primary mission. He sees her enter Zorin's office where they have a quick meeting. When Bond tries to talk briefly with her, she's whisked away by Mayday at Zorin's orders. He later sneaks into Zorin's office and finds a check written to Sutton for a large sum of money.Later, Tibbett follows Dr Mortner who leads Pegasus into Zorin's stables. When Tibbett sneaks up behind, he sees that Mortner &amp; the horse have disappeared. Tibbet is found by Bond, who has discovered a secret lab below the stables. There they discover Mortner's secret work: Zorin plants microchips in his horses, programmed to release a steroid when prompted by a hidden radio transmitter snuck into the tip of the jockey's whip (or a cane, as Bond remembers from Ascot). Bond and Tibbet also discover a packing room for a large stash of the same microchips that Bond obtained in the Arctic. The two are attacked by a pair of Zorin's thugs. Bond defeats them both and retreats to May Day's room. He asks May Day to join him in bed and she does so with Zorin's amused permission -- despite hers and Zorin's romantic relationship.Their intrusion is discovered and Zorin asks Bond to report to his study, where he'll aid St. John Smythe in selecting a stud horse for the stables he supposedly inherited. During their meeting, Zorin uses a hidden camera and database to find a match for pictures he takes of Bond; Zorin discovers Bond's real identity. He invites Bond to race with him steeplechase-style. In an effort to get rid of Bond, Zorin provides Bond with an ill-tempered horse. The course is laid with booby-trapped obstacles and Zorin's goons who attack Bond. When Bond overtakes Zorin, Zorin activates a device that causes the horse to go wild. Bond escapes the track and sees his limousine, boarding it. However, Tibbett has been killed by May Day, who is driving the car. She and Zorin attempt to drown Bond in a nearby pond but the plan fails. Later, General Gogol (Walter Gotell) from the Soviet Union visits Zorin's estate with several other KGB agents. Zorin, it is revealed, has been in the employ of the KGB and is admonished by Gogol for his public image and attention-garnering business ventures and for eliminating Bond without authorization. The short-tempered Zorin replies by saying he no longer sees the need to continue doing business with the KGB. When Gogol's assistant chides Zorin for being a "physiological freak" Mayday grabs the man and throws him. Gogol gravely warns Zorin "no one leaves the KGB," but grudgingly leaves when Zorin's men pull guns on him.Later, in an airship over San Francisco, Zorin unveils to a group of investors his new criminal scheme to destroy Silicon Valley in an operation he dubs "Main Strike", which if implemented will gain them a monopoly in the microchip market. For involvement in the plan, Zorin demands $100 million from each participant in addition to a contract promising half of their net income through marketing deals. One man refuses and is dropped out of the airship by May Day, landing in San Francisco Bay.Meeting in San Francisco with his CIA contact, Bond learns that Zorin is a psychopath, the product of Nazi medical experimentation during World War II by Mortner, who is revealed to be a former Nazi doctor named Dr. Hans Glaub. Glaub had supposedly experimented on pregnant women in concentration camps in an effort to create highly intelligent superhumans. Bond assumes the identity of a reporter for the London Financial Times to continue his investigation. Bond learns from a local crab fisherman that a prolific crab patch has vanished near one of Zorin's oil pumping stations. Bond also learns from the mayor that Zorin has been testing his oil lines for leaks with seawater, an explanation for the disappearing crab stock.007 spies on an oil rig owned by Zorin. He catches KGB agent Pola Ivanova trying to blow up the rig, while recording Zorin announcing his plans -- Ivanova's accomplice is tossed into the feeder pipe where he's shredded by a powerful directional propeller. Back in San Francisco, Bond and Ivanova enjoy a romantic tryst in a Chinese hot tub house. Ivanova tries to leave with her cassette recording of Zorin, however Bond has switched the tape and finds out Zorin's plan will take place in a few days.Bond meets Stacey again, and he learns that her grandfather's oil company had been taken over by Zorin. The two team up to steal documents about his plan from the San Francisco City Hall. Zorin arrives, holding them hostage, and then forces the San Francisco mayor to call the police. He kills the mayor with Bond's sidearm and sets the building on fire in order to frame Bond for the murder. Bond and Sutton escape from the fire but when the police try to arrest Bond, they escape in a fire engine. A chase ensues, during which several SFPD cruisers are wrecked. Bond and Sutton then manage to shake the police off completely when the police captain leading the chase orders a bridge operator to open the Third Street Drawbridge. Bond and Sutton's fire truck makes it across just as the bridge gates close to stop traffic and the bridge begins to rise. The police cars are unable to stop in time and pile up at the bottom of the bridge. The senior officer is berating his underlings for wrecking their cruisers in the chase when his own car is crushed by the bridge's counterweight.The next day, Bond and Sutton infiltrate Zorin's mine near Silicon Valley, discovering his plot to detonate explosives beneath the lakes along the Hayward Fault and the San Andreas Fault causing them to simultaneously flood, submerging Silicon Valley. The resulting disaster will make Zorin the sole manufacturer of microchips in the world. A bomb is also on site in the mine to detonate a large powder key, destroying a "geological lock" that is in place to prevent the two faults from moving at the same time. Once destroyed, it would supposedly cause a double earthquake. Zorin and Scarpine flood the mines, nearly killing Bond and May Day and mercilessly kill all of the mine workers as they attempt to flee. Stacey manages to escape. Because she was betrayed, May Day helps Bond remove the larger bomb that would destroy the lock. They put the bomb on a handcar and push it out of the mine along a railroad line. May Day stays on the car to hold the faulty brake lever, sacrificing her own life as the bomb explodes outside, away from the lock.Sutton is quickly captured by a devastated Zorin, who is escaping via airship with Scarpine and Mortner. Bond grabs hold of the front mooring rope as the airship ascends. Zorin tries to kill Bond by flying him into the Golden Gate Bridge, but Bond manages to moor the airship to the bridge framework, stopping it from moving. Stacey attacks Zorin and in the ensuing fracas, Mortner and Scarpine are temporarily knocked out. Stacey flees onto the bridge and joins with Bond, but Zorin comes after them with an axe and engages in a fierce battle with Bond. Bond gains the upper hand and sends Zorin plummeting off the bridge to his death. An enraged Mortner attempts to kill Bond with a bundle of dynamite, but Bond cuts the mooring rope, causing Mortner to drop the dynamite into the cabin. Seconds later, the dynamite explodes and destroys the airship, killing Mortner and Scarpine.In the aftermath, Bond is ironically awarded the Order of Lenin by General Gogol. Q, inside a special van in California, uses his fake-dog surveillance camera (the "Snooper") to locate 007. He safely finds him making love to Stacey in her shower.
