A senator is targeted by the Pentangle, a right wing paramilitary group. His pal, a former CIA agent and martial artist, tries to help him. The group kidnaps the agent's sister and tries to hunt him down, "The Most Dangerous Game" style.
Matt Hunter, a former Military Intelligence man who resigned so that he could take care of his sister following his parents' death, goes to visit Larry Richards, a friend who's running for the Senate. When he arrives he learns that Larry's been receiving death threats from a group calling themselves the Pentangle. Later at the rally, someone takes a shot at Larry and hits one of Larry's sons. Matt chases the shooter and takes him out. Matt then calls his former boss to find out who Pentangle is. He learns that they're a right wing paramilitary group and that Larry once foiled one of their plans which is why they're targeting him. Matt also learns that they have an affinity for hunting men. When they try to lure Larry into a trap, Matt tags along and stops them. The group upon learning of Matt decides they would like to make him their next prey. They attack Matt's ranch where Larry and his family are staying and kill Larry and his family and take Matt's sister hostage and tell Matt where he can retrieve her, which is also where they will be hunting him.
Martial arts expert Matt Hunter was one of the most promising operatives in Army intelligence until his parents were killed by terrorists, and he retired to the family's farm in Louisiana to take care of his 12-year-old sister Sara and their grandfather Jimmy. Larry Richards, a black man running for the Senate, is one of Matt's best friends. Larry has become the target of The Pentangle, a racist organization led by a man named Glastenbury, and Glastenbury doesn't want Larry to be elected. In an attempt on Larry's life during a Mardi Gras parade in New Orleans, The Pentangle kills one of Larry's sons. Matt lets Larry, his wife Daisy, and his other son move to the remotely located farm so they can hide from Glastenbury and the Pentangle, but the Pentangle strikes again, setting the farmhouse on fire. Matt and Sara escape as the only survivors. Then the Pentangle kidnaps Sara, sending Matt on a mission to rescue Sara from Glastenbury and the Pentangle.

