After the mob tries to kill him for an unknown reason, a comedian steals the identity of a homeless man and goes on the run.
After incurring the wrath of the mob, a comic flees Detroit for Chicago taking the name "Mickey One" from a stolen Social Security card from a homeless bum he witnesses being beaten up and robbed. As he returns to the stage and becomes successful, he fears that the mob will track him down. He wishes to square himself with the mob, but doesn't know what he did to anger them or what his debt is.
A nightclub comedian (Warren Beatty) living in Detroit lives extravagantly and accumulates a number of large gambling debts. Certain that the underworld syndicate that controls his debts and the clubs where he works is going to punish him, he flees, eventually winding up on the west side of Chicago and living in the streets as a homeless derelict. He uses a social security card with the name Miklos Wunejeva taken off a homeless bum to obtain a restaurant job hauling garbage. The nameless man assumes the shortened name of 'Mickey One' to simplify the ethnic Greek name off the stolen Social Security card. Mickey eventually saves up money from his low wages to rent a room at a local flop house and buy some new clothes for himself.Wanting to resume his career as a stand up comedian, Mickey One contacts an agent, named George Berson (Teddy Hart), who books him at the posh Club Xanadu, owned by Ed Castle (Hurd Hatfield). Meanwhile, Mickey's landlady attempts to evict him and move another tenant, Jenny Drayton (Alexandra Stewart), into his apartment. Mickey refuses to leave, and he and Jenny fall in love.One night, Mickey and Jenny watch an artist (Kamatari Fujiwara), whom Mickey has seen around town, unveil a kinetic sculpture which goes out of control, explodes, and burns down. Mickey is wary of the Xanadu booking, fearful that Castle may know his enemies in the syndicate. Mickey is persuaded by Castle to audition for a man connected with clubs in the Midwest, but, fearful that the man might be a mobster and unable to perform without an audience, Mickey cuts his performance short.Determined to contact someone in the syndicate, Mickey searches for the mob-run crap game, but he is beaten in a brawl involving costumed doormen from various clubs. After he discovers that Berson has disappeared, he decides to keep his commitment to Castle and begins his first show at the club. The film ends with Mickey on stage at Club Xandau to the crowd and playing the piano while the scene dissolves from the confined stage to that of the skyline of downtown Chicago.
