An uptight, leather-clad female alien, armed with a ray gun and accompanied by a menacing robot, comes to Earth to collect Earth's men as breeding stock.
In a Scottish inn, the owners, employees and guests are reunited in the bar. Our of the blue, a flying saucer lands nearby and a woman dressed in black leather like a dominatrix with a cape arrives in the bar armed with a ray-gun. She explains that she is Nyah from Mars, and she was heading to London. However her spacecraft collided with an airplane and was damaged; therefore she had to land to repair the saucer. She also explains that she is looking for men to breed her female race since the male population is dying after warfare between males and females and they need offspring. Nyah has the robot Chani to help her to capture men, but she wants that one of the men volunteers to go with her to Mars. Who might be the volunteer?
Opening scene A passenger plane is destroyed in mid flight in a shower of sparks.Scene switches to an isolated Inn somewhere in the Scottish Highlands. On the radio, a broadcast explains a bright light seen last night was a meteor. Tommy (Anthony Richmond) is then sent to bed by his aunty, Mrs. Jamieson (Sophie Stewart) As he goes to bed aunty explains that despite what the radio said, the meteor has landed some ways a way. The radio report concludes with the announcement that noted astronomer Prof Hennessy, has gone to the area to look for the meteor.Nearby, Prof Hennessy and Michael Carter (Hugh McDermott) an American reporter are stopped on the side of the road. In the background the cars radio warns that Robert Justin (Peter Reynolds) has escaped from jail and is considered dangerous.Back at the inn Doris (Adrienne Corri) hears a knock at the door. It is Justin; shes surprised to see him and asks if hes been released. He explains hes escaped, Doris is still puzzled, but a clear romantic connection pushes her to help him.Mrs. Jamieson interrupts the reunion; panicked Doris introduces him as a stranger on a hiking tour who has lost his wallet. Mrs Jamieson agrees to give him lodgings in return for odd jobs. Left alone again, Doris and Justin continue their conversation. Hed been sent to jail for murdering his wife, Doris laments why he ever chose the other women over her.Ellen Preswick (Hazel Court) a fashion model from London joins the couple for a drink. She takes an instant interest in Justin, and is convinced she has seen his face before. Justin is unsure of Preswicks motives and decides to leave the two women to their thoughtsHennessy and Carter arrive at the inn looking for lodgings. Carter sees Preswick and is immediately attracted to her. The moment is interrupted when Miss Preswick she sees a flash of light through one of the windows. Hennessy is condescending and suggests that she either imagined it or it was nothing to worry about. Dinner is served and Carter recognizes Justin who is their waiter. He is about to tell the others when a huge spaceship flies low over the Inn sending everyone scrambling for cover. They see the craft land in a nearby field. Carter decides it is an alien space craft, and begins trying to contact the outside world. Hennessy is more skeptical and wants to investigate before deciding. He notices the object is red hot and theyll have to wait some hours before approaching.In the confusion Justin slips away and escapes. Carter and Hennessy try to reach a nearby village, but struggle to start their car. Returning, Justin pulls Doris aside, she shows him an abandoned room to hide in, she declares her love for him, and he considers the options the couple may have to escape. Now alone in his room, Justin watches a female figure emerge from the ship. He also catches sight of a worker from the Inn approaching the woman. The alien kills the man without question and continues towards the inn. Giving up on the car Hennessy and Cater return to the inn. They are troubled to find Doris unresponsive and in a zombie like state.The alien arrives at the inn and introduces herself as Nyah (Patricia Laffan) she is from Mars. She explains that she wanted to land directly in London, but the ship sustained damage in the decent. Due to the war of the sexs on Mars, the male population is dropping, and she needs human males to bolster breeding stock. It is realized that a worker is missing, Nyah admits to killing him.Before returning to her ship, Nyla warns the group of an invisible wall around the inn to prevent them from escaping.Carter spends more time Miss Prestwick and learns shes is in the area to escape a relationship with a married man. Shed run away in the past, but her partner always found her. Carter then opens up and tells of his own experiences as a combat reporter. Both seem drawn together by the possibility of their common destructionProfessor Hennessy comes back injured, hed found the invisible barrier by falling against it. Frustrated Mr Jamieson finds an old gun and gives it to Carter. They make a plan to either capture Nyah or kill her. Suddenly she returns to the inn, Carter empties the gun at the alien without result. She orders everyone to the ship so they can understand the power she wields. Still hidden, Justin sees Tommy wandering around. The boy wants to go to the ship and Justin agrees. Nyla triggers another hatch to open and a huge box like robot emerges. Nyla orders the robot to fire a beam that destroys a tree, then car and finally a storage shed.Nyla discovers Justin and the boy hiding and orders the boy into the ship. Justin tries to stop her, but is hypnotizing and sent back to the inn. Hennessy then gets an opportunity to see inside the ship, Nyla wants to show off her power, the professor is looking for any weakness he can exploitAfter seeing the negative atomic energy, and perpetual motion system; Hennessy realizes the sort of power he is up against and returns to the inn. The, rest of the group have set a trap to electrocute Nyla. She triggers trap and remains completely unaffected, but is annoyed enough at the attempt to warn them any further attempts will result in the death of Tommy. Nyla then disappears by transferring herself to the 4th dimension.Carter decides to go alone to the ship and rescue Tommy. Nyla stops him at the hatch and demands to know what he wants. Carter offers to exchange himself for the sake of the child. Nyla agrees to the deal and Tommy returns to the inn. Once there, he tells everyone what he has seen, Hennessy becomes more convinced than ever that he can destroy the ship.Meanwhile Doris finds Justin wandering still in his hypnotized state and muttering about preparing for the new rulers of Earth. Carter returns to explain the deal hes struck with alien. Doris explains Justins unusual behavior; Carter goes to check on him and is violently attacked. He manages to subdue Justin and tie him up.Later Hennessy pulls Carter aside and explains how it might be possible to destroy the aliens craft, but it would mean the death of whoever tries. Nyla comes to the inn and collects Carter, he considers what Hennessy said. At the ship Carter takes Nylas controller but is defeated by her robot. Nyla decides Carter is untrustworthy and returns him to the inn and tells everyone they are going to die because of Carters trickeryDesperate Hennessy offers to be a guide for Nyla in London. Initially rejects the offer but sees some worth in the idea. Nyla will return later and chose someone. The rest will be killed.The thought that the end is near draws Prestwick to declare her love for Carter. They discuss what the future may have been, and decide that it is now all overDoris finds Justin, who appears back to normal. She explains the reason for him being tied up. Meanwhile Hennessy has written down instructions on destroying the ship so whoever is chosen to go, will be able to achieve their aim of destroying the ship.Doris releases Justin and he promises to stay safe, however Nyla comes back and assumes Justin is the person to come with her. Together they return to the ship. All seems well as the craft launches and begins to climb into the air without incident. Just before it disappears from view it explodes.Doris bursts into tears realizing Justin is dead, but his sacrifice saved the world.
