A pair of teenagers meet one summer day, start a reckless affair and abandon their families to be with one another.
Harry Lund is a nineteen-year-old man who meets Monika, a romantic, reckless and rebellious seventeen-year-old, and they fall in love. They leave their families and jobs in their small town, Harry gets his father's boat and they spend the summer together in an isolated island. Monika gets pregnant, and Harry decides to marry her. He grows up, gets a job and returns to his studies, trying to improve their lives and raise their daughter June, while Monika just wants to have fun.
In Stockholm, nineteen year old Harry Lund and eighteen year old Monika Eriksson enter into a passionate relationship quickly after their formal meeting. They both live with their respective parents - Harry's mother who died about ten years ago, while his father is in ill health - and both work entry level blue collar jobs, Harry as a packing clerk for a china/glass company, it a job he is not very good at due not being very careful around the breakables, and Monika as a general clerk at a greengrocer. While Harry is at least committed to employment which he sees as a step to responsible adulthood, Monika wants to escape what she considers her terrible life, which includes getting away both from her parents and her job. Easily falling into helping Monika over all else, Harry decides to "escape" their respective lives with her. The primary question then becomes if there is a long term future for the pair as Monika's first priority is her own happiness, which at this stage of her life primarily means having fun, which may not be the easiest thing to accomplish on Harry's dime, especially as his money begins to run out.
Harry Lund, 19 years old, works at a stock-room for glass and porcelain. In the vicinity works 17-year-old Monika at a stock-room for vegetables. Monika is a cheerful and happy young woman and when she sees Harry at a café she starts to speak with him. They fall in love with each other. Because of their age, they are both harassed at their respective places of work. Monika has an argument with her father and leaves her home; Harry has an argument with his boss and quits. Since they have nothing that ties them to the city, they take Harry's small boat to the archipelago to be alone for a few weeks.
Harry and his girlfriend, Monika, want to run away together for the next summer. They seem to be a happy young couple. Harry works in a crockery warehouse, packing all kind of dishes and glasses, a task which demands carefully attention. The boy is a little bit tired of being continuously scolded by his bosses, despite him being a good employee. Monika, a nice-looking girl of about 18 years old, works in a stock warehouse and is constantly besieged by other boys and an ex-boyfriend, trying to call the girl's attention again. The girl is having a few domestic problems with her father, who always arrives drunk to the house. One day, Harry quits his job, and taking his stuff he runs away with Monika to the countryside, near of a lake. There, Harry and Monika spend some joyful days, until food begins to run out. The adventure ends up as a sad experience, without a job, money and having to steal some food to survive. Harry and Monika decide to return to the city, to get married and start from the bottom, without knowing that a painful time of suffering is waiting ahead.
Monica and Lars, two youths in dead-end jobs, fall in love and decide to leave their messy lives behind, and spend the summer together. They take a boat to a remote area, and have spend romantic nights under the stars. However, things soon start to turn sour when they run out of food, and worse still, when they return to their home town to begin a bog-standard life of suburban malcontent.

