Kitty runs a brothel in Nazi Germany where the soldiers come to "relax". Recording devices have been installed in each room by a power hungry army official, who plans to use the information to blackmail Hitler and gain power himself.
Kitty runs a brothel in Nazi Germany where the soldiers come to "relax". Recording devices have been installed in each room by a power hungry army official who plans to use the information to blackmail Hitler and gain power himself. A girl named Margherita discovers the little ploy and with Kitty's help plans to take on the dangerous task of exposing the conspiracy.
Nazi Germany, late-1930s. Germany is gearing up for war and one of their projects is to set up a brothel, where military officers and politicians can relax. SS Untergruppenfuhrer Helmut Wallenberg is tasked with the role of recruiting the girls - they must all be ardent National Socialists - and setting everything up. He views the brothel as a means to spy on senior officers and politicians, especially in order to weed out any traitors, and bugs the rooms. This has tragic consequences for one of the girls.
With a devious plan to ensnare the decadent and, possibly, traitorous Nazi elite, Helmut Wallenberg, a devoted German Commandant, forces the beautiful madam Kitty to run a brothel fitted with recording devices to spy on the lascivious high clientele. Furthermore, Wallenberg swaps Kitty's regular girls with a hand-picked selection of devoted Aryan SS prostitutes who are eager to do his bidding, extracting dirty secrets useful to the Nazi intelligence. However, when the young National Socialist, Margherita, falls in love with a Nazi officer who dies in battle, before long, the motivated woman will decide to assist Madame Kitty to foil the conspiracy and put an end to Wallenberg's plans. But, this is easier said than done. Now, the Third Reich demands a sacrifice. Is the decadent Salon Kitty the perfect trap?
Around the beginning of II Word War, a nazi's officer sets a plan in order to have arian, party's faithful women as whores for SS, and to use hers reports in order to obtain power and conquer one of them, Margherita. But she have other plans.
The film pretends to be a "serious" movie, not a porn or even erotic one. Of course, it has a lot of sex in it, but never vulgar or plain. Nice art direction, some worthy cabaret shows, superb Ingrid Thulin's acting and a nice Helmut Berger, with the beautiful Teresa Ann Savoy as the main character. Maybe not completely accomplished task, but still a valuable effort to create an erotic fantasy with a real plot.
