Angie Rossini is an innocent Italian Catholic Macy's salesgirl, who discovers she's pregnant from a fling with Rocky, a musician. Angie finds Rocky (who doesn't remember her at first) to tell him she's pregnant and needs a doctor for an abortion. He finds her a doctor and they work together to raise the money. Can these two strangers find love with one another before it's too late?
Italian-American Macy's shop-girl Angie Rossini still lives at home with her widowed mother and her three protective brothers in a small apartment. Angie considers her life to resemble living in a fishbowl: her brothers control everything, from what she does to who she sees and to whom she should marry. That intended husband is Anthony Columbo, a shy, clumsy man, with whom she doesn't hear the "bells and banjos" she envisions with romantic love. As an act of defiance, Angie has a one-night stand - her first and only sexual encounter - with womanizing jazz trumpeter Rocky Papasano, a man she doesn't even know. Rocky escaped a life much like Angie's. His Italian-American parents still live in the Bowery where he grew up. He doesn't visit his parents often as it reminds him of the repressive lifestyle of unhappy married people as witnessed by his old neighborhood friends. Angie manages to track down Rocky to tell him that she is pregnant with his child. Despite barely remembering Angie, Rocky decides to help Angie with the one and only thing she requests: the name of a doctor to abort the pregnancy. As Angie and Rocky spend the day together leading up to the scheduled abortion, they begin to get to know each other, the good and the bad. This day begins the process of Angie and Rocky actually figuring out what it is they want out of life.
When Angie Rossini finds out she's pregnant, she tracks down Rocky Papasano the musician with whom she had a one night stand. Angie works a sales clerk in a department store and comes from a close knit Italian family where her brothers keep a close eye on her. The two really don't know one another but Rocky agrees to arrange for her to have an abortion but when he sees the conditions under which it will be performed, he gets her out of there. Faced with his situation, Rocky asks Angie to marry him but she seems uninterested, especially since he sounds like he's taking a dose of bad medicine, and turns to a lovelorn suitor, Anthony, as a solution to her situation. Rocky continues to try and see her however and it soon becomes apparent that she also has another plan.

