A former boxer turned cab driver has to hide from the police when his badgering wife is murdered by the jewel thief she was having an affair with.
Having lost his heavyweight championship match, boxer Ernie Driscoll now drives a taxi for a living and earns the scorn of his nagging wife, Pauline, who blames him for her lack of social status. Involved with jewel thief Victor Rawlins, Pauline is murdered by him when she impedes his ability to fence the jewels. Blamed for his wife's murder, Ernie must track down Rawlins before he leaves the country.
Four years ago, short tempered Ernie Driscoll was seconds away from winning the world heavyweight championship, a bout he ultimately lost, which was called due to an eye injury. He has since been banned from fighting in New York state as he could lose his eyesight permanently if the eye gets reinjured. He is now a New York cabbie who hopes at least to get something more financially stable, such as owning a gas station, while his bitter wife, Pauline Driscoll, believes she gave up a promising show business career for him, although she was only a showgirl at the time only now to work in a florist shop. Needing an outlet to let go of his anger following an incident with Pauline and another with Linda James, a casual friend and struggling actress, Ernie decides to get back into boxing professionally. Ernie's problem really start when simultaneously he finds Pauline's dead body in the back of his cab and the police are looking for him for an assault charge pertaining to the incident with Linda. Ernie has a good idea of what the man who killed Pauline looks like, and why that man would frame him for the murder. With a couple of friends helping him, Ernie, with only a single lead, goes looking for the man to find out why he killed Pauline, while at the same time tries to elude the police before they pick him up for the assault and/or find Pauline's dead body and pin the murder on him.
During the dispute of the box championship, the boxer Ernie Driscoll loses the fight and the champion damages his optic nerve. Ernie is forced to quit his career and becomes a taxi driver in New York. His wife Pauline Driscoll blames him for their simple life and their relationship is not good. The quick-tempered Ernie usually meets his friend, the aspirant actress Linda James, at the bar where he drinks coffee late night. Pauline has a love affair with the elegant thief Victor Rawlins and she helps him to steal a fortune in diamonds from a man called Dutch. Meanwhile Linda lures Ernie to be cast in a play but when she learns that the producer has accused Ernie to the police to promote his play, she regrets and decides to help him. Meanwhile Victor kills Pauline to sell the jewels to a powerful fence and frames Ernie so that he can travel abroad. Now Ernie and Linda need to track Victor down to prove his innocence, but the fence and his gang are also chasing Victor to kill him.

