Wealthy Cynthia is in love with not-so-wealthy Roger, who is married to Marcia. The threesome is terribly modern about the situation, and Marcia will gladly divorce Roger if Cynthia agrees to a financial settlement. But Cynthia's wealth is in jeopardy because her trust fund will expire if she is not married by a certain date. To satisfy that condition, Cynthia arranges to marry Hagon Derk, who is condemned to die for a crime he didn't commit. She pays him so he can provide for his little sister. But at the last minute, Derk is freed when the true criminal is discovered. Expecting to be a rich widow, Cynthia finds herself married to a man she doesn't know and doesn't want to.
Roger Towne and Marcia Towne are in an unsatisfying marriage. Known to Marcia, Roger and Cynthia Crothers are in love and want to get married. Known to Roger, Marcia is also in a serious relationship with a man named Marco. All four are part of the vacuous social set. Even under these circumstances, Marcia refuses to grant Roger a divorce as he has no money of his own and thus would be unable to pay her any alimony. Not being married to Roger or anyone else poses a problem for Cynthia as her vast inheritance is incumbent on her being married by her twenty-third birthday, just days away, her grandfather who felt she needed the love of a good man. Under Marcia's want for money in divorcing Roger, Cynthia cannot "buy" him from Marcia until she gets her inheritance, to which Marcia, without Roger's knowledge, would agree. Without telling anyone within her social set of what she is planning on doing, Cynthia believes she's found a solution to her problem when she reads about death row inmate, convicted murderer Hagon Derk, a coal miner in the outside world, who is trying to raise $10,000 in his final days to be able to provide for his adolescent sister, his ward Katie Derk, and thus keep her out of an orphanage after his execution. Without telling him the reason, Cynthia offers to pay Hagon that $10,000 to marry her, to which he agrees. The nature of the situation changes when the true perpetrator of the murder for which Hagon was convicted and sentenced is discovered just minutes before his scheduled execution, resulting in Hagon being set free, he who believes in the sanctity of wedding vows and not just when it's convenient.

