Two innocent people are arrested. An interesting third person, with broken English, joins them in their cell. On his idea, they decide to escape from the prison. Their journey is the rest of the movie.
DJ Zack and pimp Jack end up in prison for being too laid-back to avoid being framed for crimes they didn't commit. They end up sharing a cell with eccentric Italian optimist Roberto, whose limited command of the English language is both entertaining and infuriating. More useful to them is the fact that Roberto knows an escape route.
Two different persons are introduced to us, and soon they are imprisoned. They are innocent and the arrest was set up. An interesting third person, with broken English, joins them in their cell. On his idea, they decide to escape from the prison. Their journey is the rest of the movie.
In Louisiana, Laurette has an argument with her boyfriend, DJ Zack a.k.a. Lee Baby Simms, and breaks up with him. The upset Zack drinks alcohol on the street and his acquaintance Preston offers him US$ 1,500 to drive a Jaguar to the other side of the city. However, there is one problem - a man is locked up in the trunk of the car. Zack is arrested and sent to the Orleans Parish Prison. Meanwhile the pimp Jack is framed by his acquaintance, arrested and put in the same cell as Zack. When an Italian Roberto, a.k.a. Bob, who does not speak English very well joins them in the same cell, the trio develops a strange friendship. Bob proposes a means of escape from prison.
(spoilers!!!!)the movie starts out with Zack, an out-of-work cant be pleased with anyone or anything radio DJ who has just gotten kicked out of his girlfriends apartment. Angry and upset, he gets nearly wasted and stays out in front of a local bar, where a mob boss gives him 2000 dollars to drive "a clean car" from Point A (The Bar) to Point B (the next city over), little does Zack know that inside of the trunk contains a dead body. Because Zack is drunk, the cops pull him over, search the car, and take him directly to prison. Cut to a scene of a local pimp named Jack, attempting to cut a deal with a customer. This man is big stuff around the city and has lots of enemies. Cut to the next scene where the phone rings, and one of Jacks enemies tells him of a girl whos interested in "working for him". Jack goes to the hotel to find that the girl is a little child, and that this was a police set-up to nail Jack.Cut to the next scene where Zack, sitting in jail is introduced to Jack the pimp. And later on we meet Roberto, an Italian man who committed manslaughter.After months of rotting in prison, Roberto finds a way for the men to escape.The rest of the movie is them running from the law, and how they escape and the fate of the three men
