Abby Quinn is eagerly awaiting childbirth but is haunted by dreams where she suffers a miscarriage. When she decides to rent a room to a mysterious stranger, she realizes a chain of events that will unleash the end of humanity.
In Haiti, the sea and its lifeforms die; in the Middle East, a town is frozen. These are signs of the Apocalypse and the Vatican is investigating, but Father Lucci advises that these omens are a hoax or technologically explained. In California, housewife Abby Quinn is pregnant and the delivery is scheduled on February 29, a leap year. Her husband, lawyer Russell Quinn, is defending a weird case of teenager Jimmy Szaragosa, who killed his parents, saying that it was because he was following the Word of God. Meanwhile, Abby rents a garage apartment to the mysterious David Bannon. The hopeless Abby has strange nightmares and soon finds that around the world there are signs of the Apocalypse in accordance with the Book of Revelation. She learns also that David Bannon is Jesus and has returned; Father Lucci is the Pilate's porter Cartaphilus who was doomed to wander the Earth for eternity; and she is a woman who tried to help Jesus. Further, she is the Seventh Sign and the Apocalypse will happen when her baby is stillborn. What can she do to save her unborn son and mankind?
Russell Quinn, a criminal defense counsel, and his emotionally fragile wife, Abby, are anxiously awaiting childbirth; Abby has vivid, haunting dreams. Disasters begin to occur around the world; some believe them signs of the "end of days." Abbey feels called upon to stop the sixth disaster, but she is too late. As the final disaster looms, will Abbey have sufficient hope to save mankind?
Around the world, the signs of the apocalypse--as outlined in the Book of Revelation--seem to be coming to pass in the wake of a mysterious wanderer. Father Lucci, the Vatican Emissary assigned to investigate, dismisses the occurrences as natural, but Abby Quinn, a young American woman, has reason to fear they're real--and that the unfolding events may spell disaster for her unborn child.

