A naive girl just out of a cloistered orphanage finds that being a 'good fairy' to strangers makes life awfully complicated.
Young, naive Luisa Ginglebusher, who loves fairy tales, leaves the Budapest orphanage to become a movie usherette. Soon she befriends paternal waiter Detlaff and not so paternal Konrad, a meat-packing millionaire. Uninterested in Konrad's rich gifts, Luisa schemes to be a "good fairy" and divert some of this wealth to poor stranger Dr. Sporum. But it's not that simple...
Luisa Ginglebusher is a young woman who lives a sheltered life in the Budapest municipal orphanage. Her life changes when she is chosen from among all the orphans to act as an usherette at a movie theater. At the theater, she meets Detlaff, a hotel waiter, who, seeing a naive young woman who would be easily led astray, decides to be Luisa's protector. Detlaff invites Luisa to the hotel to attend an upscale party at which he is working. There, Luisa attracts the attention of wealthy Konrad, who is instantly attracted to the naive Luisa despite Detlaff doing whatever he can to get Luisa away from who he sees as an unscrupulous man. Konrad wants to shower her with gifts and marry her. As she is apt to do when she is trying to dissuade a potential unwanted suitor, Luisa tells Konrad that she is already married. Seeing this as merely a slight obstacle, Konrad decides instead to employ Luisa's husband to make him rich so that he in turn can shower Luisa with gifts. Luisa sees this as an opportunity, not for herself, but some poor man in need. She sees herself as this yet unknown man's good fairy. Randomly from the telephone book, she chooses Dr. Max Sporum, a poor lawyer, to be her husband. Before Luisa can meet Sporum herself, Konrad meets with and eventually employs Sporum, who has no idea why he has been chosen as the lucky one to reap the benefits of this new lucrative contract. The only thing left is for Luisa to meet her imaginary husband and see how her good fairy act has changed his life.

