In WW2, the Allies race against time to persuade two nuclear scientists working for the Germans to switch sides.
Toward the end of World War II, the allied secret service receives a partial message indicating that the Germans are researching nuclear energy to build atomic bombs. In Midwestern University, the scientist Alvah Jesper is called up by the Office of Strategic Services (OSS) to meet his former colleague Dr. Katerin Lodor in Switzerland and bring her to North America. However, his mission fails and Dr. Lodor is killed by the Nazis but first she informs that Alvah's acquaintance Dr. Giovanni Polda is working for the Nazis in Italy. Dr. Jesper travels to Italy and with the support of the Italian partisans leaded by Pinkie and Gina, he has a meeting with Dr. Polda that is under the surveillance of the Gestapo. The scientist tells him that his daughter Maria had been abducted by the Gestapo and Alvah makes a deal with Dr. Polda, promising to release Maria first and bringing them to North America. While Pinkie travels to rescue Maria, Alvah stays with Gina and they fall in love for each other.
Near the end of World War II, the Allies must find out how much the Axis knows about building atomic bombs. The OSS recruits a physicist, Alvah Jesper, to reach his former colleague, Katerin Lodor, now in Switzerland, and bring her out for debriefing. He reaches her, but a German agent is quickly onto him, and Lodor dies. Jesper must now get into Italy, go underground with the help of Gina, a resistance leader, and convince Polda, a physicist there, to leave with him. Polda won't go until his daughter is rescued from German detention. As Jesper's pal Pinky works on rescuing Polda's daughter and as time for escape runs down, Jesper and Gina fall in love.
During the last years of World War 2 the United States gets wind that the Germans are developing an Atomic bomb so the OSS appeals to Midwestern University Professor Alvah Jasper (Gary Cooper), the leading American physicist leading the way to Atomic power development in the United States. They ask him to go to Europe to find Dr. Polda (Vladimir Sokoloff), an atomic scientist being held by the Nazis and bring him to the United States, but he first must meet up with his old mentor from school Dr. Katerin Lodor (Helen Thimig) who tells him that Polda is in Switzerland. When Jasper alerts the OSS to rescue Lodor due to her insistence on going back to Germany, the Nazis execute her and Jasper must go to Italy in search of the scientist. In Italy he is accompanied by a group of Italian guerrilla fighters led by an American Pinkie (Robert Alda) and a no-nonsense female fighter Gina (Lilli Palmer), someone with whom Jasper forms an immediate bond in part because he brings out the sensitive qualities in the young woman. When he locates Polda, Jasper discovers that the scientist refuses to leave because the Nazis have kidnapped his daughter in order to force him to cooperate. During their activities to obtain Poldas daughter Jasper and Gina find themselves having to go into hiding moving from safe house to safe house. When the night comes to finally get Polda and his daughter out of Italy, a gun fight ensues with all parties having to fight for their lives.
