A member of British Intelligence assumes a fictitious criminal identity and allows himself to be caught, imprisoned, and freed in order to infiltrate a spy organization and expose a traitor.
Joseph Rearden (Paul Newman) takes the fall for a robbery and winds up in the Scrubs. From there, he escapes in the company of a convicted spy and is taken to a remote manor at an unknown location where he is kept isolated. He overpowers his guard and flees, but nothing is quite what it seems in this drama of intrigue as Rearden pursues his quarry from Ireland to Malta.
British Agent Joseph Rearden (Paul Newman) is recruited by spymaster Angus Mackintosh (Harry Andrews) to impersonate an Australian criminal and infiltrate a mysterious spy ring in an operation so covert that no one but Mackintosh and his secretary, Mrs. Smith (Dominique Sanda), know the truth. Rearden robs a postman of a diamond shipment and allows himself to be caught and sentenced to twenty years in Chelmsford Prison, where he becomes acquainted with Slade (Ian Bannen), a notorious traitor serving a life term. Recruited by an organization that arranges escapes for high profile prisoners in exchange for half of their hidden loot, Rearden, along with Slade, soon finds himself out of jail and in a safe house in Ireland. Mackintosh makes the error of confiding part of his operation to his old friend and patriotic Member of Parliament, Sir George Wheeler (James Mason). Wheeler, a covert traitor, arranges to have Mackintosh meet with an accident and exposes Reardon to his captors. Finding himself on the run again. Reardon is aided by Mrs. Smith, who reveals herself to be Mackintosh''s daughter, They both pursues Slade to Malta, where they hope to expose Wheeler for the traitor he is.
Joseph Rearden (Paul Newman) is going undercover for the British Secret Service. The only people who know about the undercover work are Rearden's Director, Angus Mackintosh (Harry Andrews), who he trusts implicitly, and Mackintosh's assistant, Mrs. Smith (Dominique Sanda). The set-up: Rearden, posing as an Australian tourist in Britain, will be caught and convicted of a one hundred forty thousand pound sterling diamond theft, the jewels, which are never recovered (since Rearden will pass them on to Mrs. Smith and Mackintosh). The "on the surface" plan is for Rearden to infiltrate a group known as the Scarperers, who assist long term inmates escape, the unrecovered diamonds as the financial bait. Things do not go quite according to plan, with a leak somewhere in the informational chain as Mackintosh and Mrs. Smith are supposedly the only people who know officially what's going on. However, in reaching the true end goal, Rearden is unaware of a second plan concerning Mackintosh and longtime Conservative Member of the British Parliament, Sir George Wheeler (James Mason), who is best known for his frequent political diatribes on the British government not doing enough to protect itself from foreign threats.

