Heiress Nancy Crocker Fleming will only receive her inheritance if she marries a "plain American." Her late father was afraid a foreign gigolo would steal her heart and money. So Nancy pays Tony Anthony, working on a WPA road project, to marry, then divorce her. When Nancy inadvertently drives off with Tony's dog, Tony seemingly kidnaps her to retrieve the pooch, which leads to a cross-country race between the two to reach Reno and the divorce court since neither one wants to be the second to file papers.
Heiress Nancy Crocker Fleming has convinced Anthony J. Anthony, a man she has just met working as a ditch digger, to marry her. Their agreement includes Nancy paying Tony $793, Tony wanting this exact amount as opposed to the $1,000 she had at one time offered during their negotiation. Tony has no idea why Nancy wants to marry him, but beyond the money, he wants to see what her crazy story is. Nancy marrying a stranger is despite she being in love with Count Georgi, a suave foreigner she would marry if only love was the issue. The reason for this situation is that Nancy's now deceased father, a patriot, has stated in his will that she can only inherit his vast estate if she marries an American citizen. So what started off as a cordial enough meeting and quickie wedding for Tony and Nancy takes a turn when Nancy treats Tony and his possessions, especially his loyal dog Mike, callously all in an effort to get back to Georgi and her lavish life without him. When the media finds out what Nancy has done, they dub Tony a "Cinderella Man". Not wanting this moniker attached to him, Tony is as anxious to divorce Nancy as she is to divorce him, but he wants to do it on his terms and not Nancy's. So in what ends up being Tony and Nancy's race to get get to Reno first to file for that quickie divorce before the other, Tony kidnaps Nancy. As Nancy tries to get away or make Tony's life a living hell as long as she is in his captivity in their travels to Reno, Georgi and the media are hot on their trail. Nancy believes she can get the upper hand in their relationship if she finds out who a woman named Caroline is in Tony's life, and if she has anything to do with a woman in Chicago who purports to have a connection to Tony. What happens between Nancy and Tony may be affected if she learns why he wanted exactly $793.

