Warrior and pacifist Princess Nausicaä desperately struggles to prevent two warring nations from destroying themselves and their dying planet.
An animated fantasy-adventure. Set one thousand years from now, the Earth is ravaged by pollution and war. In the Valley of the Wind lives Nausicaä, Princess of her people. Their land borders on a toxic jungle, filled with dangerous over-sized insects. Meanwhile, two nearby nations are bitterly engaged in a war and the Valley of the Wind is stuck in the middle.
Taking place in a post-apocalyptic world in the far future, the film tells the story of Nausicaä (Shimamoto), the young Princess of the Valley of the Wind. She becomes embroiled in a struggle with Tolmekia, a kingdom that tries to use an ancient weapon to eradicate a jungle of mutant giant insects, and attempts to stop the Tolmekians from enraging these creatures.
In the far future, man has destroyed the Earth in the "Seven Days of Fire". Now, there are small pockets of humanity that survive. One pocket is the Valley of Wind where a Princess named Nausicaä tries to understand, rather than destroy the Toxic Jungle. Note that the old U.S. release titled "Warriors of the Wind" is an entirely "kiddiefied" version which edited the original movie heavily, thus creating an entirely different story.
In the far future, a thousand years after a nuclear war left the Earth as a nuclear holocaust. The Valley of the Wind, a small kingdom ruled by King Jil struggles for survival as the community tries to defend the Valley from gigantic Ohm creatures and toxic plants that live beyond the Valley in the Sea of Decay, while Jil's daughter and heiress to the throne, Princess Nausicaä tries to understand and feels it is wrong to destroy the toxic jungle. The Valley is attacked by the Tolmekian people who plan to destroy the Sea of Decay by using the greatest warriors that started the holocaust. After Nausicaä is taken prisoner, Nausicaä escapes and goes beneath the Sea of Decay where she discovers the toxic plants are not poisoning the air, and are purifying the world by draining the air of radiation and toxins. With everything at stake, Nausicaä unites with the Ohms and set out to the Valley and foil the Tolmekians plan of unleashing the Great Warrior which will start another holocaust.

