In France, an insane surgeon's obsession with an actress from England leads him to replace her pianist husband's hands that got mangled in an accident with the hands of a late knife murderer which still have the urge to throw knives.
In Paris, the great surgeon Dr. Gogol falls madly in love with stage actress Yvonne Orlac, and his ardor disturbs her quite a bit when he discovers to his horror that she is married to concert pianist Stephen Orlac. Shortly thereafter, Stephen's hands are badly crushed in a train accident- beyond the power of standard medicine. Knowing that his hands are his life, Yvonne overcomes her fear and goes to Dr. Gogol, to beg him to help. Gogol decides to surgically graft the hands of executed murderer Rollo onto Stephen Orlac, the surgery is successful but has terrible side-effects...
Doctor Gogol is a renowned surgeon who is obsessed with stage performer Yvonne Orlac. So much so that he he actually goes to the theater every evening just to see her. He is disappointed to learn from her that she is leaving the show to join her husband, famed pianist Stephen Orlac, on a much delayed honeymoon. The Orlacs no sooner set off than they are involved in an accident where Stephen's hands are crushed. She begs Dr. Gogol to do anything to save her husband. He decides to graft new hands to replace those that are crushed and uses those from a recently executed prisoner, Rollo the Knife Thrower. When Stephen regains the use of his hands those around him find that he has also undergone a personality change and is now prone to violent fits of temper. He's also very good at knife throwing.
In Paris, Dr. Gogol is infatuated with theater actress Yvonne Orlac as he returns to his same box seat for her every performance. Yvonne is married, however, to concert pianist Stephen Orlac. They plan to move to England. When Stephen's talented hands are crushed in a train wreck, Yvonne asks for Dr. Gogol's help by operating to save them. Although the doctor can't save Stephen's hands, he will do anything to help Yvonne. His solution is to replace the hands with those of an executed knife-throwing murderer. Gogol's obsession with Yvonne grows while Stephen discovers that his proficiency at the piano has been replaced by an uncanny accuracy with throwing things. The doctor's next move is to play on Stephen's mental distress to convince him that he is crazy, and a murderer. It is the only way he can get Yvonne.

