In 1954, a group of Florida high school students try to help their buddy lose his virginity, which leads them to seeking revenge on a sleazy nightclub owner and his redneck sheriff brother for harassing them.
1954. The sexual hijinks of a group of mid-teen male students of Angel Beach High School in Florida are presented. Their main goal is to lose their collective virginity. In the process, they embark on games of sexual innuendo with their female classmates, as witnessed by the activities of Billy, Tommy and Pee Wee in their secret surveillance. Pee Wee is the most desperate, that desperation which gets him into one predicament after another, especially as he is the butt of many a prank. A side issue for Tim, basically a good guy, is dealing with his learned racism, which comes to the surface with the arrival to their school of new student, Jewish Brian Schwartz. The sexual pursuits at the school are not limited to the student body as new boys Phys Ed coach, Roy Brackett, has a mutual attraction with cheer-leading coach, Miss Lynn Honeywell, who doesn't want to go all the way; Coach Brackett's goal is to find out why Coach Warren has nicknamed Miss Honeywell "Lassie". All these goings-on offend the sensibilities of female Phys Ed coach, Miss Beulah Balbricker, who takes it upon herself to maintain the moral standards of the school. The boys' mission seems to be stalled, so Mickey, whose brother Ted is the local sheriff, suggests they go to Porky's, a bar and unofficial brothel in neighboring Wallacetown in the middle of the Everglades, to lose their virginity. Porky's is owned by the violent Porky, whose actions are supported by his sheriff brother. The boys' experience at Porky's leads to a continuing feud between the boys and Porky and his posse, the boys' collective anger fueled by Mickey. They will learn that they may not be able to beat Porky with their fists, but may be able to do so with a little ingenuity, which may hurt Porky more in the long run.
We follow a bunch of high school kids through a period in their puberty. Their lives mainly consist of watching the girls in the shower and making life a living hell for their teachers and for each other. The movie is packed with practical jokes and eccentric characters, like Pee Wee with the short dick (which he measures every morning) who met up for sex with the school "mattress" Wendy already wearing a rubber, or the fat teaching bitch Beulah Balbricker who is determined on making life a living hell for the boys. The name "Porky's" is the name of a striptease bar the boys get thrown out of and humiliated later in the movie. They have their minds set on revenge, but that's not easy as the owner's brother is sheriff. Only by forgetting their internal differences can they defeat Porky and his gang.
Porky's bar is the sleaziest dive imaginable, and the place where the boys in a small Florida town KNOW they will find action, underage or not. When they finally make it to Porky's the owner dumps them in the bay and the boys plot revenge. Every juvenile sexually related story you have ever heard is represented in the movie, including the famous, "Drill a hole in the wall of the girls' shower room" scene. The humor is mostly sexual, mostly juvenile, and mostly just a touch mean spirited, but just a touch. Many of the subplots relate to pranks the boys play on each other.
The mother (and father) of all Teen Sex Gross Out comedies is set in the 1950's where there's only one thing on the male sex's mind. Well, sex to be correct. We have PEE WEE: the horny toad that is desperate to lose his virginity. TOMMY: the bad boy of the bunch. MEAT: tough jock whose nickname originates from his abnormally large body appendage. MICKEY: a wiseass redneck without a care in all the universe. BRIAN: the smart Jew. And TIM: the racist giving talents of his abusive father. Each one takes a trip to PORKY'S, it's the most popular strip joint in Florida. But when they try to get in, they're tricked and humiliated. Returning home, they vow revenge. Following crazy sex jokes like Ms. Balbrick's famous "Pecker Pull" incident, to the ultimate return fire on a strip club, PORKY'S is and will remain the grandest of all teenage comedies.
The year is 1954, set in the fictional South Florida town of Angel Beach. The radio-alarm clock starts, and the radio DJ (Don Daynard) says the typical good morning stuff. Edward "Pee Wee" Morris (Dan Monahan) wakes up after an interrupted morning glory, especially because his mother (Ilse Earl) enters without knocking first. He picks up from under his mattress his hidden schedule, and goes to Angel High School by car.At the high school, Mickey Jarvis (Roger Wilson) is appalled that Pee Wee has no other option than Wendy (Kaki Hunter) to lose his virginity to. Wendy is considered a kind of loose girl, so she is probably envied by plenty of girls who would like to do as she does but won't dare so. Rumors run rampant. Wendy tells freshman Mindy (Jill Whitlow) to ask the hulking jock Anthony "Meat" Tuperello (Tony Ganios) why he's got such a nickname. Meat alleges he doesn't know; Mindy wants to see for herself whether it's because he's got a big dick, but his friends dissuade him, because he'll be expelled for good if there is reason for suspension again.The gang takes eggs to throw them to strongman Tim Cavanaugh (Cyril O'Reilly). Coach Beulah Balbricker (Nancy Parsons) terrifies both her junior male colleague coaches and students, and she is very strict about not allowing any sexual pass to her female students. Some students have created glory halls in the girls' locker room to see them naked, having a shower, etc... This time, they have missed the action. A blonde (Cathy Garpershak) wraps herself in a towel and Balbricker turns the lights off.Mickey goes to Cherry Forever (Susan Clark), a local prostitute, at her swamp shack home. All the gang goes to visit this woman. All the boys have to get naked and be inspected before the sexual act to prove they are clean. Steve (Rod Ball), Pee Wee, Tommy (Wyatt Knight) and Frank Bell (Jack Mulcahy), stand in line for Cherry to inspect them, and she makes derogatory comments about some of them. Cherry walks out of the room for a minute into the bedroom with Billy (Mark Herrier) and Tommy (Wyatt Knight). It's all a prank; while the happy boys are waiting stark naked. In the bedroom room, Cherry makes sexual noises and moans, while Billy pretends he's having sex with her. Tommy is talking to a drunk black man he lets in through a window, and they will pretend that he is her husband and has macheted Tommy. Tommy then stumbles into the room full of fake blood stains, and then the "husband" appears with the machete. All the naked boys run away naked. As soon as they leave the home, they realize it's all a prank, and come back in indignation.Two cops (Julian Byrd and Bill Fuller) watch one of the runaway boys, Pee Wee, who has not realized that it was all a practical joke because he ran to the main road immediately. The cops take him to the cafe where everybody is laughing their asses off. One of the cops tells a motorbike rider not to drink beer while driving.The next day, Pee Wee is even more adamant to lose his virginity. Wendy teases Pee Wee with a trophy, an elephant-sized condom. Balbricker sees them and take the two students away. Lynn Honeywell (Kim Cattrall) is a gymnast/cheerleader who loves teasing the two young coaches, Roy Brackett (Boyd Gaines) and Fred Warren (Doug McGrath) mercilessly.That night, the boys go to a strip joint called Porky's, where a midget (Peter Conrad) is using some women as Santa Claus' reindeer and country music resounds. One of the customers crosses the line with one of the strippers (Pat Lee) and the bouncers (Cash Spadard, Cash Baron and Roger Womack) put him out.Pee Wee and his friends try to negotiate the price, but for $100, they can only have three girls for half an hour. The owner Porky (Chuck Mitchell) tells the boys to go to a dark room through a door. All the customers know that there's a prank involved in that. Porky pulls a lever and the five boys fall into the swamp. They enter Porky's mad as hell again. The patrons mock the five boys. Porky has the support of all his customers. There is an attempt for another brawl outside, but the teenagers end up in the swamp again. At that moment, a deputy (Gary Maas) and Sheriff Wallace (Alex Karras) appear with a nightstick. Wallace gives the boys a fine for having broken blinkers - some which he has broken himself with his bat. They have to pay him on the spot, but the Sheriff decides to go easy on them, as the boys are first-time offenders. Wallace tells them to go back to their county and never come back.Back at Angel Beach, the gang goes to their hang-out 'Deadbeats' a local drive-in restaurant. A waitress (Joanne Marsic) brings hot-dogs and the five think about taking action. Mickey wants revenge, but his older brother Ted Jarvis (Art Hingle) tells him not to mess with Porky, because he's just a dangerous man who will stop kidding around and become serious if they mess with him.A day or two later at gym class, the coaches have to stop students from getting too rough while playing up, and Cavanaugh (Wayne Maunder) gets suspended because of dirty play. Brian Schwartz (Scott Colomby) and Jimmy fight in the grass. When questioned how he learned to fight like that, Brian says that "you have to fend for yourself when you are a Jewish boy", so that he learned how to box when he was younger. Pee Wee tries to tell Brian that Billy is a troubled young person.There is a telephone prank. Pee Wee asks the waitress whether Michael Hunt is around, so she ends up saying through the loudspeaker system if anybody has seen "My C---". Everybody cracks up. Pee Wee is there to get the laughter of everybody, even Wendy, who was fooled by him.Meanwhile, Billy gets drunk and insults the two cops after he learns that he was rejected for a scholarship to Princeton University in New Jersey. Their friends try to hide the fact that he's drunk, pretending that he's diabetic. One of them also tells the cops that he's been dumped by his girlfriend, and that he got drunk to forget. That makes the cops leave away.Just then, Mickey appears with blood in his face - he's tried to take his own back onto Porky. He drives away so as not to be taken to hospital. His friends are worried they have to babysit him.Back at school, Cavanaugh tells one of the coaches about the fight. Miss Balbricker tells Miss Lynn Honeywell not to mess with boys, but she refuses to listen, and insults the female coach. She threatens to have Honeywell thrown out because of gross misconduct. Honeywell and the Roy Brackett hide in the boys' locker room, and she gets turned on. She jumps on top of him. Honeywell and the youngest of the coaches fuck in the boys' locker room. She shouts as if she were an ambulance, and everybody laughs about it, except for Balbricker. The coach tries to calm her down but it's too late, as all the school knows about it - she screams again, this time resounding as a police car. The coach puts a dirty sock onto Honeywell's mouth so that he can finish off. The other young coach cracks up. The young coach appears in the gym as though nothing had really happened, but the senior coach tells him not to get too attached to Angel High School.The three boys, go back to look at the naked girls in the girls' locker room behind the pipes, through the peepholes. Through his hole, the only thing that Pee Wee can see is Nola, a fat girl, blocking his view. The rest tell Pee Wee to keep quiet. Pee Wee tries to change sides, but nobody would change their place. He can't resist his frustration and he shouts "God dammit, will you move it, you fat ass?", betraying their position. All the girls, including Wendy, get restless. They wrap themselves in towels. They discover the boys and talk to them, teasing them. Some of the girls stay behind and tell them to get closer. Tommy puts his tongue through the hole, and a girl puts soap onto it. He ups the bet and puts his dick through the hole, so the girls back up a little bit. Suddenly, Miss Balbricker appears and the girls exit the shower area, but Tommy thinks that it's a sexy girl. Miss Balbricker picks Tommy by the penis and pulls. Tommy manages to get away.Mr. Carter (Eric Christmas), the high school headmaster, is appalled by Tommy's behavior. While the men can't stop cracking up, Balbricker leaves in outrage. He wanted Carter to hold a naked police line-up situation so that she could identify the dick of the offending studentMr. Cavanaugh appears once again to embarrass his son and hit him, but this time, he doesn't back down with the support of his friends.At a prom dance, Mickey appears with a bloodied face again. It was Porky. The plan to pull their revenge on Porky begins. They allure Porky and his men to the small bridge which they had rigged. When Porky and his men step on it, they fall to the disgusting swamp. The boys blow up the whole place after having demolished much of it with a towing truck. When the sheriff appears, the boys run away and blow the bridges up. The sheriff's car gets stuck in a falling bridge which wasn't completely blown up because the dynamite device didn't work properly. Porky's car goes after the boys' car. The boys stop when they arrive at the high school band meeting point.At that moment, Porky and the sheriff are out of line. Porky tries to convince the local police officers to produce the offending boys to him, but that will be exactly the same as admitting that minors - the boys were 16 and 17 - were in a non-allowed place, but the sheriff is too dumb to shut up. Ted Jarvis does to Porky's the same that Porky did to Tommy's car the first time. He damages the radiator, smashes a light, blows a tire, shoots the boot. Porky puts his hand in his brother's mouth until he promises not to visit Ted's county again. They have to push their car back to their county.All the boys rejoice and they give Brian a hero welcome - he had to come back to his county by the river. Pee Wee is the only unhappy one, because he's still a virgin. One of the gang calls out for Wendy.Wendy and Pee Wee go away together to the school bus, where Pee Wee asks for a rubber to shag Wendy. He tells everybody to shut up. He has to ask for a second one, because the first one was too big. Beulah Balbricker charges against Tommy, because she wants the see the mole in Tommy's penis. Ted takes Balbricker away. Pee Wee shouts like Tarzan of the Apes to celebrate that he's not a virgin anymore. Wendy takes him inside for more.One of the boys looks at the camera and says "Jeez", while shrugging his shoulders.
