Kathy leaves the newspaper business to marry homicide detective Bill but is frustrated by his lack of ambition and the banality of life in the suburbs. Her drive to advance Bill's career soon takes her down a dangerous path.
Kathy is a smart and tough 1950's advice columnist at a San Francisco newspaper, with her name plastered on billboards all over the city. One day, Bill Doyle, a Los Angeles detective, walks into her office - it is instant attraction. After marrying Bill, Kathy gives up her career and becomes a homemaker. However, she is not your typical 1950's homemaker. After hosting several cocktail parties in their San Fernando Valley home, she realizes that Bill is content with his position, and shows no ambition in furthering himself. Kathy will not sit idly by while everyone around her is "moving up in the world". She personally takes upon herself the task of pushing Bill's career along, even if it comes down to murder.
The successful columnist of The San Francisco Post, Kathy Ferguson is an independent woman that has the intention of never getting married. However, when she meets the LAPD Detective Lt. Bill Doyle during the investigation of the Mary Dana case that is resolved with her help, they immediately fall in love with each other and get married. Kathy quits her job and moves to Los Angeles to be a housewife. Bill is very close to his colleagues and their wives, and they have frequent dinner parties at his home, and the boredom of the conversation with other wives and the lack of ambition of Bill in the Police Department make Kathy plot a scheme to push Bill's career to a higher position. Kathy forces the encounter with his superior Police Inspector Tony Pope and his wife Alice Pope and destroys the friendship of Bill with his immediate superior Police Capt. Charlie Alidos. Then she has one night stand with Tony to get his promise that he will recommend Bill to his position since he is planning to retire. When Kathy realizes that Tony's promise was just pillow talk, the ambitious woman takes a decision with no return.

