An unhappy middle-aged banker agrees to a procedure that will fake his death and give him a completely new look and identity - one that comes with its own price.
Middle-aged banker Arthur Hamilton is given the opportunity to start a completely new life when he receives calls from his old friend Charlie. The only problem is that Charlie is supposed to be dead. Hamilton is eventually introduced to a firm that will fake his death and create an entirely new look and life for him. After undergoing physical reconstruction surgery and months of training and psychotherapy, Hamilton returns to the world in the form of artist Tony Wilson. He has a nice house in Malibu and a manservant, a company employee who is there to assist him with his adjustment. He finds that the life he had hoped for isn't quite what he expected and asks the company to go through the process with surprising results.
What if someone offered you the chance to begin again, with a new life that was organized to be exactly what you wanted it to be? That's what the organization offers some wealthy people. They find a life that is what their clients would have wanted, artist, writer, politician, kill the person who is to be replaced and surgically alter their clients to take their places. We follow a new client from first contact, through his staged death, to surgery, recovery and replacement. Of course thats when things become complicated.
Arthur Hamilton is a middle aged New York banker living in Scarsdale. He's married with a grown daughter he rarely sees anymore. He is generally disengaged from everything in his life. Based on a series of telephone calls he receives from his supposedly deceased friend Charlie Evans, Arthur is drawn into a company that provides him with a second chance in life. Initially resisting this opportunity, 'they' convince him that he has little to live for in his current life, which includes a past indiscretion, albeit one unintentional on his part. His 'rebirth' will include a cadaver to replace his current body after his death, enough money for his current family to live comfortably after his departure, enough money for his new start in life, a surgical make-over of his current self, and a new identity based on his subconscious desires. This new identity is as a Malibu based painter christened Antiochus 'Tony' Wilson. To assist him in this transition to Tony Wilson, the company provides him with a counselor of sorts, acting as a live-in housekeeper named John, who attends to whatever Tony requires emotionally to make the transition successfully. Even with John's help, Tony is finding it difficult to make the transition, despite or perhaps in spite of meeting a woman named Nora Marcus, with whom he falls in love. He has to discover where he went wrong in his life as Arthur Hamilton and where he went wrong in his transition to Tony Wilson before he can find out where he wants to go and how to achieve getting there. But will the company help him achieve what he wants?
In Scarsdale, the bored banker Arthur Hamilton is contacted by his former friend Charlie Evans that supposedly died several years ago giving information about a secret organization that offers for US$ 30,000.00 a second chance in life to wealthy people. He visits the company and they explain that they use a cadaver with the same characteristics to stage the death of the client and give a new identity after plastic surgeries with new documents. The reborn Arthur is the painter Antiochus 'Tony' Wilson that lives in California with his butler John that helps him in the transition. Tony meets the lonely Nora Marcus on the beach and they have a love affair. But sooner Tony realizes that his fake world does not give satisfaction to him and he returns to the company requesting another life. But the rules are not so easy to be changed.
There is a very secret organization that offers wealthy people a second chance at life; the customer picks out someone they want to be and the organization surgically alters the customer to look like the intended person, stages the customer's death, gets rid of the intended person and the customer has a new life. There's only one thing they didn't count on.....
Arthur Hamilton (John Randolph) is a middle-aged man whose life has lost purpose. He is disengaged at his job as a banker, while the love with his wife has dwindled. Through a friend who he thought had died years earlier, Hamilton is approached by a secret organization, known simply as the "Company," which offers wealthy people a second chance at life. The Company, in the person of Mr. Ruby (Jeff Corey), interviews Hamilton, then shows him a film of him attacking a girl after he'd unknowingly consumed drugged food &amp; drink offered him by the Company. They threaten to blackmail Hamilton forcing him to sign on, foreshadowing the unfortunate consequences of accepting the Company's assistance.Hamilton's death is staged to make it look as if he perished in a hotel fire with a corpse left disguised as him. Through extensive plastic surgery and psychoanalysis, Hamilton is transformed into Tony Wilson (Rock Hudson). He is provided with a new home, a new identity (as Wilson), new friends and a devoted manservant. The details of his new existence suggest that there was once a real Tony Wilson, but what became of him is a mystery.Wilson copes with his new world. Relocated to a fancy home in Malibu, California, where he is an already established artist, he commences a relationship with a young woman named Nora Marcus (Salome Jens) and for a time he is happy but soon becomes troubled by the emotional confusion of his new identity, as well as by the exuberance of renewing his youth.At a dinner party he hosts for neighbors, Wilson drinks himself into a stupor and begins to babble about his former life as Hamilton. It turns out that his neighbors are "reborns" like himself, sent to keep an eye on his adjustment. Nora is actually an agent of the Company and her attentions to Wilson are designed merely to ensure his cooperation.In violation of Company policy, Wilson, posing as an old friend of her husband's, visits his former wife (Frances Reid) in his new persona. He learns that his marriage had failed because he was distracted by the pursuit of career and material possessions, the very things in life that others made him believe were important.Wilson returns to the Company and announces a desire to start again with yet another identity. The Company offers to accommodate him, but asks if he would first provide the names of some past acquaintances who might like to be "reborn." He refuses since he now knows of the drawbacks to being "reborn" and also doesn't want to delay the Company's procedure for a new identity for himself.While awaiting his reassignment, Wilson encounters Charlie Evans (Murray Hamilton), the friend who had originally recruited him into the Company. Evans was also "reborn" and likewise could not make a go of his new life. Together, they speculate on the reason for their failure to adjust, attributing it to the fact that they allowed others, including the Company, to make life choices for them.This realization comes too late. Wilson/Hamilton is suddenly strapped to a gurney and as he is wheeled down the hallway, a priest reads him his last rites. He is eventually wheeled into a small room where he learns that failed reborns are not actually provided with new identities but instead become the cadavers used to fake new clients' deaths.
