George Taylor returns from WWII with amnesia. Back home in Los Angeles, while trying to track down his old identity, he stumbles onto a 3-year old murder case and a hunt for a missing $2 million.
During the World War II, a soldier is hit by a grenade that deforms his face and leaves him with amnesia. Sometime later, he is recovered and learns that his name is George Taylor and he is discharged from the army. He finds a letter written by a man called Larry Cravat that would be his pal and he goes to Los Angeles to seek out Larry Cravat to find his identity. He goes to a bank, a hotel, a Turkish bath and a night-club following leads. He is beaten up by Hubert, the henchman of Anzelmo that dumps him at the front door of the singer Christy Smith that works in a night-club. George tells his story to her and Christy decides to help him. She calls her boss and friend Mel Phillips that schedules a lunch with his friend Police Lt. Donald Kendall and Christy. They learn that Larry Cravat was a private investigator that somehow received $2,000,000 three years ago from Germany from a Nazi that was immediately deceased. Then George receives a tip to go to the Terminal Dock where he meets Anzelmo that explains that Larry Cravat is wanted by the police for the murder of a man at the dock to keep the money. Larry has disappeared and Anzelmo believes George Taylo is the man that was with him and probably the killer. George further investigation finds that a man named Conroy was a witness of the crime, but he was hit and run by a truck and is interned at the Lambeth Sanatorium. When George meets Conroy, he realizes that the man was stabbed but he tells where he hid the suitcase with the money before dying. Now George is close to solve the mystery.
Gorge W. Taylor (John Hodiak), a Marine combat casuality, suffers from amnesia and returns to civilian life with only a name. He learns that his last address before the war was a skid-row hotel in Los Angeles and he goes there to begin retracing his steps. His only clue is a baggage check. Using it he claims a briefcase, containing information about a bank account, which leads to information that suggests he is a murderer. Along the way he is aided by a nightclub singer,Christy Smith (Nancy Guild), and a police detective, Donald Kendall (Lloyd Nolan).
John Hodiak plays George Taylor, a war veteran who wakes up in an Army field hospital with a reconstructed face, amnesia and only a 'Dear John' hate letter from his ex-wife, and a letter of credit from a friend 'Larry Cravat.' Taylor heads to Los Angeles to track down his friend and his own identity. As he slowly puts the clues together to his identity, Taylor eludes some club bouncers only to meet Christy (Nancy Guild), a somewhat naive singer in a club owned by 'nice guy' Mel Phillips (Richard Conte). As things progress Taylor discovers that Cravat may be a murderer and the criminal who has stolen $2 Million Dollars in Nazi -based laundered cash. After a series of chases Taylor learns from a fake seer named Anzelmo (Fritz Kortner) that Cravat seems a lot like Taylor himself. When Mel Phillips jumps in to help, things take a surprising turn and the mystery of the money and the murderer are discovered.
