Newly married couple Juliette and a ship captain Jean struggle through marriage as they travel on the L'atalante along with the captain's first mate Le père Jules and a cabin boy.
When Juliette marries Jean, she comes to live with him as he captains a river barge. Besides the two of them, are a cabin boy and the strange old second mate Pere Jules. Soon bored by life on the river, she slips off to see the nightlife when they come to Paris. Angered by this, Jean sets off, leaving Juliette behind. Overcome by grief and longing for his wife, Jean falls into a depression and Pere Jules goes and tries to find Juliette.
Juliette, who has lived her entire life in a small provincial French town, has just married Jean, a river barge captain. They will live aboard his barge, the Atalante, with his crew of two others, Père Jules and a young man they call the Kid. Elderly Jules, who keeps company with his menagerie of stray cats, is seemingly a little off kilter. He has traveled the world as a seaman, with his cabin filled with curio that he has picked up from these travels. On the opposite extreme is Juliette, who has seen nothing of the world, and with wide eyes is looking forward to the new adventures in exotic locales - at least to her - with Jean. Juliette's arrival onto the Atalante disrupts the routine of the other three, who are used to living a bachelor styled life. But the interactions between the four and their individual wants - especially Jean, Juliette and Jules - affects the harmony aboard the Atalante, with an unexpected alliance between two which may bring that harmony back into balance.
Still in her dainty pale-white wedding dress, the wide-eyed village girl, Juliette, leaves behind her tight-knit community to start anew aboard the weather-beaten barge, Atalante, with her young husband and experienced skipper, Jean. However--even though she thirsts for adventure and exciting new experiences--instead, Juliette will share her already brief honeymoon on the Seine with the tattooed sea dog and devoted ailurophile, Jules, and the vessel's nameless cabin boy. Suddenly, the dream loses some of its lustre, and the bright lights of the seductive Parisian metropolis start to fade away. Is Juliette brave enough to sacrifice everything for a charming illusion?

