Marshal Jake Wade aids outlaw Clint Hollister escape jail but Clint wants to know where Wade hid an old hold-up loot taken while both men were outlaws in the same gang.
Outlaw Clint Hollister escapes from jail with the help of Marshal Jake Wade, because once Clint did the same for him. Jake left Clint just after, but Clint finds him back and forces Jake to lead him to a loot Jake buried one year ago when he quitted Clint's gang.
Now a respected frontier Marshall, the reformed bank robber, Jake Wade, is engaged to a beautiful, nice girl, Peggy, eager to live a decent life away from crime. Nevertheless, Jake's criminal past will soon catch up with him in the person of his old companion, Clint Hollister, who still has his mind on the high-value $20,000 loot from their last heist. With this in mind and determined to have the treasure for himself, Clint forces Wade to lead a posse of outlaws where the money is buried, strong-arming the Marshall by capturing the innocent Peggy. But to get to the ghost town in the middle of the desert where the booty is, the men will have to ride through the perilous Comanche territory. Is the gold worth their lives?
Jake Wade breaks Cling Hollister out of jail to pay off an old debt, though it's clear there is some pretty deep hostility between them. They part, and Jake returns to his small-town marshal's job and his fiancée only to find he has been tracked there by Hollister. It seems they were once in a gang together and Jake knows where the proceeds of a bank hold-up are hidden. Hollister and his sidekicks make off into the hills, taking along the trussed-up marshal and his kidnapped bride-to-be to force the lawman to show them where the loot is.
Jake Wade is a one-time outlaw who has gone straight and is now the Marshall in a small town. His past catches up with him when his former partner, Clint Hollister, takes him prisoner in order to get his share of the loot from their last job together. To make sure Jake cooperates, they also take his fiancée Peggy along for the trip. Peggy learns all too quickly about Jake's past. When they reach the ghost town where Jake hid the money, they have to fight off a band of marauding Indians.
We meet Jake Wade (Robert Taylor) as he sneaks into a jail and holds up the Marshal to spring Clint Hollister (Richard Widmark) who has been imprisoned for robbery and murder. With his aiding Clint in escaping from prison Jake has ostensibly paid back an old debt owed the man from the days when the two rode together as outlaws as members of Quantrill's Raiders, shooting their way into towns after the Civil War to rob and loot for their own profit. Jake has since used his abilities to good use becoming a Marshal himself, but satisfying his own personal justice by taking care of this one last thing before he settles down with the nubile young Peggy Carter (Patricia Owens) for domesticity. Clint still holds a grudge for Jake's running out on him with $20,000 dollars from their last bank job, from which Jake carries guilt from believing he had shot and killed a young boy. Clint gathers together a gang and kidnaps Peggy and coerces Jake into taking them to when he has hidden the money and during the trip the group runs into blood-thirsty Comanche Indians. Will any sense of loyalty emerge from Clint before Jake gives up the money, or will the savagery of the untamed Western landscape take its toll?
