All about the citizens of Putnam's Landing and their reactions to an Army missile base in their backyard.
Harry Bannerman (Paul Newman), a Connecticut suburbanite who becomes involved in various shenanigans with his wife Grace (Joanne Woodward), leads a protest movement against a secret Army plan to set up a missile base in their community.
The Bannermans and Hoffas are neighbors in suburban Putnam's Landing, located fifty miles north of New York City on the shores of Long Island Sound. Harry Bannerman (Paul Newman), who owns his own public relations firm, loves his wife Grace (Joanne Woodward) and their two young children, Peter (Stanley Livingston) and Danny (Ralph Osborn III), despite Grace spending most of her time volunteering to lead one community project after another resulting in Harry feeling somewhat neglected and romance having largely left their marriage due solely to lack of time. Conversely, Angela Hoffa (Dame Joan Collins) being neglected by her businessman husband Oscar Hoffa (Murvyn Vye) results in Angela coming to the conclusion that she doesn't love him, she who sets her sights on the next closest man, namely Harry. From this point, the Bannermans' life takes a downward turn starting with announcement that the Army has purchased property in the community to conduct a top secret project. Grace gladly accepts the appointment as head of the team that will try and stop the Army from conducting this project in their community, at least until the Army discloses the nature of the project, she appointing Harry, using his public relations skills, to be chief liaison with the Army. The officer heading the secret project is Captain Hoxie (Jack Carson), a man with as much tact and finesse as a rampaging bull. These actions set off a series of incidents leading to Grace believing that Harry is having an affair with Angela. While Harry deals with the Army and tries to fend off Angela, he has to show Grace in a meaningful way that he really does love her and that there is nothing going on between him and Angela, he deciding to use Grace's annual pet project of the very public fourth of July pageant to achieve everything he wants. But as they say about best laid plans.

