This parable looks at public reaction when the hair of an American war orphan mysteriously turns green.
Peter Frye, typical American boy, is orphaned when his parents are caught in the London Blitz. He is not told of their fate, but shuttled from one selfish relative to the next, ending with "Gramp," a kindly ex-vaudevillean. Peter and Gramp, both fond of "Irish bulls," get along fine; but the morning after Peter finally learns he's an orphan, his hair spontaneously turns green! The absurd over-reactions of stupid people overturn his life as the story becomes a parable.
The police find a pre-teen boy with a shaved head they do not know, and who will not divulge who he is to them. It isn't until the police bring in sympathetic child psychologist Dr. Evans that the boy decides to tell his story, including the reason for his shaved head. His name is Peter Fry, who currently lives with a relative he calls Gramp, despite Gramp not being Peter's true grandfather. Prior to Gramp, Peter was shuttled between several other relatives while Peter's parents were away. Since his life with his parents, it wasn't until he started living with Gramp, a retired performer who now works as a singing waiter, that Peter felt like a normal boy in a loving and stable home. This supportive life also includes several friends at school, under the sympathetic wing of their teacher, Miss Brand. It wasn't until Miss Brand organized a clothing drive for war orphans that Peter found out that that his own parents were killed in the war, meaning that he too is a war orphan, hence the true reason for living with relatives. This newfound status made Peter start to think about the war, the plight of war orphans, and the sanctity of life. Peter woke up one morning to find that his normally brown hair had turned to green. Although Peter and all those around him had various reactions to his green hair, he eventually came to a belief of what the green hair meant, and the important mission associated with it. But the action of others, who were less certain as to why Peter's hair turned green, led to where Peter is today. With Dr. Evans and Gramp's help among others, Peter may come back to truly appreciating who he is and his special place in the world.
In a police station, a child psychologist uses his ability to interview a runaway boy with hairs completely cut-off that is reluctant to speak. The boy tells that his name is Peter Fry and his parents had traveled to London and have not returned yet; meanwhile he is living with Gramp Fry, after being lodged in the houses of many relatives for short periods. He gets along with Gramp, the locals, his schoolmates and his teacher; however, when he discovers that he is an orphan of war, his hair turns green on the next morning and Peter is rejected by his community.
A boy who has lost his parents during WWII while they were trying to help children in London wakes up to find his hair has turned green. As he tries to understand why his hair has turned green, the people his community ostracize him and want him to cut his hair off or dye it. Far from a comedy, this is heavy moral pondering inspired by the horrors and aftermath of war. The boy finds intolerance in post-war America, condemns it and spreads the message that all war must end.
