Cosmonauts land on the planet Venus. However, they find themselves in danger from the voracious monsters they find on it.
Opening narration An explanation that our knowledge of Venus is very incomplete and only by imagination can we glimpse the planet, but the producers of the film believe the heroic Soviet people will see the planet with their own eyes.Opening sceneThree soviet spaceships CCCP Sirius Vega and Capella approach Venus after completing a 200 million kilometer journey. Suddenly before anyone can react Capella is destroyed with all hands by a stray meteor.
The crew of the Sirius are devastated by the news, and reflect on how close they came only to die within sight of their destination. A message received from Earth advises that a replacement for Capella is launching soon and will reach Venus in 4 monthsAlexi ( ) one of the crew from Sirius doesnt want to wait and suggests they modify the robot glider on Vega, so. Venus needs to be seen by human eyes. He explains if anything happens he will not call for help. His life is his, to do with as he desires.Mr Kern (Georgi Tejkh) On board Vega must have the final say on the launch. Rather than use the glider he recommends landing the two ships rather than wait for the spare ship from Earth, but first he has to check the figures for the safety margins. To do this he activates the ships robot JohnThe robot proposes a different plane. Three crew members go down in the glider, three more go down in the Sirius, leaving Vega in orbit manned by Masha (Kyunna Ignatova) Masha feels cheated by the plan but realizes it is the only way the mission can succeed As they plan to land a strange red light is seen through the cloud cover. They decide to try and land close to that position. It is decided the glider will go down first, and try and identify a good landing place. Sirius will followThe glider finds a location but as it drops the beacon to mark the spot for Sirius it is blown off course and heads for a dangerous landing in a swampy region. From orbit Sirius cant re-establish contact. Unsure what may have happened Sirius decides to land at the beacon and try and find the crew of the gliderThe Sirius lands successfully and begins testing the environment to see if they can go outside. Using an external microphone they listen to the sounds of Venus. At one point they hear what sounds like a womans voice singing. Understanding that little can be accomplished from the ship they decide to outside and explore.
As Alexi explores away from the ship he is attacked by some strange tentacle creature. The other crew dont realize the danger and continue to check instruments for signs of the glider. They discover two distinct signals. One they suspect is the glider, and one that is moving should be JohnFinally the others realize Alexis situation and rescuing him from the plant like creature. The creature responds by first releasing Alexi then encloses itself in a protective shellIn the meantime Masha has confirmed the other crew is alive and has pin-pointed their location, approximately 32 kilometers away. The fact John is active proves crew members must have survived because hed been disassembled for the flight downAt the other landing site Kern, working with the partially completed robot search for parts of the robot to complete the job of assembly. One of the other crew is firing ant strange reptilian creatures that keep attacking
Meanwhile the crew of Sirius have gotten their rover working and set off to help the crew of Vega. On the way they see a brontosaurs and stop to take a blood sample from the slow moving creature. While doing this, Masha confirms that the Vegas crew is moving towards the Sirius location.The crew from the Vega begin to feel ill and fevered, they are concerned that the rips in their suit may have allowed them to get sick from Venusians germs. The crews of the Sirius reach the shore of a large body of water and decide to cross it rather than go around. As they prepare to submerge they hear the same strange womans voice. Pausing to investigate, they find nothing and press onBack with the Vega crew they have been caught in a rain storm and John cautions that he may soon malfunction because of the water. Schebra (Yuri Sarantsev) Is clearing struggling to continue and Kern orders John to locate a cave so the humans can rest.John finds a cave and Kern and Schebra collapse delirious. John also seems to be in trouble and begins a series of rambling statements based on maths and the need for a world government. John then declares himself a free entity and slave to no oneVershinin (Vladimir Yemelyanov) realizes whats happening and instructs John to dispense a series of pills to the diseased crewmenThe crew of the Sirius comes under attack from a flying reptile. Despite hitting it with repeated rounds from their gun, they fail to kill it. In desperation they sink the rover. Masha is mortified. From orbit she thinks the rover has been destroyed, she makes the decision to attempt a rescue by landing the ship single handedly.
Before she can fire the engines to land, Earth contacts her and specifically instructs her to stay in orbit. She becomes confused and imagines a whole series of horrible deaths the combined crews could be suffering
Now on the bottom of the ocean the Sirius carry the rover along the sea floor. Stopping for a rest they become interested in a group of strange regularly shaped boulders. Investigating closer they become convinced that they are in some submerged city. The discovery of a statue seem to decide the answer for themMeanwhile the crew from the Vega have recovered from their fever and again begins moving to Sirius position.
At the same time the crew of Sirius make landfall, while they wait for the rover to become operational again they discuss the discovery of the statue, and the implications of the sort of society that may have created it
As they debate they again hear the voice, and seriously consider who it might belong too. One of the crew thinks that in the past Martians may have come to Venus to escape their dying world. He then thinks if Venus, why not EarthThe Vegas crew is now close to the red spot seen from orbit. They recognize that it nothing technological, but an erupting volcanoes. Finding themselves trapped by a lava flow, they ride from danger on the robot. Part way across the flow the robot becomes stressed and decides it needs to eject the extra weight of the men.
As the two men fight to save themselves the heat becomes too much for the robot and it short circuits. The other crewmen hear what is happening from the rover and rush to the rescue. Picking the two men up they watch from safety as the robot slowly melts from the heat.Later as the united crew take stock of their situation they again discuss possible evidence of aliens visiting Earth. One ponders what the woman with the strange voice must look like, is she beautiful, would she be even humanNow safe the combined crews spend their time exploring the planet and gathering samples. Although the radio has been damaged for some time they can receive messages.. Suddenly they get a message from Masha saying is going to attempt a landing. It is decided two of the crew will launch back into orbit leaving the others behind. An earthquake threatens to undermine the ship creating a sense of urgencyJust before launch they realize Masha has not tried to land and is still in orbit. Setting one last instrument before takeoff, one of the crew uses a rock they picked up previously. The rock shatters revealing a femine face with dark eyes carved into the other half. Alexi realizes he has been vindicated and the girl they keep hearing is just like humans. He urges them to abort the take off, it goes ahead as plannedAs the ship takes off the camera angle remains focused on a small pond. We briefly catch the reflection of a woman similar to etching in the pond water
