Donald Duck visits a museum of modern inventions; among the inventions he struggles with: a robot butler who keeps taking his hat; a package wrapping machine; a robot nursemaid; an automated barber chair.
Donald Duck goes to a museum of modern inventions. After getting in without paying, he meets a robot butler who takes Donald's hat every time he sees him. Donald is very annoyed by this and magically fixes himself a new hat every time this happens and strolls on. Ignoring the sign not to touch it, Donald starts playing with a wrapping machine and ends up being wrapped himself. He also encounters and tries out a robot nursemaid and a fully automatic barber chair. They both don't do him much good.
Donald Duck decides to go into the Museum of Modern Marvels. He immediately exploits the weakness in automation by using a quarter on a string to get through the turnstile without really paying. Once inside, he tangles with a robot butler who insists on taking his hat, while Donald frustrates him by repeatedly producing a new hat, of different varieties, out of thin air. The next invention he sees is a Hitch-Hiker's Aid: "It works while you sleep." It proves to be a robot that does the work of sticking out its thumb for you. Other exhibits are a Bundle-Wrapper, a Robot Nurse Maid and an Automated Barber. Donald gets in trouble with them all.
Donald Duck visits the museum of Modern Marvels. He scams his way in with a coin tied on a string and goes in. Donald Duck looks around at the displays but the Robot Butler steals his hat and walks off with it. Donald is annoyed and pulls out a new hat. He plays with the Robots Hitchhikers Aid kit by pretending to be a car and then and laughs at it until it pokes his eyes and the Robot butler takes his second hat. Donald puts on his third hat and then goes to the bundle wrapper but the machine gift wraps him in wrapping paper, he frees himself and the robot butler takes his third hat. Donald Duck puts on his forth hat and the robot butler detects it and chases after Donald Duck. Donald dives into the Robot nurse maid baby buggy and switches hats to put on his Baby hat and plays along with the robot nurse machine acting like a baby playing with the toy. But when he cries for a bottle of milk the machine squirts it in his face and Donald tries to escape but the machines clamp locks in back into the carriage and attacks him with the toy, Donald throws a temper tantrum and the machine squirts milk at Donald's face and then puts powder on his bottom, then puts a diaper and pins it on him and he sneezes out of the carriage and laughs at himself wearing a diaper until the robot butler takes his baby hat and Donald takes off his diaper and puts on his bowler hat. He then walks to the Barber cut machine and scams the machine with his coin tied on a string. When the machine tells him what will it be. He tells him give him the works which the machine does but it flips his body upside down on the chair locking the clamp and trapping Donald Duck with his head down on the shoe shine stand while his rear end is sticking out. Thinking that Donald's tail feathers is the hair and his head the shoe. The machine hands ties a bib around Donald's exposed rear end and cuts his tail feathers on his behind and combs it. Meanwhile Donald's head is locked on the shoe shining stand and the machine hands grab at Donald's beak and brushes his head and then paints his head and mouth with black shoe polish. Donald Duck screams to be let out but the machine puts a hot towel on Donald's rear end until it turns red and his head is being shined black with a cloth. The machine then finishes off by parting Donald's feathers to part his feathers followed with a pigtail design. The machine finally puts the hat on Donald's rear end and frees him putting him down on the ground. Donald Duck now with a black face, takes the hat off his rear end and puts it on his head, but not before the Robot Butler takes his bowler hat and Donald Duck throws a temper tantrum.
