A police detective goes undercover in the underground S&amp;M gay subculture of New York City to catch a serial killer who is preying on gay men.
A serial killer brutally slays and dismembers several gay men in New York's S&amp;M and leather districts. The young police officer Steve Burns is sent undercover onto the streets as decoy for the murderer. Working almost completely isolated from his department, he has to learn and practice the complex rules and signals of this little society. While barely seeing his girlfriend Nancy anymore, the work starts changing him.
Severed male body parts have been found around New York City. These discoveries happen concurrently with a few gay men, they being involved in the subculture of leather S&amp;M, being murdered, their arms and legs bound behind their naked bodies, and multiple three-inch deep knife wounds in their backs. The police believe the two sets of incidents are related. Lead investigator Captain Edelson offers the job of going undercover into the leather S&amp;M gay subculture to find the murderer to police constable Steve Burns, who matches the physical type of the victims. Despite being straight, he accepts the job as he aspires to be a detective, but he is told he can't tell anyone, even his girlfriend Nancy, of his undercover work. Steve goes through a steep learning curve about this gay subculture as he tracks suspects. As he goes through this undercover work, he has to decide how far he will go to achieve success. But he also is highly affected not only by what he sees in this subculture, but by the police's reaction to events that are happening around him. This may affect his ability not only to carry out the job but in his personal relationship to Nancy.
In New York, the ambitious police officer Steve Burns is assigned by his Captain Edelson to work uncover in the gay S&amp;M underworld to seek out the serial-killer that is killing and severing the members of gays since he has the same appearance of the victims. Steve has the objective to be promoted to detective and get his golden shield and Capt. Edelson is the only one in the department who knows Steve's assignment. Steve does not tell to his girlfriend Nancy his mission and he needs to learn the behavior of this community. During the investigation, Steve is affected by the discoveries in this new world, but Captain Edelson does not want him to quit his assignment.
Against the backdrop of a seemingly endless string of brutal murders around the underground S&amp;M leather joints of Manhattan's West Village, the promise of a rapid promotion drags the novice patrolman, Steve Burns, deep into the obscure realm of an unspoken subculture. Chosen for his matching physical profile with the sadistic serial killer's ever-increasing victims, Burns will soon find himself immersed into an alien and equally dangerous underworld, where ill-advised one-night stands can only lead to death. However--in this sinister cat-and-mouse game--the stakes are high, and the more Steve stays in this dark realm, the more he risks to lose. When cruising for a killer, can one emerge unscathed?
Cruising is the fictional account of a series of gruesome killings in modern day New York City. Steve Burns, a "beat" officer still wet behind the ears, is recruited by Captain Edelson of the NYPD Homicide Unit to go undercover in search of the perpetrator. The victims in these killings are all homosexual men known to frequent "Leather," S&amp;M (Sadism and Masochism), and B&amp;D (Bondage and Dominance) clubs so Burns, in "deep cover," must mascarade as gay in order to attract the killer. He fits the victims' profiles: dark hair, dark complexion, dark eyes. Cruising tells the story of his adventures and misadventures in this small subculture of gay society as he searches for the killer.
A severed human arm is found floating in the Hudson River, and Detective Lefransky (Randy Jurgensen) from the New York Police Deparment orders forensic scientist, Dr. Rifkin (Barton Heyman), to match the arm to a torso found earlier.That evening, in a predominantly gay neighborhood in Manhattan, patrolman DiSimone (Joe Spinell) and his partner, Desher (Mike Starr), order two transvestite prostitutes into their police car and sexually harass them. Nearby, a man (Richard Cox) wearing sunglasses and a black leather jacket enters a gay nightclub filled with homosexual men dancing, kissing, and publicly performing acts of sadomasochism. A patron named Loren Lukas (Arnaldo Santana) approaches the man in sunglasses and propositions him for sex; soon after, they leave the nightclub and get a room at the St. James Hotel, where the man in sunglasses ties Lukas's hands and feet together, sings the words, "I'm here, you're here, we're here," and stabs him to death. The murder tells the dead Lukas, "you made me do that".At the forensics lab, Rifkin examines Lukas's body and informs Captain Edelson (Paul Sorvino) that the killer's DNA cannot be determined from ejaculate found inside the body's rectum because the semen contains no sperm (indicating that the killer is sterile). Later, Edelson questions DaVinci (Gene Davis), one of the two transvestite prostitutes stopped by DiSimone and Desher, and shows him mug shots of potential suspects. DaVinci provides information, then tells Edelson that patrolman DiSimone forced him to perform oral sex the other night, but Edelson refuses to believe him.Later that day, Steve Burns (Al Pacino), a young policeman, reports to Edelson's office where he is briefed on Lukas's killing as well as the murder of Paul Vincent, a gay college professor. Edelson believes the same killer committed each crime, and asks Steve to investigate the case undercover, posing as a homosexual, because he looks like the two victims.In bed with his girlfriend, Nancy (Karen Allen), Steve tells her that he must go away for a while and cannot talk about his assignment. He only tells Nancy that although his "deep undercover" job is potentially dangerous, it will allow him to skip patrol duties and become a detective.In a predominantly gay area of the West Village, Steve moves into an apartment and meets his neighbor, a young homosexual man named Ted Bailey (Don Scardino). Steve introduces himself as "John Forbes," and joins Ted at a café, where they eat lunch and discuss the recent killings in the neighborhood. At night, Steve visits gay bars and observes the large crowds of gay men that frequent each one late at night. Slowly acclimating to the scene, he lifts weights at home and applies makeup before going out.One night, the killer meets Eric Rossman (Larry Atlas) in a park, and they head to the woods to have sex; however, they become separated, and the killer taunts Rossman with the same song he sang before Lukas's murder. The killer then sneaks up on Rossman and stabs him to death. "You made me do that" says the killer.Emotionally disturbed by the investigation, Steve sleeps with Nancy at her apartment and tells her he does not want to lose her. Later, Steve attends a "Precinct Night" at a gay club, where patrons dress up as policemen (one the patrons is DiSimone), but Steve is kicked out by the bouncer for not wearing the proper costume (Steve wears his black leather jacket and black jeans). Outside the club, a young man named Skip Lee (Jay Acovone) propositions Steve for sex, but Burns rejects him. When he returns to Nancy's apartment and makes love to her, Steve continues to hear sounds from the gay nightclub in his mind.Sometime later, fashion designer Martino Perry (Steve Inwood) visits an adult bookstore and follows the killer into a peep show booth. As they watch an adult film together, Perry lowers to his knees to go down on him, and the killer grabs a knife and stabs Perry in the back.At the police station, the Chief of Detectives (Allan Miller) visits after hearing about this latest murder and orders Edelson to solve the murders before the upcoming Democratic National Convention.At a nightclub, Steve asks a bartender about Skip Lee, the young man who recently propositioned him, and learns that Lee has a bad reputation for being violent.Detective Lefransky finds DaVinci, the transvestite, on the street, and DaVinci tells him that Lee works at The Iron Horse, a steakhouse. There, Lefransky and Detective Schrieber (Ed O'Neil) obtain a steak knife used by patrons. Examining the knife, Rifkin determines that it might match the killer's weapon. Soon after, Steve finds Lee at a club, takes him to a motel room, and asks Lee to tie him up, while policemen listen to the interaction on a surveillance device. Shortly after, police burst into the motel room and arrest Burns and Lee. Though Lee appears to be innocent, they force him to provide a semen sample; however, it contains sperm and therefore does not match the killer's.At her apartment, Nancy asks Steve why he no longer seems attracted to her, and he blames the undercover work. At Nancy's suggestion, they agree to break up for a while. Steve then meets Edelson and tells him he can no longer handle the job, but Edelson insists he needs Steve to continue the investigation and gives him a yearbook from Columbia University. In the yearbook, Edelson has marked the names of Paul Vincent's former students, believing one of them might be the killer. Burns recognizes one of the students, Stuart Richards, and finds his address.Steve locates Richards' apartment and begins staking it out. Steve follows Richards and breaks into his apartment one day when he is out. Inside, he finds a box of letters Richards has written to his father, Jack, but never mailed. In the letters, Richards describes his dark thoughts. When he returns home, Richards realizes someone has broken in and spots Steve outside his window on the fire escape ladder. Richards then walks to the nearby park and imagines he sees his father sitting on a bench. Recalling the murders he has committed, Richards apologizes to his father, who seems to disapprove of his son. Before leaving, Richards hears his father say, "You know what you have to do."Steve returns to his apartment building and knocks on Ted's door, but Ted's roommate/lover, Gregory Milanese (James Remar), answers. Assuming Ted and Burns are having an affair, Gregory threatens him with a knife after they have a physical altercation.Steve later waits outside Richards's apartment until Richards emerges and heads to the park. They meet at a bench and Steve invites Richards back to his apartment, but Richards suggests they go to the nearby tunnel instead. Steve agrees, and inside the tunnel, takes his pants off. Ordering Richards to do the same, Steve watches as Richards slips a knife from his boot. Wielding his own knife, Steve stabs Richards in the gut and places him under arrest.At the hospital, Edelson tells Richards that the police matched his fingerprint to a quarter used at the peep show at the time of Perry's killing, and promises to reduce his sentence if he confesses to all of the murders. As Burns leaves, Edelson welcomes him to the detective division. Meanwhile, detectives collect evidence from Richards's apartment and learn that his father died ten years ago.Some time later, patrolman DiSimone briefs Edelson inside Ted Bailey's apartment, where Ted's body has been found, stabbed to death, and Edelson realizes that Steve Burns lived next door while working under cover. He also comes to realize that DiSimone knows all about DaVinci when the policeman makes a slip about the transvestite.In the final scene, Nancy finds Steve at her apartment, and he tells her he is moving back in with her. While she waits for him to shave off his beard that he grew during his undercover work, Nancy finds a leather jacket, police hat, and a pair of sunglasses left behind by Steve and tries them on. Unbeknownst to her, it's the same outfit Richards wore when he committed the murders.
