A group of tenants and visitors are trapped in a 10-story high-rise apartment building infested with demons who proceed to hunt the dwindling humans down.
A documentary is shown on TV of group of teens who investigate the legendary forbidden zone, in which a Demon infestation once took place (see Demoni I). When finding a lifeless corpse of a demon, one of the teens causes the resurrection of it, and the demon makes it's way into the nearby world by TV-broadcast... An unlucky girl, having her birthday-party at that time, gets possessed by the demon while watching the documentary and soon the entire building in which she lives turns into a living nightmare....
The film opens as if the events of the first film took place in reality, but this is actually a film within a film, that the various residents of a high-rise apartment building are watching. Set mostly in a 10-story high rise apartment building somewhere in West Germany, we are introduced to various people who live in the building while a broadcast about the 'Coming of Demons' airs on their TV sets.George (David Knight) is a young law student struggling with law classes and dealing with his very pregnant wife Hannah (Nancy Brilli).Sally Day (Coralina Cataldi Tassoni) is a frustrated, snotty, teenager who is having a party in her parents penthouse apartment while they are out to celebrate her 16th birthday. Angry when she learns that her ex-boyfriend Jacob is coming to her party, she locks herself in her bedroom. While her friends try to persuade her to come back out to the party, Sally watches part of the movie on her TV set.The story on the TV shows four teenagers who trespass into a city that was deserted as a result of the demon outbreak. Finding the lifeless corpse of a demon, one of the teens revives it accidentally by dripping blood from a scratch into its mouth. The demon comes to life and attacks the teens, killing one of of them. As the other teens flee, the demon suddenly notices her, climbs through the television and attacks her. Sally is transformed into a demon, then attacks her friends, turning all but two of them into vile, bloodthirsty monsters.The creatures' acid-like bile begins to seep through the building, burning through the ceiling and into other apartments and shorting out the electrical system, and sealing all the exits and doors. In one apartment, a dog licks up the bile and transforms into a vicious beast that attacks and kills its owner (Anita Bartolucci). A young boy (Marco Vivio) left alone by his parents manages to avoid Sally and her rampaging demon friends, but is ultimately poisoned by the bile and becomes a monster. The demon boy attacks Hannah while she is waiting for George to come home. She manages to kill the demon boy, but a flying demon bursts out of his body to further terrorize her. Meanwhile, George is trapped in an elevator with another woman, a local call girl named Mary (Virginia Bryant). They plan to escape through a service hatch, but a demon bursts through the elevator door and infects the woman. She in turn attacks George but he is able to kill her before making his way up the elevator shaft where he tries to get to Hannah's apartment.Meanwhile, a group of bodybuilders led by gym instructor Hank (Bobby Rhodes) have barricaded themselves in the underground car park, along with a group of tenants. Unable to break down the garage doors, they decide to stand their ground and try to defend themselves with makeshift weapons, such as Molotov cocktails and a few shotguns. Also, Ingrid (Asia Argento) is a little girl whose parents take shelter with her in the underground car park, until her mother becomes infected and Hank is forced to kill Ingrid's demon mother. The demons eventually make it down to the garage and force their way in. Although they heavily outnumber the demons, the uninfected are relatively easily defeated and are either turned into demons themselves or killed. Ingrid's fate is left unknown.Meanwhile, outside the building, one of the partygoers waits for Sally's boyfriend, Jacob, to arrive, unaware about what is going in inside the building. Jacob at that moment is joyriding with three friends of his when they end up being chased by the police in which the chase ends with Jacob crashing his car into another outside the tower building.The infected start making their way back up the building. George manages to get to his apartment just in time to save Hannah and kills the flying demon with an umbrella. With all the exits locked, George decides to go up to the roof to try to escape by scaling down the building. While gathering climbing rope and supplies, Hannah wonders into the deserted apartment where the birthday party massacre happened and finds the two surviving party guests who are Sally's friend Ulla (Maria Chiara Sasso) and her boyfriend Danny that had hidden in a closet this whole time. With the horde of demons advancing up the stairway, George causes a leak in the gas pipes and triggers an explosion that kills all the infected except Sally. The group make their way to the roof but are stopped by the wounded demon Sally. She somehow infects the two partygoers, but George manages to dispatch them; Ulla's boyfriend by throwing him down the staircase shaft, and Ulla by knocking her off the building. George and Hannah lower themselves to the roof of an adjacent building, fighting Sally as they go. Inside the neighboring building (which is a TV station that is broadcasting the demon TV movie) Hannah goes into labor gives birth to the couple's child. Shortly afterwords, the demon Sally enters the area, but George defeats the resilient Sally in mortal combat. He then smashes the TV screens in the studio to prevent Sally from riving. In the final shot, George and Hannah make their way outside with their newborn child.
