Through hypnotism and telepathic mind control, a sinister music maestro controls the singing voice, but not the heart, of the woman he loves.
Sinister music maestro Svengali can control the actions of women through hypnotism and his telepathic powers. When a pupil he has seduced announces she has left her husband for him, he uses his powers to cause her suicide and promptly forgets her. He meets a beautiful model, Trilby, and becomes infatuated with her, but she, in turn, falls for a young artist called Billee who also loves her. One day Svengali hypnotizes Trilby to cure her headache, but also examines her upper palate and decides it is an ideal cavity for great singing. He convinces her to fake her suicide, so Billee and friends will forget her, and goes on a singing tour with her. Svengali uses his powers to make her sing wonderfully and Madame Svengali, as Trilby is now known, becomes a sensation throughout Europe. But Billee discovers the ruse and begins to follow the pair, upsetting Svengali enough to have him cancel performances too frequently, so they no longer can perform in Europe. They go to Egypt, but Billee relentlessly follows.
Svengali is a singing teacher, pianist and general music impresario living in Paris. He has special talents as he is able to mesmerize others through his music and through his strong hypnotic powers. He uses these talents specifically to seduce his female students for his own evil monetary gains. He discards them just as easily when they are no longer of use to him. After he hears her sing (despite she not being a great singer) and sees her, Svengali becomes infatuated with a young model named Trilby O'Farrell who he meets in the studio of some artist colleagues. One of those artists, a young Brit named Billee, and Trilby fall in love with plans of getting married to each other. But after Billee and Trilby have a falling out of sorts, Trilby runs away apparently to commit suicide. Concurrently, Svengali disappears. Svengali resurfaces five years later, married to his singing protégée, the two who perform in concerts together. Billee learns that Madame Svengali is Trilby. Billee vows to follow the pair to save Trilby from whatever special power Svengali holds over her. Knowing that Billee is after them, Svengali has his own plans for his and Trilby's eternity.

