Mistaken identity and the acquisition of a rare Tibetan herb put two buffoonish con men on the wrong side of a secret organization geared toward world domination.
Bob Hope and Bing Crosby return as con men Chester Babcock and Harry Turner, in the last of their road movies. When Chester accidentally memorizes and destroys the only copy of a secret Russian formula for a new and improved rocket fuel, they are thrust into international intrigue, trying to stay alive while keeping the formula out of enemy hands.
Ex-vaudevillian con men Chester Babcock and Harry Turner are still making an impression overseas. Sought after by almost every far east country (for fraud), their latest scheme ends up knocking the memory out of Chester's head. While heading to Tibet for an herbal remedy, Diane (a secret agent) mistakes Chester for her clandestine contact and slips him a vital rocket fuel formula. Chester retrieves his memory at a monastery where he's also introduced to a rare herb that induces a photographic memory. Harry, recognizing its marketable potential, steals it, and the two head back to modern civilization with plans to exploit it in a legit memory act, but Diane awaits them, with gun in hand, to retrieve the formula (which Harry burned after having Chester commit it to memory as an exercise). Now her megalomaniac boss wants to meet the boys and dig the secret out of Chester at all costs.
In their final road movie together, Hope and Crosby return as hucksters Chester and Harry. When Chester loses his memory, they are told his only hope is to go to a lamasery where they have an herbal remedy to restore it (and where another herb will enhance it ). Through a case of mistaken identity while en route, they get their hands on some sensitive material, the only copy of which winds up in Chester's head. Unfortunately for them, an agent of the high lama retrieves the herb they stole, thus making it impossible for them to recall the memorized information on demand - and the nefarious people who desperately want it are willing to do whatever it takes to get it.

