During the Cold War, an American secret agent must find a kidnapped Arab prince who is being used by the Soviets to gain leverage against America's plans to install missiles in a Middle-Eastern country.
Secret agent Casey Reed is assigned to locate a missing Arab prince kidnapped by Communists who hope to force the prince's father, king of the small Arab nation of Thamen, to cancel the signing of an agreement allowing a US missile base in his country. Reed, fronting as a nightclub singer with his unsuspecting girlfriend Fay, gets a lead which ultimately leads to his capture by the Communists. He learns that he and the Arab prince are both to be killed in order to blame the kidnapping on the US.
American intelligence receives word of an incident that could spark WWIII. Crown Prince Abdul of the Middle Eastern country of Thamen has been kidnapped by the Communists as a measure to pressure Abdul's father, King Ali Ben Faid, into reneging on a treaty he is planning to sign with the Americans to allow a western controlled missile base in his country, in favor of a treaty with the Soviets for the same. Faid has given western intelligence two weeks to find Abdul before he would feel forced to comply with the Soviets. American intelligence gets a lead on Abdul's whereabouts when a man named Dennis Brooks, who is later found to have connections to Thamen, contacts one of the American intelligence department's Hong Kong based undercover field agents, Casey Reed, wanting to sell information. Before Brooks could do so, he was shot dead. As such, Casey is assigned lead field agent to locate Abdul by following the known connections to Brooks in the region. Casey's task becomes all the more complicated because of his undercover job as a Hong Kong nightclub singer. Not only does Casey have to take time away from that job, but he also has to do it without raising suspicion by his on-stage partner and wannabe girlfriend, Fay Wells, who knows nothing about Casey's intelligence job. As such, Fay's life may be in danger as Casey works through his leads.

