A 1973 Soviet twelve-part television series, directed by Tatyana Lioznova and based on the novel of the same title by Yulian Semyonov. The series portrays the exploits of Maxim Isaev, a Soviet spy operating in Nazi Germany under the name Max Otto von Stierlitz, depicted by Vyacheslav Tikhonov. Stierlitz is tasked with disrupting the negotiations between Karl Wolff and Allen Dulles taking place in Switzerland, aimed at forging a separate peace between Germany and the Western Allies. The series is considered the most successful Soviet espionage thriller ever made, and is one of the most popular television series in Russian history.
All the main events of the series take place in the most difficult year for Germany: in February 1945, when only a few months were left before the capitulation in World War II. The main character is a secret agent, an intelligence officer of the Soviet Union, in Germany known as Standartenführer Stirlitz. From the very first episode, the hero finds himself in a difficult situation. A war shell hits the house where his telecommunications workers live, transmitting information and instructions from homeland. A man dies immediately, and a woman is taken to the Gestapo for accidentally breaking out Russian words. Now Stirlitz remains in a foreign country in the enemy environment in perfect solitude and without communication with the authorities.
The series, based on a popular novel of the same name, depicts the exploits of a Russian spy Isaev, working undercover as Standartenfuhrer Stierlitz, in Nazi Germany during 17 days in very end of WWII. Stierlitz has worked his way to the very top of the RSHA, main Nazi security and intelligence agency, without being caught. However, his "colleagues", top Hitler's officers Bormann, Mueller, Schellenberg are beginning to suspect him. Stierlitz is constantly walking on the edge between his two identities, sending information to Russia, while skillfully maintaining the appearance of loyalty to Nazi regime.

