A group of people traveling on a stagecoach find their journey complicated by the threat of Geronimo and learn something about each other in the process.
A simple stagecoach trip is complicated by the fact that Geronimo is on the warpath in the area. The passengers on the coach include a drunken doctor, two women, a bank manager who has taken off with his client's money, and the famous Ringo Kid, among others.
The American West, late-1800s. A stage coach sets off across the untamed wilderness carrying a mixed assortment of characters: an infamous outlaw, a drunk doctor, a prostitute, a whiskey salesman, the wife of an Army officer, a gambler, a bank manager, the local Marshall and the driver. Animosities and petty differences, and unexpected friendships, surface. Their fortunes take a turn for the worse when they learn that an Apache raiding party, lead by Geronimo, is in their vicinity.
In 1880, a motley assortment of interesting strangers boards the Overland stagecoach from Tonto in Arizona, heading to Lordsburg in New Mexico. Among the passengers are the always inebriated frontier doctor, "Doc" Boone, Dallas, the ill-reputed dance-hall girl, Hatfield, the professional gambler, Mrs Lucy Mallory, the wife of a cavalry officer, the whiskey salesman, Mr Peacock, the absconding banker, Mr Gatewood, Marshall Wilcox, and his escaped prisoner, the Ringo Kid. Inevitably, however, as the coach and six dashes through the vast plains and Geronimo's Apache-infested land, only the mighty U. S. Cavalry can save the day.
It's the late nineteenth century in the Arizona Territory. The Overland Stagecoach is making its regular run from Tonto to Lordsburg via Dry Fork, Apache Wells and Lee's Ferry. In addition to Buck the driver, the passengers are: Lucy Mallory of Virginia who has made it this far to meet up with her cavalry husband Captain Richard Mallory in Dry Fork where he's stationed, she who is hiding something about herself; southern gambler Hatfield, whose intentions in taking the coach may or may not be honorable to match his gambling; Samuel Peacock, who despite looking more like a priest is really a whiskey drummer from Kansas City, Kansas; and Dallas, Tonto's "lady of pleasure", and Doc Josiah Boone, despite truly being a physician is known more for being a drunkard, both of who are being driven out of town by the local puritanicals. When Buck looks for a guard for the trip, Marshal Curly Wilcox volunteers upon hearing that the Ringo Kid has escaped from prison in order to avenge his imprisonment by the Plummer brothers, led by Luke Plummer, they now in Lordsburg ridding anyone who has any association with Ringo. Curly hopes to apprehend Ringo in Lordsburg before any bloodshed occurs. One late pickup by the coach is of married Henry Gatewood, the local banker who is hiding the fact of embezzling $50,000 of the bank's money, the reason for his haste and belligerence hindering their trip. Two things happen early in their trip: they encounter Ringo who Curly takes into custody; and the cavalry informs them that Geronimo of the Apache nation is on the warpath, the cavalry who will do whatever they can for protection, with their first order however to defeat Geronimo. Under these parameters, the stage travels at its own risk. As this disparate group continues on their journey as far as they make it with the inherent dangers, they may find that their confines and situations will lead to a more humanistic dealing with each other than if they were in general society.

