A series of misunderstandings leaves an advertising executive with a campaign for a product which has not yet been invented, while he romances his rival in the guise of its inventor.
Jerry Webster and Carol Templeton are both in the advertising business, but for different agencies. Annoyed by Jerry's methods of using alcohol and women to ensure contracts for his agency, Carol tries to get him thrown out of his profession. To avoid this Jerry bribes the girl who'd testify against him, by starring her in a TV commercial for a product named VIP that he's just made up. By accident these commercials are broadcasted and to keep his job, Jerry has to come up with VIP for which he enlists the help of Doctor Linus Tyler. Carol goes to see the Doctor to try and get the VIP account, but because she and Jerry have never met, she mistakes Jerry for the Doctor. Jerry then takes advantage of this situation to win her.
Account executive Carol Templeton is relatively new to the world of Madison Avenue. She believes the way to get ahead in the advertising world is through inventive campaigns and hard work such as market research. That is why she is so upset that ladies' man Jerry Webster, who works for a rival agency, has snagged yet another lucrative account based on implied nepotism and providing the client with hired sexual favors, this time in form of aspiring actress Rebel Davis. To appease Rebel's aspirations, Jerry appoints her as the commercial spokesperson for a new product called Vip, and films a few television commercials starring Rebel for the new product. In reality, Vip does not exist, the commercials which are never to air. But when Pete Ramsey, the hapless agency President, airs the commercials, Jerry has to think fast. What he comes up with: since the commercials have generated such interest and demand for Vip, he will hire renowned but temperamental scientist Dr. Linus Tyler to come up with a new product which will be Vip. Carol, believing that Vip exists and that, based on information from Rebel that its inventor has not yet signed with the Ramsey agency, tries to locate Vip's inventor to snag the account away from Jerry. However, when she finds who she believes is the inventor Dr. Tyler, she has instead met Jerry Webster, masquerading as the old fashioned and shy scientist. Jerry uses this misunderstanding to what he believes is his advantage, especially as it seems that Carol is falling for him as Dr. Tyler. What could put a crimp in Jerry's plans are his own emerging feelings for Carol, and what the real Dr. Tyler comes up with as Vip.
In New York, Madison Avenue is the center of advertising world and like in a beehive, divided in workers and drones. Carol Templeton is a professional that has just arrived from Omaha, Nebraska, to work in the Bracket, McGalpin &amp; Gaines Advertising expecting to be a winner through hard work. The unethical Jerry Webster works in the Ramsey &amp; Son and entertains his clients with sexy women, bribe and booze to ensure contracts for his agency. When the Southern J. Paxton Miller comes to New York to close the contract of the Cera Miller account, Carol prepares a presentation to the old man. However, Jerry wins the account bringing Miller to a nightclub with strippers, booze and a party later in his penthouse with the strippers led by Rebel Davis. Carol is upset and goes to the advertising council to throw Jerry out of the advertising business. However, Jerry lures Rebel, who is going to testify against him, offering the position of VIP girl in TV commercials for the new product VIP. Then he asks the team to not broadcast but only file the footages since VIP that does not exist. However, the insecure Peter 'Pete' Ramsey, who has inherited the Ramsey &amp; Son, orders a massive advertising campaign broadcasting the commercials to show himself off to his employees. In order to save his job and the agency, Jerry hires Doctor Linus Tyler, who is a lonely man, to develop VIP. Meanwhile, Carol decides to take the VIP account for her agency and she visits Dr. Tyler. However, she meets Jerry instead and believes that he is the famous scientist awarded with the Nobel Prize. Now Carol wants to convince Dr. Tyler to come to her agency and the cynical Jerry uses the situation to seduce Carol.

