Two Navy men are ordered to bring a young offender to prison, but decide to show him one last good time along the way.
Two bawdy, tough looking navy lifers - "Bad-Ass" Buddusky, and "Mule" Mulhall - are commissioned to escort a young pilferer named Meadows to the brig in Portsmouth. Meadows is not much of a thief. Indeed, in his late teens, he is not much of a man at all. His great crime was to try to steal forty dollars from the admiral's wife's pet charity. For this, he's been sentenced to eight years behind bars. At first, Buddusky and Mulhall view the journey as a paid vacation, but their holiday spirits are quickly depressed by the prisoner, who looks prepared to break into tears at any moment. And he has the lowest self-image imaginable. Buddusky gets it into his head to give Meadows a good time and teach him a bit about getting on in the world. Lesson one: Don't take every card life deals you. Next, he teaches Meadows to drink, and, as a coup de grace, finds a nice young whore to instruct him in lovemaking. Mule, who worries aloud about his own position with military authority, seems pleased with Meadows's progress. However, when the trio reach Portsmouth, the game comes abruptly to an end as reality sets in.
While on base in Norfolk, Virginia awaiting their next sea assignment, naval seamen Petty Officers Billy Buddusky and Richard Mulhall - nicknamed Badass and Mule respectively - are given a short term shore assignment by their Master at Arms: escort a prisoner to Portsmouth Naval Prison in New Hampshire by bus and train via Washington DC, New York City and Boston. That prisoner is eighteen year old seaman Larry Meadows, who has received a dishonorable discharge and an eight year prison sentence for the $40 theft of a charity box. The severity of the sentence is because the polio charity is the high profile pet project of the commanding officer's wife. They have to get Meadows to Portsmouth in five days, a trip they can accomplish in two. As such, Badass suggests to Mule that they milk the system by taking the five days, collecting on the per diems, and whooping it up on their way back to Norfolk with that per diem money in hand. The focus of their trip changes when they learn of the harshness of the sentence in relation to the crime, and after they meet Meadows, who they can see is an inexperienced, naive, somewhat simple and trustworthy boy whose young adulthood will be taken away from him. So, they decide to take the handcuffs off and give Meadows those adult experiences in the next five days that he has so far not had in his short adult life, as well as allow him to get some closure regarding issues in his personal life. They get into one misadventure after another en route. But as they get closer and closer to Portsmouth and the reality of the situation settles in, Badass, Mule and Meadows may look at the situation in a clearer light for themselves individually and for the other two.
Two navy shore patrol officers, Billy "Badass" Buddusky and Richard "Mule" Mulhall are assigned to bring a young offender to the brig in the next few days. During the course of their trip, Buddusky decides to take the young man on a good time. But, Mulhall thinks differently. Moving their way through the eastern part of the United States toward New Hampshire, the two older men realizes that even bending a few rules might cost them their job.

