A group of bikers, heading to a race, become stranded in the desert and find themselves fighting off a family of inbred cannibals who live off the land.
A group of bikers, which includes some of the survivors from the original film, embark on a journey by bus to a biker race near the desert of the infamous incidents. However, because of a mistake they are late and decide to take a shortcut through the desert. Halfway through the desert the bus breaks down. While trying to repair the bus, some of the group wander off, and wind up in the traps of the survivors of the mutant family of the first. Then the mutants go after the rest...
The film begins with Bobby Carter and his psychiatrist discussing the events of the first film, which took place eight years ago. Bobby is still traumatized by the events, but he and Rachel (formerly known as Ruby) who now owns a biker team and have also invented a super fuel that can power bikes. The team is due to race in the same desert where the original massacre took place and Bobby's psychiatrist tries to convince him to go, but he declines and Rachel takes his place. The team, consisting of the blind Cass, her boyfriend Roy, Harry, Hulk, Foster, Jane and Sue, meets up at a bus and sets off. Along the way, they pick up Beast from a dog pound, the dog was previously owned by the Carters, who now belongs to Rachel.While going through the desert, they get lost and Harry suggests a shortcut through the bombing range. As they drive, the bus begins leaking fuel and they stop at an old mining ranch. As they explore the mine, Pluto, who has apparently survived the earlier attack from Beast, attacks Rachel. She fights him off and he retreats. No one believes her at first, until Pluto returns and steals one of their bikes. Roy and Harry chases him down, but Harry falls behind, gets caught in a trap and is flattened by a massive rock. Roy catches Pluto but is ambushed by a 7-foot cannibal called the Reaper who knocks him unconscious. The Reaper is later revealed to be Papa Jupiter's older brother.Meanwhile, the rest of the group stays at the mine until nightfall. They begin to worry about Roy and Harry. Rachel and Hulk depart to look for them while the others stay behind. The Reaper then begins to stalk the remaining teens. As Hulk and Rachel tries to escape on the motorcycle, he shoots Hulk through the chest with a spear bolt as he dies, leaving Rachel to run away in fear.The Reaper then returns to the mine, where he pulls Foster under the bus and kills him with a hatchet. Jane finds Foster's body but the Reaper catches her and crushes her in a bearhug. Sue returns to the camp only to be thrown through a window by the Reaper and slits her throat with a machete. Rachel runs into Pluto where the two wrestles for a moment. Pluto pins her to the ground but Beast surprises him and chases him away. She stops running to get a look around the area until she hears Reaper's voice whispers out to her, "Ruby, I want you." and a snap is heard from somewhere in the dark. Rachel turns around to see what's coming at her. Helpless, she sees it's Hulk's corpse tied up as it pushes against her. Rachel falls to the ground head hit on a rock caused minor bleeding as she moans into unconsciousness as Reaper laughs at her from the bushes. Rachel is knocked out for the night and leaving only Cass.Meanwhile, Roy wakes up and runs into Pluto at the top of a cliff. Pluto gets ready to attack Roy, but Beast returns and knocks him off the cliff to his death.Cass runs from the Reaper and ends up in his mine shaft where he dumped the bodies, and comes across the corpses of all her friends. She threw a jar of acid at his face and escapes up a rope with help from Roy. The Reaper follows them but they trap him in the bus where all the bike fuel is. They set it on fire and watched as it blows up. The Reaper escapes from the wreckage covered in flames and tries one more time to kill them, but he stumbles into an open mine shaft, leading to his death.The film ends with Roy, Cass and the dog Beast walking away from the mine at sunrise, into the vast desert as they follow the road home.
