A Renegade Cop is forced to work with an FBI Agent in order to bring down a group of Drug Dealers with sinister plans.
Jack Caine (Dolph Lundgren) is a Houston vice cop who's forgotten the rule book. His self-appointed mission is to stop the drugs trade and the number one supplier Victor Manning. Whilst involved in an undercover operation to entrap Victor Manning, his partner gets killed, and a sinister newcomer enters the scene... Along with F.B.I. agent Lawrence Smith, the two investigate a spate of mysterious deaths; normal non-junkies dying of massive heroin overdoses and bearing the same horrific puncture marks on the forehead. This, coupled with Caine's own evidence, indicates an alien force is present on the streets of Houston, killing and gathering stocks of a rare drug found only in the brain... Caine is used to fighting the toughest of criminals, but up to now they've all been human...
An executive entrepreneur is driving his 70,000 brand new car. He puts on a CD of classical music, but it starts blurring away and connecting to the radio. The CD is pushed out of the machine and it distracts this gentleman, who almost has a car accident. He has to steer wildly away from an incoming truck and his car gets stuck in a field nearby. At that moment, a UFO or something like that hits and completely wrecks his car, although this man can jump out of harm. An alien - which looks like a human blind person - floats out of the crater and tells him "I come in peace."Title credits. {The original title was Dark Angel, not I Come in Peace}A burglar (Kevin Page) enters a building. It looks like a police station. Sergeant Hawkins (Luis Lemus) is called to Evidence Room 38. The burglar throws a knife, killing him. Under his dark clothes, the burglar is dressed as a police officer. He takes some drugs and leaves. Another criminal in officer clothes ((Robert Prentiss)) is already waiting for him. Hawkins signs for the drugs he is taking away and leaves the bag even before getting out of the building. A car driver (Steve Chizmadia) is already waiting for them. The burglar tells the driver to drive away quickly. The building explodes and the burglar says that he did that to avoid witnesses. The other two men laugh it off.Det. Jack Caine (Dolph Lundgren) is having some coffee. Jeff Davis is making a narcotics deal of some kind. Caine notices the three burglars, now dressed as businessmen, entering the building. Davis and the three men are making a deal and Caine is listening to their conversation by a hidden mike. However, at that moment, some small-time crooks are hitting on a liquor store. The owner (Jack Wilils) is attacked. The thugs are violent, and punch in the face one of the customers (Jack Verbois) for no reason while a female customer screams her lungs off (Stacey Cortez). Jack has to go to tend to the situation. At that moment, the situation with Jeff Davis and the crooks change completely. Davis is actually Det. Ray Turner (Alex Morris), and his cover is up. Jack kills one of the liquor thugs while Ray is murdered.All the Whiteboys (Sebastian White, Dean Kinkel, David Poynter, Folkert Schmidt, Randall Oliver and Gary Baxley), as the high-time criminals are called by their boss, are leaving the place, when the evil alien, called Talec (Matthias Hues) arrives and says "I come in peace" and starts killing them by throwing some sharp discs and cutting their necks. It's then that Jack enters the deal place and finds Ray dead.Jack is left traumatized for a second. Captain Malone (Jim Haynie) screams to him because he disappeared for 8 days. He is blaming Jack for the lost heroin. A patrolwoman (Suzanne Savoy) announces some important people in. Malone orders Jack to take a holiday or quit. Inspector Switzer (David Ackroyd) of the FBI wants to question Jack. Jack is given a new partner, Special Agent Arwood 'Larry' Smith (Brian Benben), and has to report to Switzer.Malone's secretary (Arienne Battiste) announces Diane Pallone (Betsy Brantley), who can't explain the weird deaths. Larry notices that Diane and Jack used to have a relationship.In a derelict building, a homeless woman notices a thud. Suddenly, everything explodes around her. There is a tunnel through all the walls. Another alien emerges.Larry is taking measures about the position of the bodies. Jack believes in instinct; he realises that the case is gong to be about something completely new. Larry says that he's always ready for everything.A car bark outside Capital Bail Bonds. The owner (Nick Hagler) is annoyed at the barking of Dexter the dog; however, he soon notices somebody approaching and takes his shotgun. The wall is suddenly rubble. Talec appears and thrusts a wire into his chest, and then he kills him.Caine and Smith go to a nude bar, as Caine says that he can think better there. Boner (Michael J. Pollard) was playing snooker. Jack threatens to shoot him in his dick, fearless in spite of being also threatened by a pool hustler (Willie Minor). Boner says that it was the Whiteboys. Smith supports Jack, although he doesn't seem to agree with Jack's methods.They go back to the place of the murders, and hidden behind a loudspeaker, they find the still moving disc; in fact it flies away and wrecks some more until it finds itself stuck again into the same loudspeaker.Talec goes to a warehouse. He interrupts a security guard (Brian Fitkin) and does to him the same he did to the bail office owner. At that moment, Azeck (Jay Bilas) appears and shoots Talec without saying anything; Talec has torun away. Azeck creates havoc in the parking, wrecking cars and burning everything. Talec jumps from a second floor; several witnesses see Azeck and will believe he is the bad guy.Jack invites Smith for a drink at his apartment, while he stares at the photograph of himself enjoying his time with his old girlfriend. Jack visits Diane, who at first slams the door on his face. Jack apologises to her, but she hits him in his face anyway. He kisses her but she asks for some kind of commitment from him. Diane is annoyed with herself for falling into his trap.Jack arrives at this apartment and the door is open - it has been registered. There are soft noises... but it's only Smith. Jack Caine seems to suspect that it's odd that Smith its inside, but maybe it was only chance that he appeared to tell him of other two murders when he saw the door open.At a garage, a mechanic (Mimi Cochran) is working on a car with rock music blasting on. Talec appears to feed on her and then kills her. The alien is feeding on humans.Bruce the scientist (Mark Lowenthal) is nuts and eccentric. He hides his pills and tells about the disc. It is a self-contained magnet, but Bruce has managed to contain it. Jack Caine tells him to hide it.Diane does the autopsy to one of the male victims to Talec, who had used heroin to kill them.Victor Manning (Sherman Howard) sends Caine a photo of himself with bikini girls in Rio, and tells him that he had sent him Warren (Sam Anderson), the head of the Whiteboys. Two of them shoot Caine and Smith in the latter's car. Jack drives even though it's Smith's car. Smith wants to get a warrant on Warren, but Jack doesn't care about that. The Whiteboys get out of a building when their sports car have alarms ringing on. Warren was on a meeting. Warren blames Jack for killing the Whiteboys. Smith has been trapped, so Caine lets him go. Warren wants Jack to go to the drug deal for him, or he'll kill Smith.A clerk (Albert Leong) takes a suitcase and gives an empty one to Jack. The clerk leaves out running with the drugs. When Jack goes after him, he is already dead and Talec attacks him, but lets him go. Smith attacks the two Whiteboys that were keeping him and runs away. Azeck burns everything and leaves. Smith hangs up a stupid blonde (Kristin Baxley)'s call. Diane takes care of Jack's neck wound. She explains that heroin produces well-being because of the endorphins segregated by the human body when inhaled and it produces something similar to ecstasy.Jack thinks that they are dealing with aliens; Smith thinks he's going crazy. Bruce has been beaten to a pulp because he tried to defend the disc. Jack doesn't trust Smith because Bruce says the criminal looked like him.At a supermarket, the alien attacks a weird customer (Wayne Dehart) and the cashier (Brandon Smith) and wants to feed on the security guard (Kevin Howard), but Azeck attacks him first. The two aliens fight each other. Caine and Smith try to tell the Captain that aliens are to blame, but he thinks that they are nuts. Jack, Larry and Diane are not allowed to see the crime scene. Smith goes to talk to his boss, while the good alien is hiding while being badly-hurt. Jack is also told off by his boss, and hes forced to go on a holiday. Jack proposes Diane to go with him on a holiday; she is overjoyed about that and will happily go with her. Diane will never forgive him if he lets her down. Smith agrees with all the decisions taken.The badly-hurt good alien is hiding in Jack's car, and he says "It must be stopped". Smith sees the alien and Jack calms him down, saying that he's in their side. They drive away. The bad angel gives 1,000 overdose of heroin to humans so that the body releases endorphins and he can take them out of the body; that is highly illegal and expensive in the aliens' world. The good alien dies, becomes a kind of light bomb, so now they don't have proof. Smith has taken the alien's weapon - and that will be their proof. Jack wants to have the weapon, but Smith wants to take it to Switzer: he has to pull out his gun to prevent Jack from taking it away. Smith leaves and gives Switzer the gun. First he got the disc and then the gun, Switzer says. This is a case of national interest, but now Smith needs to get rid of their only witness, Jack Caine, and then the military benefits of using the weapons will be enormous. Switzer says that you can't make an omelette without breaking a few eggs, which startles Smith, as Jack had said that Switzer would say something like that. As Smith is having second thoughts, Switzer tries to kill him, but Caine shoots Switzer first. Smith is told "Never trust nobody. Caine manual. Page one Chapter one by cool-as-a-cucumber Caine. It's now when Smith realises that following the procedures is not always the best option.Smith finds the empty heroin bags. The bad alien is strong and doesn't even realise that Jack is hitting him, but Smith doesn't know how to use the alien gun. The weapon looks stuck until Smith learns how to use it; however, Talec looks almost immune to it. Jack finds the bag of endorphins - and Talec realises he's missed them too late. Talec is pissed-off but well of health.Jack Caine takes care of Smiths' wound and gives him a cooler jacket. Caine and Smith almost shoot Diane, who wants to go with Jack on a holiday. They push her out of the way. The Whiteboys demand their money and shoot Jack, Diane and Smith, but luckily Smith has learned how to use the alien gun. Diane demands an explanation, especially when they had to hide from a police officer (Jackson Burns). One of the Whiteboys shoot him - Talec appears shooting everybody on sight.There is a car persecution scene. The alien kills a patrolman (Tom Campitelli) and Smith shoots him, but Talen is OK again and runs after them. They try to trick the alien, but the alien gun is empty, and normal bullets won't harm him, even at close range. Jack creates a series of explosions in the factory, but the alien is still alright. Jack shoes Talen the vials with the endorphins, and breaks two, which infuriates him.Both throw away their guns. Talec approaches but Jack backs up and runs away. The alien throws a disc after Jack, but it gets stuck at a metal lid. Jack and Talec fight. Talec throws the wire towards Jack, but he holds it with his two hands. There is a tug of war until they are very close and then Jack stings the thing onto Talec. He kicks him onto a broken tube, de facto impaling him. The alien is hurt and repeats I come in piece, to which Jack replices "And you go in pieces asshole".Diane, Jack and Arwood "Larry" Smith leave, shaken but more or less in one piece. Diane inquiries where she and Jack will go for the holiday as she has quit her job. Jack wants to go to Rio but Smith says "No, no, no".End credits roll.---written by KrystelClaire
