A major heist goes off as planned, until bad luck and double crosses cause everything to unravel.
When the intelligent criminal Erwin "Doc" Riedenschneider is released from prison, he seeks a fifty thousand-dollar investment from the bookmaker Cobby to recruit a small gang of specialists for a million-dollar heist of jewels from a jewelry. Doc is introduced to the lawyer Alonzo D. Emmerich that offers to finance the whole operation and buy the gems immediately after the burglary. Doc hires the safecracker Louis Ciavelli, the driver Gus Minissi and the gunman Dix Handley to the heist. His plan works perfectly but bad luck and betrayals compromise the steps after the heist and the gangsters need to flee from the police.
Hot out of prison, career criminal Doc Riedenschneider has a penchant for the ladies and enjoys the thrill of a heist. Not one for reformation, he immediately masterminds an elaborate jewel robbery and secures the promise of financial backing from corrupt lawyer and married playboy, Alonzo D. Emmerich. Doc carefully recruits a small group of specialized criminals from the bowels of a familiar bookie joint but still needs his 'heavy' and identifies a kindred spirit in wild card Dix Handley, an adrift soul that just happens to be in the right joint and the wrong time. Former farm boy Dix isn't the commitment type, but something about Doc's enthusiasm inspires him to action. Together, the team absorb Doc's plan as if it were their path to salvation from a society as spiritually bankrupt as they feel. But even the best-laid schemes of heists by men go awry as co-conspirators are apt to betray and alarms are wired for sound. Featuring Marilyn Monroe in her breakout role.
'Doc' Riedenschneider, legendary crime 'brain' just out of prison, has a brilliant plan for a million-dollar burglary. To pull it off, he recruits safecracker Louis, driver Gus, financial backer Emmerich, and strong-arm man Dix Handley. At first the plan goes like clockwork, but little accidents accumulate and each partner proves to have his own fatal weakness. In the background is a pervasive, grimy urban malaise.
Doc Erwin Riedenschneider has just been released from prison and immediately seeks out financial backing for a heist which he has been plotting, the robbery of a jewellery store. He puts together a group of men consisting of Dix Handley, a tough guy, Gus, a bar owner and Louis Ciavelli, a family man. The robbery is a success and Dix and Doc take the jewels to their buyer, Alonzo 'Lon' Emmerich. Unfortunately, Emmerich does not have the money for them; he was hoping to be able to coerce the group into giving him the jewels under the false pretence of fencing them. He would then be able to sell them himself with the help of his business partner, Bob Brannom...
Legendary criminal mastermind, Doc Riedenschneider's just been released from prison. Like a tiger, he can't change his stripes; he has a plan for pulling off one of the biggest burglaries; with a net take of $1 million in the offing. Doc assembled a small, highly effective team. All goes off without a hitch; at first. Then small accidents begin happening, as the inevitable frailties of each partner proves the old adage; there's no such thing as prefect (except, that is, unless you're not counting the early appearance of a luminous, Marilyn Monroe), all against the inherent decay of the metropolis.
A group of career criminals including Dix Handley (Sterling Hayden) is pulled together by a criminal mastermind Doc Riedenschneider (Sam Jaffe) for a jewel heist and their contact for fencing the stolen goods is a corrupt lawyer Alonzo Emmerich (Louis Calhern) who plans to take the stolen take and escape to Europe. The plan is put into place, but Doc Riedenschneider has heard a rumor that Emmerich is up to no good, and asks Dix to help him insure that they collect their money from the lawyer. The robbery is completed but not without one of the crew, Louis (Anthony Caruso) getting shot by an armed guard. Dix and Doc Riedenschneider take the jewels to Emmerich where Dix kills a Private Detective Bob Brannom (Brad Dexter) that the lawyer has brought in for protection. Doc convinces Emmerich that the police will arrest him unless he goes to the insurance company and offers to sell back the jewels and gets the money to him and Dix. Dix himself is shot in the exchange with Emmerich and gets progressively weaker as he and Doc get away. When the police confront Emmerich he fatally shoots himself. Dix convinces the Doc to take some money and escape because he plans to go back to Kentucky, his home state to get away from the police. Doc stops to look at a young girl dance and is caught by the police before he escapes. Dix drives with Doll (Jean Hagen) back to his home but dies before Doll can get him to turn himself in to the police.
