The rise of Peter Marshall, from modest Scottish upbringing, to New York seminary, time in Atlanta churches, his marriage, appointment as chaplain of the US Senate, and early death at 46. Based on real events.
Based on the true story of a young Scottish lad, Peter Marshall, who dreams of only going to sea but finds out there is a different future for him when he receives a "calling" from God to be a minister. He leaves Scotland and goes to America where after a few small congregations he lands the position of pastor of the Church of the Presidents in Washington, D.C. and eventually he becomes Chaplain of the U.S. Senate.
In Depression-era Georgia, young Catherine Wood is a student at Agnes Scott College. She meets Rev. Peter Marshall, a Scottish preacher who is several years her senior. She makes a point of speaking to him after church, hoping he will ask her out. But although Peter is impressed by her speaking skills at a gathering for college students, he remains distant. Shortly before Catherine's graduation, he proposes. They marry and after a few years move to Washington D.C. Peter becomes senior pastor of the New York Avenue Presbyterian Church, known as the Church of Presidents because Lincoln worshiped there.Attendance is sparse, but Peter's dynamic preaching style soon fills the pews. But he is not popular with some of the older members, who constantly criticize him. Some dislike him because he is a "foreigner".On Pearl Harbor Sunday, Catherine gives birth to their only child, named for his father. Peter opens a canteen for soldiers in the church building, incurring the wrath of the elderly Miss Laura Fowler. Her ancestors founded the church and she is upset at all the soldiers and their girlfriends coming and going. She is incensed when she catches a young couple kissing in the Lincoln Room. Peter explains that he just married them and the bridegroom is shipping out in a few hours.Catherine is stricken with tuberculosis and must stay in bed for months. Household help is hard to find in wartime Washington and Peter frequently comes home to a messy house. While bedridden, Catherine suffers a crisis of faith. She can't understand why God let this happen to her when she has a family to care for. Peter assures her she will find the answers in God's time.Shortly after Catherine's recovery, Peter suffers a heart attack while preaching. After his release from the hospital, the family retreats to their Cape Cod vacation cottage. Peter tends to his roses, goes fishing with his son, and eventually is able to return to the pulpit. He is named Chaplain to the U.S. Senate. Miss Fowler finally admits she was wrong about Peter and gives him a button from the jacket of John Paul Jones, another "Scottish upstart."Peter suffers another heart attack late one night in 1949. Catherine cannot go with him to the hospital because there is no one to stay with their son. As he leaves the house on a stretcher, he tells Catherine that he will see her in the morning. Those were his last words to her, as he died before she could get to the hospital.A grieving Catherine returns to the cottage, accompanied by Peter Jr. As he goes to get the boat, she recalls Peter's promise to "see her in the morning" and takes comfort in the knowledge that they will meet again in heaven.
