Charlie searches for a murderer amidst numerous ghosts conjured up by a strange variety of spiritualists and occultists.
Because Charlie Chan plans to return to Honolulu, he no longer needs the services of Birmingham, who gets a job as butler for William and Justine Bonner, two apparently phony psychics who regularly host occult activities in their home. When Charlie's pretty daughter Frances attends a séance out of curiosity, Mr. Bonner is shot, and she becomes an immediate suspect. Charlie postpones his trip home to help with the investigation, which is made problematic when no bullet can be found in the wound and a hypnotized Mrs. Bonner is compelled to commit suicide by jumping off the roof of a downtown building.
Synopsis - Black Magic, released 8-19-44
The name plate opens the movie at the business of W. Bonner, Psychic Medium, Seances, and someone is moaning at the seance table. Birmingham Brown is walking outside, when he is at the front door, he is pulled inside by Johnson, who thanks him for taking the butler job. Birmingham puts on his butler jacket, and Johnson leaves, wishing him good luck. The seance continues with Charles Edwards being reunited with his dead wife. Harriet Green, Paul Hamlin, Nancy Wood are all present at the table, with William Bonner at the center, nearest the crystal ball, controlling the seance. The lights go on, William Bonner is hunched over at the crystal ball, declared dead by Frances Chan, seated next to him. He was shot in the chest, as she peels away his lapel, to reveal blood from the bullet wound. There are two people behind the wall of the seance, half in their disguises, listening to the discovery of the deceased. One man is Tom Starkey, instructing his wife Vera Starkey, to get dressed. Justine Bonner, was co-conducting the seance, with the deceased, calls the police, Sgt. Matthews answers, responds with we are on the way.Sergeant Matthews and Officer Rafferty arrive at the Bonner house. Birmingham Brown is frisked for a gun by Officer Rafferty. Matthews orders policeman Smith to keep searching for the gun that shot Bonner. The Sergeant orders everyone present to headquarters, they file out of the room, a black hand touches Matthews, falling back behind the curtain of the round seance table. He checks the curtain and walks out with Frances Chan, daughter of Charlie Chan. She explains who she is to the Sergeant. Birmingham Brown is near, saying he needs Miss Chan's father, too. Matthews orders Rafferty to go to Charlie Chan's hotel. Officer Rafferty knocks, enters Chan's hotel room. Charlie is playing with a marionette, one of a number of toys he has purchased for his family members in Hawaii, he explains to Rafferty. Charlie is told by Rafferty his daughter is mixed-up in a murder case and Sergeant Matthews wishes his presence at headquarters.Charlie informs Matthews he is leaving for Hawaii, Birmingham Brown was his chauffeur, and has taken the butler job with the Bonner's and Frances Chan was told by Birmingham, there were seances at his new employer, she wanted to see first-hand. Matthews takes a call at his desk, it is Smith, declaring there is no gun to be found at the Bonner house, and the coroner calls, revealing there was no bullet was found in the body, shot into the heart. Matthews asks for Charlie's help on this case. Charlie says no, he is on vacation from all government work. Okay, says Matthews, but Frances Chan stays, don't forget, she was involved in a murder. Charlie changes his mind, due to the circumstances, and takes the case.Charlie tells Matthews things he claims are from his physic nature. Says he will examine the suspect interviews the police had tomorrow, requesting Brown return to the Bonner house to act as the inside man. The Shattuck Hotel is the location of the Chans, Rafferty and Matthews. Chan says, evidence is insufficient to arrest anyone, Sergeant, but would like interview with young lady calling herself Nancy Wood. The identity of Nancy Wood is Norma Duncan, Charlie received the information from his daughter, who saw the initials on her bag. Frances is told by Chan to remain at hotel, as he departs with the police, stating busy day lies ahead. Birmingham is in the Bonner kitchen, the knock at the door is Frances Chan, asking who Birmingham thinks killed Bonner?Matthews interviews Norma Duncan with Charlie present at the Sergeant's office. She explains her true name was kept secret, because she was afraid to give her real name to Justine Bonner. William Bonner had just been killed, Norma had motive, her father was Charles Duncan, civil engineer, who committed suicide, according to Matthews. Mr. Duncan had begun attending seances at Bonner's, after the recent death of his wife, Norma's mother. Plans of a major project turned up in the hands of a rival company, Mr. Duncan's firm was nearly ruined, he felt disgraced, therefore, shot himself. Nancy explains to Charlie, she attended the seances in the hope to learn enough to put the Bonner's in prison. Charlie overrides Matthews' thoughts, suggests Miss Duncan returns home. Chan tells Matthews to relax, he knows that was not the Sergeant's choice.Frances Chan and Birmingham Brown are hiding from Justine Bonner coming down the stairs, entering the seance room, contacting the Starkey's in their hidden room, telling to stay put, as eager as the both of them are to get out of town, claiming they were not involved in her husband's murder. Frances and Brown are listening to the conversation, wondering who is Justine talking with, since she is alone in the room. Tom and Vera sense how scared Justine is, Tom says he has to hide his gun, just in case Justine talks too much. Tom tells Vera he hid his gun, they duck into the closet under the stairs, as Birmingham descends the stairs. Birmingham hears them in the closet, he darts into the kitchen, ready to leave, when the Chans come inside. Charlie enters the seance room, has Frances remain on watch, out of room. Charlie inspects the cabinet, looks underneath the table, eyeing the various wires extending from the crystal ball. He finds a trick hand-fan, invites Frances to step inside cabinet behind table. His past experience comes in handy he tells his daughter with seance room cabinets. They look around the area at the rigged paraphernalia in the room. The room is where the Starkey's were located. Frances gets acquainted with some of the tricks used to fool the attendees of the seance. Charlie talks to Birmingham from the basement control room, then exits, with Frances from the cabinet into the same room where Brown is standing. Everyone ducks out of sight, as Justine Bonner returns home. Justine walks upstairs, Charlie experiences the black hand from behind the curtain cabinet. He inspects the hand, and leaves with Frances. The same hand the Sergeant felt, but did not see, earlier.There is a meeting in Sergeant Matthews office, with Charlie claiming Bonner was shot while at table in seance room. Charles Edwards states they were all holding hands when Bonner was shot, Paul Hamlin agrees. Harriet Green, Justine Bonner and Norma Duncan are also in attendance, as accusations circulate. Charlie brings out the fan he found, inquiring if anyone recognizes it. Edwards says it is just like one of mine. Edwards says he makes fans, trick fans, for magicians. Charlie tells Edwards this fan was not one of his. Matthews takes the fan, it splits, Justine is startled reacting to the fan splitting apart when Matthews grabbed it. Charlie tells everyone, too many suspects, too many motives. Mr. Hamlin has motive, Mr. Bonner tried to blackmail him, Miss Green fell for Bonner's romantic advances, later was blackmailed. Justine threatened Mr. Bonner, if he did not stop with his advances to Miss Green. Charlie says Frances Chan was innocent bystander, like Edwards. Charlie speaks to group, black magic killed William Bonner. Norma says a voice asked something about London at the seance. Duncan says she was in London at the time in question. Miss Duncan recognized the voice asking, what happened in London on night of October 5th, 1935, but she cannot place the source at the moment. Charlie says the name associated with the voice is a most important clue, try to remember as soon as possible, he insists. Everyone is dismissed.Charlie is in the police lab with Mr. Dawson, testing Chan's theory, whether a bullet that killed Mr. Bonner actually disappeared. Dawson says the test results will be ready tomorrow, while Frances and Officer Rafferty look on in the laboratory. Frances informs her father she just called the hotel where the clerk said Norma Duncan is waiting to see him. Rafferty, Frances and Charlie go back to the hotel, door is open, lights are out, Charlie turns on the lights, Duncan is sitting on the couch and appears unconscious. A note indicates something is about to occur. The lights are turned off, Charlie yells for everyone to take cover, two shots ring out, the shooter escapes. Rafferty runs after the suspect, says the elevators are way down the hallway, he could not have left in the hall. Charlie determines the gunman was in the bedroom all along, waiting for Duncan's visitors. Chan wakes Duncan from her trance, she does not remember anything, wonders how she got there, and did not summon Charlie, as the desk clerk told Frances. Charlie asks Norma about the strange question concerning London; she does not know anything about London or the question. Charlie instructs her to go home, accompanied by Rafferty, for her safety. Charlie instructs Frances to go to bed, while he sends cablegram to Scotland Yard.Seance guests Harriet Green and Paul Hamlin are told by Justine Bonner her late husband's bank statement showed no blackmail activity. The guests threaten to seek legal counsel. Justine asks them to meet her at the Berkley building tomorrow at eleven, when Charlie Chan arrives at the house wishing to have a few words with her. He asks about the question meaning at the fatal seance, What happened in London on night of October 5th, 1935? She nervously answers she does not know, adding the voice behind the inquiry was like a voice from the dead. She excuses herself, Birmingham and Frances walk into the entryway, commenting how scared she was from Chan's question. Justine comes down the stairs, enters the seance room, as Birmingham and Frances duck out of sight. The two listen at the door to Justine talking to somebody in the empty room. Justine tells the Starkey's she is making a getaway, asking them for help and promising they will be well paid. Birmingham and Frances heard Justine talk. Tom Starkey tells Vera he is going out. Frances talks Birmingham into accompanying her to follow Justine Bonner.The name plate of the Berkeley Building is panned, Justine takes the elevator to a floor entering a room in the building. Chan is in Matthews office, Rafferty hands him a note from Dawson, stating congratulations, you were right. Matthews demands to know what is going on now. Chan has discovered what kind of bullet killed Mr. Bonner. The phone call is Norma stating Mr. Edwards is on the seventh floor of the Berkeley Building acting strangely. Matthews asks about that bullet, Chan replies with the question you can keep a secret? Matthews responds of course. Chan comes back with so can I.The three enter Charles Edwards office, #726, in the Berkeley Building, while Justine Bonner walks out of #722, after the three have entered across the hall. The group exit Edwards office, his secretary said he hasn't been in all morning. Charlie spots Mrs. Bonner's glove left on the floor outside #722. Justine left the building before the group could see her. She walked directly across the street to another building, takes the elevator up, walked out to the roof, while someone is talking to her from an ajar door, enticing her to move closer to the ledge. She takes the fatal step, falling to her death, as the group witnesses the apparent suicide. Harriet Green and Paul Hamlin are watching, as the group goes to her side across the street. Chan requests Bonner's coat be removed at once to identify the large stain. Edwards is seen coming out of the building and pausing. The stain is from the drug used to put Bonner in a trance. Charlie is with Dawson, getting a confirmation of a derivative of a powerful shock drug. Dawson tells Chan of the drug antidote, goes to his drawer, handing Charlie the antidote, estimating it would take ten to fifteen minutes to work, without testing it. The drug makes the recipient vulnerable to any hypnotic trance, where the hypnotist could easily control the person. Charlie returns to police headquarters, asking Sgt. Matthews if he had questioned Green, Hamlin and Edwards. He says he did, and he has concluded Mrs. Bonner killed her husband and committed suicide. Charlie disagrees, the same person that killed Mr. Bonner killed Mrs. Bonner. Obviously, they were each killed in two separate manners, but by the same person, per Chan.Charlie exits elevator, goes to office 722, looks across from Edwards Magician Supplies, enters, notices chain from desk lamp moving, indicating someone likely in office. Opens closet door, checks his pill box, black cloth is placed over his head, pill drops to floor. Frances is with Rafferty, and getting scared, Rafferty has checked on his whereabouts, nothing. Rafferty and Frances put their heads together, head out to Mrs. Bonner's office. Chan is prisoner, sitting, hands clasped with metal bracelets, a person is asking if he has taken the pill, he responds no. He takes a pill as the braces released, taking water instructed by the voice of the captor. He is instructed to go to the roof of the building across the street, as he is drugged and the victim of a hypnotic state placed upon him. Instructions are to come forward to you when you hear my voice, the captor states. Chan walks out of number 720, after Rafferty and Frances walk into 722. The two notice the pill box on the desk, indicating Charlie was there, Rafferty says they will check with the elevator operators.Charlie walks across the street in his delirious state. Rafferty and Frances ask the operator if a Chinese gentleman was on board recently, she says just now, a Mrs. Bonner was is in the same condition, like they were asleep. Charlie goes to the roof of the building across the street with the voice of the man having the door ajar directing him to approach the ledge. Rafferty and Frances enter the roof, Charlie awakens in time before he was to jump off, warns them to get back, murderer on roof, pointing across the street. Rafferty fires a shot across to the other building. Charlie says we are too late to catch killer. Mentions to tell Dawson the antidote timing was wrong. The three return to where Charlie was drugged, eyeing the mechanisms used to drug the victims, Bonner and Chan. Rafferty hands Chan his cablegram information from Scotland Yard. He declares tonight he will hold seance. The ghost killing the Bonners will be brought to earth.Vera Starkey enters the basement room where Tom Starkey is, they argue, there are people watching the place, Vera warns, what do we do? Tom orders Vera to get into her outfit, thinking they will slip through the dragnet, hiding in Justine's place. Chan has the group sitting at the seance table, announcing the spirits will be there, as the Starkey's are in costume, ducking out when they hear someone coming. Rafferty and a policeman come down the basement stairs into the basement area where the Starkey's perform. Matthews hears Rafferty from the cellar, Rafferty calls back up to the Sergeant, Chan requests him to remain where he is a few moments longer. Charlie and the Sergeant go to the cabinet, Chan pulls the curtain, exposing Vera Starkey in costume, covered in black. Chan goes to the other cabinet in the seance room, requests Tom Starkey come out, joining his wife, he too in similar costume to his wife, all black, with mask-hoods. Starkey's exit the seance room, Birmingham sees them in their costumes, scared, he runs away. Chan requests the two remove their hooded-masks. He identifies them as Tom and Vera Starkey. Tom acknowledges, saying they were assistants to magicians before vaudeville died. Chan leads them into the seance room, learning they know nobody in the room, having only seen them in the dark. Chan orders Rafferty to come up to the room, while Birmingham pushes against a panel door entering the basement trick room, with a skeleton following him. Chan orders Birmingham to remain still and silent.Word association test is conducted by Charlie to the group. First word coming to mind should be told aloud as the lights are off, only the crystal ball light is visible. Person to speak is person light falls, magician to Edwards, supplies back to Chan, 518, train is the response, honor to Duncan, dead back to Chan, revenge, no back to Chan, magician to Hamlin, trickster back to Chan, October, month back to Chan, bullet to Green, gun back to Chan, London, city back to Chan, 1935, response is year from Green, London to Hamlin, England to Chan, cigar to Edwards, response is cold, case, response is icy. Matthews asks Charlie what all the Q &amp; A means. Charlie responds killer make mistake. The lights go out, a bullet is fired at Charlie, he has ducked away, the bullet hits Chan's chair. Chan congratulates Frances for her use of the light switch.Motive for murder is explained in cablegram from Scotland Yard held now by Chan. During automobile accident occurring in London, the night of October 5th 1935, famous magician known as Shardo the Great, is horribly injured. Norma Duncan blurts out the name Shardo, she says that was the name of the voice. Chan says he tried to kill you because he feared you remembered his name. Shardo was pursuing his wife Justine, who was running away with assistant William Bonner. The accident occurred, Shardo remained in hospital for over a year. Tom Starkey says I heard he died. Chan says Shardo recovered, and through plastic surgery, he is utterly unrecognizable. Shardo was determined to find and kill Justine and William Bonner. Shardo succeeded.Matthews notices blood on the chair. Explanation of why bullet not found in body of William Bonner, because it was made of frozen blood. Shardo the Great was very clever. He was magician, ventriloquist, actor and hypnotist, but he could hardly expect to fool the police forever, could he Mr. Hamlin. Hamlin says how should he know. Hamlin pulls his cigar case out of his pocket. Edwards pipes up, saying he touched my hand with that case and the thing nearly froze me. Hamlin refuses to be taken by Chan, he begins backing up. Hamlin attempts to fire spring-loaded-gun in the case, when Charlie springs the white handkerchief toward him, giving the case up to Matthews. The case was carried in an insulated pocket. Matthews takes Hamlin away. Chan declares the seance is over.Matthews asks Charlie how did Hamlin shoot Bonner when they were all holding hands? Chan answers, old trick of third hand, Hamlin let other person hold the fake-black-hand found in the cupboard, while he fired the gun, disguised as a cigar case holding the frozen bullet. To get rid of the fake hand, Hamlin just hung it on the drape, Matthews tells a nodding Chan.
