An ordinary high school student discovers that his family has an unusual pedigree when he finds himself turning into a werewolf.
Meet Scott Howard, a struggling high school student with problems. He is on a lackluster basketball team with a lame duck coach, he is having problems getting noticed by the prettiest girl in his school, Pamela Wells (who already has a boyfriend who wants to ruin Scott's life named Mick McAllister). But in the middle of it all, he feels an effects of a dog whistle and he itches everywhere and even discovers that his nails are longer and sharp. When he came home from a party, he discovers his new problem. He is a half human-wolf hybrid. He tries to keep this a secret, but during a basketball game the secret comes out and it helped Scott to turn his life around, the basketball team starts to become a contender for the state championships. He became very popular, and he was discovered by Pamela, and begin to go out with each other (despite that Pamela is still going out with Mick). However, Scott's father warns him about turning into the wolf out of anger. Scott must watch his anger as he can still win Pamela's heart and the High School Basketball State Championship game.
Scott Howard is a high school student on a struggling basketball team. He is desperately seeking another girl who just doesn't seem to notice him, until he begins turning into a wolf. Once this change occurs and it is accepted at school and social events, Scott turns into the most liked and talked about person in town. He gets the girl and the basketball team is doing great, but he begins to want things to be back to normal. However, his father warns him about turning into the wolf out of anger. Scott must watch his anger and he can still win the High School Basketball State Championship game.
Hairy Palms are just the start of Scott Howard's problems. He already has girl problems, yearning for a fellow female classmate's attention, his school basketball team can't win any matches and rapidly reaching his late teens he feels too "normal". However, with a full moon approaching Scott starts to feel different and when the "dog whistle" blows he realizes he's not "normal" after all. The Teen Wolf is finally born, claws and "Bee Gee" style hairdo and to his surprise finds that being a werewolf is in the family blood, just that his father, Harold Howard, was hoping it might have "skipped a generation". Ensuing pressure on the basketball front brings the Teen Wolf to the public's attention and for a while he can do no wrong in the whole of the school's eyes, in fact he doesn't miss a shot! His best friend, Stiles, sees money making opportunities and even Pamela Wells, the teen temptress he longed to date, finally gives him something to howl about. Before long things take a turn and the Wolf's persona takes a few knocks on and off court and his popularity is questioned. But the only person who knows that the real Scott should prevail is Boof, his childhood best friend.
Scott Howard (Michael. J. Fox) is completely unpopular in his high school.He plays for The Beavers' basketball team but he's no good at it, and the girl of his dreams Pamela Wells (Lori Griffin) barely even notices him.But his life takes a turn one night when he transforms into a werewolf,and discovers that his dad (James Hampton) is one as well.Apparently it's a life long curse that can't be broken.His dad tells him not to worry,it doesn't mean killing people or dodging silver bullets.It just means that they have super human abilities.But Scott's convinced that the hairy monster is going to make his life at school even worse.However it seems to have the opposite affect,after unexpectedly changing during a basketball match in front of people's eyes,including his loyal friend "Boof" (Susan Ursitti) he goes onto win the game with his new athletic skills,and gets his team through to the finals. He becomes the most popular student and Pamela finds herself attracted to him,and sleeps with him.But his dad is not happy,and feels as if his son is letting his powers go to his head.At the school dance Scott fully realises himself that they have when he lets his anger get the better of him and attacks Pamela's boyfriend Mick.Scott decides that he doesn't want to be the wolf anymore.At the basketball final,he decides to play the game as himself and with team effort,the beavers go onto win the game.Pamela goes to embrace him,but he rushes past her and passionately kisses Boof instead.
