A series of teenage gangs struggle against each other in a not-so-distant future. Eventually they united against an evil corporation, as represented by evil CEO Robby Benson who wants to control everything.
Years after a mysterious plague has wiped out most of the adult population, the surviving children have grown up to form violent motorcycle gangs. Young Lee, tired of life on the farm, goes out in search of adventure and soon winds up in the middle of a war between a pair of rival gangs. Soon after Lee proves his worth and is accepted into one of the gangs, however, a new threat appears in the form of the evil Sunya Corporation, which wants to utilise the gangs for their own purposes. Can Lee lead his new-found friends to safety?
Fifteen years from now [well, from the time this flick was done, so that would be 1984+15=1994]A gang of motorbikers arrive to a house in the middle of nowhere. The owner directly shoots them. The gang takes inside one of their own, who's wounded. Albert (James Earl Jones) accepts taking him inside. He says that a plague killed almost all the adults, and the children had to support themselves and survive in a wild world. Two teenagers meet and swim naked in the reservoir of drinking water. She (Joannelle Nadine Romero) stays at a farm while Lee (John Stockwell) goes a round riding his bike with a lizard-skull mask. He has the dream of all bike gangs joining together, instead of having the Clippers and the DA. He is not interested in farm life anymore. He goes to the city where he's attacked by a crowd of workers. At the beginning, the DA are threatening towards Lee (Marcia Holley, Kane Hodder and Alan Marcus). Lee leaves and saves Yogi (Rae Dawn Chong) from a biker attack, who at the beginning didn't even want to tell him her name. They have to hide behind wall from other crazy bikers. At a warehouse, Frankie (Pamela Ludwig) tells Mick (Darrell Larson) that they have found cat food which humans can eat.Carver (Robby Benson) wants to control the city as a first step to control the whole world. His plan is to wreck everything using a gang against another, as in this chaotic world there are no police forces. Wickings (Kim Cattrall) is mentioned by Chris (Sean Ryan), as she will attend the fight. There's going to be a fight for Lee. They go to the library / local museum to have a duel. Wickins says to Mick that she works for the government, who works to bring law, medicine and food to the city. The duel starts with nets and chains as weapons. From behind an Indian poster appears another biker fighting against lee, who won't kill the loser Mick - and Yogi is happy about that decision, because her gang wants to end the violence.Later, Wickings admits that she's only an observer. Carver gets a truckload of weapons. Whitey (John Diehl), another biker is spying on the operation but falls from a woodbeam. Ray (Danny De la Paz), Carver's ally, shoots Whitey, and Wickins sees it, but can't do anything about it. Wickins passes on the message that Carver and Bolo (Robert Weisser) are not following the directives to secure the workforce. She is told to be the one who secures workforce. Ray tells her not to interfere and leave.Wickings tells Lee that Mick is going to be killed. Yogi tries to help him and remembers how child Mick (Norbert "Morgan" Weisser) saves her (Ola Butler) from being run over. Lee takes Yogi to the new more powerful bike, but Ernie (Dean Devlin) rides it, but it's too much for him and he falls over. Mick is alive but hurt and he has a fight with Lee because the former thinks that from now then it's every man and woman for themselves. He gets over this idea when he gets well. Him, Yogi, Lee, the rest of the gang and Wickins prepare their bikes for the fig fight. They armour them. They attack Carver's headquarters. Ernie begins the attack hidden while Lee and Yogi approach Ray and Carver face-to-face.The shooting fight begins. Lee and his people are losing, but toy aircraft is thrown to help them by Wickins and Albert. That is the winning hand for Lee and his gang. Wickings communicates that there's law in the city from that moment on.
