UFOs are seen around Tokyo. Because they look like giant starfish the aliens cannot approach us without creating panic. Hence one of them sacrifices itself and takes the form of a popular female singer. It/she warns mankind that a meteor will crash on Earth. While the approaching meteor causes hotter and hotter weather, mankind runs and builds a last-chance anti-meteor weapon.
A group of starfish-like aliens from the planet Pyra, which is on the same orbital plane as Earth but on the opposite side of the Sun come to Earth to warn mankind about a runaway planetoid known as Planet R that is on a collision course with Earth. It is feared that when Earth is destroyed that their planet will be destroyed as well. However, their form causes people to panic, so they chose a female member of their race to take human form to spread their message. They then decide to contact a prominent scientist who has invented a new source of energy that can also be made into the most destructive bomb the world has known to destroy the planetoid. Unfortunately, the scientist is kidnapped by enemy agents who want to use the bomb for their own purposes. Now it becomes a race against time to find the scientist so he can complete his formula and save mankind.
Aboard the alien spacecraft the Pairan are doing a mission brief, two of their kind have been selected to go to Earth and attempt contact with a specific scientist on the island of Japan.
Dr Kamura (Bontarô Miake) a leading astronomer and newspaperman meet for dinner. The reporter shows the Doctor and article he is writing about the flying saucers seen over the city recently; he then tries to pump the doctor for more explanations. The Doctor is tight lipped and tells him nothingAt the local observatory astronomer see a series of lights in the sky. The lights move in over Tokyo and begin causing power and radio fluctuations. Taeko (Mieko Nagai) the doctors daughter arrives at the restaurant minutes after he leavesTaeko arrives home to discover her father and Dr Toro Isobe (Shôzô Nanbu) discussing the recent unusual sightings. From Taekos reaction to his presence she has feelings for him, which her father dismisses.
Outside the house the cry goes out that a flying saucer has been sighted. Isobe and Kamura witness the objects behavior and agree it may have been a real flying saucerNext day there are news reports the object may have fallen into Tokyo Bay. The observatory staff is tight lipped and wont expand on the earlier news reports. At the observatory, reports from both London and Delhi confirm what was seen in TokyoThe next day men fishing by the river briefly catch sight of one of the Pairan before it sinks back into the water. That same night at the docks, the Pairan encounter a similar reaction. At the observatory a coordinated effort is being made with the local rocket range to fire a missile capable of taking photos of the objects.Next morning at the docks the authorities disbelieve the reports of the creature till radioactive residue is discovered on a dockside wall. As they investigate, news comes through the rocket has been successful, other than being bright, there are no other details revealed.Throughout the night the Parian continue to contact humans with progressively worse results and people become more and more panicked. At a local nightclub the famous singer Hikari Aozora (Toyomi Karita) is attacked by one of the Parian she is deep in shock and further performances are cancelled.The Parian flying saucer thought to have crashed into Tokyo Bay suddenly takes off and makes for the Parian base ship. One of the Parian crew reports failure to communicate because of the hysteria. The Parian suggests they undergo a transmutation to take on human form and attempt again to contact Dr Kamura. The transmutation is successful and the Parin morphs into the likeness of HikariOn Earth a few days have passed without further sightings of the creatures or saucers. People begin to relax and assume the crisis is passed, though questions remain, what did the creatures want, and why have they left
A couple is boating on a local lake when they find the unconscious form of Hikari floating in the water. Getting her to shore, they realize who she is. This creates a problem because Hikari is performing in TokyoKamura takes the strange girl back to Tokyo despite all efforts she remains silent, Kamura assumes it is some sort of amnesia. She is taken to a tenis court where another Parian (number 6) makes contact and lets her (number 2) know she has back up if neededThe tennis match is a ruse to get readings from the woman. First her racket and hat are examined. Isobe then tells Kamura of other strange things such as being able to walk through closed doors and being able to jump 10 feetShe finally meets Kamura, sees some of his notes and destroys it, explaining that the explosives listed are far more powerful than the H bomb. At the observatory Kamura tells the others of the encounter. After examining her fingerprints and residue on the hat, some agree she is actually a creature from outer space.The alien Hikari makes a surprise visit to the observatory. She explains her planet is unobserved on the far side of the sun, but theyve been watching Earth for 1000s of years. She then reveals both planets are under threat from a runaway planet from another galaxy, and both planets working together could save everyone
She suggests going to world leaders and asking them to use their combined nuclear arsenals to deflect the danger. The scientists go to the world press and try to begin the first steps to the joint projectThe world congress turns down the request for the weapons because if a lack of proof. Japan undeterred goes it alone and begins preparations. They are sure that once the rest of the scientific community detects the errant planet they will begin to combine their forcesKamura is visited by a stranger wanting to purchase the formula to a new explosive hes developed. Kamura unceremoniously throws him out, muttering he is not Japanese, he is the devil himselfAround the country people gather anticipating the confirmation of existence of planet R as it has been designated. After days of fruitless searching the planet is finally located exactly as expected. Other predictions including an impact in 50 days seem to be confirmed. The Japanese scientists go to the world council in an attempt to deflect the planets course.Due to the growing civil unrest Tokyo is evacuated ahead of an expected heat wave generated by the approaching rouge planet. Along the coast storms generated by the heat begin to lash the shelters where people are hiding.The world council finally realizes the danger Japan has been warning off and agrees to launch the missiles
Later that day disappointment grows at the observatory as they realize the missile attack has failed and the world is ultimately doomedAlong with the heat and storms, earthquakes begin to rock Japan increasing the devastation. People try their best to survive the ever increasing heat and at the last minute the Parians arrive looking for Kamura who they find has been kidnapped and left to die. They explain they have brought together all the elements needed to build the bomb, but need his formula to complete the processThe Parians now in possession of the formula launch an attack on the planet and destroy itFinally we see the alien Hikari undergo reverse transmutation that returns her to her original star fish formchapman_glen@yahoo.com
