An erotic horror tale about a vixen vampiress seducing and killing women to appease her insatiable thirst for female blood.
In Istanbul, the lawyer of Simpson &amp; Simpson Linda Westinghouse has erotic dreams with a strange woman every night and her analyst Dr. Alwin Seward suggests her to find another lover. Linda is assigned to resolve an inheritance issue with the Hungarian Countess Nadine Oskudar that has inherited a real estate from Count Dracula. Linda leaves her boyfriend Omar in the Istanbul Hilton and travels to the Kadidados Island. While waiting for transportation in the continent, Linda is advised by a local that the island would be a place of death and insanity and she should not travel to there. However, she does not pay attention to the man and meets Countess Oskudar that is a lesbian vampire fascinated by Linda. The Countess drinks the blood of Linda and she has amnesia and is sent to a mental institution where Dr, Steiner, who is also a vampire expert, treats her and puts an advertisement in the newspapers. Omar finds Linda and Dr. Steiner teaches her how to kill a vampire. Linda has to be very powerful to resist the spell of Countess Oskudar that has a crush on her and destroy the vampire.
Tormented by sizzling visions of explicitly vivid erotic tension, the American lawyer Linda Westinghouse ignoring all warnings, sets off to a remote island off the Turkish coastline to settle the unusual inheritance of the enigmatic Countess Nadine Carody. However, when the two women will meet for the first time, the Countess' striking resemblance with the fierce and irresistible temptress who resides in her dreams, will be far too obvious to ignore. Eventually, poor and powerless Linda will succumb to a mystically potent enchantment, and having no other choice, she will offer willingly both her captive body and her rosy warm blood. Is there a way to break free from the insatiable vampire seductress' spell?
Linda is a young American lawyer, working in a law office in Istanbul. During the night, she has passionate dreams in which a sexy brunette harasses, and makes love to her, from which she's unable to defend herself. A minor case about an inheritance forces her to travel to one of the small islands off the Turkish coast. Then, her nightmares come upon her - in a lively manner.
Linda Westinghouse [Ewa Strömberg], a lawyer with the Istanbul firm of Simpson &amp; Sons, is sent to Anatolia to handle the inheritance of Countess Nadine Carody, recipient of the entire estate of Count Dracula of Hungary. To Linda's surprise, Nadine [Soledad Miranda] is the strange woman who has been haunting her dreams for the past several weeks. Nadine is also a vampire and, after sharing a swim, a glass of wine, and some kisses, Nadine bites Linda's neck and drinks some of her blood. When Linda comes to and goes in search of Nadine, she finds her floating in the swimming pool, apparently dead. The next thing Linda knows, she is being treated at Dr Aldon Seward's clinic, bewildered as to how she got there and amnesic as to her name and address. Dr Seward [Dennis Price] puts a notice in the newspaper, which brings Linda's boyfriend Omar [Andrés Monales] looking for her. Linda remembers Omar but still remembers nothing that went on at Countess Carody's beachhouse. Her only memory is of the Countess lying dead in the swimming pool and then being alone at sea. She wonders if it was all a dream.However, Nadine is not dead. She is languishing on a couch, telling her renfield Morpho [José Martínez Blanco] how she became a vampire (Dracula saved her from being raped and initiated her into the secret of the vampires) and how she now hates men and is so infatuated with Linda that she must make Linda into a vampire, too. Hearing Nadine calling to her, Linda goes. Nadine drinks a bit more of Linda's blood. Later, Linda consults with Dr Seward who tells her that, if she wishes to extract herself from the spell of the vampire, she must either split the vampire's head with an axe or pierce it with a pole.Meanwhile, one of Dr Seward's patients, Agra [Heidrun Kussin], who has been alternately babbling about the Queen of the Night (Nadine) coming to see her and then abandoning her, now suddenly announces that the Queen is going to come to the sanitarium to meet Seward. Nadine shows up at the sanitarium, angry with Seward for trying to take Linda away from her. Seward admits that he only did it to get Nadine to come to him. He wants to become initiated into the world of the vampires. When Nadine refuses and Seward starts shouting Latin at her, Nadine gets Morpho to kill Seward while she pays a visit with Agra in order to tell her that she's going to leave her again.Meanwhile, Linda goes missing. Omar enlists the help of Linda's shrink, Dr Steiner [Paul Muller], in tracking down Nadine in hopes of finding Linda. Actually, Linda is being held by Memmet [Jesus Franco], the bellboy at her hotel. Turns out Memmet was Agra's husband before she became bewitched by Nadine. Memmet has fallen for Linda and wants to kill her, but Linda kills him first and then escapes. Steiner and Omar go to Nadine's house in Istanbul, but she and Morpho have returned to their beachhouse in Anatolia. Linda goes there, too. She finds Nadine lying in bed, dying. Nadine begs Linda for some blood, but Linda doesn't want to be under Nadine's power and stabs her through the eye. Nadine's body disappears. Morpho kills himself. Omar and Steiner arrive on a boat. Omar tries to convince Linda that it was all a dream, but Linda knows better. [Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.]
