In the early twentieth century, a Gorgon takes human form and terrorizes a small European village by turning its citizens to stone.
In early-twentieth-century middle-Europe, villagers are literally becoming petrified. Although the authorities try to hush the matter up, it is apparent that at the full moon, Megaera, a Gorgon, leaves her castle lair and anyone looking on her face is turned to stone. When this fate befalls a visitor, experts from the University of Leipzig arrive to try and get to the bottom of it all.
In 1910, in Vandorf, a painter commits suicide when his pregnant lover is turned in stone. The local authorities hide the truth and the young man is accused of murderer. However his father decides to clear his name and finds that seven similar murders have been committed along the last five years in the village. His investigation ends when he finds that the responsible for the deaths is Magaera, who lives in an old castle in the woods. When his son Paul Heitz and Prof. Karl Meister come to Vandorf to investigate the murder of Paul's father and brother, the discover that the local Dr. Namaroff, his assistant Carla Hoffman, the inspector and the residents are hiding the mystery of the Gorgon.
When his father Professor Jules Heitz and brother Bruno die under mysterious circumstances, Paul Heitz travels to a small town to determine what is going on. It's the early 1900s and he finds villagers who are wary of strangers and apparently live in fear, particularly when there is a full moon. He hears of the legend of Megaera, a Gorgon so hideous that to look at her will turn you to stone. Of particular interest to him are Dr. Namaroff and his attractive assistant Carla Hoffman. Namaroff is obviously hiding something and is very possessive of Carla, who suffers from blackouts and memory loss. With the help of his mentor, Professor Karl Meister, Paul tries to unlock the secrets around them.
In a small European town, an old castle was once inhabited by three sisters. No, there was nothing normal about them, for they were The Gorgons. The most infamous was Medusa until her head of snake laden hair was cut off. Fear has swallowed the town because they believe that either Euryale or Medera,
still live there. Dr. Namaroff (Peter Cushing) is the first to discover the awful truth as the immortal Gorgon has taken a human form. The human that she posses is Carla, Namaroff's assistant. She does not know what is happening to her due to the fact that she blacksout when the Gorgon takes her over. She and her love interest Paul believe that the Dr. is lying because he is jealous. As the number of murders mount, the two men fight. Finally the awful truth is discovered and Paul and the Dr. fall victim to The Gorgan's power and are turned to stone. The only one left who knows the secret of her power is Prof. Meister (Christopher Lee). It is up to him to take her head and break the curse forever or to fail and doom more of the townspeople. He takes his sword and finds the evil beast from ancient mythology, and luckily a mirror in her castle.
