An ordinary Soviet citizen accidentally intervenes into a huge operation of international criminal group that trades illegally obtained jewelry.
Semyon Gorbunkov goes on a cruise. In Istanbul, he slips and breaks his arm. What he didn't know is that this was a signal for a gang of smugglers (a real smuggler - Gena - was also on board the same ship). So his arm gets bandaged with gold and diamonds. After he returns home, the gangsters are trying to get their stuff back, while the police try to catch them using Gorbunkov and his arm.
Semyon Gorbunkov, a kind-hearted and not very clever soviet husband and a father of two, goes on a holiday cruise abroad. Semyon visits a large oriental town accompanied by his cabin mate, friendly and charismatic Gennady. When visiting the old town, Gennady gets rid of him and soon after Semyon accidentally falls right in front of a pharmacy. There the "pharmacy clerks" treat him, put his wounded arm in a cast -- and smuggle a bunch of jewels into it. Semyon goes back to the ship almost at the same time Gennady arrives and fakes a fall in front of the pharmacy. The arm cast with the jewels was destined to him, a professional smuggler. Back in the USSR, Semyon, who is being watched by Gennady and the gang of smugglers, warns the authorities, who apparently do nothing. Then he is discreetly contacted by the Police. An agent propose Semyon to keep the cast on his arm a little longer and to act as bait in order to arrest the whole gang. Unaware of what he is getting into, Semyon agrees --
Semyon Gorbunkov, a friendly and naïve husband and a father of two goes on a world cruise. Visiting different countries and cities, him and his new friend Gennady, whom he met on the ship, have fun seeing the world. Arriving in Istanbul, Gorbunkov takes a stroll and accidentally slips and breaks his arm. Uttering a blasphemous phrase (which turns out to be a secret code intended for Gennady, a contrabandist), he is taken to a nearby "clinic", where an arm cast, being a decoy for jewellery and diamonds inside is put on his arm. Back in the USSR, Gorbunkov informs the police about his mishap...

