Buster plays a bumbling villain in this parody of melodrama.
This satirical parody of William S. Hart's melodramatic films finds Buster in the frozen north, "last stop on the subway." He uses a wanted poster as his partner in robbing a gambling house. When he thinks he spies his wife making love to another man he shoots them both only to learn it isn't his cabin after all.
In a satirical parody of the popular American actor and successful silver-screen cowboy, William S. Hart's mannerisms, the usually kind, Buster, dares to portray a rare character in his repertoire--that, of the ultimate villain. Ruthless, pitiless, lustful, and utterly selfish, bad Buster goes to great lengths to accomplish his goals--be it a daring heist at a last chance saloon in the middle of the snow-covered wilderness or an outrageous harassment; and even, murder. But, what on earth possessed Buster to embrace his dark side?
The film opens near the "last stop on the subway", a train terminal in Alaska, which appears to be emerging from deep snow in the middle of nowhere. A tough-looking cowboy (Buster Keaton) emerges. He arrives at a small settlement, finding people gambling in a saloon. He tries to rob them by scaring them with the cutout of a poster of a man holding a gun, which he places at the window, as if it is he is an accomplice. He tells the gamblers to raise their hands in the air. Frightened, they hand over their cash, but soon they find out the truth when a drunk man falls over the cutout. Keaton is thrown out through the window. Keaton offers flowers to his pretty neighbor (Bonnie Hill).Next, he mistakenly enters a house thinking that its his own house. Inside, he sees a man and a woman kissing. Thinking the woman is his wife, he gets red-hot angry and shoots the couple, later to realize his mistake. He goes to his own house, where he finds his wife (Sybil Seely), who greets him, but he treats her coldly. She tries to pick a vase from a shelf, but it drops and knocks her out. Investigating the shooting of the couple, a passing policeman then knocks at Keaton's door after hearing his wife scream. Keaton saves himself from arrest by playing music on gramophone and pretending to dance with his unconscious wife. As soon as the officer leaves, he drops her on the floor.He looks out of the window and sees his pretty neighbor (Bonnie Hill). He quickly dons an elegant white suit and picks flowers (mysteriously growing from the deep snow-a sign remarks "Keep Off the Grass"). He attempts to woo her, but she rejects him. Her husband comes back home and Keaton's character has to flee once more.The neighbors leave on a sled for a new, even more bleak northerly location. Keaton gets a "car" (a dog sled with an engine) driven by a friend (Joe Roberts) to follow them, but it breaks down, so he has to hail a passing "taxi" (a horse drawn sled with upholstery). The taxi is stopped by a traffic warden riding a motorized sled with a propeller for speeding on the snow, but they get away. Keaton is up to his old tricks-he "reverses" the propeller so the officer goes backward into a lake. Near the north pole, he and Roberts find a hotel-like igloo with wall-hangings of a stag's head and a guitar. In a gag Keaton tries to hang his hat on a stag head antler but it keeps falling off. They attempt to survive by fishing in the manner of the Eskimos. Keaton makes snow-shoes from guitars and attempts to catch fish using tinned sardines as bait, but just creates trouble he first falls through the ice and then tries to fish but the only things he "catches" are another fisherman's baited fish and the other fisherman himself!Forced to flee back to the igloo, where his companion is hoovering the ice floor, Keaton sees his pretty neighbor again in her new hut. Fortified by drinking a bottle of cola, he decides he will force himself on her in the manner of Erich von Stroheim's character from the film Foolish Wives. He appears in Stroheim-like clothing at her hut, but is chased by her husband. Pretending to be a snowman, he eludes him and returns to the hut. Roberts tries to fight the husband but ends up falling into a lake. The husband returns to find his wife weeping on the floor as Keaton stands over her. He wrestles with Keaton. Keaton's wife appears and shoots her husband. The wounded Keaton takes a pistol and tries to shoot the husband, but at that moment a janitor wakes Keaton up in the front row of a film theater (the gun in the last scene turns out to be a folded newspaper in his hand) and Keaton realizes that it was all a dream!
