Maisie is overworked at her defense job and is ordered to take a two week vacation. When she meets Tommy, he offers her a job singing with his band in Reno, but she has to get there on her own. So at the bus station, she finds a ticket and a soldier who gives her a letter for his wife, Gloria, who is in Reno waiting for a divorce. Maisie gets the letter delivered to a woman who says that she is Gloria, but she is not. When Maisie learns of the ruse, she knows something is wrong and can not be dissuaded from investigating.
After sixteen months working for Victory Aircraft without a break, streetwise but kind-hearted Maisie Ravier, who usually works as a vaudeville performer, is diagnosed by the company doctor as being under stress, which leads to a company ordered two week paid vacation. Bandleader Tommy Cutter, with who she has worked before, suggests she spend her two weeks in Reno to perform twice nightly as a singer with him, while she whiles away the days as she likes, the only catch being that she has to find her own way to Reno, which during the war is not that easy. Maisie is eventually able to get to Reno, but rather than focus on her singing gig, she gets involved in the goings-on of Sgt. Bill Fullerton and his wealthy wife, Gloria Fullerton, who is in Reno to get a quickie divorce since she believes he is after her money, which he states he isn't. Maisie believes something not quite right is going on, specifically with Gloria's business manager and personal secretary, Roger Pelham and Winifred Ashbourne, who she believes have ulterior motives in wanting to break up the Fullerton's marriage, which she is out to prove in Bill's absence, he who can't get a leave from the army. Maisie gets help in her task by a starry-eyed bellhop named Jerry, while in turn her actions threaten her burgeoning relationship with blackjack dealer, Flip Hennahan. Through it all, the manifestation of Maisie's stress may get her into more trouble, that symptom which is an eye muscle twitch which most mistake for a wink.

