Hazel runs a beauty salon out of her house, but makes extra money by providing ruthless women to do hit jobs. K.T. is a parasite, and contacts Hazel looking for work when he runs out of money. She is reluctant to use him for a hit, since she prefers using women, but decides to try him on a trial basis. Meanwhile, the local cop she pays off wants an arrest to make it look like he's actually doing his job, but she doesn't want to sacrifice any of her "associates." Several other side plots are woven in, populated with characters from the sleazy side of life.
Hazel Aiken (Caroll Baker) runs an electrolysis service out of her home. She also provides a service for clients who need some kind of crime performed, usually murder. She only uses females for these criminal assignments, and she sometimes rents out rooms in her house to the girls. Also living in the house are Hazel's husband (Gordon Oas-Heim), her elderly mother (Mary Boylan), and her daughter-in-law, Mary (Susan Tyrrell), who has a small baby and is constantly awaiting the return of her absentee husband.Hazel doesn't use men for her hit jobs, but makes an exception when she accepts "L.T." (Perry King) to perform a job for a client who wants to have her autistic son killed, simply because she can't stand dealing with him anymore. While he waits for his call to perform the job, L.T. lurks around the house, stealing pills from Hazel's mother and taking perfume from Hazel's room. Hazel tolerates the behavior because she stands to make quite a bit of money from L.T.'s hit; the client is paying $10,000 cash, $5,000 of which will go to Hazel. Hazel needs the money because she's being shaken down by Detective Hughes (Charles McGregor), the cop who gives her police protection. Hughes is beginning to bear down on Hazel, and demands not only that she pay him, but that she double cross one of her "girls" and allow Hughes to make an arrest.Hazel sends a young woman, "P.G." (Stefania Casini) to perform a hit on an illegal immigrant who pushed a musician onto the subway tracks during a robbery; the musician's arm was severed, ending his music career, and the musician's wife orders the hit woman through Hazel as retribution for the crime, since the thief only got off with a light sentence. P.G. finds the thief working a late-night job in a garage and crushes his legs under a hydraulic lift.Another scenario involves a neurotic woman named Estelle (Brigid Polk) who hires two girls to kill her neighbor's dog after she imagines that the man has insulted her. The girls, one of whom is a compulsive pyromaniac, take Mary out for an evening before they perform their hit on the dog. They go to a movie, where one of the girls sets a fire in the projection room. Then they abandon Mary and steal a car, which also winds up torched. The next day, they see on the news that the fire has killed 14 people in the theater. The hit on the dog does not go as planned, and the dog survives, which infuriates Estelle. Hazel writes her off when she calls to complain, telling her to get therapy.One client of Hazel's requests a hit job on her infant, which cries incessantly. Before the hit girl can arrive, she decides to throw the baby out of her high-rise apartment window herself, saving the money she would have paid Hazel. In the street below, a crotchety looking mother tells her young son "That's what I'm going to do to YOU if you don't shut up!"Finally the time comes for L.T. to perform his hit, but he cannot go through with it, not out of compassion or remorse, but because he seems annoyed that the mother cannot do the job herself since the boy is so completely helpless and passive. Back at the house, Hughes shows up suddenly in Hazel's kitchen. With no cash from L.T.'s aborted mission, Hazel has nothing to give him and they get into a heated argument, during which Hazel makes a racial slur against him. Furious, he drowns Hazel in her kitchen sink. Mary walks in on the scene after Hazel is dead, but is too simple-minded to understand that Hughes has killed her, so Hughes leaves, taking Hazel's book of clients with him.
