Don, Smokey and Whopper are are their way to Placer City where Don's brother Brad is U.S. Marshal. But when Don gets there, he finds that Marshal Brad is not his brother, but an impostor. When the deputy accuses them of being horse thieves, they flee town. When they go out to find Jenny, who they saved the day before, they are shot at and accused as gold thieves. But Jenny sets the miners straight and the boys, along with Mr. Robinson of the stage line, agree to work together to stop the gold thefts and find the real Marshal Brad.
Riding into Placer City to visit his brother, United States Marshal Brad Cardigan (Lane Chandler), Don Cardigan and his two pals, Smokey (Ray Whitley) and Whopper (Lee "Lasses" White), rescue spinster Jenny Blanchard (Fern Emmett) from a runaway stage coach driven by Jeff (Emmett Lynn). She is on her way to visit her brother, Ben Blanchard (Eddy Waller as Eddy C. Waller), and his daughter Penny (Jan Clayton), and invites them to come and visit her. In town, Dan is alarmed and dismayed to find that the Marshal is an imposter and not his brother. Dan asks a few question, without revealing his identity, and he and his pals ride for the Blanchard mine,a few miles away. Dan learns from Blanchard that the Marshal is unable to protect the gold shipments that leave town enroute to the nearest bank. They decide to reroute a large gold shipment, scheduled to leave town the next day, in an effort to find Dan's missing brother. Vander (Harry Harvey), a clerk in the stage office and a spy for Reynolds (LeRoy Mason), the bogus Marshal, learns of Dan's true identity and also of the plans to ship the gold by horseback over a secret trail. He tips off Reynolds and then, with a plan of his own, substitutes bags filled with sand for the gold meant for the horses. He then boards the stage with the real gold intending to double-cross Reynolds. At the first night's camp, Dan and his pals learn the bags are filled with sand and realize that Vander is making his getaway. When Reynolds' gunmen show up, they surrender the horse and gold/sand bags, and escape on the outlaws' horses. They overtake the stage, recover the gold and force Vander to reveal where Brad is being held. In a gunfight at the hideout, the miners, led by Dan and his friends, rescue Brad and wipe out the bogus Marshal and his gang.

