California State Police Captain Sam Surcher investigates a string of teenage girl murders at Oceanfront High School.
There's murder at a California high school, where female students are being targeted by an unknown serial killer, a married teacher hides his flings with nubile students, and an awkward male is frustrated by the plethora of uninhibited freewheeling young girls.
It's the height of the sexual revolution. Most of the members of the female student body at Oceanfront High School are surprised when males don't hit on them, and often they will act upon those advances. But it's the school's football coach and guidance counselor, Michael McDrew - nicknamed Tiger - that gets more female hearts a-fluttering than any. Conversely, Tiger, despite being married with a daughter, is attracted to anything in a skirt, he having sexual relationships with many a woman, including his students, most of his sexual partners not knowing about the others. On the other extreme is seventeen year old student, Ponce de Leon Harvey, who is sexually frustrated as he doesn't know how to approach girls, while he deals with his attractions to his nubile classmates. The person who has caused most of Ponce's uncontrollable erections of late has been substitute English teacher, Miss Betty Smith. Having left her last relationship thirteen months ago, Miss Smith is also sexually frustrated, and would like more than anything to ease those frustrations with Tiger. But Tiger has other things in mind, he convincing her to help Ponce's "impotence". The arrival of Miss Smith to the school coincides with Ponce finding female student Jill Fairbunn murdered in the boys' lavatory. Police Captain Sam Surcher investigates with much hindrance from Chief John Poldaski, they believing that she was murdered by a sexual predator. Subsequently, more female students are found murdered. If the Captain does find out the truth, he will find that much of the cause was the want for good old fashioned monogamy.
The story is set in "Oceanfront High School," a fictitious American high school in the height of the sexual revolution. Young female students are being targeted by an unknown serial killer. Meanwhile, a male student called Ponce is experiencing sexual frustration, surrounded by a seemingly unending stream of beautiful and sexually provocative classmates.Michael "Tiger" McDrew (Hudson) is the high school's football coach and guidance counselor. But there is another aspect of Tiger's character: He is quite fond of sexual encounters with female students. Tiger tries to befriend Ponce and help him deal with his sexual needs by encouraging him to seek the affections of a sexy substitute teacher, Miss Betty Smith (Dickinson).Meanwhile, one young girl after another turns up dead. A police detective captain, Sam Surcher (Telly Savalas), investigates the case but never obtains enough courtroom-admissible evidence to make an arrest. Tiger is suspected, but never caught red-handed. It is never known for certain who did what, but audiences do learn later that Tiger has moved to Brazil.
