Henry Graham lives the life of a playboy. When his lawyer tells him one day that his lifestyle has consumed all his funds, he needs an idea to avoid climbing down the social ladder. So he intends to marry a rich woman and - murder her.
Henry Graham is a man with a problem: he has run through his entire inheritance, and is completely unequipped to provide for himself. His childhood guardian, Uncle Harry (a deliciously mean-spirited James Coco), refuses to give him a dime, and Henry, completely unwilling to exercise the only solution he sees--suicide-- devises a plan with the help of his imaginative butler: he can make money the old-fashioned way--he can marry it. With a temporary loan from Uncle Harry to tide him over, Henry has six weeks to find a bride, marry her, and repay the money, or else he must forfeit all his property to his uncle. With only days remaining, Henry meets clumsy, painfully shy heiress Henrietta Lowell (played by director Elaine May). She's the answer to his prayers--if only Henry can overcome the obstacles placed in his path by Uncle Harry, Henrietta's lawyer, and Henry's own reluctance to wed.
The only life that urbane Henry Graham has known is the lavish one afforded by his vast trust fund. But that fund is not as vast as he thought as although warned by his financial advisor of his overspending, Henry is now broke. He realizes that his friendships are all based on money, he has no job skills, and his only living relative - his guardian, Uncle Harry - detests him so much that he will never give or loan him money. On the advice of his proper mannered manservant Harold, Henry's only option to continue his lavish lifestyle seems to be to get married to a woman of wealth, an abhorrent idea to him if only because of having a clingy woman by his side forever, but not abhorrent enough not to proceed with that as an end goal. With $500,000 in physical assets (such as his car, etc.), Henry is able to convince his uncle to loan him $50,000 to be able to continue the charade of wealth to attract that wealthy bride. Uncle Harry's terms: if that entire amount is not paid in full within six weeks, Henry is to turn over the entire $500,000 in assets. Near the end of the six weeks, Henry meets the only person he has found even remotely suitable: klutzy and socially inept Henrietta Lowell, a doormat of a woman in almost every aspect of her life, that is except her professional work as an academic botanist. Henry hates the thought of Henrietta so much that he alters his plan: he will kill her after they're married. But can Henry convince her in just a few days to marry him, and if so can he get at least $50,000 from her to pay off Uncle Harry? The further question becomes if anything will change in either Henry or Henrietta's life that will make him change his mind about killing her, or staying married to her.
Examines the vapid life of a born to wealth New Yorker. After he spends all of what was left to him, his questing after more (without bothersome labor) changes him. The main agent of change is a phenomenally passive and unassuming Henrietta Lowell.
Playboy Henry Graham squanders his wealth and must seek out a new source to maintain his idle rich lifestyle. The easy alternative to work is to find a rich woman, marry her, and murder her. Klutzy, nerdy Henrietta Lowell is the ideal candidate. But in dealing with his klutzy, nerdy, trusting new wife, a botanist, and her ill-managed estate, Henry unwittingly begins to assume some sense of responsibility, not realizing this while planning to do away with Henrietta on one droll camping trip...

