In 1871 Arizona, an escaped outlaw survives an Indian attack and helps a trading-post family retrieve their kidnapped son from marauding Apaches.
In 1871 Arizona, after Geronimo's escape to Mexico and Apache return to the reservation, a tribe of Coyotero Apaches are defying orders to lay down their arms. They attack army patrols and settlements. Captured outlaw Wade Cooper is transported by an army patrol to the nearest fort when they are attacked by Apaches. All are killed, except Wade who is wounded. Making his way to a creek he's saved by Nancy Mailer who washed in the waters. She takes him to the nearby trading post which is run by her family. Clint Mailer is her husband and Tim is her son. The husband has a secret gold mine nearby and has extracted 20,000 dollars in gold nuggets already. The family hides Wade but an army patrol, en route towards the troublesome Apache, tells the Mailers to leave the unsafe area immediately. While they all pack to leave, Apaches attack the trading post and take all rifles they can find. When they want to kill the whites, Clint Mailer promises them many more rifles in exchange for their safety. The Apaches agree but they take the young Tim as hostage. The Apaches promise to return Tim in exchange for the promised rifles in ten days. After their departure, Wade Cooper offers to help the Mailers retrieve their son by stealing army rifles for the Apaches. In return, he wants the gold nuggets Clint has been stashing inside a wagon and under the floorboards inside the trading post. The Mailers reluctantly agree but Wade first needs to contact some of his old buddies to help him steal the army rifles. Wade's buddies eventually arrive at the trading post but the ensuing events prove that no one can be trusted.
Prisoner of a U. S. Cavalry patrol, outlaw Wade Cooper (Dale Robertson) is the only survivor of an Apache attack. Nancy Mailer (Martha Hyer) rescues Wade and brings him to her husband Clint's (Wendell Corey) trading post, where she nurses the outlaw back to health over the objections of her husband, a cowardly miser. The Apaches raid the post, kidnaping the Mailers' son and demanding rifles in exchange for his release. Clint Mailer obtains the aid of an outlaw band to steal the rifles from an Army post, but they are caught by soldiers and killed. Wade rescues the boy by leading the Indians into a booby trap in Clint's gold mine, and he and Nancy, who have fallen in love, start a new life together.
