A narcotics detective lets nothing stand in the way of his bringing down a major drug dealer.
Chicago police detective Frank Hooks, played by Fred Williamson, busts a drug dealer named Goldie. Goldie gets out on bail, then Frank gets a tip that a $100 million deal is going down. Frank and his partners (ably played by John Saxon and Richard Roundtree) stake the deal out, and break it up, but Goldie escapes with the money. After chasing the criminal on foot, Frank shoots Goldie dead. None of the police can locate the money. Goldie's boss Mayfield suspects that Frank has stolen the money for himself. Meanwhile, Frank is suspended from the police force pending an internal affairs investigation. Mayfield sends two gangsters to find out who snitched about the drug deal, and to which cop. Their informant names Frank Hooks. After Mayfield threatens Frank and his nightclub singer girlfriend (played by Nancy Wilson), the girlfriend's cat turns up dead. The criminals demand the return of their money, and stipulate a time and place for its return. After Frank rounds up some help in the form of a barely willing ex-con explosives expert, he meets the gangsters for a chance to settle the score with Mayfield.
In Chicago, Illinois, police detective Frank Hooks (Fred Williamson) leads an undercover operation that results in the arrest of drug dealer Goldy Jackson (Michael Dante). Chief Parks (Ed Lauter) is unenthusiastic about the arrest, reminding Frank that Goldy has always avoided conviction in the past. As Frank and his partner, Davis (John Saxon), leave the station, they encounter Goldy in the parking lot, accompanied by his lawyer, Henry Hoffa (Chelcie Ross), who warns Frank to "stop harassing" his client. The heated exchange ends with Frank assaulting Hoffa. Parks demands that Frank apologize to the lawyer, but the detective refuses. Frank seeks comfort from his estranged wife, Angi (Nancy Wilson), a nightclub singer, with whom he maintains a sexual relationship. Although Angi knows Frank is using her, she finds him hard to resist.The next day, Park assigns Frank and Davis to intercept a large shipment of cocaine that is on its way to Chicago. The detectives arrest small-time drug dealer Cheech Jones (James Spinks) for possession of cocaine, and he offers information on the shipment in exchange for his freedom. The detectives accept the deal, and shortly after Cheech's release, he gives them the time and place of the delivery. Frank and Davis, along with fellow detectives Gordon (Richard Roundtree) and Kowalski (Ron Dean), stake out a dilapidated office building that night, but see no signs of activity until early the next morning, when Goldy and several other men enter the building. Inside Goldy receives a briefcase containing $1 million, but the transaction is aborted when the dealers discover Frank watching them through a window. All of the drug dealers are killed in the ensuing gunfight, except for Goldy, who escapes on foot with the briefcase. With Frank in pursuit, Goldy hides the money in the trunk of an abandoned car, before the detective kills him in self-defense.The next day, Parks advises Frank to recover the money or face a grand theft charge. Meanwhile, a hired killer named Koslo (Bruce Glover), and his associate, Jumbo Allen (Tony King), are ordered by their client and drug kingpin Cal Mayfield (Joe Spinell) to identify and "crucify" the police informant.Frank and Davis meet at the vacant lot where Goldy was killed and search the abandoned car, though neither considers opening the trunk. Davis suggests questioning residents of the surrounding houses, but Frank anticipates little or no cooperation.Frank spends the night with Angi, and is summoned to Parks's office the next morning, where he is put on suspension until the missing briefcase can be located. Despite the chief's assurance that Frank has the support of his superiors, the detective believes he has been "presumed guilty" and voices his resentment. Koslo and Jumbo abduct Cheech, who is promised his freedom if he confesses to being an informant. That evening, Mayfield receives word of Frank's suspension and, assuming that Frank has the money, orders Koslo to recover it.When Cheech's mutilated body is discovered by police, a fellow detective warns Frank that he could be next. Frank leaves his apartment to find Koslo and Jumbo following him in their car. They chase him into a vacant lot and are joined by another hired killer, as Davis comes to Frank's defense. When the shooting is over, Davis is dead and the third gunman, who is seriously wounded, informs Frank on Mayfield, Koslo, and Jumbo, while begging for an ambulance. Frank shoots the man in cold blood, then proceeds to track down the other two assailants.Upon arriving at Jumbo's home, Frank battles three henchmen while the killer escapes. Frank returns to Angi's house, where he receives a threatening phone call from Mayfield. He promises Mayfield that he will deliver the money, and advises Angi to stay with her mother until the crisis is resolved. The next morning, Frank promises Angi that he will return, ready to resume their marriage.Frank enlists the help of Easy (D'Urville Martin), a dealer of illegal weapons and explosives, who supplies him with an arsenal to combat Mayfield's gunmen. Armed with dynamite, fragmentation grenades, an automatic rifle, tear gas, and a decoy leather briefcase, Frank and Easy arrive at the designated location, manned by Koslo, Jumbo, and several henchmen. While Frank eliminates Jumbo and the henchmen, Easy blows up the gang's getaway car, but Koslo catches Easy in the act and holds him at gunpoint. When Frank appears, he promises Koslo the briefcase if Easy is released. Koslo complies and Frank throws him the briefcase, which contains a live grenade. After the police arrive, Frank tells Detective New that he intends to pay Mayfield a visit. When New reminds Frank that this is not how "the system" works, Frank replies, "I'm not part of the system; they kicked me out for breakin' the rules."Later, as Mayfield and his girlfriend ride in their chauffeur-driven car, they discover a gift-wrapped box containing Koslo's severed head. While the chauffeur disposes of the package, Frank pulls alongside the car and terrorizes the passengers by tossing in an unarmed grenade. Before leaving, Frank threatens Mayfield that he will kill him if any harm befalls Angi.In a vacant lot, a group of children playing with fireworks cause a brush fire, which engulfs the abandoned car containing the $1 million placed in the trunk by Goldy Jackson.
