It's five years later and Tony Manero's Saturday Night Fever is still burning. Now he's strutting toward his biggest challenge yet - succeeding as a dancer on the Broadway stage.
In this sequel to Saturday Night Fever, former disco king Tony Manero has left Brooklyn and lives in Manhattan. He stays in a cheap hotel and works as a dance instructor and as a waiter at a dance club, trying to succeed as a professional dancer on Broadway. The breakaway from his Brooklyn life, family and friends seems to have matured Tony and refined his personality, represented by his diminished accent and his avoidance of alcohol and profanity. However, certain attitudes have not changed, as with his most recent girlfriend, who's also the singer of a local rock band.
In this sequel to 'Saturday Night Fever, set six years after the events in the previous film, former disco king Anthony "Tony" Manero (John Travolta), now age 25, has left Brooklyn and is now living in Manhattan, staying in a flophouse hotel while he works as a dance instructor by day and as a waiter at a nightclub at night, looking for his big break in the modern dance productions on Broadway.His breakaway from his Brooklyn life, dysfunctional family and friends seems to have matured Tony and refined his personality, specifically represented by his diminished Brooklyn accent and his avoidance of alcohol and swear words. But certain attitudes haven't changed, which include his womanizing skills. Tony is currently dating the forgiving fellow dance teacher Jackie (Cynthia Rhodes). He holds a double standard whereby he feels at liberty to see other women, but becomes jealous if he finds Jackie even talking with other men. Although he is envious of Jackie's modest success, Tony is baffled by her lack of ambition and tells her of his dreams of stardom.One evening, Tony attends the final performance of Jackie's latest Broadway show, and becomes entranced by Laura (Finola Hughes), the lead dancer. He flirts with Laura and she invites him to audition for her next show, 'Satan's Alley'. Jackie waits for Tony outside the theater and is angered by his interest in Laura. Both Tony and Jackie attend the audition, and while Jackie is hired immediately, Tony is told that he will be notified by telephone.Tony seduces and spends the night with Laura, but it becomes clear that Laura only intended to be involved with him for one night. She even implies that Tony used her in order to get a dance role in her latest show.The following day, Tony receives word that he passed the audition, and telephones his mother in Brooklyn, New York, to share the news. That night, he breaks a date with Jackie to wait for Laura outside her apartment building. However, he sees Laura in the company of another man, and is overcome with jealousy. As rehearsals begin for Satan's Alley, Tony berates Laura for her casual attitude toward their relationship. Tony feels used by her. She coldly dubs their relationship a mere one-night stand and justifies this by saying, "Everybody uses everybody." His attitude surprises her as she believes they were merely using each other.Jackie is unhappy by Tony breaking several promises to meet with her. Jackie is also the vocalist of a local band and, unable to trust Tony, instead presumably begins a relationship with the band's rhythm guitarist (Frank Stallone), further upsetting Tony after his conflict with Laura. Jackie, Tony, and Laura all try out for "Satan's Alley".Later, Tony ignores another date with Jackie to attend a cocktail party at Laura's apartment, but is disappointed to discover that Laura's companion for the evening is Jesse, her director. Although Jackie is in love with Tony, she can no longer tolerate his infidelity. She ends their romance, but promises to remain friends. Here, the news of the casting arrives. The others land small parts in the show while Laura is once again cast as the lead female dancer. Jackie, sick of being considered second best in Tony's eyes, finally leaves him. Tony realizes how cruel he has been to her.Tony leaves the party and walks all the way from Manhattan to his old neighborhood in Brooklyn in the middle of the night, he also walks past his former Saturday night hangout, The 2001 Odyssey Discothèque, realizing it's now an all-night gay nightclub for men. He visits his old house and meets his mother (Julie Bovasso), whom is now single since Tony's angry and unemployed father left her three or four years earlier. Tony apologizes to his mother for his selfish ways when he was young. She tells him it was the selfishness that got him out of the dead-end life in Brooklyn. Feeling better after this, Tony heads back to Manhattan to make things right with Jackie. He and the snobby Laura remain distant and hostile as the production progresses.Later, during a rehearsal, Tony notices Jesse's frustration with Butler, Laura's leading man, whose rigid dance style is poorly suited to the material. Tony begs Jackie to meet him at the studio after rehearsal, with the promise that he will keep the appointment. When Jackie returns to the studio, Tony reveals his intention to replace the leading man, and enlists Jackie's help in learning one of Butler's routines. Afterward, as Tony walks Jackie home, he declares his love for her and promises to be faithful.In the morning, Jesse agrees to let Tony demonstrate the routine, despite Laura's protests. Following an awkward first attempt, Tony runs toward the exit, but Jesse reminds him of the rare opportunity he has been given, and advises Tony to balance his arrogance with humility. Tony is allowed another chance, and after giving a flawless performance, he wins the lead role. Mrs. Manero attends the opening performance, bragging about her son to audience members.At the end of the first act, Tony taunts Laura by kissing her, and Jesse warns Tony not to bring his personal issues onstage. Following the second act, Laura asks Tony to meet her after the show, but when he declines, she insults his dancing ability. Tony proves himself in the third act by performing an unscripted solo routine, ending with a leap onto a pedestal at center stage. He beckons Laura to join him, then holds her aloft with one hand as the audience responds with a standing ovation.After the show, Tony apologizes to Jackie and the two get back together. Laura looks on enviously as Tony and Jackie kiss, but seems to accept her defeat. Following his renewed relationship with Jackie, Tony exits by the stage door to "strut" in celebration, reminiscent of the opening scene of 'Saturday Night Fever' as he walks alone through nighttime Times Square, beaming with newfound self-confidence.
