As the Nobel Prize winners come to Stockholm to receive their awards, their lives are overturned and perturbed in various ways.
For some reason, this year's Nobel prize in literature has been awarded to the young author Andrew Craig, who seems to be more interested in women and drinking than writing. Another laureate is Dr. Max Stratman, the famous German-American physicist who comes to Stockholm for the award ceremony with his young and beautiful niece Emily. The Foreign Department also assigns him an assistant during his stay, Miss Andersson. Craig soon notices that Dr. Stratman is acting strangely. The second time they meet, Dr. Stratman does not even recognize him. Craig begins to investigate.
It's sometime in the near future. This year's Nobel Prizes have just been announced with the recipients descending on Stockholm, all staying at the Grand Hotel. The recipients and their behind-the-scenes stories include: American Dr. John Garrett and Italian Dr. Carlo Farelli sharing the prize for medicine for their individual work on the same topic, with Dr. Garrett sure that Dr. Farelli somehow stole his work; husband and wife Frenchmen Drs. Claude and Denise Marceau sharing the prize for chemistry, while their marriage is basically non-existent, Claude's mistress Monique Souvir, about who Denise knows, openly traveling with them as his secretary; American Dr. Max Stratman awarded the prize for physics, he who is accompanied by his now adult niece Emily Stratman who he has not seen since she was a child and who may not know that he is being strong armed to defect back to his homeland of East Germany against his will; and American Andrew Craig awarded the prize for literature, despite his six novels to date not having sold well, he having not written anything in five years, he having disdain for the award itself except the prize money, and he being more renowned for his excessive lifestyle, especially with booze and women. As Craig is traveling by himself, the Swedish foreign office has assigned him a personal aide, the beautiful Inger Lisa Andersson, whose biggest job is to make sure he doesn't embarrass himself or by association the Nobel name. At a press conference, Craig admits that he of late has been making a living writing pulp fiction detective novels under a pseudonym. His detective skills are put to the test when he gets embroiled in his fellow Nobel laureates' back issues, most specifically Dr. Stratman's. In the process, he has to convince Miss Andersson, with who he is falling in love, of what he discovers, which includes a dead body, his own life in danger, and the kidnapping of Dr. Stratman, despite Dr. Stratman seemingly attending all the Nobel functions.
In Stockholm, Sweden to collect his Nobel Prize in Literature, American writer Andrew Craig stumbles across a plot to kidnap a fellow Nobel laureate. On arrival at the hotel, he meets physicist Prof. Max Stratman. They have a pleasant conversation and agree to meet for drinks the next day. When they meet again however, the Professor acts as if he's never met Craig. With his propensity for partying and drinking too much, Craig doesn't have a great deal of credibility with his hosts, including the person assigned to him by the Swedish Foreign Ministry, Inger Lisa Andersson. An attempt on Craig's life and a chance encounter at a local hospital provides the evidence he needs however.

