Two neighbors, a persecuted journalist and a resigned housewife, meet during Hitler's visit to Italy in May 1938.
It's the late 1930's Rome. It's a national holiday in Italy today for the first state visit of Adolf Hitler to the country. The occasion is being marked by a lavish parade with both Hitler and Benito Mussolini to celebrate their political friendship/alliance in the name of fascism. Most of the Roman populace will attend the parade to celebrate with their leader. Two that will not be are the following. Antonietta Taberi, who would have liked to have gone to the parade, has to stay at home to attend to her domestic chores in duty to her husband Emanuele and their six children, all who have gone to the parade without her. Gabriele is a former announcer on Italian Public Radio. Despite living in the same apartment complex (Gabriele only for the last two months) with their apartment windows facing each other across the courtyard, Antonietta and Gabriele meet for the first time today in Antonietta's need to access his apartment to retrieve her escaped myna bird. Their encounter is important to both of them if only for this one day. It takes Antonietta out of her humdrum life, where she is unappreciated and taken for granted by her family, her husband who she does not truly love. And Antonietta's arrival halts what Gabriele was contemplating doing in light of the reason behind he not wanting to go to the parade and he no longer working as a radio announcer, that act which would replace the alternative of what will be happening to him later in the day.
On May 6, 1938, as a massive and ecstatic populace swarms to Rome to attend the ceremony for the historic meeting between the powerful Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini, the Italian Prime Minister or "Il Duce", Antonietta and Gabriele, two lonely residents of a run-down tenement building, have a chance encounter. She is an indefatigable housewife and a loyal Mussolini supporter; he is a recently-fired radio broadcaster and her charming next-door neighbour--two unlikely companions united by an invisible thread of repression, on a truly exceptional day. In the end, can those two absolute strangers share more in common than they imagined?
The film is set during the late 1930s: the occasion is the meeting between Mussolini and Hitler in Rome. Left alone in her tenement home when her fascist husband runs off to attend the historic event, Sophia Loren strikes up a friendship with her mysterious neighbor Mastroianni. As the day segues into night, Loren and Mastroianni develop a very special relationship that will radically alter both of their outlooks on life.

