A dashing thief, his gang of desperadoes and an intrepid policeman struggle to free a princess from an evil count's clutches, and learn the hidden secret to a fabulous treasure that she holds part of a key to.
After successfully robbing the Monte Carlo Casino, Lupin The Third and Jigen Daisuke soon learn that their money is in fact counterfeit and they go after the man responsible: Count Lazare de Cagliostro. The two soon find out that the Count is behind something far worse than counterfeiting money for casinos: he has been keeping a family secret hidden deep in his castle. Can Lupin find out what this is and live to tell the tale? With the help of Jigen and the wise samurai Goemon Ishikawa XIII, Lupin is hell-bent on finding out the Cagliostro family's secret fortune and make it his own.
Reknowned international thief Lupin III (known as "Wolf" in the English dub) comes to the small European duchy of Cagliostro to investigate some excellently-forged money and stumbles across a national conspiracy going back some hundreds of years. Lupin and his friends must rescue the beautiful Clarice from the hands of the evil Count Cagliostro and solve the mystery of a hidden treasure dating back to the 15th century.
After pulling off a heist at a Monaco Casino, Lupin and Jigen soon discovered that they just stole counterfeit money, which gives Lupin an idea on what their next job should be. So they set off for Cagliostro, a small European nation that's known for the Goat Bill Conterfeiting. When they entered the country, they saw a Bride in a car being chased by another car with a group of thugs. Lupin &amp; Jigen tailed them, and got rid of the thugs, Lupin prevents the Bride from falling from a cliff, but he fell and broke the Bride's fall. The Bride left but was captured by another group of thugs. Jigen checked if Lupin was alright, Lupin got up, only to discover that the Bride left him a ring. Which he remember seeing sometime in the past. Who was that Bride?, where is the source of the Goat Bills?, and what connection does the ring have?

