A group of soldiers, including a female for the first time, enroll in the ultimate training mission. They parachute onto an island in the Philippines, only to find that the commandant will stop at nothing to try and break his trainees.
A group of elite soldiers, including one woman, sign up for the ultimate training mission. The group parachutes onto a remote island, where their objective is to reach the safety zone before the "opposing force" captures them. Everything does not go as expected, and the training mission turns into the real thing.
The veteran Major Logan, Lieutenant Casey and a group of selected Air Force pilots go to an isolated island for training for prisoner of war. The team jumps out of the plane using parachute and they are captured in the island and sent to a camp under the direction of Commander Becker and Sergeant Stafford. Each pilot is submitted to torture and humiliation in very realistic situation, but pilot Botts is selected as a kind of example of humiliation to the other prisoners. Becker unsuccessfully tries to convince the tough Lieutenant Casey to give up the training since he is not prepared to have a woman but she does not accept the request. When Logan learns that Becker raped Casey during the night, he realizes that Becker is insane and the training has become reality. Now Logan, Casey and Botts have to fight to survive.
US Air Force Lieutenant Casey is determined to prove her mettle by taking a grueling escape-and-evasion course. Along with several other trainees, Casey is parachuted to a remote island where she is to be tracked down by the "enemy". Reluctantly teamed with Major Logan, who has been injured in the jump, Casey successfully reaches the "safe" goal she's been assigned, only to learn that she has been dragooned into a far more deadly training program than she'd expected. Put to work in a hard labor camp, Casey is subjected to various and sundry humiliations by master sadists Becker and Stafford. What started out as mere "war games" ends in dead seriousness as Casey is forced to face her tormentors alone.

