A lawyer defends his wife, a pathological liar, in a murder trial.
Helen and Ken are a pretty strange couple. She is a pathological liar, and he is a scrupulously honest (and therefore unsuccessful) lawyer. Helen starts a new job, and when her employer is found dead, all the (circumstantial) evidence points at her. She is put on trial for murder, and her husband defends her. He thinks she is lying again when she says she didn't do it, and insists she plead that she did, but in self defense. Charlie, a shady, odd character who may or may not know something about what really happened, hangs around the courtroom and jail making rude comments and noises. After Helen is acquitted, he tries to blackmail them.
The aspirant writer Helen Bartlett and her husband, the lawyer Kenneth "Ken" Bartlett, are facing financial difficulties, since Helen is a mediocre writer and compulsive liar and Ken is an ethical and honest lawyer and can not find clients. Ken does not want that Helen works, but she secretly accepts the job of secretary to work with her father's friend Otto Krayler having a high salary for a few working hours a day. However, she is lured by Krayler that harasses her and she leaves his apartment running from him. Helen summons her best friend Daisy McClure to go with her to retrieve her coat and purse from the apartment. But Krayler is found dead and Helen becomes the prime suspect of the police. Ken believes that his wife killed Krayler to defend her honor in self-defense and he defends her in court. After the trial, Helen is blackmailed by the weird Charles "Charley" Jasper.
Kenneth Bartlett is a struggling criminal trial lawyer, the struggling part because he, who respects truthfulness and honesty above all else, refuses to take cases unless the potential client is innocent of the charges. His supportive wife, Helen Bartlett, a hobby writer, however often tells lies, not just little white ones but big bald faced ones, as a means to an end and in her creative mindset, she not even realizing she's doing it until she's half way through the lie, but which by that time it's too late to recant on what she's said. Ken knows this of her. Because they are struggling financially, Helen wants to get a job, which is against Ken's wishes as he believes she doing so is an admission on her part that he's a failure. So she goes about her task on the sly. She accepts a lucrative secretarial job from a wealthy old friend of the family Otto Krayler despite she not having secretarial skills beyond pecking on a typewriter. After meeting with him for the first time, she finds out that he has more amorous as opposed to professional pursuits with his secretaries on his mind. After running out on the job because of his unwanted advances, she is arrested as Otto is found murdered. Ken acts as Helen's defense attorney, no matter if she is guilty or innocent. What she eventually tells him of the incident and his resulting defense may complicate their relationship regardless of if he is able to get her acquitted. Thrown into the mix to complicate matters even more is Charley Jasper, a seemingly off kilter man who may know more about what's going on than his crazed rantings to Helen may demonstrate.

