When an Indian chief is murdered in a hateful town, a sympathizing ex marshal tries to stop the Indians from attacking for revenge.
In 1868, in the Dakotas, Cheyenne Chief Yellow Wolf and his son Little Wolf leave their destitute village and head toward the nearest army post in the town of Sand Creek. The two chiefs travel on foot because their tribe has very few horses. They intend to meet the local army commander to complain that, with winter approaching, their tribe needs warm clothing, horses and food. The Cheyenne have no firearms, as per treaty stipulations, and they cannot hunt for food. The local army commander is Captain George, a cowardly heavy-drinking U.S. Cavalry officer. He greets the two Cheyenne chiefs by saying that his main concern is not the Cheyenne's needs but the needs of his own people. He also insists that he was given orders to remove the Cheyenne from the Black Hills to a reservation in Oklahoma. Chief Yellow Wolf replies that the Black Hills region is their native home and refuses to accept the re-settlement to a reservation in Oklahoma. He is willing to offer Captain George a trade. The chief will show Captain George an area of recently discovered gold deposits in return for assurances that his tribe will not be removed from the Black Hills. Captain George reluctantly agrees to the trade, but after the two Cheyenne chiefs leave, he sends his man Garvin to shoot at Yellow Wolf in the street, in order to intimidate the chief. Unfortunatelly, Garvin shoots the chief dead. The chief's son Little Wolf runs back to his tribe and vows vengeance on the town. Town marshal Tate secretly loves Yellow Wolf's daughter Pretty Willow who is Little Wolf's sister. Tate believes that the Cheyenne should be allowed to remain on their lands. He cautions the townsfolk that Little Wolf's warriors might raid the town to avenge their chief's death. However, Captain George and the rest of the townspeople dismiss this warning and make fun of Tate. They also demand Tate's resignation as town marshal. A disgusted Tate complies and hands-in his badge. He makes plans to move out of town soon. That very night, Little Wolf's warriors raid the town, steal army guns and horses, kill a few people and disappear. Having stolen most of the town's horses and weapons, the Cheyenne plan to return in force and massacre everyone. Ex-marshal Tate must race against time and find a way to save the town.

