Lillian relentlessly attempts to seduce a married man.
Lil works for the Legendre Company and causes Bill to divorce Irene and marry her. She has an affair with businessman Gaerste and uses him to force society to pay attention to her. She has another affair with the chauffeur Albert.
In Renwood, the promiscuous and hot gold digger Lillian "Lil" lives with her friend Sally in a poor neighborhood. She works for the Legendre Company with the only intention of seducing her boss William "Bill" Legendre. When his beloved wife Irene "Rene" Legendre travels to Cleveland with her Aunt Jane, Lil takes his correspondence from his secretary and uses it as a pretext to go to his house. Then she uses sex to seduce Bill, but Rene unexpectedly returns home and finds them together. Lil succeeds in destroying Bill's marriage and he divorces Rene and marries her. When the powerful businessman of coal Charles B. Gaerste comes from New York to Renwood in a business trip, Lil has a love affair with him. Then she travels alone to New York and becomes his mistress. But Bill's father William "Will" Legendre is not naive and plots a scheme to help his son.
Jean Harlow in a pre Hay's code movie portrays a young beautiful woman who intends to sleep her way to the top in the Great Depression. Miss Harlow wearing a 'red' wig stops at nothing to sleep with the boss's son, Chester Morris, ruin his marriage to Leila Hyamas (who is a size '0' or less) for money. and marriage . Lots of sex and innuendo let us know that Jean Harlow is a healthy girl who enjoys a good sex life with the Chester's character Bill Legendre before marriage. Once married to Chester Morris, Jean's character is not accepted by his well to do friends and is made a laughing stock. Leaving town Jean heads to New York where she starts an immediate affair with an old friend of the family, over 60, and the family chauffer just for good measure. However Chester Morris finds out what is going on and tells her new lover, with her new engagement broken she heads back to Chester. Wise to her now and with a hopefull reunion with his first wife, she is rejected but accepts a payoff and heads off into the sunset with the chauffer. Now able to speak French, Jeam Harlow now finds herself a French millionaire and keeps the chauffer. Jean Harlow's character wears revealing clothes and is topless in one scene when changing. Una Merkel as her best friend is a great down to earth friend who accepts it all as quite normal behaviour for 1932. Very entertaining.
