Prostitute Sugar is set up by a corrupt politician. She is convinced of the futility of appealing her case in the courts and signs on to a chain gang run by the notorious Dr. John who performs cruel medical experiments on the people who work for him.
Sugar (Phyllis Elizabeth Davis) is walking with two men, each holding one of her arms; they stop at the entrance of a downtown hotel, one man kisses her good-bye, and the other walks in with her. Up at the hotel room, the john offers her a marijuana cigarette, and she lights it up. He then excuses himself for a moment, and immediately the cops bust in and arrest her, for prostitution and drugs possession. She is not friendly to the two other women in her cell, an Asian looking girl, and a black woman, Simone (Ella Edwards), who, reflecting on her profession tells her, "No matter who you put out for, it's still a business." Anyway, Sugar offered a deal by the Police Inspector. She can accept to cut sugar cane for two years, or she can go to court and risk a lengthier jail sentence. She accepts the former. They're tossed into the back of an open truck with five other women, the last aboard a nervous, screeching brunette, and driven away to the Cana Verde plantation.The nervous girl takes advantage of the truck slowing at one point to clamber out and try to escape. Quickly chased down, she is beat up a bit, and is about to be raped by two guards, when Simone shows her breasts, and says, "Why mess around with that scrawny thing when you could have me." Simone leads one of the guards off and they have sex (off camera). The nervous girl returns to the truck, after being raped.
The guards at the farm are Max (Albert Cole), a profiteer with a mustache, and Rick (James Houghton), a younger and naive man. The Chief Guard is Burgos (Cliff Ormond), a big and tall man. When the women arrive at the plantation, Burgos gives them a quick orientation: "Behave or bad things will happen to you." He frisks some of them and then looks each one in the mouth as if buying a horse.Dr. John (Angus Duncan) appears on horseback to the women, and exchanges a few words with Mrs. Fara Ramirez (Jacqueline Giroux), a woman who arrives in a Mercedes-Benz driven by a chauffeur, and wearing a black dress and large brimmed hat . She is imprisoned because she killed a man - eventually her husband, going by her dress color. She talks back to Dr. John, and he is not pleased, showing his short temper. He lives in an over-decorated mansion on the property, with a butler named Wolfgang - a hint of a possible Nazi past. Another prisoner in the barracks is Dolores (Pamela Collins), a 17-year-old blonde sold into servitude by her uncle.The next day, the girls are dragged out to the fields for the first time. They all choose to wear surprisingly skimpy shorts and tank tops. Sugar takes a few minutes to flirt with the guards. The work is interrupted by an Inspector from the Ministry of Labor. No one complains to the inspector, because "It's our first day at work". But when Dr. John comes around, Dolores pleads her case to him. He agreed to looking into the matter.Dr. John calls for Sugar to be brought to his estate. He's waiting for her in his tub.. "I know the secrets of undreamed of pleasures," he says by way of a come-on as he stands up. Sugar demurs. He persists, "I don't think you understand the extent of my proposal." She looks down at him. She spurns him, and he sends her away, very angry.Next day Burgos shows up at the women's barracks and asks for volunteers for a medical experiment. He actually gets a volunteer, but he rejects her, and just hauls all the women off to the house. The first called in the lab is Simone, who comes out of the lab shaky, and not telling a word. The second in is Sugar, who the doctor straps down on an examining table, aided by Wolfgang. He wires her up with electrodes and then pulls out a syringe. "This is used in fertility rituals and as a cure for frigidity." Sugar starts moaning and groaning. Dr. John urges her to let herself go. She starts moaning louder. A machine is measuring her response, and the indicator creeps upwards into red. Sugar apparently has an orgasm, and this overloads the system and the machine catches fire. The experiments stop there, by machine failure. Dolores, however, doesn't want to leave. Instead, she wants to talk over her case. He takes her into his lab and puts her on the table to examine her, "It's perfectly alright. I'm a doctor. So tell me, were your parents very strict with you?" he asks in a creepy tone. She says yes, and that she is a virgin. rips her shirt open, and rapes her (off screen). Dolores returns to the barracks unsteadily, and the other girls sympathize with her. Next day, Sugar takes on additional work to make up for the still shaky Dolores.On this work farm, male and female prisoners get to have weekly campfire get-together. This leads to assorted hook-ups. Max is selling drinks to the male prisoners, and soon two of them - a Brazilian and a Venezuelan - are drunk and fist-fighting over Sugar, who only shows despite at them.Then, Max sends Ricky to the river, where a brunette is waiting for him... Ricky starts telling her the story of the bear and Goldilocks in the forest, getting closer and closer to her, but when he whispers the last sentence to her ear, she knees him to the groin, and he falls back onto the river. All wet, he complaints to Max of the bad result he had been told was always successful with girls. Max shakes his head, "No! No, you shithead! You got it backwards! It was supposed to be, and now I'm going to snatch a kiss!"Fara and Dolores duck away from the campfire for a little lesbian canoodling in the nearby stream, by a waterfall.Sugar plays cops and robbers with Carlos, a handsome guard, and they decide to have sex in Dr. John's bathtub, and his bed.
Simone gets together with Mojo, a powerful black male prisoner, whom she had told on their first encounter, "I don't mess around with bush bunnies." He tells her he is a sort of priest, and he seems to have extrasensory powers.Dr. John walks in on Sugar and Carlos fooling around. For punishment, he turns them over to Burgos who chains Sugar up between two trees and orders Carlos to whip her. Carlos refuses initially, but when Burgos starts to whip Sugar, Carlos agrees to do it . But it was a ruse. Carlos turns the whip on Burgos. At which point, Burgos pulls out his gun and empties it into Carlos' chest. Burgos then kicks the body, takes the hot gun barrel and shoves it down the front of Sugar's short shorts.That night in the women's barracks, Sugar, looking none the worse for the wear, gets up and sneaks away. She decides to sleep in a nearby clearing. She wakes up the next morning and resumes her escape attempt, but unfortunately, she walks right into a trap and ends up dangling from a tree branch by her leg. Sugar is recaptured.All the women will be punished, for failing to warn a guard that Sugar was running away. Dr. John likes to do medical experiments, so, he gathers the women together in a cell. Then he takes a small, orange and white house cat, and he injects it with a drug that "reduces creatures to their primitive state." In a moment, the cat screeches and meows. Dr. John hauls out a half-dozen other cats that he has also injected, and then his henchmen throw the cats into the cell with the women. The women catch the cats and roll on the floor fighting them off, and one by one they faint, scratched and covered in blood. All the while, Dr. John is laughing hysterically. The Chief Guard begs Dr. John to stop the assault before the women are too battered to work.The next day the gals are back at work in the field. During a work pause, Rick shows Max his discomfort for Carlos' killing. Simone in yellow shorts, shoves Sugar - in her low-cut top and jeans shorts - into the stream. Simone tells her, as an explanation, "That's for the fun we had!" Sugar pulls Simone by the arms, into the water, slaps and punches her. Knee deep in the water, they fistfight, and Dolores, who gets in the middle to separate them, takes a punch that was intended for Sugar, and drops down. Max and Ricky get in the stream and hold back Simone and Sugar, respectively. Dolores shouts at the contenders, trying to convey some sense into them, or Carlos' death would have been in vain.
The next is a shower scene. The women sport a few scars, but nothing serious. Dolores and Sugar start conspiring for a serious escape attempt.Sugar fakes an illness and pretends to collapse. Mojo carries her off accompanied by Dolores, Fara, and Simone. Sugar found some sort of charm necklace, and when Mojo sees it he performs a voodoo ritual. Suddenly Sugar's necklace seems to come to life and drag her several yards down a path. At the point where she stops, Mojo tells the others to dig. They find a mass grave. They confront Dr. John with two skulls, to demand "no work quotas, higher wages, no deductions for food, and an end to the human experiments". Otherwise, they will complain to the labor inspector in his next visit. Dr. John lamely answers that he needs time, and Simone says they have no patience to wait. As soon as they leave the house, Dr. John and Burgos start preparing the repression.Before the next campfire, Max is teaching Ricky another chemical secret to win over a girl's interest in sex, this time involving a sticking thumb. Ricky objects that the thumb is physical, not chemical. At the campfire, Mojo is explaining how his voodoo spell on Dr. John will work. He asks Sugar - wearing her low-cut blue mini dress and white shoes - to stand up, pretending she is the incarnation of John, and starts playing with her. Sugar goes along, and half dancing, half walking, she steps astride over his supine body. Simone - shoe-less and wearing the backless white mini dress of her arrest day - screeches and jumps at Sugar. The two roll on the hay covered ground, fighting and displaying their bare legs up to their white slips. The musicians do not stop the music. Sugar wins the first clash and stands up, only to be attacked again by the black girl. Mojo shouts at them to stop, and they do. Again Sugar stands up and walks away, but before she reaches the circle of musicians, Simone picks a piece of rock, and tries to bash Sugar's head from behind. One girl shouts a warning, so that Sugar is able to disarm the jealous black girl, and put her in an arm-lock combined with a strangle hold. Simone submits. Sugar whispers to her, "I never wanted him!," and throws her to the ground.Max is again setting bets with four male prisoners on Rick's encounter with Flower in the woods. But Dolores eavesdrops their conversation, and informs Sugar, and then Fara. So, Ricky ends up meeting with Sugar, instead of Fara. And the result is against Max's bet.Meanwhile, Simone and Mojo sneak off together. They come across a bull's head impaled with a scalpel - a message from Dr. John to Mojo.After the campfire, the guards find Mojo missing, so they decide to search the women's barracks. They burst into the shower, but the naked women shriek and shoo them out, and the guards are apparently too shy to push the issue because it turns out that Mojo is hiding naked in the women's shower. Ater the guards leave, Mojo sneaks out of the women's barracks to do some other ritual. One guard stumbles onto the fugitive. Mojo turns out to be quick, he jumps out of the way of a gunshot. But while he manages to beat up one guard, he is ultimately beaten down by big monkey guard. They tie Mojo up and set him on fire.In the cafeteria next morning, Sugar tells the other women that Mojo has been captured, and killed. The girls keep calm. Simone stands up slowly, pulls out her machete, and chops off Burgos' left hand. Now the riot begins. The women have machetes, but the guards pull guns and manage to suppress things temporarily.Sugar cozies up to Rick and offers to run away with him, and robs his gun. In the meantime, some of the other girls steal some petrol and guns from the guards. They all meet up and raid Dr. John's house. They want to rescue Simone, who's being slowly roasted in a sugar cane cage over an open fire, while Dr. John watches, sitting in a throne-like chair. Sugar knocks Dr. John on the head and he faints. They release Simone and take Dr. John hostage.In the meantime, the other girls are setting the cane fields on fire. Dr. John comes to, and Sugar wants him to open a gun cabinet so she can get more firearms. Dr. John starts talking incoherently, "Dr. John isn't allowed to touch guns. Mr. Burgos won't let Dr. John hold a gun." Burgos tracks down the girls and tries to free Dr. John, but Sugar is expecting him and when he shows up, she runs him through with a sword.
The girls and the still-blubbering Dr. John make it to the motor pool. Ricky is waiting there to run off with Sugar. He's surprised to see her arrive with her friends and Dr. John, but he decides to help with the break out. Max stumbles onto the scene , and he too decides to help the escape. But the rest of the guards show up and demand the girls' surrender. The girls shoot their way out in a truck,Simone and Dr. John following behind in a jeep. Fara gets shot, but amazingly Sugar and Dolores manage to out-shoot a bunch of guards from the back of a moving truck, and they get away.Simone gets shot as she pulls out, and crashes the jeep into the compound's gate. This seems to revive Dr. John, as he starts taunting her, "You're going to die, but I am immortal." Simone proves him wrong when she machine-guns a petrol can, blowing up the jeep and killing herself and Dr. John while also blocking the guards from pursuing the truck.Ricky and Max drive Sugar and Dolores across the border. The women hide in the back of the truck, under a tarp. Ricky and Max have a debate over who will get Sugar first, but when they pull back the tarp, they find only Dolores.Sugar has jumped over the side some miles back. Sugar gets back in town, a man on each arm - just as she was in the first scene.
