Rick Belrow Livingston, in love with Broadway star Lisa, is sentenced to 30 days in jail for speeding through a small town. He persuades the judge's daughter Cindy to let him leave for one night, so that he can visit Lisa on her birthday. After that he goes on the town with Cindy and she falls in love with him. But Dr. Schlemmer wants his son to become her husband.
In the town of Duck Creek, Connecticut - population 4,516, incorporation 1778 - there is a strict adherence to the 25mph town speed limit, which is only one of the many things the townsfolk are proud about where they live. That's why the town's well respected judge, Gordon Kimbell, has no hesitation in throwing the figurative book at town passerby, wealthy and spoiled Richard Belrow Livingston III, for driving through the town at 85mph: thirty days. The judge also doesn't have any qualms that this sentence places a thirty day delay on what was to be Rick's elopement with famed Broadway star, Lisa Bellmount. Rick does whatever he can to be released, believing he can throw money at the problem to fix it. When money doesn't work, he then tries to manipulate the situation, which leads to stories in the press that there is something going on between himself and the judge's daughter, Cindy Kimbell. In reality, Rick believes Cindy is "small town" provincial, and Cindy believes Rick is stuck up big city. As such, Cindy does not appreciate the newspaper stories. Neither do her family or 'Papa' Eric Schlemmer - her boss and the father of her childhood friend, Ludwig Schlemmer - who have always seen Cindy and Ludwig eventually getting married, with them taking over Papa's business of the general store. Ludwig, however, sees Lisa's visits to Duck Creek as an opportunity to make his own dreams of Broadway stardom a reality. As Rick and Cindy begin spending time together, they do start to fall for each other. Beyond their own big city/small town differences, other potential obstacles to a Rick/Cindy happily-ever-after are Judge Kimbell and Papa, who want the best for their children, and Lisa.

