A doctor uses special eye drops to give himself x-ray vision, but the new power has disastrous consequences.
Dr. James Xavier is a world renowned scientist experimenting with human eyesight. He devises a drug, that when applied to the eyes, enables the user to see beyond the normal realm of our sight (ultraviolet rays etc.) it also gives the user the power to see through objects. Xavier tests this drug on himself, when his funding is cut off. As he continues to test the drug on himself, Xavier begins to see, not only through walls and clothes, but through the very fabric of reality!
The scientist Dr. James Xavier is researching an eye drops that increases the power of the vision. Dr. Xavier decides to test the drug on him and finds that his experiment gives X-Ray vision. However his research fund is cut off, despite the efforts of his friends Dr. Diane Fairfax and Dr. Sam Brant to explain its importance to the investors. Dr. Xavier proceeds testing the drug on himself and realizes the wrong diagnostic of a teenager that will be submitted to a heart surgery. Dr. Xavier does not allow the surgeon Dr. Willard Benson to carry out the surgery and is accused of malpractice. When Dr. Sam Brant tries to stop Dr. Xavier of using his eye drops again, he reacts and accidentally kills his friend. Dr. Xavier flees from the police and works blindfolded in a carnival "guessing" written information. However he is recognized and soon he invites Diane to travel abroad with him. But he decides to go to Las Vegas first to raise money in a casino, with tragic consequences.
Ray Milland plays Dr. James Xavier a brilliant scientist who understands that the human eye only perceives a tenth of the entire visual spectrum. Through his experiments he develops an eye drop that allows a monkey to see through hard material and his gal-pal Dr. Diane Fairfax (Diana Van der Vlis) is astounded at the discovery. Xavier turns to his friend Dr. Sam Brant (Harold J. Stone) to aid him in administering the drug on himself to record the details first hand, but Brant doesnt want to because too much is still unknown about the drug. Xavier goes forward with his plans and discovers a wealth of new visual abilities he didnt posses before. His ability to see through material prevents a miss-diagnosed surgery but puts him at odds with the attending physician at his hospital. Brant tries to prevent Xavier from continuing the drug because of the physical damage to his system. In the midst of an argument Xavier accidentally causes the death of Brant and Diane convinces Xavier to flee until he can pull himself together and explain what happened. Xavier drops out of sight until Diane tracks him down and discovers that by continually using the vision drug Xavier has developed a sensitivity that has caused shocking changes in the doctors persona. As the police close in and crosses paths with a religious preacher the doctor takes some actions that have drastic aftereffects.
