A young woman, muted after a sexual assault as a child, is trained to seek violent revenge on those who have wronged her after being kidnapped and forced to work as a prostitute.
Rendered mute after a horrific assault in the park by a sadistic old paedophile, young Madeleine tries to escape the traumatic experience living in silence in her parents' farmhouse. However, things will take a turn for the worse, when an innocent offer for a lift by a handsome stranger in a flashy sports-car leads to a nightmarish life of prostitution, abuse, and drug addiction. But when Madeleine finds out her evil pimp's cruel scheme, an irrevocable course of sweet retribution and a deadly sawed-off double-barrelled shotgun will inevitably set the stage for a bloody roaring rampage of revenge. And then, no one will ever dare to harm her again. Never again.
Frigga lives with her parents on their farm. Unable to speak after being horrifically raped by an elderly man when she was young, her parents spend the majority of their money on speech therapy classes for their daughter in the hope that one day, she will speak again. One day, Frigga misses the bus to get to her speech therapy class. She accepts a ride off a suave looking gentlemen named Tony who pulls up beside her. Once they are in town, he takes her for a meal. Afterwards, he takes Frigga back to what appears to be his bachelor pad. He gives her wine that has probably been drugged, as she passes out after drinking it. The man then takes no time in bringing a crooked doctor in to get her fixed on high class heroin. After announcing to Frigga that she is now dependent on heroin and cannot last more than 48 hours without it, she must work as a prostitute for him. Frigga, obviously not thrilled by this news, attempts escape twice, but to no avail. On getting her very first client, she reacts by scratching down his face. Tony punishes her for this by removing an eye (the infamous supposed cadaver eye scene). Having found out that Tony sent a fake letter to her parents announcing in it that she hates her parents, Frigga makes her way home one Monday (her day off) only to discover that they have both apparently suicided from the lost of their only daughter. After this and the death of her friend and fellow prostitute Sally, Frigga seeks revenge on those who have wronged her, namely Tony and her clients. She spends her Mondays learning martial arts, buggy driving and shooting in order to suitably equip herself to take on the villians in her life. One of the blueprints as to why Tarantino's Kill Bill films exist, this film is an essential in the femme fatale revenge genre.
Frigga is a young woman who was raped by a stranger as a child. Suffering from shock from this incident, she becomes a mute. One day, she heads to town to visit a highly qualified doctor about her condition. However, she misses the bus. A seemingly nice gentleman offers her a ride into town and has dinner with her, but she is drugged and is intentionally hooked onto heroine in order for the man to control her. She is forced to work in his brothel, but is given Mondays off, and she is given heroine daily, as to keep her coming back to the brothel for a supply. The pimp also forges a letter that is sent to her parents, which cruelly explains away her disappearance as abandonment. Her parents kill themselves in grief. After learning of her parents death, Frigga uses her Mondays off in order to train in martial arts, sharp-shooting, and driving, in order for her to take revenge on those who have wronged her.

