Trouble starts when the queen's magic mirror says Betty Boop is fairest. Cab Calloway sings "St. James Infirmary Blues."
The evil, long-nosed queen asks the magic mirror in her hand who's the fairest in the land, and the mirror replies that she is. But into the queen's cave walks Betty Boop, singing that she wants to see her stepmama. Now Betty is the fairest in the land and the queen orders her beheaded. Koko and Bimbo can't bring themselves to do it. Later, Betty ends up encased in a block of ice. The Seven Dwarfs, thinking she's dead, bring her into the Mystery Cave, her final resting place. Bimbo and Koko join them. And so does the queen, who has changed herself into a witch. The clown, with Cab Calloway's voice, sings "St. James Infirmary Blues" in the weird cave full of flying skeletons and floating ghosts. Only a reversal of fortune can save Betty and the two heroes now.
The evil, long-nosed queen, who must rule in a land of ugly women, asks the magic mirror in her hand who's the fairest in the land, and the mirror replies that she is. But into the queen's cave walks Betty Boop, so beautiful that even the icicles hanging over the entrance curl up to let her through. She sings that she wants to see her stepmama, and the icicles form faces to sing along with her. Koko the Clown and Bimbo the Dog, both in suits of armor, are guarding the entrance. They are smitten, too.Betty walks into the throne room and immediately the queen burns with jealousy, as we can see when her face becomes a frying pan and her eyes sizzling eggs. She asks her mirror again who is the fairest. The magic mirror, with arms on its handle, says "you" are the fairest in the land; but he's pointing at Betty. She orders that Betty's head be chopped off, which she demonstrates by using two of her fingers to chop off a third.Later, Betty is tied to a tree, out in the cold and snow. Koko weeps as he sharpens his ax; Bimbo weeps as he brushes off the tree stump for her head. An open grave is waiting for Betty, but Koko and Bimbo can't kill her. Instead they bury the grinding stone and the tree stump, but fall into the grave themselves, which is a deep, deep hole. But it leads back outside, where they hit the grinding stone, knocking themselves out.Meanwhile, the tree sets Betty free, and lays her garter over the grave to make it look as if she has been buried there. Betty falls down a hill where she becomes a runaway snowball that leads her into the icy water. She slides back out encased in ice. The ice continues to slide until it reaches the Seven Dwarfs' house.The grieving dwarfs ride down the hill with Betty, two skis being enough for all seven of them. They take her into the Mystery Cave.Meanwhile, the queen is happy to see Betty's garter over her grave. But when she asks her mirror her eternal question, the mirror tells her she'd better hide her face. The queen uses the mirror to dig up the grave and finds it is empty. She slides the magic mirror over herself and changes into a witch. She slides down the deep hole and lands on Koko and Bimbo, waking them up. They follow the queen-witch into the cave as Koko, with Cab Calloway's voice, sings "St. James Infirmary Blues."The dwarfs, Koko, Bimbo and Betty (still in the ice, but opening and closing her eyes to reveal to the audience she isn't really dead) rides through cave's river on an ice floe. The queen shows up and turns Koko into a ghost. But he continues to sing and dance. The cave is full of weird things, including a flying fish bone, a dinosaur skeleton putting on pants, human skeletons playing cards and rolling dice, an immobile cow playing the piano, and skeletons at a bar that serves milk.The queen turns Koko and Bimbo into ice sculptures and once again asks her mirror who is the fairest. The mirror tell her it is she, but then gives her the raspberry with a tongue that is really a duck with a long, striped neck. The mirror changes the queen into a hideous dragon and unfreezes the trio.The dragon chases the three through the cave. Koko and Betty escape through the exit. The queen-dragon is just about to bite Bimbo when Bimbo turns around and pulls her tongue. He pulls her inside out and she runs away with her skeleton exposed. Out in the snow, Betty, Koko and Bimbo join hands and dance around happily in a circle, their triumph complete.
