Two best friends plot to get their single parents together to stop one of them from moving to New York.
Mary and Nicki are best friends and they want their unsuspecting single parents to marry. Nicki's mother Sharon (the twin of Susan) wants to move to New York City though. With the help of Susan, they try to get the two together.
Sharon Ferris, who lives in Tampa with her preteen daughter Nikki Ferris, has been divorced for two years, and has not dated since. Partly to move on with her life both personally and professionally, Sharon has decided to accept a job promotion in New York City, to where she and Nikki will move at the end of the summer following Nikki finishing summer school. This move does not sit well with Nikki, especially as she has made a new friend, a possible BFF, in Mary Grand, a summer school classmate. Nikki and Mary believe they can achieve all their goals - including Nikki's mom being happy again personally, and Nikki not having to move to New York City - if Nikki's mom and Mary's widowed father, sports writer Bill Grand, would meet, fall in love and eventually marry each other. As such, Nikki and Mary do whatever they can to push their parents together. When one plan after another to do so fails, Nikki figures she can use some extra help in the form of her maternal aunt, Sharon's identical twin sister, California residing Susan Carey. Nikki has often heard the story from Sharon and Susan's childhood, when they pretended to be each other - switching places - which eventually brought their divorced parents back together. Nikki tries to convince her Aunt Susan to come to Tampa without Sharon knowing, pretend to be Sharon, and go on a couple of dates with Bill to cultivate a romance, before they would tell Sharon what's going on so that she could then take over. Susan agrees if only so that her sister would have the possibility of romance in her life again, and despite Susan being married with a family herself. Susan secretly being in Tampa pretending to be Sharon leads to a slew of complications and misunderstandings, especially for those that don't know that Sharon is an identical twin. But all those complications and misunderstandings may be worth it for all involved if Nikki and Mary's wish to be stepsisters becomes a reality.
Hayley Mills plays twins again in this first of three TV sequels to her fondly remembered 1961 film, The Parent Trap. Here, one of the twins is a divorced mother whose 11-year-old daughter, Nicki, befriends another girl, Mary, in summer school. Mary has a widowed father, (Tom Skerritt) so naturally the two girls try to get them together. But the mother wants to move, so they have to act fast. Eventually, the mother's twin sister is brought in to aid them.

