Two shoeshine boys in postwar Rome, Italy, save up to buy a horse, but their involvement as dupes in a burglary lands them in juvenile prison where the experience take a devastating toll on their friendship.
At a track near Rome, shoeshine boys are watching horses run. Two of the boys, the orphan Pasquale and his younger friend Giuseppe, are riding. The pair have been saving to buy a horse of their own to ride. The boys meet Attilio, Giuse's much older brother, and his shady friend at a boat on the Tiber. In return for a commission, the boys agree to deliver black market goods to a fortune-teller. Once the woman has paid, Attilio's gang suddenly arrives, pretending to be cops, to shake the woman down. With a payoff from Attilio, the boys are able to make the final payment and stable their horse in Trastevere over the river. The fortune-teller identifies Pasqua and Giuse. Held at an overcrowded boys' prison, they are separated. Giuse falls under the influence of an older lad in his cell, Arcangeli. During interrogation, Pasqua is tricked into betraying Giuse's brother to the police. With their trial still in the future, the two friends are driven further apart.
Two boys in post-war Rome earn their living shining shoes for American soldiers. Pasquale is 15 years old and homeless. His younger companion, Giuseppe, has a family, but they live as refugees on some square meters in a big apartment where many families are gathered. The two boys have developed a strong bond of friendship and, together, they collect their savings for a common goal: to buy a horse. Giuseppe's older brother is a criminal. He and his companions persuade the boys to sell some stolen American blankets to a lady on their behalf. The young boys don't understand that they are used in the gang's plot to rob the lady. While they are in her apartment, the criminal gang enters masqueraded as policemen, who accuse her of black-market transactions while they steal her money. The gangsters give the boys a large sum of money and tell them to shut up. Now the two boys have enough money to buy the horse, which they house in a stable in the outskirts of Rome. The next day Pasquale and Giuseppe are arrested by real police when the lady recognizes them in the street. They are taken to a jail as juvenile delinquents, and now their long career downwards in this dark part of society begins. They are split in two different cells. The police try to get some information about the criminal gang from them and, with the help of a trick, finally get Pasquale to reveal that Giuseppe's brother is one of the gangsters. For Giuseppe this betrayal is the end of their friendship. From now on they are driven into a negative spiral of actions against each other until it ends in tragedy.

