A secretary tries to help her boss, who is framed for a murder.
Private investigator Bradford Galt has moved to New York from San Fransisco after serving a jail term on account of his lawyer partner Tony Jardine. When he finds someone is tailing - and possibly trying to kill him, Galt believes Jardine is behind it. As he finds there is rather more to it, he is increasingly glad to have his attractive new secretary Kathleen around, for several reason.
The private investigator Bradford Galt has just moved from San Francisco, where he was framed by his former partner Anthony Jardine and unfairly spent two years in jail, to a well located office of his own in New York, where he works with his efficient, witty and very beautiful secretary Kathleen. When he invites Kathleen to date and have dinner with him, they see a man wearing a white suit in their tail. Brad holds the man that tells that he is also a private investigator called Fred Foss and hired by Jardine to follow him. When a car almost hit Brad on the street, he visits and argues with Jardine, who is also a seducer of married women, and they fight. Later, when Jardine is murdered in his apartment, Brad realizes that he was framed. His only lead is the man of white suit, and with the support of Kathleen, they try to find the unknown man to discover who is behind the murder of Jardine.
New York City based private investigator Bradford Galt believes that he's being followed by a man in a white suit. Brad learns directly from the white suited figure that the person who hired him to follow Brad is Tony Jardine, Brad's old business partner from San Francisco. Tony, too, has relocated to New York City, and works for and is a social acquaintance of Hardy Cathcart, a wealthy art gallery owner and art collector. Brad and Tony's business partnership ended because Tony was blackmailing clients, and other actions on Tony's part resulted in Brad being charged with vehicular manslaughter. Brad has no idea why Tony has had him followed, but he believes that Tony wants him dead. But as Brad tries to figure out exactly what Tony wants, Brad becomes implicated in a murder. Following the murder, he begins to realize that there was something not quite right about how he found out that the man in the white suit was following him. The tables are turned when Brad tries to find the man in the white suit to uncover what's going on. Through this entire ordeal, Kathleen Stewart, Brad's secretary, is by his side, the two who have a mutual attraction to each other. Despite words from Brad for her to leave to protect herself, Kathleen stands steadfastly by her man.

