When Frank Castle's family is murdered by criminals, he wages war on crime as a vigilante assassin known only as The Punisher.
Based on the Marvel Comic, Dolph Lundgren is Frank Castle an ex-cop who lives in the sewers and acts as judge, jury, and executioner to the city's criminals in retaliation for the unpunished murders of his wife and kids. Frank's ex-partner Jake (Louis Gossett Jr.) finally catches up with the vigilante as he tries to stop the Japanese mob, which is trying to take over the city's mafia operation.
An affluent Pacific port city suffers from massive mob crimes, often unpunished, but the families are increasingly concerned as 125 of their members and soldiers were executed by a mysterious vigilante 'The Punisher'. Only this former cop's former partner, Jake Berkowitz, believes it's Frank Castle, while the mayor even forbids doubting his legally pronounced death after the vicious, traumatizing murder of his family. Former mob king Gianni Franco returns from retirement to unite the families against the common threat, only to face a new one: the Japanese Yakuza had landed, and their excessively bloodthirsty head Lady Tanaka wants his seat and 75/ of all profits. As ultimate blackmail chip, she has the kids of family heads kidnapped. Franco enlists Frank to liberate his son Tommy, while Jake and his assigned, computer-knowledgeable new partner Sam Leary search for both the Punisher and his various preys.
He is the cities most wanted, and most mysterious, vigilante. He has killed 125 people in the last 5 years. He is the Punisher, a one man weapon against crime. In reality the Punisher is Frank Castle, an ex-cop who's family was murdered by mobsters. Now legally declared dead, he strikes back from beyond the grave, killing mobsters wherever he can find them. As a result of this, the mobsters families have weakened, forcing Gianni Franco, one of the leaders of one of the families, to come in and take control of the families. Franco has a plan to bring the families together as one unit. However, this has attracted the attention of the Yakuza, Asia's most powerful crime syndicate, who decide to take over the families and all their interests. In order to sway the mobsters to their cause, they kidnap their children. Now the Punisher must fight to save the lives of the children of the people he has fought against for five years,while at the same time fighting alongside the man who killed his family.
5 years ago, Detective Jake Berkowitz's partner Frank Castle and his family were assassinated in a mafia car bombing and since that tragic day, 125 criminals have been slain by a psychotic killer whom calls himself The Punisher and Berkowitz has been following The Punisher's trail since. Nobody knows who The Punisher is and why he has killed these criminals. The only one who know the true identity of The Punisher is Berkowitz and Berkowitz knows The Punisher is Frank Castle. As The Punisher, Castle has begun his personal crusade to punish criminals and to punish those responsible for his family's assassination and he lives in the sewers beneath the streets of the city. After Castle kills his latest victim, mobster Dino Moretti. Gianni Franco, head of the Franco crime family decides to unite other crime families to form a powerful criminal organization. But, the head of the Yakuza Lady Tanka abducts Franco's son and heir Tommy and the children of the members of the Franco crime family and holds them hostage and threatens to sell them to child slave traders, if Franco and his associates refuses to cooperate and agrees to her demands. After demolishing the Yakuza's illegal casino, Castle learns from his informant Shake, a stage actor turned alcoholic bum about the children's abduction and Castle sets out to rescue the children. After Castle is captured and tortured by the Yakuza and manages to escape and frees the children, Castle is arrested and is forced to stand trial for his ongoing killing spree. But, Franco frees Castle from police custody and demands Castle to help him break into Yakuza headquarters and help him get back Tommy and Castle reluctantly forms a temporary alliance with Franco and Castle and Franco set off to rescue Tommy and take down Lady Tanaka and the Yakuza.
