An unhappily married couple struggle to deal with their problems while on board the ill-fated ship.
Unhappily married and uncomfortable with life among the British upper crust, Julia Sturges takes her two children and boards the Titanic for America. Her husband Richard also arranges passage on the doomed luxury liner in order to let him have custody of their two children. Their problems soon seem minor when the ship hits an iceberg.
Julia Sturges, her marriage in ruins, attempts to return to the United States with her two children, Annette and Norman. Her husband. Richard Ward Sturges, manages to locate her and joins her on board ship but there appears to be little to reconcile them. Annette begins a romance with a young American college student, Gifford Rogers and Norman revels in the time he gets to spend with his father. They are on board the doomed RMS Titanic however, once the ship strikes an iceberg, their family problems seem quite unimportant.
Stuck in an unloving marriage, rich socialite Julia Sturges boards the Titanic with her two young children with the intent of divorcing her husband, Richard, when she arrives in the States. At the last minute, Richard discovers her plan and manages to get on board the ship in an attempt to convince her to stay with him. Their marital problems take a backseat, however, when the Titanic collides with an iceberg and begins its descent into history.
Unhappy with life in England, Julia Sturges take herself, and her 2 children abroad the "unsinkable" white star liner RMS Titanic. Her husband, Richard Sturges, manages to buy a steerage ticket from another family to battle with Julia for custody. Julia considers Annette "grown up" and lets her make her own decisions, while Norman needs care from his mother. It is an adventure of different things until the ship hits an iceberg. an alarm is sounded while Richard tries to convince his family that they will be safe, even though he found out that the ship will sink. the ship begins to lean to its port side, and then forward. Julia and Annette are safe in a lifeboat, while Norman and Richard are left on the ship to die. They sing a "welsh hymn" until the ship explodes multiple times, and eventually explodes indefinitely, and goes down.
