A Polynesian sailor -- unjustly imprisoned after defending himself against a colonial bully -- is relentlessly persecuted by his island's martinet French governor.
In the Island of Manukura, a French colony in the South Seas, the joyful Terangi is a leader among the natives and the first mate of the Katopua, the tall ship of Captain Nagle. Terangi gets married with Marama and sooner he sails to Tahiti. While in a bar playing with other natives, Terangi is offended by an alcoholic racist French and he hits his face, breaking his jaw. Despite the testimony of Captain Nagle, Terangi is sentenced to six months of forced labor since the victim had political connections with the Powers That Be. Captain Nagle asks the Governor Eugene DeLaage to uses his influence to help Terangi, but the governor refuses. Terangi unsuccessfully tries to escape from the prison, and each attempt increases his sentence. Eight years later, he finally escapes and his jailbreak is celebrated in Manukura. Father Paul finds his canoe and brings Terangi to the island. But a devastating hurricane also arrives in the island threatening the dwellers.
Terangi, first mate on a transport that plies the South Pacific, is happy to return to his home island of Manukura. He's home to marry his beloved Marama but they only have one night together before he must set off on the 600 mile trip to Tahiti. There however, he he get into a bar fight and is sentenced to 6 months imprisonment. His several attempts at escape fail, adding years to his sentence. When he does manage to escape he makes his way home and is assisted by the kindly Father Paul. He is pursued by Governor DeLaage, a strict overseer of the island and it's people. When he concludes that Terangi has returned to the island, he sets off to find him, just as a gigantic hurricane descends upon them.
In the days of the tall ships and of colonial rule in the South Pacific, a native sailor working as first mate on an island-hopping windjammer is unjustly jailed in Tahiti for striking a racist planter with government connections. His attempts to escape and return to his home and his bride result in an increased sentence. The "justice" meted out is set in contrast to the reactions of the white colonials in his sphere -- the open-minded ship's captain who employs him; a humanitarian physician; a by-the-book island governor; and a sadistic jailer -- and to what can be interpreted as natural justice, in the form of a devastating hurricane. Based on a book by the authors of the book "Mutiny on the Bounty."

