The Dynamic Duo faces four supervillains who plan to hold the world for ransom with the help of a secret invention that instantly dehydrates people.
The arch-villains of the United Underworld - the Joker, the Penguin, the Riddler and the Catwoman - combine forces to dispose of Batman and Robin as they launch their fantastic plot to control the entire world. From his submarine, Penguin and his cohorts hijack a yacht containing a dehydrator, which can extract all moisture from humans and reduce them to particles of dust. The evildoers turn the nine Security Council members in the United World Building into nine vials of multicolored crystals! Batman and Robin track the villains in their Batboat and use Batcharge missiles to force the submarine to surface.
When Batman and Robin are called out to rescue Commodore Schmidlapp, they are unaware that they are actually being fooled and the real Schmidlapp is being kidnapped by four of Batman's most feared enemies. The Joker, the Penguin, the Riddler and the Catwoman are working together to defeat the Dynamic Duo once and for all. Armed with a dehydrator that turn can humans into dust, the fearsome foursome intends to take over the world once and for all. Can Batman and Robin use their high-flying heroism and groovy gadgetry to defeat the arch-villains of the United Underworld in time?
Being called upon to rescue a visiting Commodore Schmidlapp, Batman and Robin are fully not aware that they were being pulled into a deadly trap. They suddenly realize that Schmidlapp has been abducted by four of Batman's deadliest enemies: the Riddler, the Catwoman, the Joker and the Penguin. Together, the four fiends plan to use a dehydrator to do away with the members of the United World Council and to do away with the Dynamic Duo. Will Batman and Robin save the world? Or will their enemies do away with them once and for all?
When the four greatest super-criminals ever to plague Gotham City join forces, their only objective can only be the entire world! Armed with Penguin-personalized a pre-atomic submarine, an army of ruthless pirates, exploding sharks and octopi, and an arsenal of polaris missiles, the Joker, the Penguin, the Riddler and the Catwoman have set their sights on the United World Security Council! Can the dynamic duo, Batman and Robin, stop the United Underworld before its too late? Will they save the Security Council from almost certain dehydration? Can they possibly save the free world from the four most powerful arch-villains it has ever seen? One hint: The worst is yet to come...!
This campy Batman movie based on the 60's hit series, is full of all your favorite main villains. The villains team up on a plot to destroy all the worlds leaders from a peace summit. Batman and Robin are entangled and nearly destroyed. Bruce Wayne's alter ego falls in love with a lady, who is purrrfectly sweet. But if looks could kill.....The mayhem begins when the Dynamic Duo sail into the ocean on the Batboat to the yacht of Commodore Schmidlap, a yacht that proves to be a holographic hoax that leaves Batman caught by a shark filled with explosive that must be defeated with a handy can of Shark Repellent Batspray.The four villains - The Penguin, The Riddler, The Joker, and Catwoman - use the ocean buoy that projected the hoax to lure Batman and Robin into a magnetic torpedo trap, but a powerful reverse polarizer by Batman saves the day for the moment, only to see the batteries run dry - until a school of noble dolphins rescues The Dynamic Duo from The Penguin's underwater missiles. The Fearsome Foursome set another trap by kidnapping billionaire Bruce Wayne, a trap that goes awry and leads to a hectic dash by Batman to dispose of a bomb with innocent people all around and Batman left to mutter about how getting rid of a bomb can't be done on certain days, which leads to yet another supercriminal trap involving The Penguin himself infiltrating the Batcave with dehydrated thugs - whose rehydration goes wrong and leaves Batman to trick the Penguin into leading them back to his criminal cohorts' scheme at the United World building, where the supercriminal scheme takes place and a final confrontation on The Penguin's war-surplus submarine ensues.Find out the outcome of this confrontation in this exciting feature length film. Same Bat-time same Bat-channel.
