Cameron finds a tank buried in the Arabian desert during WWII, and proceeds to attack the Arabs with it.
Surviving a plane crash in the Sahara, four oilmen find and manage to repair a German Afrika Corps tank which had been buried in the sand since WWII. Heading toward a French Foreign Legion outpost, they encounter a nomadic Arab tribe who believe the oilmen have found the treasure of Calipha, a rival Arab leader. If trying to acquire the jewels by guile doesn't work, the Arabs are prepared to kill the oilmen to get the stolen treasure.
A pot-boiling B-film with the first-reel plot premise akin to the later (and good) "Flight of the Phoenix", but the crashed-cast of this one didn't have a German-genius, model-plane designer on board. This one has four men scouting for oil lands, in the desert, in a plane which is forced down during a sandstorm. The plane is damaged beyond repair --- end of the "Phoenix" similarity --- but, lo and behold, the storm has uncovered a German tank which has lay buried since WWII. The men --- Mike Monohan the pilot; mechanic Jim Evans, from Brooklyn, of course, and capable of mechanical miracles with hair-pins and tweezers; radioman Billy Larsen, only along because the producers were under the mistaken impression he was a box-office draw; and Syd Barlow, along because the producers needed at least one good actor among the leads --- repair the tank and head off over yonder toward a French Army post many sandy miles away. Barlow, whiskey-swiggin' semi-villain of the group, discovers a cache of jewels hidden in the tank and plans on keeping them for himself. The tank runs low on water, which the crew didn't think about when they filled up with gas at the unseen Exxon station, but an Arab encampment at an oasis is just over the lo-and-behold again horizon. But the Arabs recognize the German tank as the one that hauled off some local treasure many sandstorms ago, and the pot begins to boil even hotter for the crew of the "Phoenix"... uh, the "Steel Lady."

