Mr Casey's daughter, Connie, wants to go to Pottawatomie College and without her knowledge he sends four football players as her bodyguards. The college is in financial trouble and her bodyguards use their salary to help the college. The football players join the college team, and the team becomes one of the best. One of the football players, Clint, falls in love with Connie, but when she discovers he is her bodyguard, she decides to go back East. The bodyguards follow her, leaving the team in the lurch.
Clint Kelly, Jojo Jordan and Al Terwilliger are all-American football players for Princeton, Harvard and Yale respectively, while Manuelito Lynch is an Argentinian prospect actively pursued by all the big football schools. The four decide to forgo their college careers when they are hired by the wealthy Harvey Casey to be the around-the-clock unknown bodyguards of his fast living, mean-spirited and spoiled daughter, Consuelo 'Connie' Casey. Their job is more to see that she stays out of trouble. They only agree after spying the pretty Connie and despite having a no-romance clause in their contract. Upon her arrival back in the United States after finishing school in Italy, Connie throws them all for a loop when she announces that she has changed her fast living ways and plans on attending Pottawatomie College, a third rate institution in New Mexico. Mr. Casey can't argue as it is his alma mater, which he attended before he became rich. Mr. Casey suspects she has ulterior motives for wanting to attend Pottawatomie - a man - which is indeed the case. While Jojo, Al and Manuelito don't mind the no-romance clause since Pottawatomie has a 10:1 ratio of girls to boys, Clint soon falls in love with Connie, and she with him. Meanwhile, the four boys decide to play for the school's football team. The school's hapless football teams have not scored a touchdown in over twenty years. The budding romance between Connie and Clint and what looks to be the new found success of Pottawatomie's football team may be put into jeopardy if Connie finds out the real reason Clint is at Pottawatomie.

