Nice, eccentric, idealistic and slightly mad Countess Aurelia, who believes that the good must prevail over evil, decides to stand up to corrupt powerful leaders of Paris by putting them on trial with 'unwashed masses' as the jury.
Life is a Sunday in the park for Aurelia, a dotty Parisian countess. But sooner or later, Aurelia had to find out about the so-called sane world. Join her in a whimsical look at a topsy-turvy world...and at a handful of kooks crazy enough to care.
In modern day Paris, a group of powerful men meet at a café in Chaillot. Convened by the person who considers himself the Chairman, they include a French General - this in the era where the French have just obtained nuclear capabilities - a Russian Commissar, a Reverend and a Broker. Their meeting is to discuss how to increase their collective wealth and power within society. The Chairman states that he has arranged for a sixth to join them - he unknown to the Chairman, but the two who will know each other on first sight - who will have details on how to achieve their goal. That sixth is who is ultimately known as the Prospector, who is certain that a large reserve of oil sits under them right in Chaillot, the Prospector who has been unable to obtain rights to drill due to bureaucracy within the city, and who is trying to make arrangements to replace the city planner who is refusing the drilling rights with someone more favorable to their cause. Also at the café at the time is Chaillot resident Countess Aurelia, who along with her friends Josephine, Constance and Gabrielle, are women of a past era. While Aurelia is the type of woman who only sees and searches for beauty in the world, she, due to an incident that happens, is convinced by others around the café at the time - the common people - that those men represent all the power in the world and that they are only "pimps" in benefiting from the good and beauty that others create, in turn threatening that good and beauty in its entirety. The Countess is convinced in part by seeing how the young love at first sight that happened between two of those onlookers has changed their lives, one being Irma, a waitress at the café, and the other being Roderick, the Prospector's nephew who was somewhat suicidal before in seeing what the world had come to. With both her old and new friends by her side, the Countess decides to take action in placing those men, representing all such men in the world, on trial to account for what she now sees as their crimes against society, thus the salvation of Paris being the salvation of mankind.

