Three Devil's Island escapees hide out in the house of a kindly merchant and repay his kindness by helping him and his family out of several crises.
At Christmas, three prisoners, Joseph (Humphrey Bogart), Albert (Aldo Ray), and Jules (Sir Peter Ustinov) escape from Devil Island to a French small coastal town. They decide to rob a store, to get some money and clothes and travel by ship to another place. They pretend to be there to fix the roof, but pretty soon they realize that the financial condition of the family Ducotel is not good. André Trochard (Basil Rathbone), the selfish and mean owner of the establishment, exploits the Ducotel family. The three convicts spend Christmas night with the Ducotels and are so well treated by the family, that they decide to help them. Their pet will help them to fix the situation.
Three convicts escape from Devil's Island and arrive at a nearby French colonial town. Initially they plan to steal supplies and clothing from the local store, but they take a liking to the store owner's family (more specifically his attractive daughter) and decide to stay and help them overcome many difficulties.
Joseph (Humphrey Bogart), Jules (Sir Peter Ustinov), and Albert (Aldo Ray) escaped prison on Devil's Island. Loitering around the port, awaiting a ship to take them away, they decide to steal some goods from a merchant. Letting him hire them to repair the roof, they can take insight into the private life of his family. Isabelle (Gloria Talbott), the eighteen-year-old daughter of the couple, is still unmarried and longs for her old love Paul (John Baer), who is back in Paris. Felix (Leo G. Carroll), her father, is afraid of cousin André (Basil Rathbone), who owns the shop and will fire him if there are no black numbers to be reported soon. A little later, Paul and André arrive on the island surprisingly, and are far less sympathetic than the family expected. But there still are Joseph, Jules, and Albert. And not to forget Adolf, the little poisonous Viper Albert carries around in a basket constantly.

