Allen Quinton writes a fellow soldier's love letters; tragedy results. Later, Allen meets a beautiful amnesiac who fears postmen...
When a man asks another man more facile with words to do his wooing for him, there are always complications. The man with no talent for writing marries the girl, confesses one night he didn't write the letters and ends up with a knife in his back. The writer of the letters fell in love with the woman he wrote to and wants to become her second husband even if she did murder husband number one. Singleton doesn't remember the murder or anything about the first 22 years of her life as Victoria Remington. Then at her second wedding she wonders why she said "I take you, Roger," instead of "I take you, Alan."
Stationed in Italy during WWII, British officer Roger Morland gets his fellow officer, Alan Quinton, to write love letters to his casual girlfriend, Victoria Remington, back home, as Roger doesn't have the wherewithal to do so himself. Based on Victoria's responses, Alan can tell that Victoria has fallen in love with Roger because of those letters, and in turn Alan, without admitting it to himself, has fallen in love with Victoria without even knowing what she looks like. On one of Roger's training missions back in England, Roger and Victoria get married which irks Alan because he knows she is not marrying who she thinks he is - he truly being beneath her in spirit - that person with who she has fallen in love being non-existent as an amalgam of Roger's physical being and Alan's emotional being. Alan's feelings are despite he being engaged himself, to Helen Wentworth, about who he does not feel the same in that he could never have written those love letters to her. Back in England himself on a medical discharge, Alan learns that Roger has died tragically, not in combat, but while he was at home. As such, Alan, with only Victoria's previous address in Longreach, Essex County in hand, subconsciously takes steps to locate her by living in an isolated house he inherited in Beltmarsh, also in Essex. What Alan discovers second hand is that Victoria murdered Roger, although Alan believes he truly is the murderer, the weapon being those love letters. What he also later learns is that he had previously met Victoria at a party in London, she a young woman going by the name Singleton, who knows nothing of her Victoria past as she is suffering from amnesia, including remembering nothing about the trial when she was convicted or her one year incarceration. With all this knowledge, Alan truly falls in love with all that is Victoria/Singleton, and Singleton with him, the two who want to spend their lives together. Alan does however realize that if Singleton were ever to regain her memory of being Victoria, it would not only destroy their life together, but her entire being, especially in knowing his role in what happened in her previous life.
During WWII, a British soldier has been writing love letters for a friend, but finds himself falling in love with the woman from afar. When his friend is killed, the letter writer tries to find out more about the woman, but finds his way obscured by a scandal no one will talk about. As he investigates he discovers that the disappearance of the woman is related to the mysterious circumstances of his friend's death.
In wartime Italy, thoughtful soldier Alan Quinton writes love letters for comrade Roger to Victoria, whom he's never met. He later hears that she and Roger are married, then that Roger is dead. Wounded, Alan retires to his late aunt's Essex farmhouse, which oddly enough is near Victoria's old home...where he's told she, too, is dead. Back in London, Alan meets Singleton, a beautiful amnesiac. Despite mutual attraction, their relationship seems doomed from the start...

