Beautiful, but amoral, model Diana Scott (Julie Christie) sleeps her way to the top of the London fashion scene at the height of the Swinging Sixties.
Young, attractive and vivacious, model Diana Scott (Julie Christie) is firmly decided to become rich and famous as well. To succeed, she does not hesitate to take bold steps. After a while, she literally strikes gold: she meets Robert Gold (Sir Dirk Bogarde), a well-known television journalist, who not only introduces her into new social and professional circles, but also abandons his family to live with her. Diana seems to have happily combined success and love. However, in those roaring sixties, others are ready to offer her even more money, fame, and, seemingly, fun than Robert can.
Twenty-something Italian Princess della Romita, better known to her British fans as Sussex born Diana Scott (Julie Christie), is giving an interview to a reporter in which she describes her life. She is straightforward about the facts. She worked as a London-based model, her most famous job being as the Honeyglow girl, and had a moderately successful stint as an actress in small roles in movies and in commercials. She married her first husband Tony Bridges (T.R. Bowen) when they were both quite young, but she left him when she fell into an unplanned relationship with television journalist Robert Gold (Sir Dirk Bogarde), who was at the time married with a family. Although she and Robert never married, they lived together for some time. She and Robert split after she fell into an unplanned relationship with advertising executive Miles Brand (Laurence Harvey), who was the one who discovered her as the Honeyglow girl. She met her current husband, Prince Cesare della Romita (José Luis de Vilallonga) while she was working and vacationing in Italy. But behind these facts, she is less than forthright about her emotions in each of these moves, and the motivations for them. If she was forthright, she would expose herself as the vain and self-centered person she is, who was most understood by Miles, but who Robert began to understand, albeit too late.
Beautiful, but easily bored Diana Scott (Julie Christie) becomes a popular model and actress in London in the 1960s while toying with the affections of two older men, married television newsman Robert Gold (Sir Dirk Bogarde) and public relations mastermind Miles Brand (Laurence Harvey). Although Diana is the toast of swinging London, the dark side of fame and fortune begins to take its toll, but it proves to be harder to escape the mod scene than she expects.
Diana Scott (Julie Christie) is a young London model who decides to climb the social ladder quickly by jumping, rather recklessly, in and out of assorted beds. She is a reckless seeker of self caught up in a frenzied sex excursion of jet-set Europe, in search of new experiences and finding emptiness at every level. Sardonically comic observations on various forms of self-indulgence amongst the wealthy emphasize the false values which have destroyed Diana's chance of genuine self-fulfillment.

