An Ohio sales executive accepts a higher position within the company and travels to New York City with his wife for his job interview but things go wrong from the start.
George and Gwen Kellerman live in the small, quiet town of Twin Oaks, Ohio with their two young children and pet dog. George has a strong sense of what is right and wrong, especially as it applies to himself and Gwen, but he still looks to her for validation. Working for a plastics company, George believes he is a shoo-in for the company's Vice-President of Sales, New York Division job, a position located in New York City. George is looking forward to their future life in New York City, with all the amenities and benefits living in the big city has to offer. For George's 9 am interview, George and Gwen plan on taking a flight that lands in New York at 8 pm the evening before, which gives them time for dinner at New York's finest restaurant, The Four Seasons, and a comfortable night's stay at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel before the interview. But nothing on this trip goes according to plan. In fact, what can go wrong, does. Because of circumstances, it even looks as if George may miss his interview. As the fifteen hours preceding the planned interview progress, George and Gwen have to decide if they are going to let New York get the better of them or if they are going to get the better of New York.
George Kellerman and his wife make a trip to New York, where he is about to take a new job. This journey turns out to be a trip to hell -- what can go wrong will go wrong.
Up for a promotion, George Kellerman is being flown to New York City with his wife Gwen - all expenses paid - for an interview with the top brass. They plan to arrive the night before to enjoy dinner and a show but the plane gets diverted to Boston. George's carefully planned dream trip turns into a nightmare which features, among other misadventures, a hellish train ride to New York, a mugging, a police chase and a broken tooth. You may think twice before ever visiting the Big Apple again.
George and Gwendolyn Kellerman, a couple from Twin Oaks, Ohio, takes an all expenses-paid trip to the "Big Apple"- New York City for George's big meeting for a top business company. George has a special night planned for Gwen before the big meeting the next morning. It consist of a dinner-and-dessert for two, then dancing, and finally back to their luxurious hotel suite at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. It seems like the perfect getaway vacation...until it takes a turn for the worse. Bad things stars to arise: The plane is rerouted to Boston's Logan International Airport; They hop on a cattle-style crowded train to Grand Central, with extreme shortage of food; Upon arrival, the entire New York City Transit Authority, the local cab company, and the Sanitation Dept. are on strike; A heavy thunderstorm drenches George and Gwen; The hotel gave away their room; George and Gwen get mugged twice and kidnapped (in a NYPD squad car). It's then that George is not taking this lying down anymore and threatens to sue everybody that never gave them a chance. Someway, the 'Big Apple Pie' can taste very sour for the "Out-of-Towners."

