Mark MacLene owes the IRS, the banks and others a lot of money. The problem is that his trust makes $1,000,000 a year, but he spends $150,000 every month. His trustee, Sam, uses the power of attorney and the spend thrift clause to hire frugal Lucille Duncan to manage Mark's finances. Presented with thousands of dollars for gifts and charges from the night before, she immediately cancels his charge accounts and returns as many gifts as she can. Then she puts Mark on a allowance of $50 a week, which upsets him even more. To get rid of Lucy, Mark moves in with her and makes sure that her boyfriend Tom receives a huge raise. He thinks that Tom will now marry Lucy and he will be rid of her tight control.
Judge Sam Coulter presides over an appeals case where young attorney Lucy Duncan fights not just for the principle but for the measly and complete $35 to which she feels her client is entitled. She is so inclined since she, as a working girl who is trying to save enough money to get married to her fiancé Tom Winters, knows the value of hard work in earning money, almost to the exclusion of all else. Because of her bulldog nature, Judge Coulter hires her to administer the spendthrift clause of the trust of Mark MacLene IV, a wealthy but irresponsible playboy who owes $1.5 million to creditors and in back taxes, but who has no concept of managing money and thus who is on track to wipe out his entire trust in short order because of his extravagant spending habits. Mark welcomes the pretty Lucy into his life until he finds out what her role is. The more stringent Lucy becomes in managing Mark's money, the harder Mark pushes back using his name and influence to keep his extravagant lifestyle - the name and influence which Lucy can't take away - which makes Lucy even more stringent in managing his affairs, and so on. Both use reverse psychology in getting what they want. But in the process, they fall in love. The question becomes whether their love for each other can overcome their divergent views of how to live.

