1956. Obsessed with the hottest girl in class, a gawky high school student takes a crash course in teenage coolness from his motorcycle rebel neighbour, under the watchful eye of the eternal symbol of teenage rebellion: James Dean.
In 1956, the shy Jonathan's luck with girls changes when he wins the rebellious Gene as a friend in his last year of high school. Gene is adored by many girls and manages to teach Jonathan a few lessons. Gene himself would rather just be with one girl: his girlfriend Bunny. However, since his father is poor, her parents don't accept him.
Nerdy Jonathan always pined for beautiful and popular Marilyn, but she never looks at him twice, that is, until the cool and calm motorcycle riding Gene Harbrough comes along and teaches Jonathan some lessons in cool and how to get the girl. Gene himself crashes into Bunny, a sweet neighbor with a boyfriend that almost ran over him the first day they met. Now with everyone acquainted to each other, will the Gene get the girl of his dreams, and will Jonathan ever get a chance to score?
1956. Rock and Roll is here to stay in the small and quiet town of Nelsonville, Ohio, and the 17-year-old gawky, timid, and unpopular, Jonathan Bellah--who is obsessed with Marilyn McCauley, the girl of his dreams and the hottest girl in class--still has a long way to go before he makes the first step. However, Jonathan's life will change forever when the leather-clad motorcycle rebel, Gene Harbrough, moves in next door and decides to offer his romantic expertise out of sympathy. And just like that, Jonathan takes a crash course in teenage coolness--of course, always under the watchful eye of the eternal symbol of teenage rebellion: James Dean. But, will this unlikely alliance bear fruit?
In 1956, in Nelsonville, Ohio, the clumsy teenager Jonathan Bellah dreams on getting into the pants of the hot school mate Marilyn McCauley. However he is shy and has no experience with girls. When the handsome and rebel Gene Harbrough moves with his father to the house next door, he immediately befriends Jonathan and decides to teach him how to be attractive to women. Then he has a minor accident with his motorcycle when the car driven by the wealthy Kenny almost hit him. Gen has a crush on Kenny's girlfriend Bunny Miller. Later Jonathan and Gene go to a fair and meet Marilyn, Bunny and their mate Rosalie. They schedule a date to the drive-in but when Kenny sees Bunny, he challenges Gene to a car race in the beginning of their rivalry and contest. Meanwhile Jonathan gets closer to Marilyn.
Jonathan is the clumsy one both at schools and with girls. Then Gene comes to town with his motorcycle and attitude and changes all that. The two boys become friends in the Fifties when things were definitely simpler. They face problems with girls, parents and bullies together.
