After graduating college Maisie becomes involved both professionally and personally Joe Morton, who's just developed a revolutionary helicopter.
In the ninth entry of this ten-film series, Maisie (Ann Sothern) graduates from business college and disguises herself as a spinsterish frump in order (based on eight past experiences) to keep wolfish prospective employees in line. She gets a job with Joseph Morton (George Murphy) who, with some other returning vets, has perfected an automatically-controlled helicopter. A double-crossing tycoon tries to beat the boys out of their invention, but Maisie discovers the plot and all ends well, but not before Maisie finds herself piloting the helicopter through downtown Los Angeles to a landing in the Pasadena Rose Bowl.
After spending most of her adult life thus far performing in vaudeville, streetwise but kindhearted Maisie Ravier decides it's time to settle down in one place, and thus she goes to business school so that she can get a stable office job. Despite finishing at the top of her class, Maisie has to overcome her flashy performer good looks to be treated seriously in the business world. Wearing her most conservative business attire, she gets a job as secretary to Joseph Morton, purely because of he likes her business-like demeanor, although he quickly learns it's all a façade. Regardless, they both learn that it is a professional match made in heaven as he is the designer of a revolutionary, state of the art helicopter, which would benefit from Maisie's war years working in aircraft plants. The building of the helicopter is being financed by J.G. Nuboult Enterprises, but the secret project's success or failure is all on Joe's shoulders, including selling it to potential buyers. Joe and Maisie's professional relationship burgeons into a personal one as well. What they are unaware of is that others are trying to steal Joe's plans, which he does not have in blueprint form, so that they can build and thus sell it before him. Chief amongst those is Nuboult himself, led by his daughter, Barbara Nuboult, who got Joe the contract with her father's company to begin with, in this grand plan of learning his secret. Barbara's plan, which benefits from an inside source, also now includes getting rid of what she learns is Joe's secret weapon. Barbara's scheme may not only ruin Joe's business, but also Joe and Maisie's personal relationship, unless they find out what she's up to and can put a stop to her.

