A no-good Manhattan girl moves in on a Brooklyn gang. Using her obvious charms she gets the leader killed in a fight over her and then takes up with the victor and new head man. Then she starts pushing him to get out onto the streets to mix it with rival gangs.
A girl from Manhattan moves into a neighborhood that is the turf of the Rebels, a female teenage gang. She quickly rises to the top of the gang, and sets her sights on the leader of the local neighborhood tough guys.
The Rebels, a Brooklyn, New York, gang ruled over by Johnny ('JOHN BATIS' (qv)) and his girl, Angel ('LINDA GALE' (qv)), are going along on their merry, antisocial street violence. A young man offers ten bucks to streetwalker Rosie ('JONET BANZET' (qv)), and she refuses, calling him, "Creep!" Later he breaks into her bedroom with three pals, and they gang rape her (off screen). (6:10m, during the opening titles)Terri Fiore ('DIANE CONTI' (qv)), an attractive brunette, buys her beer in a bar, and lets Nino ('JOEY NAUDIC' (qv)) talk with her. She's the deb of Frankie, leader of Manhattan's Golden Falcons gang. Now he is in jail and shes alone. Annie ('SANDRA KANE' (qv)), a tall, bosomy blonde, with slim hips, is Nino's deb, and she does not appreciate his interest in the new girl around; eventually, she leaves.There is a dance at the Brooklyn Rebels seedy sea-port club headquarters. Terri Fiore's old Parents ('GENE MARRIN' (qv) and 'LIN KENNEDY' (qv)) make a scene, reproaching the girl for leaving after dinner, but she leaves anyway.Angel, Johnny's blonde deb, makes a great entry in a luscious fur coat, that she takes off to reveal a chequered V-neck short jacket, leaving ten inches of her belly naked over the tight bluejeans.
When Terri turns up at the gang's clubhouse on Johnny's arm, with her hair caught in a white band, she is wearing a light-coloured coat, under which she wears a low-cut black top that leaves her arms and shoulders bare but for two tiny straps, and the black latex trousers zipped on the back (as seen later in the fight); Johnny is wearing a dark sweater.
Angel approaches them, and demands Johnny to send the new girl away: "I'm still your deb, and I've got the scars to prove it."
"Used to be, used to be!" interrupts Johnny. "Now beat it!" "Don't tell me you're leaving me for this piggy face..."
"Yeah!" cuts Johnny, as he strangles Angel's throat with his right hand, his long fingers clawing her hard.
The handsome Johnny likes the competition he sees between the two girls; if he subdues his gal, may be he can have both debs. Angel is not having nothing of that, and she stares him eye-to-eye. Nino and the other teenagers stop him, and demand him to let the girls fight a duel over him.
"OK by you?" Johnny asks from Terri.
"OK by me," she agrees. Angel flies into her rival, resulting in an exciting, jazz-scored catfight. The fight consists of slapping, hair-pulling, and shoving, mostly rolling around and kneeing each others body while on the floor, or shoving and pushing in frenzy while on their knees, at close range, holding each other by the arms or shoulders. First the blonde seems to have the advantage, and sits for a minute on top of the slightly older teen, than, with an evil green on her face, the black haired girl reverses positions, and starts punishing the blondes face. Yet, positions will be reversed time and again, but the blonde seems to be tiring, and now almost only trying to defend herself, and her shirt, that her opponent tries to rip off which she finally achieves. At the same time, the brunette applies a powerful downward punch between the breasts. Angel loses her top, but retains her bra, showing the letters KJ tattooed on her breast, as she had mentioned. (The breasts remain covered with a white bra.) After almost a 3 minutes battle, the brunette ends up sitting astride the debs bosom, slapping the other girl to tears.
Angel is hugging herself, both from modesty and pain. Forgive me, Johnny, sobs the beaten blonde. Then, Angel stands up from the floor, badly beaten, but still defiant; she spits on his face. He slaps her, not harder than Terry had done before; however, this marks the change of their love affair, and Angel does cry her heart out, as she is kicked out of the club. Forget it, lets bit it out of here fast! Johnny says to Terry.
Johnny and Terry then retreat to the "Trophy Room", with mementos captured from rival gangs, including a pair of crotchless panties. There, they consummate their partnership after smoking a reefer.Three Golden Falcons attack one Alien boy in a long, violent, and deadly street-rumble, with no dialogue and bass-heavy music, and presenting the RPM with their WWII helmets, as The Aliens. [The Rat Pack Motorbike club, from Queens]Meanwhile, Terry is postponing her ritual tattooing as much as she can. Angered by Johnny's determination to "initial" her chest with a knife, Terry puts the moves on the second-in-command Nino ('JOEY NAUDIC' (qv)). She asks to see the weapons room, which he does - scissors, daggers, clubs, metal chains She approaches him. He embraces her, they kiss, and make love while the others dance. Again, the KJ tattooed with a knife on her breast is exposed. After their lovemaking, Angel bluntly asks Nino to kick Johnny out of the gang, promising to be his deb. This leads to another lovemaking scene. When they go out, Nino has taken enough incentive to confront Johnny. Johnny defies him to a duel outside, and all are assuming it would be a fist fight. But Angel gives Nino a knife, and Johnny immediately pulls out his own flick-blade. There's a 2 minute switch-blade fight, and Johnny dies.Angel comes forward, but Annie objects to her take-over. Angel shouts that the other blonde is the one who caused it all, and suggests, "Line her up for the guys!"
The boys rape her there and then, but she keeps her bra and skirt on.In a back-alley, two boys attack another blonde girl, the deb of the Eagles leader, but she is saved by Terry. More mindless violence and deaths follow. After four Eagle boys are killed, the police arrest the wrong guys.
To commemorate their war victory, Nino's gang has a Saturday night bash. The music is jazz-rock and 'Lee Dowell' (qv) sings Black Belt, a karate dance number, during which boys and girls mix in a karate choreography.Terry is now giving orders, pushing Nino into more gang wars, and when they argue, she is the one who is in control. Piggie ('TOM ANDRISANO' (qv)) and his girlfriend Ellie ('EILEEN SCOTT' (qv)) want to leave the gang and get married. Terry accuses them of being police stoolies, forcing Nino into a second knife duel with Piggie, knowing that Piggie is not a good fighter, while Ellie is forced to watch. Nino kills Piggie and Ellie cries her heart out. Again, Terry gives Nino his reward - herself - right after he cleanses his blade on Piggies shirt.But Piggie's murder finally drives the gang debs into taking action. Four female Rebels invite Terry to a girls-only party. When she arrives, the three girls she has expelled from the club in such a painful manner - Annie, Angel, Ellie - appear, and judge her faults We decided to stop you! Terry shouts, Keep away from me! but the seven get revenge at last, attacking the bad girl with heavy leather belts, clubs and knives. The beating is off-camera, presumably to her death or disfigurement, as one of the girls says, "No man will ever look at her again..."The soundtrack plays "Dont make me angry, boy. / Dont make me mad!"
