Biopic of adventurer Lola Montès who ends up as a circus attraction after being romantically involved with famous European men.
The film tells the tragic story of Lola Montès, a great adventurer who becomes the main attraction of a circus after being the lover of various important European men.
The story of Lola Montès, her loves and life, all told in flashbacks from her current job as the star of a travelling circus. After a traditional upbringing, she is pressured by her mother to marry, but it's not a happy union. Montès rose to fame as a dancer and a courtesan. She had many famous lovers including Composer Franz Liszt, the King of Bavaria, and assorted noblemen. Scandal followed her across Europe with observers equally shocked and titillated by her activities.
The circus master (Peter Ustinov) promises to tell the story of the life of Lola (Martine Carol), whom he addresses as as countess, and who was a "femme fatale" who had lots of lovers and a hectic life in Europe.He presents the subject and entices the audience to ask her any question, at a price. She answers the first ones and he answers the remainders. When one person on the audience asks about the number of lovers, there's a parade of performers representing them.In a flashback, Lola remembers a travel with composer Franz Liszt (Will Quadflieg). Her carriage follows them for the case of her leaving alone, which eventually happens, as they soon part ways.The master tells about Lola's childhood. Her father was an officer in India, and after his death, her mother (Lise Delamare) and she immigrated to Europe. Lola remembers that her mother had her sleep in the dormitory of the ship while she stays in a cabin, arranging encounters with his lover. She befriends a steward (Jacques Fayet), but people in the dormitory are rude with her. Upon arriving in Europe, her mother tries to match her to a rich old banker. She refuses and marries Lieutenant Thomas James (Ivan Desny), her mother's lover, instead. In the circus, the master narrates an idyllic marriage, which the memory in flashback is one of the husband arriving drunk and the wife intending to leave in the account of her husband alcoholism and infidelity. Her sister-in-law (Héléna Manson) tries to persuade her not to.In the circus, actors reenact Lola's dancing training and career. In the flashback, Lola tells to a colleague while dancing that she has found out the her lover, conductor Claudio Pirotto (Claude Pinoteau) was still married. She breaks from the dance formation and makes an scandal.The master speaks about Lola's ascension in the echelons of society, not without scandal, while she climbs up the trough various ropes in the circus. He tells about his visit to her when he first invited her to be an act of the circus. There is a flashback showing her refusing.In a flashback, she remembers her time in Bavaria. On the road to Munich, she believes to be lost. She asks about the rout to a young student (Oskar Werner), which tells her the way. She then persuades him to enter her carriage, despite his going to the opposite direction. She gets a room in a hotel and participates in an audition the following day, on which she is rejected. She gets in acquaintance with an officer whom she makes promise her to get an audience with the king. Four months passes and no success. During a parade, she crosses the way of the horsemen, causing commotion. She gets an appointment with the king (Anton Walbrook) and seduces him to get her a position in the dance entourage. They grow intimate and he has a palace built to her. The king commissions a portrait of her, and by rejecting every peace of garment, ends up with a nude painting. He tries to donate the painting to the national gallery, to the library and to the theater, but none of the people in charge accepts it. He also can't keep the painting in his palace. She suggests that he could dismiss one of the persons in charge of those institutions. People get angry at the influence she has on the king and revolt. The king escape her palace first and she is helped by students, including that one that she first met in Bavaria long ago. She tells him that she loved the king and that Munich was her last chance and that her career among the courts is over. After that, she goes to the circus.The finale of her act is her jumping from a high place. The doctor (Carl Esmond) insists with the circus owner that the safety net must be kept in place for the last act, for Lola's safety. The owner gives orders of that to the master and he reluctantly seems to assent. Just before the cushion is put in place for the jump, the safety net is pulled away. Lola seems to faint as she jumps, but the movie ends with men queuing to get close to her (at a price).
