Two middle-aged women move to Hollywood, California after their sons are convicted of a notorious murder and open a dance school for children eager to tap their way to stardom.
Set in the 30s, Helen and Adelle are two women whose sons commit a gruesome murder. After their conviction, they move to Hollywood change their names and open a dance school for girls. Adelle is looking for a good life and when one of the parents of her students who is wealthy takes a liking to her she thinks she's got it made. Helen thinks that someone who blames them for what their sons did is stalking them. But Adelle thinks it's all in her mind.
In mid-1930's Hollywood, dancer Adelle Stewart owns a dance school aimed at parents who want their daughters to be the next Shirley Temple. Adelle, who is obsessed with all things Hollywood herself, runs the school with Helen Martin, who, because of her sheltered life and extreme religious faith, is the conservative and cautious one of the two. The two recently escaped the notoriety of truly being Adelle Bruckner and Helen Hill of Braddock, Iowa, the mothers of convicted murderers who received life sentences for their crime. The two women bonded in dealing with the shared problems arising from their sons' joint actions, Adelle who came up with this plan to move from Braddock to Hollywood and change their names, specifically after they received an anonymous implied death threat for what their sons did. Adelle tries to live her life to the fullest, first by expanding the business by accepting the offer of mysterious and flamboyant Hamilton Starr to teach elocution classes at the school, and second by letting herself fall for Linc Palmer, the wealthy southern "stage father" of one of her students, he who seemingly will give her whatever she wants. Conversely, Helen is racked with guilt, she continually being reminded by whatever she sees or does of the murder and the possibility that someone is out to kill her because of it. Their fundamental differences threatens to tear their new life apart largely because of the threat, real or only perceived.
The Midwestern mothers of two Leopold and Loeb--like murderers move to Hollywood, California in the 1930s and open a dancing school for would-be Shirley Temples seeking to break into the movies. Adelle falls in love with a Texas millionaire, but Helen turns to an evangelist and gradually goes off the deep end. Soon corpses of all kinds start piling up.

