When a young female doctor notices an unnatural amount of comas occurring in her hospital she uncovers a horrible conspiracy.
A young doctor at a hospital, Susan Wheeler (played by Geneviève Bujold), starts noticing a pattern of strange occurrences with patients. Healthy patients are suddenly developing complications and ending up in comas. She starts investigating and what she reveals is astonishing.
A young woman in a hospital discovers that many patients are being induced into comas from simple routine surgeries. She soon finds a deep conspiracy developing that leads her to believe that nothing is as it seems, and that the comas are deliberate acts to permanently incapacitate patients who are later transferred to a facility called The Jefferson Institute where illegal activities are being conducted with comatose subjects.
A young woman doctor discovers something sinister going on in her hospital. Relatively healthy patients are having 'complications' during simple operations and ending up in comas. The patients are then shipped off to an institute that looks after them. The young doctor suspects there is more to this than meets the eye.
Dr Susan Wheeler is devastated when her best friend is pronounced brain dead after minor surgery at her hospital. Looking at the records, Susan finds that over the previous year a number of other fit young people have ended up the same way. She comes across two similarities to the cases - they all took place in the same operating theatre, and all the comatose bodies were moved to somewhere called the Jefferson Institute. She continues to investigate increasingly alone, starting to wonder if she can trust even her own boyfriend.
Dr. Susan Wheeler smells trouble when a patient of hers goes into an irreversible coma after routine surgery. On further investigation she finds out that several young, otherwise healthy patients are entering irreversible comas after routine surgeries. These comatose patients are then "shipped" off to a mysterious institute. When Susan tells her physician boyfriend about what she's discovered, he's reluctant to believe her.

