After a failed assassination attempt on her partner, DEA agent Donna Hamilton discovers that the crime lord responsible for her father's death is coming after her and her associates.
Juan Degas is the Jack of Diamonds, a nefarious armsmonger who intends to smuggle a big quantity of a new state-of-the-art weapon into America through Hawaii. In order to do so, Degas desperately needs to come up with a clever scheme to get out of his way the Agents who threaten the success of his plans. With the intention to liquidate both L.E.T.H.A.L. Agents Donna and Nicole, Degas' assassins manage to engage them in a dangerous, fast-paced chase that will eventually lead them to Las Vegas, thousands of miles away. However, when Degas' men abduct Donna's mother, it will be his biggest mistake because, from that point on, things are about to get personal. Hungry for revenge, Donna armed with a devastating rocket launcher, she will have to go through stealthy ninja assassins and radio-controlled scale boats loaded with explosives to protect her family.
Edy Stark (CYNTHIA BRIMHALL Playboy's Miss October 1985) sings a song on stage of the Rio Las Vegas hotel casino. Meanwhile, Juan Degas (ERIK ESTRADA) gets in an elevator while someone plays slot machines on the casino floor. After exiting the elevator, Degas leaves the casino.Somewhere else in Las Vegas, two gigolos stand on a street corner. Degas picks them up and they chat, making a play on words about Degas, the French painter, Degas happens to be an art collector with his arms trafficking deals, but now he wants them for an assassination job. The two men tell him that their latest job involved an exploding olive in a martini. Degas, explains that he wants a simple hit.Meanwhile, in Hawai, Donna Hamilton (DONA SPEIR) and Nicole Justin (ROBERTA VASQUEZ) emerge from the ocean.Degas and the rest of his crew and the assassins, have just flown to Hawaii. and once there, the two assassins get in a helicopter.Donna and Nicole dressed up in khaki vests and shorts, drive a jeep to go shopping. Their associate Rocky (LISA LONDON) shows up to complain about her restaurant while Nicole tries on a form-fitting dress.Outside the boutique, the assassins arrive and Degas informs them of their target: Donna's sister, Kathrin (PHYLLIS ELIZABETH DAVIS). Later that evening, the assassins scout out Rocky's restaurant and then they go to the women's bathroom together. Inside the lavatory, the two assassins complain while they change into women's clothing.Degas trains his fighting skills with a Chinese Sifu (GEORGE CHEUNG aka GEORGE KEE CHEUNG). After a bit of sparring and talking, Degas takes a big gun out of the station wagon and he tests it out by blowing up a nearby hut.Back at Rocky's, the assassins, in wigs and dresses, kill Robyn (ALLEGRA CURTIS) who happened to be wearing the same sort of dress Nicole's sister was wearing earlier. Robyn's Husband (Paul Matthews) and Rocky the beautiful cafe owner, become collateral victims when they come between the assassins and their escape route.Donna and Nicole arrive on the scene and Nicole eyes the assassins - now clad in their original clothes - with suspicion, mainly because they're coming out of the women's bathroom dressed as men again.Once inside the restaurant, Donna and Nicole find the carnage and immediately they discern just who the culprits are. Donna and Nicole swoop into action and they chase the assassins to the local airport. The assassins get away in their helicopter but Donna and Nicole have a plane of their own, and give chase by air. They call up Shane (SHANE) and they discuss the evidence en route to another Hawaiian island.The assassins disembark, and they hop in an automobile. One of the assassins shoots in vain at Donna and Nicole's plane but it doesn't matter as Donna loses sight of the car once it enters a tunnel on the island. Donna and Nicole put down at Shane's airstrip and they report their findings - and Rocky's death - to Shane and Bruce Christian (BRUCE PENHALL). The quartet hop in one of Shane's planes and the men pilot the plane to Las Vegas. Along the way, the men call up an associate Lucas (WILLIAM BUMILLER) in Las Vegas.Lucas and a partner goes to see hot singer Edy Stark, who's also a federal agent, whom he briefs while she seems distracted with her wardrobe - and lack of - showing herself topless to him unashamedly.At the Rio Las Vegas' showroom, cowboys and housewives cheer on a lascivious Oil Mania [sic] wrestling match, with a proper referee, David Hammer (as Himself). in the white top and red bikini bottom, Killer Kim (KYM MALIN), versus in the red top and black bikini bottom Hug Huggins (DONNA SPANGLER). After a bit of wrestling and an ineffectual body scissors, an inescapable pin and a winner is declared: Kim Hugs protests a little, and they leave the oil-pit with reconnaissance signs to a pair of hunks standing by, without participating in the crowd's cheers.Degas, unhappy at the flawed results of the hit, yells at the would be assassins. Degas now wants revenge against Donna. He tells Trong (DANNY TREJO) to get to work. Degas' girl Cash (Devin DeVasquez) pipes up because she wants to get in on the killing game too. Instead, he makes love to her.Bruce and Shane land their plane while Trong watches from the periphery. Out of a waiting van at the airstrip, Bruce grabs a bike; meanwhile, Trong plans a hit on Bruce and Nicole, who bike away from the scene unawares. While Shane and Donna apparently drive off, a plane chases Bruce and Nicole, who end up falling off their bike which explodes.Seeing the tumult behind them, Shane and Donna stop their van, Shane shoots at the plane a few times, and Donna blows up the plane with a rocket launcher. Later, Shane surveys the wreckage of the plane and he finds an undamaged Chinese gun.The four agents sit on the side of the road, as the van is not working. The California Kid (CHRISTIAN DREW SIDARIS) arrives to pick them up. Eventually, the quartet limps its way to Lake Havasu, Arizona, where they meet up with the rest of the agents at the local Ramada Inn. A smoking guy, taking charge of the assignment, uses an analogy about the London Bridge and Degas interests in arms and art.After the meeting, Donna pays a visit to the Attorney General of Nevada who's not happy about Donna's presence in her jurisdiction. She objects to Donna's concept of "justice" - which borders suspiciously on revenge or current U.S. foreign policy - and she just wants Donna to stay away. Later, Donna explains why she kept shut at the meeting: the attorney general is also her mother, Katherine Hamilton (PHYLLIS DAVIS).Meanwhile, in a Las Vegas police station, an old federal agent Abe (CHUCK MCCANN) interrogates two gun runners suspected of being involved with Degas's racket. The old agent does some magic tricks for the perpetrators and then he bludgeons them with a stick, as the gun runners aren't open to provide information. Abe shoots them, so that Donna is not alone in her quest for expedite justice.Later that evening, Trong reports to Degas, while Bruce and Nicole hang out in the desert. Nicole (ROBERTA VASQUEZ) recounts her life for Bruce: she was a mob informant back in the day and, as compensation for risking her life for justice, Donna's mother introduced her to Donna and the federal agency. Bruce makes love to her on top of his motorbike, as the sun sets in the horizon.Killer Kym stakes out a local biker bar. Inside are the transvestite assassins, as well as Hug Huggins, and and Large Marge (RODRIGO OBREGÓN), a male transvestite. The two oil wrestlers team up with Large Marge to out the assassins, but in a short scuffle, the assassins escape in their van,Back in Vegas, Edy performs at the Rio once again while Degas and his people watch from the crowd. Degas takes a phone call; meanwhile, Trong applauds Edy's song. After Edy exits, the old magician takes the stage, and then Edy makes her way around the crowd. Once she gets to Degas' table, she and Degas' girl Cash trade witty barbs. Degas likes the attention and the possibility of a catfight on his lap. But Edy takes her leave, and she reports to the key agent. Degas tells Trong to follow the agents when they leave.Shane, Donna, and some dude work out at the hotel gym, and then Donna leaves to lotion up in the locker room. While topless Donna makes sure her skin is smooth and supple, Ninja #1 (JAMES LEW) and Ninja #2 (ERIC CHEN) show up and attack Shane Abilene (MICHAEL J. SHANE). After a fight they lock him in a closet - but he breaks free, and kills one of the ninjas, while Donna shoots the other. Upon learning of the ninjas' failures, Degas isn't happy with Trong...The next day, the transvestite assassins kidnap Donna's mother.Back on Lake Havasu, the magician fishes while Cash sneaks around . Nicole and Bruce leave, allowing Cash to sneak onto the agents large boat where she shoots down the agents' computer expert, blonde wife Ace (LIV LINDELAND), with a shot in her back, thus reducing the good agents' base. Then she blows up the magician with a grenade.Later that day, while the rest of the team investigates the crime scene, Edy finds some evidence by the magician's wife's corpse. Meanwhile, Shane and Donna arrive with a big box and some detective work. Donna discerns that all of the mayhem in Vegas was a ruse to get Donna and Nicole out of Hawaii, allowing Degas to run his guns from China to South America through there. Finally, Donna also learns that her mother was kidnapped. Donna orders Nicole and Bruce to head back to Hawaii to stop Degas's gun running, while the rest of the gang rescues Donna's mother.At a trailer in the desert, Degas meets with the assassins and he's impressed by their captive: the Attorney General is a looker. Degas and her exchange words, and Degas tries to have his way with her.
Shane arms the rest of the gang with serious munitions; Edy is missing.Edy Stark (CYNTHIA BRIMHALL) has gone to confront Cash (DEVIN DEVASQUEZ), her black hair rival and former dance partner, and finds her just out of bath in the bathroom of Degas's luxurious hotel suite. Cash freaks out and tries to pull a gun on Edy. Unfortunately for her, Edy takes advantage of the mirrored walls in the bathroom, and then she shoots Cash dead.Degas goes to the lavatory and finds Cash's corpse just sitting there, so he vows further revenge for her demise.Elsewhere, Bruce and Nicole head for Hawaii, apparently by motorcycle. They stop along the way for some sandwiches at a local rest stop.Back at the Rio, the rest of the gang stakes out the place and lead agent, much to his displeasure, finds out what Edy did to Degas' Cash. At the rest stop, the transvestite assassins corner Nicole in the women's bathroom but, finally proving their ineptitude, Bruce and Nicole kill them.Trong sneak into the Rio hotel by the back door with the captured Attorney General, but Kym is there to see it all.In the agent's headquarters, the leader receives a fax with the picture of Degas, at last.Shane and Donna bust into Degas's suite and they discover Cash is dead, and that Degas has Donna's mother captive in the casino's theater.The rest of the gang, alarmed at Donna and Shane totally disobeying orders, goes in, while Donna and Shane make their way to the theater. Shane trades gunshots with Trong, and kills him.Donna, meanwhile, finds her mother and Degas onstage; she activates one of the magician's trapdoors, and then she blows up Degas with a rocket launcher.The Attornet General pardons a bit of excessive violence used by her daughter while saving her life, and Bruce busts the gun-running scheme in Hawaii. Edy sings in Vegas while Donna and Nicole hang out on the beach and celebrate a job well done.(With thanks o a review by 411mania)
