Members of a well-to-do small community become worried when it is revealed that one of their maids is writing a telling exposé.
The town gossips are reporting that a household servant in exclusive Rocky Point is writing an expose of the colony. Mrs. Sophia Sommerfield is convinced it can't be either one of her maids, Martha Lindstrom or Mrs. McKessic, although, unknown to Sophia, she is totally unaware that her son, Jeff, is married to Martha. At the moment, Jeff wants a divorce so he can marry another woman. The book comes out and Sophia is relieved to find that Martha's book does not reveal Sophia's fondness for reading "true-confession" magazines, nor mention that Sophia's young daughter, Mirand, writers her club reports for Sophia. Other items are cleaned up, also.
All the talk in the generally quiet town of Rock Bay, Long Island is the newspaper story that one of the town's maids has written a kitchen-eye-view book about the family for which she works, it soon to be published. This news hits especially the households along upper crust Seacove Drive hard, one of those which probably is the maid and family in question. After the initial outrage, both the housewives and the maids realize they need the other to survive, and thus do not want to rock the boat. This still does not stop most of the families from worrying that the book will be about them in wanting to have their respective skeletons remain in the closet. The only family that isn't too concerned is the Sommerfields. What they are unaware of is that it is their junior maid, Martha Lindstrom, that is the authoress, the book a loving tale about them. Martha has been going to night school in order to impress the Sommerfield son, anthropologist Jeff Sommerfield, on who she's had a crush since she started working for the family two years ago. The issue with Martha and Jeff is that they are actually secretly married, it happening on a drunken party night the day before Jeff left a year and a half ago on a field trip, he not having been home since. Jeff has provided for Martha and wanted her to dissolve the marriage in whatever way she could, something she didn't do in wanting them eventually to have a happily ever after. Amid this turmoil, Jeff arrives home unexpectedly, he not expecting Martha still to be working for the family or them still to be married. The problem is what he has brought home with him: a fiancée. The further issue is that "Sylvia" and Jeff, although compatible on paper, are not so in reality, he arguably having greater feelings for a certain maid if he truly opened his eyes to the fact.

