In Venice, a millionaire hires an actor to help him prank three greedy ex-girlfriends into thinking he's dying and leaving his fortune to one of them.
Inspired by a performance of his favorite play, "Volpone," twentieth century millionaire Cecil Fox (Sir Rex Harrison) devises an intricate plan to trick three of his former mistresses into believing he is dying. Although the women are wealthy in their own right, all have good reason to covet his fortune. To assist him in his scheme, Fox hires William McFly (Cliff Robertson), a gigolo and sometime actor, to act as his secretary/servant. Fox is soon visited at his "deathbed" by the three former mistresses: Merle McGill (Edie Adams), a fading Hollywood sex symbol; Princess Dominique (Capucine), who once took a cruise on Fox's yacht; and Mrs. Lone Star Crockett Sheridan (Susan Hayward), a Texas hypochondriac who travels with an enigmatic nurse/companion (Dame Maggie Smith). As Fox and McFly act out the charade, things take an unexpected turn from comical farce to full-blown murder mystery.
In Venice, millionaire benefactor Cecil Fox (Sir Rex Harrison) watches a seventeenth century play "Volpone" and plots a practical joke to play on his three former greedy mistresses. He hires unemployed actor William McFly (Cliff Robertson) to act as his butler and stage manager and sends letters telling the mistresses he is terminally ill. The prime intention of Cecil is to see the reaction of the women after the reading of his will, but things do not go as planned.
Inspired by his favourite play, Volpone, millionaire Cecil Fox (Rex Harrison) devises an intricate plan to dupe three of his former mistresses into believing he is dying. Although the women are wealthy in their own right, all have good reason to covet his fortune. To assist him in his scheme, Fox hires William McFly (Cliff Robertson), a fledgling actor, to act as his secretary/servant. Fox is soon visited at his deathbed by the three former mistresses: Merle McGill (Edie Adams), a fading Hollywood sex symbol; Princess Dominique (Capucine), who once took a cruise on Foxs yacht; and Lone Star Crockett (Susan Hayward), a Texas hypochondriac who travels with an enigmatic nurse/companion Sarah Watkins (Maggie Smith). As Fox and McFly act out the charade, things take an unexpected turn from comical charade to full-blown murder mystery.
