On a post-apocalyptic Earth, a wizard and his faire folk comrades fight an evil wizard who's using technology in his bid for conquest.
In a post apocalyptic future that appears as a blend of World War II Europe and J.R.R. Tolkien's Middle-earth, a pint-size wizard named Avatar must save the world from a band of fascist mutants controlled by his evil twin brother, Blackwolf, who likes to confuse enemy armies by projecting films of Adolf Hitler speeches during attacks. Painted live-action footage of advancing Nazi armies contrasts with Saturday-morning-cartoon-style animation of fairies and elves as Avatar travels through various magical and radioactive realms on his quest. Aiding him are the beautiful Fairy princess Elinore, hot-blooded warrior elf Weehawk, and Peace, a misunderstood robot rebelling against his Blackwolf-controlled programming. A bizarre and psychedelic meditation on magic vs. technology, this ultimate futuristic fantastic epic cult film still finds an audience on college campuses and will prove quite rewarding to viewers in the right frame of mind.
In a post-apocalyptic future, humankind is destroyed and the fantastic races of ancient legend emerge to repopulate the earth. In fulfillment of an ancient prophesy twin sons -- wizards -- are born to a queen of the faeries: one good, the other aggressively evil. They are destined to collide in a war that will destroy the new earth. Blackwolf, the evil son, is a deformed mutant and is cast out of the community. He seeks to rediscover the ancient technologies of warfare and destruction in order to gain his revenge and subjugate the free peoples of the earth. Avatar, the good son, is human and seeks a passive life of non-aggression in order to avoid responsibility for the bloodshed and despair prophesied. Blackwolf's disastrous attempts to assassinate his brother compell Avatar to marshal forces against Blackwolf, leading to the ultimate confrontation.
The human race has been wiped out in a nuclear war, rising from the ashes are: Elves, Fairies, Dwarves and mutants that have repopulated the Earth. The queen of fairies gives birth to twin sons, both are powerful wizards. Avatar is a kind-hearted elf and Blackwolf is a evil mutants. In the wasteland of Scortch, Blackwolf and his army of mutants and trolls have discovered ancient technology, weapons, and ancient warfare and he and his army sets out to get his vengeance on the new world and destroy Avatar. Joined by a fellowship of companions, Elf warrior Weehawk, Fairy princess Elinore and Peace, a robotic assassin sent by Blackwolf to assassinate Avatar, Avatar sets out to Scortch, where he faces Blackwolf in the ultimate battle of good vs. evil, where they set out to defeat Blackwolf and his army of darkness and save the new world from becoming another holocaust.
In a post apoclyptic earth, All humans are destroyed or horrible mutated. The only other creatures to survive are the Faeries, pixies and other creates of our fantasies. Two brothers are born to a faerie queen. One is pure good, Avitar an elven wizard. The other is evil, a mutant and also a wizard. The evil wizard finds remnets of the past and decides to use it to keep his band of trolls and monsters to fight. It eventually gets to a battle beween the brothers to decide the fate of the world.
In a bleak future that's a blend of World War II Europe and Tolkien's Middle-earth, a runty wizard (Bob Holt) must save the world from fascist mutants controlled by his evil twin brother (Steve Gravers). Seems the bad bro likes to toy with enemy armies by projecting films of Adolf Hitler speeches during attacks. Nice! Animator Ralph Bakshi blends everything from swords and sorcery to kung fu and nuclear catastrophe in this bizarre flick. (from netFlix)
