Darlene's into going fast, Hoover's into Darlene, but when they both get into a red-hot race car, the reckless fun accelerates into a trunk-full of hot pursuits.
Set in the mid-western town of Puckerbush on Halloween Eve, Hoover Nielbold (Ron Howard) is a hell-raising teenager who is obsessed with fast cars, as well as local high school beauty Darlene Kurtz (Christopher Norris). Because of his numerous speeding tickets issued to him, Hoover is forced to get a job delivering rolls of paper towels around to local businesses to pay them off. Hoover's father is none other than local sheriff, Harry Nielbold (Warren Kemmerling). Hoover claims that he was named after former president Herbert Hoover because his history of rowdy behavior put Harry into a depression, an example of their now-strained relationship. One day, Hoover and his friends arrive at the local race track one afternoon to see beer-guzzling racer Big Bubba Jones (Dave Madden) compete in a race. Since Darlene and her parents are attending, he thinks it would be a good idea to see her.After the race, Hoover runs into Jones polishing his winning trophy and tells Jones he is interested in becoming a racer, but Jones laughs it off saying he is better off watching races from the bleachers. When Jones is pulled away by his pit crew for an emergency, Hoover tries to impress Darlene by stealing Jones' race car, Mabel. Darlene, as well as the rest of Hoover's friends, get in and roar out of the track, with one of Harry's deputies in pursuit. The police car winds up crashing through the front paneling of a local Chinese restaurant and overturns. The gang then decides they should have some fun for a while.Back at the sheriff's office, Harry is overwhelmed with the outrage from Hoover's friends' parents. Exasperated, he tells them that will have to wait in the drunk tank and he will only see one of them at a time. Harry then puts out an all-points bulletin on Hoover and his friends and advises them to not shoot them as they are not dangerous and just messing around. The gang pulls into a local farm to pick up another one of Hoover's pals, Junior Hale (Peter Isacksen), who is held up with a broken leg. Another deputy pulls onto the farm to block Hoover's path, causing both cars to completely obliterate the property and the police car crashes into a mud bath, sinking it.Hoover continues more antics with the remaining deputies as Harry's office overflows with more victims of Hoover's horseplay. He then decides it would be best if he and Darlene dropped the rest of the gang off at one of their houses, as he thinks he and Darlene should leave town momentarily. They go to Darlene's house, where they think they should lay low for a while. At this point, Harry is forced to enlist the help of Jones and his fellow racing buddies to chase after Hoover. They track him and Darlene down at the house and go after the two through fields, winding mountain roads, and eventually down a steep mountain hill. Harry, who is in one of the now-disabled cars, suggests they talk, but Hoover simply drives off. By now, Jones becomes very impressed with Hoover's driving.As night falls, Hoover and Darlene arrive back in town, where they are greeted by everybody in the community. They pull into the now-closed race track's parking lot and Darlene has a confession to make to Hoover: She only liked him because he had the car. Feeling duped, Hoover angrily kicks the passenger door, but Jones appears and scolds him by saying that is no way to treat a lady, meaning Mabel. He then tells Hoover to get into the driver's side of the car. Once the two are in, Hoover speeds onto the track, doing a series of circle laps.
