Trans Allied Flight 136 is hijacked in flight and diverted by its four captors to New York's JFK Airport. When the plane departs for London and the terrorists begin murdering hostages, the passengers begin to fight back.
Four terrorists of different ethnicities and without an obvious common link take hold of an American jetliner and demand release of their leader from a British prison. They murder a stewardess to prove they mean business and threaten to pick off more if their demands are not met. But surprises await the hijackers: an armed policeman is aboard, and the passengers manage to begin a whispered plot to fight back. After a bloody shootout with further casualties on both sides, the mood of the film shifts sharply as the plot devolves to a single question: do the passengers wait till the plane lanes and turn the surviving terrorists over to the authorities, or do they "try" them themselves aboard the plane?
Trans Allied Airlines Flight 136, a US domestic flight is hijacked by 4 terrorists demanding release of their leader from a U.K prison. Diverted to New York during their reign of terror they subject the passengers and crew to untold amounts of violence and threats. It is then when it reaches a point of no return that the passengers take charge and fight back!
A U.S. domestic flight is hijacked by psychopathic terrorists who are demanding the release of their leader from a U.K. prison. One at a time, these low-lifes begin ruthlessly &amp; cold-bloodedly murdering passengers &amp; crew members when their demands are not met. But what no one - including the terrorists - knows is that an armed police officer is on board, and he and the other passengers stealthily plot to overpower their tormentors. After a female flight attendant is viciously murdered by the ringleader, they strike. The police officer guns down a terrorist standing in an aisle, while two flight attendants throw scalding hot coffee in the face of the terrorist leader. A third terrorist is overpowered by other passengers when he tries to come to his friends' aid, and the fourth in the cockpit is knocked unconscious by the police officer &amp; flight crew. Now the psychopaths are bound &amp; at the mercy of the people they had abused &amp; tortured for hours, and the passengers themselves are considering what to do...whether to hand over the terrorists for trial to the U.S. court system, or eliminate these demented, murderous people?

