The victims of an encephalitis epidemic many years ago have been catatonic ever since, but now a new drug offers the prospect of reviving them.
1969. Dr. Malcolm Sayer is hired as a clinical physician at a psychiatric hospital in the Bronx, despite he only having a research background. The job is not ideal on his side as he has difficulties relating to people which is the reason he has focused on research projects not involving human subjects, while the hospital hires him somewhat out of desperation in not finding anyone else with the qualifications who wants the job. Most of his patients are in a semi-catatonic state and are housed in what some of the orderlies coin the "garden" ward, where all they can do for the patients is water and feed them. He notices that some of the patients, despite their generally catatonic state, respond in unusual ways to certain stimuli. In doing some research, he also finds that some common bonds between these patients are that they suffered from encephalitis in the 1920s or 1930s, and that their physical states are like they have Parkinson's disease frozen in time. As such, he is able to convince, albeit reluctantly, his skeptical boss, Dr. Kaufman, to administer an expensive experimental drug therapy on only one patient with family consent. That patient is forty-one year old Leonard Lowe, who has been in his current state since he was eleven years old, and who has been supported by his loving mother through all these years. As the drug therapy "awakens" Leonard, there are several issues that come into play. Malcolm has to try and convince Kaufman and the hospital administration to extend the therapy to the other patients. Despite not knowing the long term effects, Leonard, who was aware of his surroundings through his catatonic state, may have mixed emotions about his situation, wanting both to be treated as human being and an experiment guinea pig to ensure that what is happening benefits him and others in the long run. Mrs. Lowe may be unprepared for the new Leonard, she expecting who she remembers as a sweet eleven year old boy. Through all these issues, what may be the most illuminating issue for Malcolm is the need to stimulate the human spirit, including his own in dealing with people around him.
A new doctor finds himself with a ward full of catatonic patients. He is disturbed by them and the fact that they have been catatonic for decades with no hope of any cure. When he finds a possible chemical cure he gets permission to try it on one of them. When the first patient awakes, he is now well into his 50s having gone into a catatonic state at 20 years of age. The film then delights in the new awareness of the patients and then on the reactions of their relatives to the changes in the newly awakened.
In 1969, Dr. Malcolm Sayer (Robin Williams) is a dedicated and caring physician at a Bronx hospital. After working extensively with the catatonic patients who survived the 1917-1928 encephalitis lethargica epidemic, Sayer discovers that certain stimuli reach beyond the patients' respective catatonic states: Activities such as catching a ball, hearing familiar music, and experiencing human touch all have unique effects on particular patients and offer a glimpse into their worlds. While patient Leonard Lowe (Robert De Niro) proves elusive in this regard, Sayer soon discovers that Lowe is able to communicate with him using a Ouija board.After attending a lecture on the subject of L-Dopa and its success with Parkinson's sufferers, Sayer believes the drug may offer a breakthrough for his own group of patients. The hospital's supervising doctor, Kaufman, initially rejects Sayer's request to purchase the drug for Leonard, citing budgetary constraints. He has a change of heart while talking to Sayer in the hospital's cafeteria when several employees give back their paychecks to buy the drug. A trial run with Lowe yields astounding results, as he completely "awakens" from his catatonic state; inspiring Sayer to seek funding so that all his patients can receive L-Dopa and experience "awakenings" back to reality. Sayer takes Leonard on supervised outings where Leonard marvels at how much the world has changed in the 40 years of his catatonia.Meanwhile, Leonard is adjusting to his new life and becomes romantically interested in Paula (Penelope Ann Miller), the daughter of another patient, and begins spending time with her when she comes to the hospital to visit her father. Leonard also begins to chafe at the restrictions on him as an in-patient, desiring the freedom to come and go as he pleases, and stirs up a bit of a revolt in the process of arguing his case repeatedly to Sayer and the hospital administration. Sayer notices that as Leonard grows more agitated while battling administrators and staff about his perceived confinement, a number of facial and body tics are starting to manifest that Leonard has difficulty controlling.While Sayer and the hospital staff continue to delight in the success of L-Dopa with this group of patients, they soon find that it is a temporary triumph. As the first to "awaken", Leonard is also the first to demonstrate the limited duration of this "awakening": His tics grow more and more prominent, he starts to shuffle more as he walks, and the rest of the patients are forced to witness what will eventually happen to them. He soon begins to suffer full body spasms and can hardly move. However, he puts up well with the pain, and asks Sayer to film him, in hopes that he will someday contribute to research that may eventually help others. Leonard acknowledges sadly what is happening to him and has a last lunch with Paula where he tells her he cannot see her anymore. Surprisingly, when he dances with Paula in the cafeteria, his physical symptoms abate for a brief period. Leonard and Dr. Sayer reconcile their differences, and Leonard returns to his catatonic state soon thereafter. The other patients' fears are similarly realized as each eventually returns to catatonia no matter how much their L-Dopa dosages are increased.Sayer tells a group of grant donors to the hospital that although the "awakening" did not last, another such awakening of learning to appreciate and live life took place. The film ends with Sayer standing over the once-again-catatonic Leonard behind a Ouija board, with his hands on Leonard's hands, activating the planchette. "Let's begin," Sayer says.
