The story of Brian Sweeney Fitzgerald, an extremely determined man who intends to build an opera house in the middle of a jungle.
Fitzcarraldo is an obsessed opera lover who wants to build an opera in the jungle. To accomplish this he first has to make a fortune in the rubber business, and his cunning plan involves hauling an enormous river boat across a small mountain with aid from the local Indians.
Deep in the heart of the Peruvian jungle, on the banks of the Amazon river, is the town of Iquitos. It is the early-1900s and the area is booming due to the rubber trade. Living in Iquitos is Brian Sweeney Fitzgerald, "Fitzcarraldo", an entrepreneur whose ideas and ventures often exceed practicality. His latest idea - build an opera house in or near Iquitos.
Brian Sweeney Fitzgerald (Klaus Kinski), called Fitzcarraldo by the local natives in the South American rubber capital where he lives, has a dream to create an exotic opera house so that the music of Caruso, and Pucinni, and Wagner can be brought to the wilderness. As he and his girlfriend Molly (Claudia Cardinale), the madam of the top brothel in the city, run to see a local opera performance, Fitzcarraldo manages to get the attention of a local financier Don Aquilino (José Lewgoy) and gets to create a plan to finance his dream. Using Molly's money Fitzcarraldo buys a boat and goes up the Amazon River to a jungle inhabited by Indians intent on killing any white men who enter. Becoming awed and subdued by Fitzcarraldo in his white suit and the music of Caruso, the Indians accept the blond entrepreneur as a god and do his bidding. At this juncture of the Amazon the river is separated from another of its legs by a few miles of mountains so the Indians are enlisted to drag the 180-ton ship from the river and over the mountains to the other leg in order to facilitate rubber transportation. During the task Indians are used as slaves, with the ultimate goal of building the opera house. As trees are felled and mountains are dynamited Fitzcarraldo struggles to realize his obsessive dream to bring opera music to the jungle.
