Misadventures of four groups of guests at the Beverly Hills Hotel.
Four totally different and separate stories of guests staying at the Beverly Hills Hotel. Diane Barrie (Dame Maggie Smith) and Sidney Cochran (Sir Michael Caine) come from England to attend the Oscars; Hannah Warren (Jane Fonda) comes from New York City, Bill Warren (Alan Alda) is her ex who lives in California; in the slapstick part, Dr. Willis Panama (Bill Cosby), Dr. Chauncey Gump (Richard Pryor), and their wives come to the hotel to relax and play tennis, only to find there is only one room vacant; in the fourth segment, Marvin Michaels (Walter Matthau) arrives a day before his wife for his nephew's Bar Mitzvah, while his brother Harry (Herb Edelman) sends a prostitute to his room.
Staying at the Beverly Hills Hotel, classically trained British actress Diana Barrie (Dame Maggie Smith) and her antiques dealer husband Sidney Cochran (Sir Michael Caine) are in town to attend the Oscar ceremony as Diana has been nominated for her first Best Actress Oscar for what she considers a comic trifle of a movie. Beyond Diana dealing with nerves in the lead up to the ceremony, Diana and Sidney confront the "elephant in the room" issue affecting their marriage, that elephant about which they rarely speak. A marriage long past is that of Bill Warren (Alan Alda) and Hannah Warren (Jane Fonda), who divorced nine years ago. New York City-based Hannah is staying at the hotel to meet with Los Angeles based screenwriter Bill, as their seventeen-year-old daughter Jenny (Dana Plato), of whom Hannah has primary custody, had earlier run off on her own volition to live with Bill until she comes of age next year and heads off to college. Their discussion about what to do about Jenny highlights the fundamental differences in temperament between the two, with uptight intellectual Hannah abhorring the vacuous California lifestyle, which is now epitomized by Bill. A marriage more on solid ground is that of Philadelphia-based Marvin Michaels (Walter Matthau) and Millie Michaels (Elaine May), who are in town to attend the bar mitzvah of their nephew, the son of Marvin's sex obsessed brother, Harry (Herb Edelman). Marvin has arrived at the hotel a day earlier than Millie. But their marriage may be in trouble if Millie, upon her arrival, discovers what Marvin is hiding in his bed. And a lost reservation and a full hotel the result of the Oscars is only the latest problem facing travelling companions, couples Dr. Chauncey Gump (Richard Pryor) and Lola Gump (Gloria Gifford), and Dr. Willis Panama (Bill Cosby) and Bettina Panama (Sheila Frazier). Chauncey and Willis are increasingly at odds with each other on this, their driving vacation, which is exacerbated by what is turning out to be Murphy's Law seemingly at every move that they make.
Four sets of people arrive in California and stay at the same hotel. One of these people is Hannah Warren (Jane Fonda) from New York City, who has come to take her daughter Jenny (Dana Plato), who ran away from her and would like to stay with her father Bill (Alan Alda). So Bill and Hannah spend the day bickering while trying to decide what's best for their daughter. Another one is British actress Diana Barrie (Dame Maggie Smith), who's nominated for an Academy Award and is attending the ceremony with her husband Sidney Cochran (Sir Michael Caine), who is not in the (entertainment) business. As well as two doctors, Willis Panama (Bill Cosby) and Chauncy Gump (Richard Pryor), and their wives. Chauncy has been complaining all of the way, and when they arrive, they learn that only the Panamas have a room, but the Gumps are forced to stay in a small single. Finally Marvin Michaels (Walter Matthau), who came to town for his nephew's bar mitzvah. Knowing that his wife is not with him, his brother Harry (Herb Edelman) takes him out for a little carousing, and when he returns, he finds a hooker waiting for him. The next day, his wife arrives.
On a flight to Los Angeles, California, British actress Diana Barrie (Maggie Smith) watches herself on the in-flight movie in the role for which she has received an Academy Award nomination. She expresses her nervousness about the upcoming Oscar ceremony to her husband, Sidney Cochran (Michael Caine), as the plane lands.Elsewhere, on a Los Angeles freeway, Dr. Willis Panama (Bill Cosby) and Dr. Chauncey Gump (Richard Pryor), physicians from Chicago, Illinois, vacationing together with their wives Bettina (Sheila Frazer) and Lola (Gloria Gifford), bicker with each other constantly as their rental car first breaks down, then collides with two other vehicles.As Diana and Sidney check into the Beverly Hills Hotel, Hannah Warren (Jane Fonda) paces her room in the hotel while waiting to meet with her ex-husband, Bill Warren (Alan Alda). When he arrives, they note that it has been nine years since they saw each other, then they leave to keep the lunch reservation he made.At the Los Angeles airport, Harry Michaels (Herbert Edelman) picks up his brother, Marvin Michaels (Walter Matthau), who has come to town to attend Harry's son's bar mitzvah. Marvin explains that he and his wife Millie (Elaine May) always fly separately, so she will arrive the next morning. Marvin notices that Harry still ogles and wants to proposition every beautiful woman he sees. Harry drops Marvin off at the Beverly Hills Hotel and they arrange to meet for dinner later.Meanwhile, Hannah and Bill reminisce over lunch and later at his beachfront home. She is an editor for Newsweek magazine in New York City and dating a writer for the Washington Post. He is a former journalist, now working as a screenwriter, and contemplating marrying his girlfriend. Then they discuss the real reason Hannah has flown to Los Angeles: their seventeen-year old daughter, Jenny (Dana Plato), unhappy living with her mother in New York, ran away to stay with her father and wants to spend the next year with him in Los Angeles. Hannah doesn't want her daughter living in southern California but she is nervous about seeing Jenny and getting her to return to New York.Back at the hotel, Diana continues fretting over the likelihood of winning the Academy Award and exchanges witty banter with Sidney. Later, she has a couple of drinks to calm her nerves as she gets dressed for the awards ceremony.As Hannah and Bill return to Hannah's hotel room, Jenny calls and informs her parents that she will abide by whatever decision they make. Hannah announces to Bill that Jenny will return to New York with her. Bill is disappointed but trusts Hannah's instincts. When Hannah expresses how afraid she is of losing Jenny, Bill remarks that he has never seen his ex-wife so vulnerable. Then Hannah says Jenny can stay with Bill in Los Angeles, but only for six months. Hannah watches Jenny drive off with Bill.At the hotel's front desk, the doctors learn there is a reservation for Willis but not for Chauncey. The hotel has no extra rooms because it is Academy Award week. The only thing available is a small single room undergoing repairs. Chauncey agrees to take it. Later, Willis tells Chauncey that he has made a dinner reservation at a Japanese restaurant and booked them a tennis court for a doubles game the next day. While the Gumps struggle to get ready in their tiny room, Chauncey complains about having to eat Japanese food. As Willis and Bettina wait for their friends in the lobby, Willis complains that Chauncey is always late. When the two couples finally gather at the hotel's front door, the doctors argue about who will drive to the restaurant, until Bettina insists she will drive.On the way to the Academy Awards, a nervous Diana begs Sidney to be nice to her and wish her luck. He reminds her how talented she is and gives her a kiss. They exit the limousine and greet the crowd outside the venue.Elsewhere, paramedics arrive at a collision in which a car is on top of the one Bettina is driving. While a policeman questions her, Chauncey insists to the officer that his legs are paralyzed from sitting down at the Japanese restaurant.After the Academy Awards ceremony, Diana observes Sidney speaking with an attractive young man. Drunk, she takes her disappointment about losing the Oscar out on her husband.At the hotel, as Harry drops his brother off after dinner, Harry teases Marvin that "the night is not over yet." Marvin goes to his room and finds that Harry has hired a hooker, Bunny, to entertain him.Later, Chauncey wakes up in the middle of the night, sick from the Japanese food. Lola calls Willis and insists he tend to Chauncey. Willis angrily acquiesces.Back in their hotel room, Diana jealously insists that Sidney was flirting with the young man that she saw him speaking with earlier. Sidney asks her why they cannot lie to each other about the nature of their relationship the same way they lie to everyone else about it. He reminds her that he has never hidden who he is... that he is homosexual. Diana asks why Sidney doesn't love her anymore. He insists he never stopped loving her. She says his kind of love doesn't do her any good, then begs him to "screw" her before immediately apologizing. She loves him but she doesn't understand why he stays with her when he could share the company of other gay men exclusively. He explains he enjoys his proximity to her minor celebrity and tells her he loves her more than any woman he's ever known. They acknowledge they have fun together, then share a kiss. She comes to bed and they make love.The next morning, Marvin wakes up to find himself in bed with Bunny. He tries to get her up and out of the room but she has passed out after drinking a bottle of tequila. Calling the front desk, Marvin learns that his wife, Millie, has just arrived and is on her way to his room. He tries to keep Millie from discovering the nude, unconscious hooker in his bed but finally reveals his indiscretion. Incensed, Millie leaves.Elsewhere at the hotel, Willis, Bettina, Chauncey and Lola play doubles tennis. Bettina accidentally smashes her racket on Willis' head, loses her balance and injures her ankle as she falls. Lola stumbles over a basket of tennis balls trying to come to Bettina's aid and Chauncey trips over the net trying to help Lola.Outside the Michaels' room, Millie hurries away as Marvin tries to explain his infidelity. At first, Millie doesn't see how she can attend the bar mitzvah knowing Harry paid for Marvin's hooker, then she decides to forgive Marvin and forget it ever happened. She also plans to spend all of his money.The Panamas and the Gumps return to the Panamas' room to care for Bettina's ankle. Lola breaks a bottle of perfume in the bathroom, then cuts her finger on one of the glass shards. While they tend to Lola, Bettina trips and falls through the room's French doors, breaking the panes of glass. Then Lola bangs her head on the door of the medicine cabinet while rinsing off her bleeding finger and passes out. Willis goes to the bathroom to soak a wet towel for her, but steps on the broken glass. Willis and Chauncey put both women on the bed then start fighting each other, damaging the room in the process.After shopping in the hotel boutique, Millie returns to the hotel room. Marvin tries to embrace her but she wants no signs of affection from him in front of the still-unconscious hooker on their bed.In the Panamas' room, Chauncey swears it has been the worst trip ever and Willis tries to force Chauncey to say it is the best time they ever had and that the Gumps will love going on vacation with the Panamas again.In front of the hotel, the taxi that the Michaels were going to take to the bar mitzvah has been given to Bunny, who is awake and fully dressed. She generously allows them to ride with her to their destination.At the airport, Hannah is surprised to see Jenny, who has come to say good-bye and thank her mother for letting her stay with Bill.In another part of the airport, the Panamas and the Gumps, who are bruised and covered in bandages, limp towards their flight.As Diana and Sidney's plane takes off, they learn that the in-flight movie is the same as on their flight to Los Angeles and Diana begs Sidney to get them off the plane.
