Three Broadway producers struggling to get backing for their show hope one's sudden inheritance of a half interest in a Parisian fashion house is the answer. They travel to Paris only to learn the salon is in debt and requires their help.
Al Marsh, Tony Naylor and Jerry Ralby, Broadway producers, are desperately looking for backers. Al is one of the heirs of a dress salon in Paris, but this is almost bankrupt. The two other heiresses, Stephanie and Clarisse and the three producers are able to convince the creditors to back a fashion show there. Things become complicated, when Al and Tony fall in love with Stephanie and Al's New York girl friend Bubbles arrives.
Singer Tony Naylor, dancer Jerry Ralby and comic Alfred Wodzscyngkic, who goes by the stage name Al Marsh, are partners in trying to mount a Broadway show. Smooth talking Tony acts as the self-appointed front man, who will do almost anything to work toward this dream. Their junior partner is Tony's girlfriend, nightclub headline dancer Bubbles Cassidy. Despite most potential investors believing they have dynamite material, they are having problems raising any money. They believe their problems are solved when Al learns he has inherited one-half of Roberta's, a Paris couturier house, from his now deceased Aunt Roberta. They plan on Al selling his half to the other half owner. Upon arriving in Paris, they learn from those other half owners, straight laced sisters Stephanie and Clarisse, that Al has nothing to sell since Roberta's is financially in the hole. Tony eventually comes up with an idea to boost Roberta's sagging fortunes: mount a show, using their material, at Roberta's while displaying their fashions. In the process, several romantic relationships ensue between the guys, Bubbles, and Stephanie and Clarisse, although it isn't always as clear cut as the same boy liking the same girl. That, and ambition of getting the show to Broadway at any cost could derail some of those relationships, including the Broadway business partnership.

