In this Tony Award-winning musical by Stephen Sondheim, several fairy tale characters learn the hard way that the 'Happily Ever After' they sought isn't necessarily so happy after all.
A childless baker and his wife cannot have a child until they follow the bidding of the witch next door to get a cow as white as milk, the cape as red as blood, the hair as yellow as corn, and the slipper as pure as gold. Good thing, then that they've got neighbors named Jack, Little Red Riding Hood, Rapunzel and Cinderella to help them before (and after) Happily Ever After.
Act One: Cinderella wishes to go to the Prince's ball, but her evil stepsisters and stepmother are doing everything they can to prevent her from doing this. Jack wishes for a better life, and his mom wishes for more money. Thus, Jack is made to sell his only friend, his cow, Milky-White. The Baker and his wife are childless, and want a child when the witch from next door tells them she placed a spell on their house preventing them from giving birth. Unless they make a potion by gathering the cow as white as milk, the cape as red as blood, the hair as yellow as corn, the slipper as pure as gold. All four go into the woods to fulfill their wishes in a funny display of mistakes, bargains, and more. Act Two: All three groups have their wishes, but directly quoting, "Wishes may bring problems, such that you regret them, better that though than to never get them...". Suddenly, a huge crash and boom is heard. The witch's garden is trampled, and the Baker's house almost destroyed. By what? No what! It's a who! A giant! The wife of the giant Jack killed! All go back into the woods. Jack - to slay the giant. Cinderella - to investigate bad news of her mother's grave. The Baker and his Wife - to lead Little Red Riding Hood to her grandma's house. Through the journey they get the repercussions of their earlier actions in a more serious way.
Into the Woods starts familiarly, with the stories of Cinderella, Jack and the Beanstalk, Little Red Riding Hood, Rapunzel, and all are tied together with a new story of the Baker and his Wife, who are trying to conceive a child. However, just as the audience did not previously know that all of the stories were related through the Baker and his Wife, the play soon discloses many twists and changes of fate for each of the characters as they experience the repercussions of their "happily ever after"s.
