A tough cop must pose as a kindergarten teacher in order to locate a dangerous criminal's ex-wife, who may hold the key to putting him behind bars.
After numerous fruitless attempts, the veteran LAPD Detective, John Kimble, has one last chance to put behind bars once and for all the elusive drug kingpin, Cullen Crisp, who is trying to find the whereabouts of his son and his ex-wife who run away with millions of dollars. In high hopes of picking up clues, the massive officer finds himself at a bustling elementary school in Astoria, Oregon, posing as a substitute kindergarten teacher; however, to keep up the ruse without blowing his cover, John must keep under control a noisy classroom full of intimidating five-year-old adversaries. Can Kimble show them who's boss?
John Kimble is a tough city cop who's been on the trail of drug dealer Cullen Crisp for years. He finally tracks Crisp down but it seems the only person that can testify against him is his ex-wife. The problem is she's disappeared and all Kimble knows is the name of the school in Oregon where her son attends. When things don't quite go to plan, Kimble finds he has to go undercover on his toughest assignment yet - Kindergarten teacher!
Los Angeles narcotics detective John Kimble has long been after drug kingpin Cullen Crisp, who is a psychopath. After John arrests Cullen for a young man's murder, John is told that Cullen's ex-wife Rachel -- whose testimony could be a key to putting Cullen away -- is living in Astoria, Oregon, and that she has a son. John and his partner Phoebe O'Hara are sent to Astoria to find Rachel. Phoebe, a former school teacher, is assigned to go undercover as a kindergarten teacher at Astoria Elementary School, where Rachel's son is believed to be one of the students. The problem for John and Phoebe is the fact that they don't know what Rachel and her son look like. When Phoebe becomes sick before the undercover assignment is to begin, John must take her place, despite the initial misgivings of Principal Schlowski, who eventually befriends John. On his first day, John meets first grade teacher Joyce Palmeri, whose son Dominic is one of John's students. As John spends months on this assignment, he bonds with his students and introduces them to his pet ferret. The town's single mothers find themselves falling for John. One of the students, Zach Sullivan, is a victim of physical abuse at the hands of his violent tempered father, who also physically abuses Zach's mother. John tries to convince Mrs. Sullivan to leave Mr. Sullivan and press charges, but Mrs. Sullivan is too scared to do that. One afternoon, as Zach is leaving school for the day, John finds a severe welt on Zach's back. John goes outside, hits Mr. Sullivan, and says that he has no choice but to press charges against Mr. Sullivan. Schlowski calls John into her office and asks John how good it felt to hit Mr. Sullivan, because Schlowski herself had always felt like hitting Mr. Sullivan. John soon discovers that Joyce's real name is Rachel Crisp -- Cullen's ex-wife. And now, Cullen and his cold-blooded mother Eleanor Crisp have arrived in Astoria, and they are looking for Rachel -- and Dominic, the son that Cullen hasn't seen in three years. And it's up to John to protect Rachel and Dominic.
Detective John Kimble is on the trail of a drug-dealing bad guy. He visits a girl named Cindy who may know something about the bad guy whose name is Crisp Cullen. John is handed an assistant, Phoebe O'Hara after he hears that the ex-wife of Crisp is in a school in Oregon with her son, Dominic. but, what's the lady's name? John hears that it's Rachel. he goes out to Oregon to drop off Phoebe as the subsitute teacher. but things go wrong with Phoebe's sickness and John takes her position. he goes to the school and teaches in a kindergarten class where he meets a mother and teacher, Joyce. well, actually Joyce IS Rachel. but John does not know yet. then, John goes to a dinner in a restaurant with Phoebe, Dominic and Joyce. they all go to their homes at night and one more day of school teaching! soon, in the next or other day, John meets a kid named Zach whose father is abusing him. OMG! but, John goes out to find something about the father via talking to Zach's mother and no... it was not Crisp. he beats up the father and soon discovers that Joyce is Rachel. some kind of party is thrown a bit on and John tries to talk to Rachel, but she walks away. the next day, John invites Phoebe over to teach the kids about strangers while Crisp is in the school and lights the school on fire. he kidnaps Dominic and John rushes to get him, he tries to talk Crisp into letting Dominic go, but Crisp shoots John and John falls on the floor. he groans a bit, is OK, but Crisp's mother Eleanor butts in and shoots John. John now is in real pain, he bleeds and groans and is sent to the hospital. He then is all right and Phoebe, who is injured by a car at the time John is shot, brings in her fiancee who is a chef. John gets out of the hospital and visits the children. then the movie ends.
