A group of assorted Americans survive a plane crash in a Caribbean island, and discover it is infested with crawling snakes and other venomous beasts. Even worse, terrorists are preparing a full out war on America with a biological weapon.
A small group of typical Tromaville citizens find themselves in the path of a terrorist army controlled by the power elite. The freedom of Tromaville and the world is at stake! Troma's War creates new kinds of heroes. A used car salesman, a handsome environmentalist, an obese junk-food gourmand, a seventy-year-old housewife, some sensational young women, a year old jingoistic baby and more sensational women all become deadly soldiers...
A commercial airline flight crashes on a tropical, apparently deserted Caribbean island. The morning after, the sun shines over a beach,where gory dead bodies and plane wreckage are scattered everywhere. A groggy survivor wakes up, and she slowly realizes what happened. Flashback to the scene just after the crash, with several people on fire running around and screaming. As the camera pans over the burning wreckage of the airplane, one hears the crying of a baby somewhere amid the flames. The few survivors all gather, surrounded by the charred bodies.The survivors are: a black Catholic priest, who sings an hymn to the dead, a whiny mother, a one-year-old jingoistic baby girl, a handsome environmentalist, a blind young woman eager to fight with a gun in her hands, a chauvinistic heartthrob who's after a liberated woman, a liberated woman who rejects male advances, a heroic gay flight attendant, a used car salesman who happens to be a Vietnam veteran, a charming man, a handicapped World War II veteran with a wooden arm, an oily Wall Street tycoon who happens to be a Vietnam hero, a punk rock band called the "Bearded Clams", an obese gourmet chef into junk food, some sexy young women, and a seventy-year-old housewife who ends up karate kicking and blowing away foes as anyone else.The survivors flee into the jungle, where they are temporarily safe. It doesn't take them long to find out the island is inhabited by mysterious looking soldiers on patrol.The survivors are mistaken for commandos by Neonazis and Cuban freedom fighters who are operating a terrorist training camp, in a a conspiracy that will not only endanger the United States, but will place the whole world in jeopardy. The invasion is to be accomplished by "germ warfare", which has been prepared by "Señor SIDA", a Cuban leader, and his SIDA's Task Force. The sleazy leader, covered with sores and popping boils, decides to personally introduce one of several captured survivors to his technique of preparing the invasion force. [At the time, AIDS was being largely ignored.]The ensuing scenes are massive gun battles between the three groups, including machine-guns, bazookas and hand grenades, until about three hundred fighters have been killed - and even less survivors of the flight crash escape alive.
