While King Richard is away at the Crusades, some Nottingham nobles and their Sheriff plot to confiscate estates of fallen Crusaders but Robin Hood and Maid Marian foil their plan.
The sheriff of Nottingham plots to confiscate the estate of the Lord of Bortrey, who has died on Crusade. The Archbishop of Canterbury speaks against this plot, and the sheriff plans to eliminate him. Robin Hood pretends to undertake the assassination of the Archbishop for the plotters; Maid Marion, meeting him thinks him the leader of a gang of murderers, and leads him into a trap.
Robin and his men rescue an unnamed rider being chased by the Sheriff's men. He's seriously wounded and Robin absolutely refuses to turn him over to the Sheriff who offers him a full pardon in exchange for the man. The Earl of Newark takes an interest in Robin's skill with a bow and puts him through a number of tests. It's meant to get Robin to kill the Lord Chancellor and Archbishop of Canterbury, Hubert Walter, who is blocking their plans to confiscate a dead nobleman's property in the shire.
The Sheriff of Nottingham's men pursue a man [Desmond Llewelyn] on horseback through the woods. He possesses a gold emblem of a falcon. They wound him but are stopped by Robin Hood [Richard Greene]. He eventually falls off his horse near a river where he is found by Robin and his men Roger [James Neylin] and Little John [Nigel Green]. Marian [Sarah Branch], who has been swimming in the river is confrontational to Robin and his men, considering them to be outlaws.Marian returns to the forest with a note for Robin asking him to meet her at an inn. Robin meets Marian but the Sheriff [Peter Cushing] is also there. The Sheriff wants the wounded man, offering money and even a free pardon to Robin, but Robin refuses. As Robin leaves the inn he is chased by the Sheriff's men but escapes. Marian is annoyed the Sheriff has betrayed her trust.Before the wounded fugitive dies, he warns of danger at Bawtry and Robin wonders if the Sheriff is more interested in the falcon emblem the man is carrying.The Sheriff has one of Robin's men, Martin of Eastwood [Derren Nesbitt], as a prisoner but when he refuses to talk the Sheriff threatens to have him executed by cross-bow. At the last moment Martin reveals the location of Robin's camp but the Sheriff has him shot regardless. Robin's camp is deserted when they arrive. They find the buried body of the fugitive but not the emblem. Martin is found by Marian and Robin and explains how he was betrayed before he dies. Marian reveals to Robin she knew nothing of the trap at the inn.Robin visits Friar Tuck [Niall MacGinnis] and while there the Earl of Newark [Richard Pasco] and his men arrive. Robin resents being treated like a peasant by Lord Melton [Oliver Reed] so the Earl challenges him to shoot Melton's falcon whilst in-flight. Robin notices the Earl also has the gold falcon emblem hanging from his tunic. Impressed by his ability with the bow, the Earl offers Robin a well-paid job.In the court hearing at Bawtry the Sheriff tries to secure land for the Earl, arguing that under law land belonging to a man who died on a crusade in the Holy Land should be granted to him until a new tenant can be found. The court initially rules in agreement with the Sheriff but Hubert Walter [Jack Gwillim] the Archbishop of Canterbury and Chancellor of England overrules the decision.The Earl sets Robin some more longbow challenges which Robin excels at. He wants Robin to kill a man but won't reveal whom. However, when the Sheriff arrives at the Earl's castle and tries to kill Robin in a sword fight, Robin has to flee.Marian catches up with Walter as he returns to London to argue for justice for the mistreatment of Martin by the Sheriff.Robin now knows the falcon emblem belongs to the Earl of Newark and the dead fugitive was on his way to warn Walter of the plot by the Earl and the Sheriff. Robin and Little John set off in pursuit of Mariam and Walter.The Earl and Sheriff send men dressed as outlaws to kill Walter. They ambush Walter's travelling party but Robin and Little John arrive just in time to help Marian and Walter escape to a priory. The Sheriff and his men arrive at the ambush site and one of the dying men reveals where the Archbishop is hiding. Robin tries to save the Marian and Walter at the priory but the prioress [Vanda Godsell] won't let him in because she is one of the Earl's accomplices.The Sheriff returns to the Earl's castle. The Earl is angry with the Sheriff the ambush failed and Melton stabs the Sheriff in the back.Robin and Little John manage to get into the priory and help protect the Walter when the Earl and his men arrive. During the sword fight, the Earl and Melton are killed.Walter grants a free pardon to Martin. Marian requests a pardon for Robin too but he refuses saying that would need the King because Robin is a living outlaw. He leaves for London, instructing Friar Tuck to marry Robin and Marian.
