To impress a movie star, a U.S. Air Force crewman pretends he is soon to see combat. When his lie gets out, chaos ensues.
Air Force fliers Rick Williams and Mike Nolan attempt to meet film star Nell Wayne, with whom Rick shares a hometown but not much else. Fellow film stars Doris Day and Ruth Roman mistakenly believe Rick to be very close to Nell and arrange for him to meet her. The pair begin to form a match, especially after Nell, Doris, and Ruth arrange for Hollywood stars to perform for G.I.s in transit to and from the Korean War, at Travis Air Base. But Nell thinks Rick is getting ready to ship out to the war, when in reality, he and Mike ferry troops part of the way then return to Travis Air Base with returning soldiers. Nell is furious with Rick for letting her believe he was headed to a war zone, especially because the press has made a huge story of their romance. Meantime, a new program, Operation Starlift, has been set in place by the Air Force and the Hollywood studios, whereby stars are flown to San Francisco to perform for the outbound and inbound troops. Movie stars such as Randolph Scott, Phil Harris, and Jane Wyman pitch in to entertain the troops. Rick volunteers for duty in a combat zone, and Nell begins to think she's been wrong about him.
A cavalcade of movie stars are in San Francisco for a world movie premiere. Because of a chance meeting with a couple of air force men, some of those movie stars, including Doris Day and Ruth Roman, head to Travis Air Force Base outside of the city. Seeing life of the enlisted men heading off to the Korean War, the movie stars decide to visit with the returning wounded men and put on a show at the base. This one show becomes an on-going mission for the Hollywood community, coined Operation Starlift. Meanwhile, there is a budding romance between one of those air force men, Cpl. Rick Williams, and one of the movie stars, Nell Wayne, the two who grew up in the same small town. Their meeting and romance is predicated on a white lie told by Rick's friend, Sgt. Mike Nolan, the lie fostered by the corporal. The romance could be in jeopardy if Nell and/or the world, who know of the story through the Hollywood gossip machine, learn the truth.

