Three man will fight for the love of a charming girl. Charlie will play dirty, throwing bricks to his contender, and using a huge hammer to hurt one of them. But a precocious kid will be the fourth suitor in discord.
A man , Charlot, throws a mallet against a couple near a tree. The girl raises the mallet to the first pitcher who reaches the couple, for a moment of slapstick between men. The girl goes to another man with whom she sits on the swing. From the tree the two men go towards the swing and one of them pushes the one on the swing, which launches a mallet to the other two, who take refuge in a nearby shack. The character played by Chaplin goes to take with the other who is with the girl and take him to the shack. Chaplin hits the other two and goes to the girl, chasing a child who had arrived just before. The two men free themselves and one of the two chases Chaplin, who duels on the edge of a pond with one of the two while the other is with the girl. Chaplin drops his opponent into the lake but the other makes him fall too and goes for a walk with the girl.
Charlie throws a brick at a man and woman and gets it thrown back at him. The rivals fight. The lady leaves with a third suitor. Charlie finds a wooden mallet with which he subdues both rivals, locking them in a barn. He kicks the lady who instantly falls for him.
A pretty girl will be the object of affection of two desperate suitors. One of them is displaced by an opportunistic little man. Both of them will have a war, throwing themselves bricks. Charlie is throwing bricks hidden inside of a sort of shed. But Sennet will join him, when a third man appears on scene, and threatens to steal the girl's attention. However, when Charlie and Sennet begins to plan a strategy inside the shed, Charlie will play dirty and with a huge hammer, leaves Sennet unconscious. But a precocious kid, apparently will be the fourth "man" trying to win over the girl. Charlie manages to get rid of the kid, but Sennet and Swain will have the chance of having their revenge.

