A man who served prison time for intent to molest a child tries to build a new life with the help of a sympathetic psychiatrist.
This is the story of a 33 year old man, Jim Fuller, released from prison after serving a three year term for intent to commit child molestation. Fuller is assisted by the prison psychiatrist in obtaining a position. He does well in this position and falls in love with the secretary of the owner of the company. A child is molested and beaten in the town where he now lives and the police pick him up for questioning. He has an alibi and is released, but a reporter who covered his former trial recognizes him. The reporter begins to follow him and reports that Fuller spent time alone with the daughter of his girl friend.
Changing his name from Jim Fontaine, Jim Fuller is starting life anew in a British town where's he's never lived. He has just been placed on parole after serving time in prison for kidnapping nine year old Patricia Elmsworth with the intent of molesting her. He let her go before he caused her any physical harm. He did not put up a defense at his trial, knowing that he was sick and needed the help of a mental health professional in prison to deal with whatever was making him behave as he had. His parole is largely on the testimony of the prison doctor, Edmund McNally, whose diagnosis is that he is well enough to resume life outside of prison. McNally, who has returned to private practice, serves as Jim's parole officer. With help from McNally, Jim is able to secure a job in his field of accounting at Clive Enterprises. The only people at Clive Enterprises who know Jim was in prison are Andrew Clive, the company owner who knows the entire story, and Clive's secretary, Ruth Leighton, who only knows about prison but not the reason. As Jim tries to adjust to life on the outside, he uses McNally as his sounding board while always second guessing his own motivations. He knows the root causes of his deviant behavior, which also manifested themselves in him never having had a meaningful sexual or romantic relationship with a woman. Thus he treads lightly when he embarks on a relationship with Ruth, who does not want to know the reason for his incarceration as they just start to date, believing it would only muddy the waters. But that relationship is tested when Jim learns of and eventually meets Ruth's adolescent daughter, Janie. Jim may face further obstacles in his new life if he were ever to meet anyone who knew or knew of Jim Fontaine.

