Father Charles O'Malley, a young priest at a financially failing Church in a tough neighborhood, gains support and inspires his superior.
Youthful Father Chuck O'Malley led a colorful life of sports, song, and romance before joining the Roman Catholic clergy, but his level gaze and twinkling eyes make it clear that he knows he made the right choice. After joining a parish, O'Malley's worldly knowledge helps him connect with a gang of kids looking for direction and handle the business details of the church-building fund, winning over his aging, conventional superior, Father Fitzgibbon.
Father Fitzgibbon has been the parish priest at St. Dominic's in New York City for forty five years. The parish faces financial and social problems which the diocese believes cannot be solved by Father Fitzgibbon's traditional and conservative approach to running the parish. The bishop appoints progressive Father O'Malley, originally from St. Louis, to, on the surface, assist Father Fitzgibbon at St. Dominic's. In reality, Father O'Malley has been appointed to lead the parish out of these problems, something that Father Fitzgibbon is unaware, and something that Father O'Malley does not want to divulge in letting Father Fitzgibbon continue his work in dignity. Father O'Malley's task is made all the more difficult as Father Fitzgibbon does not approve of Father O'Malley's ways, both as priest and as a person. In general, Father Fitzgibbon takes a rather strict approach typical to the traditional ways of the church, whereas Father O'Malley takes a more compassionate humanistic approach, he who wants to bring people back to the church through more contemporary means rather than the old "fire and brimstone" preachings. However, even Father O'Malley's humanism may not be able to deal with the fact that Ted Haines Sr., representing the Knickerbocker Savings and Loan, is thinking of foreclosing on the church's mortgage for non-payment, money which the church does not have and which it needs to get out of this problem.
Father Charles O'Malley is an easy-going, golf-playing young priest whose entry into a tough neighborhood parish in midtown Manhattan is viewed with skepticism from all quarters, especially the aging Father Fitzgibbon. While dealing with some unfinished business from his former life in the form of an old flame who now sings at the Metropolitan Opera, Father O'Malley inspires the youth of his parish by forming a boys choir.
Parish life at Saint Dominic's includes gossip, youth mischief, and a rather shady landlord, but new curate Father Charles "Chuck" O'Malley (Bing Crosby) seems to land on his feet. As older Father Fitzgibbon (Barry Fitzgerald) watches Father O'Malley in action, he feels his days as pastor of his flock may be numbered. The two priests must find "modern" ways to deal with an age-old problem ministering to the people in an economically disadvantaged neighborhood. O'Malley, for his part, must deal with an interrupted romantic relationship from his past with opera star Genevieve Linden (Rise Stevens) and Carol James (Jean Heather), a "wayward" aspiring singer. Father O'Malley and his friend Father Timothy O'Dowd (Frank McHugh) take the elderly Fitzgibbon to play golf. The old priest calls a golf course "a pool room outdoors." Father Fitzgibbon goes to ask the bishop if he is being replaced. He becomes ill and speaks to Chuck of the 45 years since he was in the "old country." Father Fitzgibbon says his mother in Ireland is over 90. O'Malley makes the neighborhood boys into a choir. He gives the youth leader, Tony Scaponi, (Stanley Clements) his St. Louis Browns baseball jacket. Just as all the pieces of the plot seem to have fallen into place, the parish church is damaged in a massive fire. On Christmas Eve the people gather in a temporary church. Father O'Malley transferred to a new assignment, the new assistant is Father O'Dowd. Prior to the Mass, Mrs. Fitzgibbon totters in the embrace her beloved son. Father O'Malley quietly slips away.
