An ex-rock and roll star teams up with a naive young man to set things right in a small town where the local thugs rule unchallenged.
Beckman driving a '55 Thunderbird on Route 66 hooks up with Johnny after hoodlum Hoot and his gang shoot his car. Continuous conflicts between Hoot and Beckman make Beckman and Johnny determant to teach him a lesson.
Roadhouse 66
Beckman Hallsgood (Judge Reinhold) is travelling through Route 66, minding his own business, when three young men in a red Chevrolet try to push him out of the road and shoot the radiator. As his car is damaged, Johnny Harte (Willem Dafoe) encounters him waiting at an oil station. Johnny helps him to mend the car for the time being, so they both reach the nearest garage. Beckman is the son of a wealthy man who has got a fast-food restaurant chain. Beckman wants to see the world, as advised by his after having graduated, while checking local bars, snack food bars, etcThe garage is close. Jesse Duran is at the 66, and Beckman asks what that is. Johnny smiles and takes him to a bar called that way. He asks Thelma (Erica Yohn) for Jessie, and they laugh when they realize its a pretty blonde girl (Kaaren Lee). First Johnny and then Beckman try to convince her of working on the car now, but she insists that they wait until the next day at 9:00 sharp. A little while afterwards Melissa (Kate Vernon), her sister, arrive. Beckman asks for refined food there, and then, Hoot (Alan Autry) and his two thugs, Dink (Kevyn Major Howard) and Moss (Peter Van Norden).They finally buy another radiator from a similar car at Sam (Stephen Elliott)s. Hes an old good-fun man who helps them, even when he initially points a handgun to them Beckman and Johnny had slept in his property in the formers car.Jesse tells Beckman that Johnny used to have a successful country group, but his partner died in a car accident, and since then, hes a drifter. Jesse also tells them that Hoot is a danger, because hes the son of the local judge.Beckman is about to win a billiards game to Hoot, so in the ensuing fight, he and Hoot get hurt. Sam heals Beckman, and Hoot burns their car down. Sam dies in the accident.Beckman has the idea of running in a car race which Hoot always wins. Johnny tries to run away, but he finally comes back with a car ready to run the race. Hoot had put a scorpion into Beckman's car, who also runs. That will cause Beckman to have a car accident. Johnny picks him up and he wins the race.Johnny and Jesse will go to Phoenix so that he can start his singing career again, and Thelma helps Beckman to declare his love to Melissa.
