In Mountaincrest, a stranger without memory arrives in a bar to have a drink. When he leaves the bar, a local tries to robber him but he turns into an animal and kills the attacker. Deputy Ben Clovey hunts down the animal but is wounded by it. Sheriff Jack Haines organizes a party to find the beast. Meanwhile the nurse Amy Standish and her father, the local doctor, receive a man called Duncan Marsh that recalls that he had a car accident and two doctors have treated him. But he flees and Haines wants to hunt him down but Amy and her father wants to convince him to capture Duncan to see how they could treat him. When is wife Mrs. Helen Marsh and her son Chris arrive in Mountaincrest, Sheriff Haines is convinced that shall capture the werewolf alive. But the doctors that conducted the experiment arrive in the town expecting to kill him.
Two scientists come across an auto accident and find an unconscious man in the wreck. They take him back to their lab and inject him with a serum they have been working with. Unfortunately, the serum has the effect of turning the man into a murderous werewolf.
The movie opens with a scene of a small village in the mountains at night. It is the downtown business district of the small town of Mountaincrest (Big Bear, California), lit by street lights and neon signs. A narrator (an uncredited Fred F. Sears) tells us, "The word lycanthropy is defined as a human being having the power of becoming a wolf, or of having the power of turning another human into a wolf. Some say lycanthropy stems from nothing but myth and superstition. Yet the belief that a human can turn into a wolf has persisted since the Dark Ages to this very day. It is a universal belief. The ancient Romans and Greeks wrote of the phenomenon. There are tales of such happenings in Borneo, Turkey, South America. Everywhere. The American Navajo Indians and other tribes tell stories about wolf-men. The legends have persisted from the beginnings of man's memory of time. Why? Why haven't these tales died? The tales that say wolf-men roam the earth." A man, Duncan Marsh (Steven Rich) approaches Chad's Place, the local bar and watering hole. He hesitates, then enters the establishment. Titles and credits roll.A woman, Min (Marjorie Stapp), a tall blonde feeds a few coins into a jukebox, then returns to her seat at the bar. Marsh pays for his drink, but Hoxie (George Cisar) the bartender is annoyed that it is a large denomination bill, a twenty. Marsh finishes his drink, ignores his change, and slowly walks over to the fireplace and stares at the roaring fire. Marsh slowly walks to the exit but is reminded by Hoxie he has left his change. A tough looking man, Joe Mitchell (an uncredited Charles Horvath) notices Marsh and his slight build and casual way with money and follows him outside. Joe confronts Marsh and demands his money. He pulls Marsh into an alley and beats him up. An old woman, Ma Everett (an uncredited Jean Harvey), passing by hears and sees the commotion and stops to watch. Growls are heard and the feet of the scuffling men are seen. Marsh is victorious in the exchange, but he has changed physically. While we don't see yet, the woman is horrified by the visage and screams. The patrons and bartender are drawn outside by the woman's screams. She explains what happened to Hoxie. Deputy Sheriff Ben Clovey (Harry Lauter) checks on Joe. Hoxie grimaces and says, "His throat." Clovey adds, "Hoxie, only an animal could do that to a man's throat." Clovey sends Hank Durgis (Larry J. Blake) to fetch Doctor Jonas Gilcrist.Marsh runs out into the woods, followed by the now well armed Ben Clovey, Hoxie, and Mack Fanning (James Gavin) who follow his footprints. Shoe prints suddenly turn into wolf paw prints. Hoxie gets cold feet and insists any further investigation is the responsibility of the law. Ben sends Hoxie and Mack back to brief the Sheriff, Jack Haines. The two men depart and Clovey remains. Back at the bar, Chad's Place, the patrons discuss events. Mack looks out the window and sees Sheriff Haines and Clovey walking back into town. They exit the bar and notice Clovey has been injured. Sheriff Jack Haines (Don Megowan) tells the patrons, "I don't want you breathing a word about what happened tonight to anyone. Understand? Nobody." Jack takes Ben to see Dr. Jonas Gilcrist. Amy Standish (Joyce Holden) answers the door. She is the doctor's niece, and leads the men into a room and starts to tend to Ben's arm wounds. She explains that the man killed earlier, Joe, was dead when they brought him. She gets her uncle. Jack asks Ben about what attacked him. Clovey tries to describe the creature, but admits it was dark and he didn't get a good look at the thing. Dr. Jonas Gilcrist (Ken Christy) enters wearing a bathrobe and complaining about the late hour. The doctor wants information and reminds the sheriff that if he wants to marry his niece he better be more forthcoming. Jonas treats Clovey and leaves the bandaging to Amy. Clovey intimates that it may be a werewolf, but Doc Gilcrist isn't buying, "Storybook stuff. The things kids get nightmares about." Sheriff Haines intends to set up roadblocks, "Nothing's getting in or out of town without us knowing." Haines kisses Amy goodnight, and he and his deputy leave.The next morning, Marsh wakes up shivering from the cold in a drainage opening. He is in distress and rubs his bare feet. He sees paw prints in the snow and recognizes something familiar, "I was dreaming! I know I was dreaming!" He tries to convince himself some animal wandered by and left the tracks. He finds his shoes and socks and puts them back on his feet. Outside the Sheriff's Office, a crowd of men gather to complain about the moratorium on hunting in the woods. The Sheriff checks on the roadblocks. Three reporters are curious about the roadblock and admit that a talkative undertaker in Larken gave them enough information to know a story was worth investigating in Mountaincrest. The Sheriff relents and allows them to come to town. Marsh observes the roadblock from a higher elevation then heads back into the woods. He happens upon Amy outside her home getting firewood from the pile. He tells Amy he came looking for the doctor and asks to see him. Amy leads him into the house. Marsh tells Amy and Jonas he doesn't remember his name, "I can't remember who I am, or even what I'm doing in this town." He recalls an automobile accident and seeing two doctors. He asks if a man was killed the night before. When told yes, he asks how and is told it was by an animal. Marsh corrects the doctor and admits he killed Joe. When Amy presents him with a sedative he reacts violently and runs from the house. Amy calls the Sheriff's Office and speaks to Clovey. Jonas and Amy go to the Sheriff's Office and wait for Jack to return. They relay their story to Ben and Jack. Amy tries to dissuade Jack from hunting him down like a criminal because, "He's not a criminal. He's a sick man." Jonas and Amy tell the Sheriff he was in an auto accident and he may have brain damage.A man in a lab coat is performing an experiment on a wolf. His name is Dr. Morgan Chambers (George Lynn) and his colleague, Dr. Emery Forrest (S. John Launer) enters the lab carrying a newspaper. Morgan asks, "You think this is our man?" Emery replies, "The paper says they found an animal's teeth marks on the dead man's throat. Morgan, what have you done?" Morgan, the prototype mad scientist rants about humans destroying themselves with technology. Morgan has a plan to inoculate himself and a few deserving people with his serum and revert to some lower form, but better adapted creature. Morgan knows the side effects of his serum, but is not concerned with Marsh. Morgan tells Emery they must go to Mountaincrest. He casually informs his colleague, "If the police haven't disposed of the man by the time we get there, it may become our task." The doorbell rings and Morgan answers. He is distressed to find Mrs. Helen Marsh (Eleanore Tanin). She is inquiring about her husband. Morgan explains that his injuries were slight and he left soon after treatment. She leaves the office and returns to her car. Her son, Chris (Kim Charney) asks about his father. They get in the car and drive home, hoping Marsh will call. Marsh has taken back to the woods, but he has been followed by a large and angry posse. Drs. Forrest and Chambers encounter the roadblock trying to enter Mountaincrest. They identify themselves and indicate they have information that will help the Sheriff. They are allowed to pass. It is getting late and the Sheriff and posse agree to push on for another half mile. Forrest and Chambers are armed and doing their own search. Marsh hears them approaching and hides in the entrance of an old mine. Forrest spotted him and enters the mine. He finds Marsh. Marsh asks for help, but is told nothing can be done. Marsh transforms into a werewolf. Forrest tries to escape, calling for his partner. Forrest is attacked by the werewolf, but a shot by Morgan's rifle scares him off. The Sheriff and his posse arrive, and Haines is very unhappy the interference flushed Marsh from the mine. Dr. Chambers tells the Sheriff that Marsh was a patient of theirs. That night Clovey tells the Sheriff and Amy that Marsh killed a sheep over at the Sanderson Ranch and ate it. Haines, Amy and Jonas meet to discuss the Sheriff's plan, which is to put out bait and use bear traps to catch Marsh.The next morning the Sheriff oversees the preparation of the traps. He returns to the office to talk to the three reporters. The three lawmen exchange information and now know the identity of the man--Duncan Marsh. Mrs. Marsh and son drive to Mountaincrest. Marsh is still in the woods and takes the bait and is caught by the trap. He is able to free himself but is now seriously injured, and transforms back to human form. Forrest and Chambers meet at the bar. Chambers is concerned that now that Marsh's wife is in town the law may try a capture rather than a kill strategy. Chambers wants Marsh dead. Mrs. Marsh and Chris are staying at the home of Jonas and Amy. Mrs. Marsh confronts the Sheriff and is told the facts. She volunteers to join the search and the Sheriff reluctantly agrees.Haines, Clovey, Amy, Mrs. Marsh and Chris begin the search. Helen Marsh tries to get her husband to surrender. Marsh shows himself and his son rushes up to greet him. Helen joins her husband. Amy renders first aid. The posse has gathered at the bar to get drunk and gloat. Duncan Marsh is now in a jail cell at the Sheriff's Office. He meets with his wife and son and implores his family to leave before he changes again. Amy escorts them from the cell. Chambers asks Forrest to find out what precautions the Sheriff is taking to guard Marsh. Jonas Gilcrist, Amy and the Sheriff speculate on Marsh's condition. He notes, "The thing is, the man who did it to Marsh. What did he have in mind?" Amy adds, "And what kind of a future is he dreaming up for everybody else?" Haines spends the night at the doctor's house.Chambers encounters a very drunk Hank Durgis and persuades him to help him get inside the Sheriff's Office. Forrest knocks Hank out and the two doctors drag their drunk accomplice down to the station. Forrest prepares a sedative of chloroform on a rag for the deputy. When Clovey checks on Hank, the two doctors grab him and administer their sedative. They drag the bodies of both Clovey and Hank back inside the office, then make their way to the cell holding Marsh. Chambers prepares a syringe. They approach the sleeping Marsh, but discover, to their horror and regret, that Marsh isn't sleeping or himself. The werewolf dispatches the two doctors, but not without a lot of screaming, which draws the attention of both the Sheriff and the townsfolk.With two more bodies, the Sheriff is convinced hunting down and killing Marsh is the only solution. He and the posse search the woods. Armed with torches and guns they press on, encouraged by a blood trail to follow. They close in and throw torches at the creature. The fire and gunshots scare the werewolf. The Sheriff and posse decide to leave and return when it's light. The next morning they return in force and begin the pursuit. They spot him heading for the bridge. A Caterpillar Grader is employed to block the bridge. The werewolf climbs over the bridge and up an embankment. He is shot several times and transforms back into human form as he lay dying. We close with a scene on the bridge and an exchange between Haines and Clovey. Clovey exclaims, "You see that? He changed back again. Do you think he'll stay that way this time?" Haines replies, "Yeah, he'll stay. Now he can go home."
