Ponyland comes under attack from the Smooze, a massive purple ooze created by an evil witch who plans to destroy the ponies' annual spring festival.
At Dream Castle, the Little Ponies are preparing a festival to celebrate the first day of Spring. From the Volcano of Gloom, the evil witch Hydia watches the event via her cauldron and, disgusted by the frivolity, tells her daughters that they must ruin it. Hydia's daughters, Draggle and Reeka, are inexperienced at causing mischief and fail utterly at ruining the festival. They return to the Volcano of Gloom in disgrace, where Witch Hydia presents a better plan - they will the make Smooze. The sisters collect a series of disgusting ingredients, but neglect to obtain the Phlume, the prospect of which terrifies them. The spell seems to work regardless, creating a pool of sentient purple lava that gleefully buries Ponyland.
Capture the magic and escape to Dream Valley to join all your favourite Little Ponies. Take a magical journey to Ponyland just as the Little Ponies' annual Spring Festival is about to begin. While the ponies enjoy their festive spring party, the evil witch Hydia is up in her gloomy home, the Volcano of Doom, plotting to turn Ponyland into a wasteland. When her first attempt fails, she decides to cover Ponyland with a purple ooze called the Smooze. This looks like the end of Ponyland, unless all the magical creatures of Dream Valley answer the ponies' call for help.
At their home, Dream Castle, the ponies are running and playing through flowery meadows and grassy green fields with their animal friends. Elsewhere, Baby Lickety-Split is practicing a new dance step, as Spike, a baby dragon, accompanies her rehearsal on the piano. Meanwhile, at the Volcano of Gloom, a wicked witch named Hydra is planning to ruin the ponies festival, but her two incompetent daughters, Reeka and Draggle, are not up to her family's standards of wickedness, and she laments about it, before sending them off to ruin the festival. During the baby ponies' dance performance, Baby Lickety-Split attempts to add her own dance and ruins the whole performance. She is reprimanded by everyone and runs away, followed by Spike, only to end up falling down a waterfall and trapped in a valley. Meanwhile, Reeka and Draggle attempt to ruin the ponies' festival by flooding the area, but thanks to the Sea Ponies, end up getting washed away in an overflowing waterfall.The ponies send out a search party to find Baby Lickety-Split and Spike, while Hydia decides to concoct the Smooze, an unstoppable ooze that will bury and destroy everything in its path. It will also make anyone splashed by it grumpy and woeful. Her daughters go and collect the ingredients for the Smooze, leaving out the flume, an ingredient that they are afraid of retrieving. Hydia releases the Smooze which rages towards Dream Castle, trapping Spike and Baby Lickety-Split inside a mountain. All the ponies are forced to evacuate as the castle and the surrounding land are submerged by the Smooze. The search party continues its attempt to locate Lickety-Split before the Smooze engulfs them.Later, the two Pegasus ponies, Wind Whistle and North Star, travel to the human world to fetch Megan, the keeper of the Rainbow locket, bringing Megan's younger siblings, Danny and Molly, along as well. Megan releases the Rainbow into the Smooze, but it is swallowed up and lost but this does halt the Smooze. The ponies are discouraged by this, but Megan offers the encouragement that another rainbow lies out there. Enraged, Hydia discovers the Smooze was lacking flume and sends her daughters to get the missing ingredient from an octopus-like plant monster that lives on a rocky outcrop near the volcano. The monster punishes the sisters, until Reeka bites a tentacle, thereby injuring the plant, and they escape with some flume. Hydia adds this to the Smooze, which is then reactivated.Megan accompanies two ponies to the Moonchick, who gives the trio a new home (Paradise Estate) and a map to find the Flutter Ponies who might stop the Smooze. A group lead by Megan sets out to find Flutter Valley, while Spike and Baby Lickety-Split run into five ugly but well-meaning creatures called Grundles, whose home, Grundleland, was covered by the Smooze in the past. Meanwhile, on the quest to find the Flutter Ponies, Megan gets lost in a field of giant sunflowers, almost becoming a victim of the Smooze. Hydia sees the Smooze has failed to kill the ponies and send her pet, Ahgg, after them. Meanwhile, Spike, Baby Lickety-Split, and the Grundles almost fall victim to the Smooze, with Spike's tail being smoozed, but they escape but floating down the river on a log, and end up in a clearing by a well, where Baby Lickety-Split, feeling down about the situation she is in, hears echoes in the well and rescues Morning Glory, a Flutter Pony who fell in earlier. She is informed of the Smooze and so promises to lead them to Flutter Valley.Meanwhile, the team on a quest to find the Flutter Ponies press on through Shadow Forest, where they are attacked by sentient trees which fire sharp branches at them. After escaping the forest, they find that the high narrow final pass into Flutter Valley is blocked by Ahgg, a giant spider, and its web, and Megan is once more in danger, but is saved by Wind Whistle. When out of the canyon, the group finds Flutter Valley and meet with the queen Rosedust, who refuses to get involved at first, until Baby Lickety-Split arrives, safe and sound, along the Spike, the Grundles, and Morning Glory. There is much argument about non-involvement in other ponies' problems from the Flutter Ponies. Even though Morning Glory pleads with the queen their help their cousins, Rosedust still hesitates, until after Baby Lickety-Split appears to sway her enough to help in the defeat of the Smooze.The other ponies and forest animals are about to be covered by the Smooze as the witches watch from their ship. The Flutter Ponies come to the rescue and destroy the Smooze, with their magical wind, Utter Flutter uncover the rainbow and drop the witches back into the volcano with the sticky goo. The Grundles are given the ruins of Dream Castle, all the ponies and Spike who were covered in the Smooze are cleaned by the Flutter Ponies by Utter Flutter, and the Rainbow of Light is returned to the ponies. With all problems resolved, the ponies take Megan and her siblings back home.
