Three scientists help an Alien feline, stranded on Earth, to repair its damaged spacecraft in order to return home but their efforts are hampered by inept army officials and foreign spies.
A UFO is stranded on earth and impounded by the US government. Its pilot, a cat with a collar that has special powers, including the ability to allow the cat to communicate with humans, has eluded the authorities and needs the help of a man named Frank in order to reclaim and repair his ship to get back home.
A UFO lands on Earth, it's inhabitant is a cat. When the craft is found by the military, it is brought to a scientific institute. The cat follows and listens to all the scientists give their take on it but so far no one has anything useful to say. But one of the scientists suggest they bring in Frank Wilson whose a bit unusual. The military thinks his theory is off base but the cat is intrigued so he follows him and reveals that he can communicate via the collar he has. The cat whom Frank dubs as Jake tells him his spaceship is damaged and needs his help to repair it. Eventually they learn that they need 120,000 dollars worth of gold to repair his ship, so they try to find a way to get it. At the same time a man at the institute who is actually a spy learns about Jake's collar and reports it to his boss who wants it.
The film begins with some strange night in the countryside. A spaceship lands onto a farm because it has had technical problems in the middle of the night. The farmer goes to see what has happened with a loaded shotgun. Voices are heard: an alien had to perform an emergency landing, and it has a limited time, up to 11:15 to solve the problem, because there won't be another spaceship in the Earth area for another 150 years.The army arrives immediately. They take the spaceship but they don't see the cat. They are interested in knowing what kind of energy it uses. Jake travels with the military men without anybody realising that he was there.The army asks for some scientists' help, including Frank Wilson (Ken Barry). He makes some fun comments, comparing the spaceship to an artichoke and saying that mayonnaise may possibly make it work. The female scientist, Liz (Sandy Duncan) feels outraged because of Frank's inadequate comments.When they are left alone, the cat (Ronnie Schell's voice) talks to Frank, and the first comment the cat makes is that Liz is obviously interested romantically on him. The cat says by telepathy that his name is SonarJ5amillion and something else - let's shorten it to Jake - and it says that his collar amplifies brainwaves. To make a demonstration, the cat moves with the power of his brain a cello and a he plays some music, turning the pages at the same time. Frank offers to try to mend Jake's spaceship. Frank also asks whether he could use the cat necklace and he is able to make himself levitate. A friend of Frank called Link (McLean Stevenson) arrives to see a Lakers basketmall match, because he has bet a lot of money on the Lakers. Jake makes the ball move through the basket to score the final winning point. Then Liz appears, and she sets a date "for a picnic" with Frank. Liz also brings Belle, her own lady cat, and recommends Frank to take Jake to the vet who lives in their building, which specializes on cats. Frank agrees and leaves quite abruptly.Jake is in a hurry: he only has 36 hours. Frank takes Jake in his arms and they get into the military building. They are discovered by a hounddog, but Jake freezes the dog and the military man with the power of his collar.They enter the spaceship and Jake tells Frank how to start the engine, which means that now he knows how that "artichoke-shaped" thing works. Frank gravitates because of the energy. A white-suited man, Mr Stallwood (Roddy McDowall) is following Frank and Jake, making funny faces while Frank gravitates.Jake has found the problem, he needs some weird thing nobody has heard about. Through a description of it, Frank realises that gold has that same atomic weight.Another MP officer (Hank Jones) has discovered the frozen soldier, so he rings the alarm bells. Everybody gets frantic. The second MP officer tells them that there is a cat intruder, and that he has found his necklace. Jake jumps, passes through the necklace, and leaves with it in Frank's lap. Jake makes Frank's moped to fly over the military lorries.Jake needs 150,000 dollars worth of gold to make his spaceship work. Link interrupts Jake and Frank once again: he has bet 150 dollars on Sweet Jake, a horse. His wife is listening to the music of the Metropolitan Opera, that's why he needs to see the race on Frank's tv set. Jake decides to bet to get the money and buy the gold.Link is going to bet on the football match's game, so Jake decides to associate with him to bet on that evening's three matches. Frank explains the situation to Link, but Link thinks that he's crazy. A man is recording the three oof them from the window balcony. Jake makes the beer go back to the can with the power of his diamond collar. Link thinks it's a bad practical joke from Frank and gets angry with him, wanting to leave to see the Metropolitan Opera concert. Link doesn't want to hear anything else, but Jake makes him gravitate.Earnest Ernie (Jesse White) and Honest Harry (Tom Pedi), accept Link's multiple bet. General Stilton (Harry Morgan) has discovered Frank Wilson's fingertips, so he thinks he is some kind of spy.Liz arrives to go on the picnic. Frank has forgotten all about it. She insists on treating Jake's allergy, so she calls Dr Wenger (Alan Young), who is taking care of Jake but is more interested on the American football match. Meanwhile, Link and Frank are interested only on the match. They get nervous when they are about to lose the game. Jake avoids the disaster, but dr Wenger gives a tranquilizer shot to Jake, who passes temporarily out.Link and Frank go out being watched by the military, who think that the maffia may get involved. They try to step back on their bets, because with Jake out, they know they will lose. They have to tell Liz what's happening, because she insists on not l etting them go to the betting shop. Link will bet on a snooker game between Weasel (Ralph Manza) and Liz, who doesn't even know how to play the game. They take sleeping-out Jake with them.While Liz plays, Frank tries to use the collar. The ball jumps all over the shop. Tuna is Jake's favourite food. One of the onlookers is eating a tuna sandwhich, and its smell wakes Jake up.Earnest Ernie doesn't want to accept such a crazy bet. Frank says that he will bet his last bet: 60 dollars 2,000 to one, because Liz will play blindfolded, giving Weasel 12 strikes in advance and winning in only one strike. Honest Harry tells Ernie that his reputation will suffer if he doesn't back up a bet he's just bet.Jake keeps on moving Weasel's ball. Weasel's advancing moves. It's Liz's turn, who plays blidfolded. Jake moves the ball so that the incredible win happens. Earnest Ernie is left crying.Mr Olympus (William Prince) is seen sat, from the back - the same as the bad guy in Inspector Gadget- Then he stands up and we can see him. Stallwood shows him his recording. He asks Mr Olympus for some extra money if the collar allows Mr Olympus to conquer the world.The computer analyses the information and it gives the result that a cat must be the driver of the spacecraft. General Stilton and Colonel Woodruff (Howard T. Platt) finally realise that the thing about the cat must be true. The General thinks about a conspiration when he hears that Frank Wilson has bought a huge quantity of gold. The General and Woodruff try to arrest Frank, but Jake freezes them.Jake reduces to gold in size, so that it has the shape of a pen, but it's still very light. They take the General's clothes to get into the military base in disguise. There is only an hour left.The General Stilton wakes up in his underwear. Woodruff giggles. Frank takes Jake onto the spaceship, and he replaces the gold element in the spacecraft. Jakes calls the flagship. General Stilton and Link arrive to the base almost at the same time. Link warns Frank of Liz's kidnap. Frank insists that Jake leaves for home, and Frank and Link will take care of the problem with Liz.The spacecraft leaves without Jake, who jumpos onto the car with Frank and Link. The spacecraft leaves without direction.They all go to Bailey's air park, where Olympus and Stallwood are with Liz in a helicopter. Olympus wants to jump with the only parachute in the helicopter, but Stallwood holds onto him for dear life. Liz is on her own on the helicopter. Liz holds onto Frank, who is handing from the helicopter. Jake moves the helicopter so that they can jumpo onto the plane, but finds himself also distracted by Belle, Liz's female cat, whom he's trying to seduce. Jake asks for the American nationality. Jake makes the judge levitate. Link, Liz and Frank attend the ceremony.
