Terry feels discriminated against when the summer jobs at Sun Tribune go to 2 guys. She decides to do something about it. She dresses like a guy and gets a haircut. Will students at the other high school notice? Girls notice "him".
Terry Griffith has got it all -- looks, popularity, the perfect college boyfriend, and an article that's a shoo-in to win her a summer internship at the local newspaper... or so she thinks. When Terry's journalism teacher passes her article up in favor of a couple of pieces written by boys, Terry is convinced that sexism is to blame. Determined to win the internship at any cost, Terry goes undercover at a rival high school to resubmit her article... as a boy. But Terry gets more than she bargained for when she finds herself fending off a bully and the advances of an oversexed female admirer, and falling for her new pal Rick.
The teenager Terry Griffith is an aspiring journalist that believes she was discriminated by her teacher in the high-school in a competition for an internship in a local newspaper because she is a girl. She decides to disguise and pose as a boy in another high-school to see if she gets the internship. Her brother Buddy Griffith and her best friend Denise help her and she hides the situation from her boyfriend Kevin. She befriends her schoolmate Rick Morehouse and helps him to be successful with the girls. But the problem is that she falls in love with Rick while she learns that she had not been discriminated.
Terry believes her teachers don't take her serious, just because she's a pretty girl. When she fails to win a journalism contest, she decides to switch schools - and gender. She plays her role well and is accepted as one of the guys. However then she meets Rick... and likes him.
Terry is determined to win a school writing contest to prove that a pretty girl can be capable and intelligent. In order to be taken seriously, she dresses as a boy and tries to blend in at a new school until the contest results are announced.

