A beautiful female vampire lures men to their doom.
In the Madeira Island, the mute Countess Irina Karlstein is the last descendant of the evil Karlstein vampire family. She lives with her also mute servant and seems to be nymphomaniac, seeking for sex most of the time without satisfaction. Irina likes oral sex with men and women to suck off not only semen, but apparently also blood, killing her male and female lovers.
Beautiful but mute Countess Irina Karlstein [Lina Romay] suffers from the curse of her ancestors--vampirism. She is doomed to go from victim to victim, making love to them but taking their lives at the height of their orgasms. It means a life of loneliness, punctuated only with a lot of one-night stands and dead bodies.After claiming her first victim, a birdfarmer at the edge of the forest, Irina leaves her home in the mountains of Madeira (Portugal) to spend some time at the seashore. While lounging at the hotel pool, she is approached by a journalist named Anna [Anna Watican], who wants to interview Irina regarding her bloody family. Later, when Irina is getting hungry again, her renfield [Louis Barboo] sends up the hotel masseur with a note saying that she needs his services. The next time she gets hungry, Irina drains Anna. She pays a visit to a dominatrix [Monica Swinn] and ends up draining her. And so the cycle continues.Irina's murders are raising suspicion with Dr Roberts [Jesus Franco], who takes his autopsy findings to his friend Dr Orloff [Raymond Hardy], a blind metaphysician. They both agree that it looks like the work of a vampire. Roberts suspects Irina Karlstein and wants to destroy her, but Orloff questions whether the experience of being drained by a vampire might actually be worth it. Irina finds herself attracted to Baron Von Rathony [Jack Taylor], who is himself in love with Irina, and they go to her ancestral home in the mountains. He thinks that it's destiny that they be together, but Irina's destiny is different from his. She ends up taking his life, too. Dr Roberts decides to put an end to Irina. He breaks into her house, kills her renfield, and finds Irina in the bath. As he watches her luxuriating in the red water, however, he cannot bear to kill her. And so Irina goes back into the mountains the same way she came...alone.
