A retired Special Forces colonel tries to save his daughter, who was abducted by his former subordinate.
A retired special agent named John Matrix led an elite unit and has left the armed forces to live in a secluded mountain home with his daughter Jenny. But now he is forced out of retirement when his daughter is kidnapped by a band of thugs intent on revenge! Unbeknownst to Matrix, the members of his former unit are being killed one by one. Even though Matrix' friend General Franklin Kirby gives Matrix armed guards, attackers manage to kidnap Matrix and Jenny. Matrix learns that Bennett, a former member of his Matrix' unit who was presumed dead has kidnapped him to try to force Matrix to do a political assassination for a man called Arius (who calls himself El Presidente), a warlord formerly bested by Matrix who wishes to lead a military coup in his home country. Since Arius will have Jenny killed if Matrix refuses, Matrix reluctantly accepts the demand.
A retired Special Forces officer, Colonel John Matrix (played by Arnold Schwarzenegger), is living the quiet life. He is happily spending his time in a remote country house where he dotes on his daughter, Jenny (Alyssa Milano). However, some mercenaries, former colleagues of his, have other plans. They kidnap Jenny and give Matrix an ultimatum - assassinate a central American leader or they will kill Jenny. Matrix has other ideas.
Colonel Matrix has retired and is living with his 10 year old daughter in the country. His Daughter is kidnapped to assure that Matrix will kill the president of a latin American country to allow the return of a dictator. Matrix escapes off a plane flight and has until it lands to rescue his daughter. Matrix must follow the clues he has and solve the mystery in time.
Colonel John Matrix is retired from the army, and he's living in the mountains of California with his 11-year-old daughter Jenny. Jenny is kidnapped by Bennett, one of John's former soldiers. Bennet's boss, exiled Latin American dictator Arius, demands that John assassinate the president of Arius's country so Arius can reinstate himself as dictator. John is put on a southbound airplane with a guard, but before the airplane can take off, John snaps the guard's neck, jumps off of the airplane, and sets out to locate Jenny. While John is tracking down Arius and Bennett, John enlists the help of a young woman named Cindy. As John and Cindy close in on the island where Jenny is being held, they are confronted by hordes of men who work for Arius and Bennett. But John is willing to do anything to rescue Jenny...even if he has to start a one man World War III.
John Matrix is a former Army Special Forces man who has been trying to live a normal life with his daughter, Jenny. But now, his former CO informs him that some of his men have been killed and like Matrix they to have been trying to live normal lives under new identities. Which means that someone from Matrix's past is looking for him. After the General leaves some men attack his house and kidnap his daughter. He then learns that one of the men is one of his men, whom he thought was among the ones killed and who apparently has some kind of grudge against him. He learns that he is working for a South American dictator he helped overthrow and he wants Matrix to kill the President who succeeded him or else his daughter is dead. Matrix has no choice but to do what they say but when he is on the plane he kills the one with him and jumps out. And has 11 hours until the plane lands to find his daughter and save her. With the help of a woman he pulled in, he goes after the dictator's men hoping one of them will tell him where his daughter is.
Two garbage collectors gun down a man with mini-Uzis. A bald-headed tough steals a car from a dealership and crushes the dealer. A tugboat is blown up in the harbor.These murders have one thing in common - all involve former members of a commando team led by John Matrix, a hulking ex-Colonel whose exploits have made him and his men enemies among totalitarian empires and groups around the world. Matrix and his daughter Jenny live alone in the mountains of upstate California, but Matrix's former commanding officer, General Franklin Kirby, flies to the house to tell Matrix about the killings of his men, and to leave two expert soldiers to guard him as Kirby and the feds work to find the killers.No sooner does Kirby leave, however, than a mass of gunmen open fire on the house, killing the two soldiers. Jenny hides in her bedroom while Matrix rushes to his shed - in reality an underground weapons bunker - to get his rifle. Now armed, he confronts a gunman who offers him a choice - do as they say and his daughter, now being taken away in one of several fleeing cars, lives. Matrix blasts the gunman, and despite finding his truck sabotaged, he goes after the gunmen by driving the powerless truck down the steep mountain, intercepting one of the fleeing vehicles and attacking four armed thugs, beating two senseless before being beaten down himself. He then is confronted by the gunmen's leader - Bennett, who had been thought killed in the tugboat explosion. Bennett, however, is the one behind the killings and faked his own death to smoke out Kirby and Matrix, wanting revenge after being discharged by Matrix from the Army for massacreing civilians in a South American nation whose Marxist dictator, Arias, was overthrown by Matrix's team - and who is now Bennett's employer.Matrix is being dragooned into flying to Arias' country to overthrow its new leader, but Matrix escapes and must force the assistance of Cindy, an off-duty pilot, to help track down Arias' men after one of them, Sully, tries to hit on her. Matrix and Cindy track down Sully and after a violent brawl at a mall and a chase up the Hollywood hills he apprehends Sully and holds him over a steep cliff, demanding information on Jenny's whereabouts. Sully only knows what his pal Cooke (the bald-headed thug) knows, so Matrix drops Sully to his death.Matrix confronts Cooke at his motel, and a brawl erupts that spills into the room of a very amorous couple startled while making love. The supremely-endowed couple watch in horror as Matrix kills Cooke, then finds information in his pocket and his car that leads to a warehouse showing an island where Jenny is being held. First Matrix and Cindy raid a weapons store but Matrix must be rescued from intruding police; Cindy pulls this off with a rocket launcher she figures out how to use by reading the available instruction manual.Matrix and Cindy hijack a seaplane and fly to the island, where he arms himself like an army and sneaks into Arias' fortress. There he blows up barracks and slaughters Arias' inept army of soldiers, but in the chaos Jenny escapes but is caught by Bennett in the boiler room of the main mansion. Matrix succeeds in killing Arias but must taunt Bennett into freeing Jenny by appealing to his steroid-induced egomania and rage for killing Matrix in hand-to-hand combat.
