A character study of five young men at crucial turning points in their lives in a small town in Italy.
Fausto Moretti, having seduced Sandra Rubini, the sister of his friend and companion Moraldo Rubini, is forced to marry her. After their honeymoon, he takes a job as a salesman of religious objects in a small shop. He isn't changed by his marriage and still looks for women, with his friends, when and where they can find them. He even tries to seduce the wife of his boss and is fired. After each episode, Sandra forgives him. He and his friends of similar temperament are content to be idle, chase girls and leave the work and job-hunting to others. After spending the night away from home with a girl, Sandra cannot forgive anymore and runs off with their child. Fausto and his friends search all over for them, fearing the worst.
Alberto, Fausto, Leopoldo, Moraldo and Riccardo are young adult friends, living in a provincial coastal Italian town. Most are still living at home, unemployed, spending their time together amusing themselves in whatever means, which they find difficult in what they consider their boring town, needing to sponge money off their loved ones. They are mostly aimless, although Leopoldo, the intellectual, writes, mostly plays, and Riccardo sings whenever given the opportunity. The first one forced at least to start to grow up is Fausto, the cad, who gets Sandra, Moraldo's naive sister, pregnant. Although he was going to run off to Milan and abandon her, Fausto instead marries her after his father finds out about the pregnancy. Fausto and Sandra will find if the sheer act of being married and parents will make Fausto truly grow up, or if their example of being married will get any of the five friends out of their inertia, most specifically by leaving town to strike out on their own.
A sensitive character study of five young men trapped in a small town on the Adriatic. Their discontentment and restlessness lead them into a variety of activities, not all of them admirable.
In a small seaside town in Italy, Moraldo Rubini, Alberto, Fausto Moretti, Leopoldo Vannucci and Riccardo form a group of idle friends that spend their time together doing nothing but drinking, flirting and going to parties. When Fausto's girlfriend Sandra Rubini gets pregnant, he is pressed by his own father to marry her. However, the irresponsible Fausto remains unfaithful to Sandra, cheating her with many women and almost leading his family to a tragedy.
We are introduced to an outdoor celebration to crown Miss Mermaid of 1953 in the small Italian town Rimini. The winner is the lovely Sandra Rubini (Leonora Ruffo) whose brother Moraldo (Franco Interlenghi) and mother stand by admiring her popularity. As a rain storm surprises the crowd and pushes them indoors we are slowly introduced to the men in the film that we will follow. Fausto (Franco Fabrizi) runs home in the rain and begins packing his bags when he discovers that his girlfriend Sandra, Miss Mermaid, is pregnant when she collapses at the party. Fausto is walking out the door only to be confronted by good friend Moraldo, who reasons that his sister needs a husband. With his father adding to the argument, Fausto decides to marry Sandra albeit apprehensively. One of the other young men Leopoldo (Leopoldo Trieste) goes home to write on one of his hackneyed plays but ends up spending more time looking at cracks in the ceiling and flirting with the maid in the next apartment while talking of one day staging his creative works. Then there is Alberto (Alberto Sordi) the animated goof of the group who still lives at home with his mother and attractive sister Olga (Claude Farell) who is clandestinely dating a married man who Alberto disapproves of. The five friends spend their days and nights attempting to create a good time for themselves and transcend their hum drum small-town existence. As we follow the friends we see them involved in different rites of passage as when Fausto is compelled to try to make time with every beautiful woman he meets and how this affects his marriage. We see Leopoldo meet up with an older renowned actor Sergio Natali (Achille Majeroni) who spends time asking the young writer to read his material for him only to discover that the incipient relationship is fraught with personal compromises. Alberto is heart broken and left behind to console his mother when his sister runs off the married man she has been seeing. As the high profiles of the five friends come into view and we see them go through many different escapades we see the effect that time and understanding has on each of them. Moraldo, the most thoughtful of the group spends time alone walking the streets thinking, where he befriends a young working boy who offers one of the most poignant farewells in film.
