Julia Ross secures employment, through a rather nosy employment agency, with a wealthy widow, Mrs. Hughes, and goes to live at her house. 2 days later, she awakens - in a different house, in different clothes, and with a new identity. She's told she is the daughter-in-law of Mrs. Hughes, and has suffered a nervous breakdown. Is Julia really 'Julia', or, is it true that she's lost all memory of who she is?
In London, Julia Ross is totally broke and unsuccessfully seeking a job. Her previous love affair with the lawyer Dennis Bruce has ended and he has just gotten engaged to another woman on the previous night. When she sees an advertisement in a newspaper in the boarding house where she lives, she goes to the employment agency and she is interviewed by Mrs. Sparkes. When she learns that Julia is alone in London with neither relatives nor boyfriend, she offers her a position of private secretary with the wealthy Mrs. Hughes and her son Ralph Hughes. Julia is immediately hired and Mrs. Hughes tells that she must move to her house that night. Julia goes to the boarding house of Mrs. Mackie to pack her things and she learns that Dennis has called off his wedding. They schedule a date for the next Friday and she goes to the house. Julia wakes up two days later at a seaside manor in Cornwall and is told that she is Marion Hughes, the wife of Ralph, who is unstable due to a nervous breakdown and delusional. Soon she learns that Ralph has killed Marion and now she is his alibi. Further he is plotting a scheme to kill her as if she had committed suicide. What can Julia do to save her life?
Julia Ross is a young woman alone in the world and is in search of a job. She is hired by an elderly woman named Mrs. Hughes to act as her live-in personal secretary. One of Mrs. Hughes' stipulations is that whomever she hire treat this job as one of a long term nature, meaning no current boyfriends or marriage on the horizon. The closest person to Julia was Dennis Bruce, who lived at the same boarding house and who was somewhat sweet on Julia but left to get married to another woman. As such, Julia is grateful for her new job. When Julia awakens after her first night at the Hughes home, she learns she has been asleep for two days. She is no longer in the urban London home she knows as Mrs. Hughes' home, but rather a sprawling and isolated estate by the sea in Cornwall. All evidence of her being Julia Ross has disappeared. And everyone in the house, including Mrs. Hughes, Mrs. Hughes' son Ralph, and all the household servants, try to convince her that she is Marion Hughes, Ralph's wife who is recovering from a nervous breakdown. Julia is certain of who she is, and suspects the Hugheses are going to kill her for whatever reason. Julia is alone with no one to support her claim and thus help her as the Hugheses have made her seem crazy to whomever she has spoken. However, initially unknown to the Hugheses, Dennis Bruce, who ended up not getting married, returned to the rooming house just before Julia's departure and made a date with her. Since she didn't keep the date, he goes looking for her.

