In Central America, an action-adventure novelist and a journalist for a magazine find themselves at the mercy of Nazi war criminals.
Mike, a Hemingway-esque adventure novelist, is spending his days in a self-imposed exile somewhere in Central America. A reporter for Sight Magazine, Katie, has tracked him down in the hope of getting the biggest scoop of her career. Mike falls for Katie. On a flight to Mexico City, their plane crashes near a remote hideaway of Nazi war criminals in hiding. The Nazis want to stay hidden and plan to dispose of their new guests.
Katie Connors is a journalist for Sight magazine and she has made a specialty of writing exposés of well-known personalities. She manages to track down Mike Latimer, a famous author who is now living in a small, remote Mexican fishing village. Latimer was always larger than life, a hunter and fisherman who actually lived the tall tales that he wrote about. What Katie finds is someone who has lost his ability to write and she decides not to pursue the story. Latimer offers to fly her to Mexico City but due to a navigational error, they run out of fuel and are forced to land on a remote ranch owned by an Englishman, Mr. Browne. There is something familiar about the man and Latimer finally realizes who he is. A former British diplomat stationed in Berlin in 1937, Browne became a rabid Nazi and had to flee after Germany lost the war. Now that his secret is known however, Latimer and Connors must find a way to escape before he kills them.
When their plane is forced to land, Mike Latimer (Richard Widmark) and Katy Conners (Jane Greer) are stranded in Mexican jungle. A mysterious character, Mr. Browne, who offers them hospitality, swiftly rescues them from their plight. Latimer is perplexed at his inability to place Browne and his friends. The beautiful seclusion of the jungle enchants the pair, but its not long before their suspicions start to get the better of them. Nothing seems certain; Brownes hushed conversations with his men and his tyrannical rein over the gentle servants they keep. When Latimer has a grim realisation, he recognizes the intense danger they are in. They begin their escape, but Browne has no intentions of letting them escape with their lives...
