An artificially intelligent PC and his human owner find themselves in a romantic rivalry over a woman.
Miles buys himself a state-of-the-art computer that starts expressing thoughts and emotions after a having champagne spilled down on him. Things start getting out of hand when both Miles and Edgar, how the computer calls himself, fall in love with Madeline, an attractive neighbour.
This upbeat love story features an architect named Miles who decides to modernize his life by buying a computer. Not knowing a thing about them he purchases the biggest most power system he can get ahold of, and wastes no time in having all sorts of accidents - dropping it, spilling wine on it, cross wiring it. All of which ends up causing something amazing to happen, the computer gains self-awareness! Using it's word processor, speakers and microphone the computer learns to communicate with Miles and they become friends as he teaches it about life. Then a pretty cello player moves in next door and the shy Miles and super-intelligent but inexperienced computer conspire to get her to love Miles in the best tradition of Cyrano. After the computer and the woman start to share music together through the heating ducts the computer falls for the woman too. Soon man and machine are battling for who has the right to date her. In the end the computer concludes that it doesn't have a chance with the woman and wishes the couple a happy life together. It downloads itself into the electrical system and departs for destinations unknown, but not before invading a local radio station's computers to request a musical tribute to the new couple.
Lonely architect Miles (Von Dohlen) purchases a fancy new "Pine cone" personal computer and clumsily spills champagne on it which, of course, imbues the computer with human (or more than human) intelligence, prodigious musical talent and the voice of Bud Court. The computer (now called Edgar) proceeds to fall in love with Miles' upstairs neighbour, beautiful cellist Madeline (Madsen) with whom it engages in anonymous musical duets thanks to the talents of iconic 80's film composer Giorgio Moroder. Madeline of course assumes the music comes from the obviously shy Miles and a romance ensues. A romance which stokes the fires of jealousy on the part of Edgar. By way of revenge, Edgar cancels Miles' credit cards and wreaks various other havoc on his on-line accessible identity. Meanwhile Madeline cannot understand why Miles won't play music with her when he obviously has such talent. None the less, human love prevails and Edgar nobly commits suicide when he realises that he will never, can never, win the heart of his human love.The film contains several neo-classical musical numbers, various examples of state-of-the-art 80's computer graphics and 80's sexology icon Dr. Ruth in a cameo.
