Disturbed Blanche DuBois moves in with her sister in New Orleans and is tormented by her brutish brother-in-law while her reality crumbles around her.
Blanche DuBois, a high school English teacher with an aristocratic background from Auriol, Mississippi, decides to move to live with her sister and brother-in-law, Stella and Stanley Kowalski, in New Orleans after creditors take over the family property, Belle Reve. Blanche has also decided to take a break from teaching as she states the situation has frayed her nerves. Knowing nothing about Stanley or the Kowalskis' lives, Blanche is shocked to find that they live in a cramped and run down ground floor apartment - which she proceeds to beautify by putting shades over the open light bulbs to soften the lighting - and that Stanley is not the gentleman that she is used to in men. As such, Blanche and Stanley have an antagonistic relationship from the start. Blanche finds that Stanley's hyper-masculinity, which often displays itself in physical outbursts, is common, coarse and vulgar, being common which in turn is what attracted Stella to him. Beyond finding Blanche's delicate hoidy-toidy act as putting on airs, Stanley, a plant worker, believes she may really have sold Belle Reve and is withholding Stella's fair share of the proceeds from them. What further affects the relationship between the three is that Stella is in the early stage of pregnancy with her and Stanley's first child. Soon after her arrival at the Kowalskis, Blanche starts to date Mitch, one of Stanley's friends and coworkers who is a little softer around the edges than most of Stanley's friends. Mitch does not hide the fact that he is looking in general to get married because of a personal issue, he wanting Blanche ultimately to be his wife. Mitch is somewhat unaware that Blanche has somewhat controlled their courtship to put herself in the best possible light, both figuratively and literally. But in Stanley's quest to find out the truth about Belle Reve and Blanche's life in Auriol, the interrelationships between Stanley, Blanche, Stella and Mitch may be irrevocably affected, with any revelation about that life which may further destroy what's left of Blanche's already damaged mental state.
Troubled former schoolteacher Blanche DuBois as she leaves small-town Mississippi and moves in with her sister, Stella Kowalski and her husband, Stanley, in New Orleans. Blanche's flirtatious Southern-belle presence causes problems for Stella and Stanley, who already have a volatile relationship, leading to even greater conflict in the Kowalski household.
Blanche is in real need of a protector at this stage in her life when circumstances lead her into paying a visit to her younger sister Stella in New Orleans. She doesn't understand how Stella, who is expecting her first child, could have picked a husband so lacking in refinement. Stanley Kowalski's buddies come over to the house to play cards and one of them, Mitch, finds Blanche attractive until Stanley tells him about what kind of a woman Blanche really is. What will happen when Stella goes to the hospital to have her baby and just Blanche and her brother-in-law are in the house?
Set in the French Quarter of New Orleans during the restless years following World War Two, A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE is the story of Blanche DuBois, a fragile and neurotic woman on a desperate prowl for someplace in the world to call her own. After being exiled from her hometown of Laurel, Mississippi, for seducing a seventeen-year-old boy at the school where she taught English, Blanche explains her unexpected appearance on Stanley and Stella's (Blanche's sister) doorstep as nervous exhaustion. This, she claims, is the result of a series of financial calamities which have recently claimed the family plantation, Belle Reve. Suspicious, Stanley points out that "under Louisiana's Napoleonic code what belongs to the wife belongs to the husband." Stanley, a sinewy and brutish man, is as territorial as a panther. He tells Blanche he doesn't like to be swindled and demands to see the bill of sale. This encounter defines Stanley and Blanche's relationship. They are opposing camps and Stella is caught in no-man's-land. But Stanley and Stella are deeply in love. Blanche's efforts to impose herself between them only enrages the animal inside Stanley. When Mitch -- a card-playing buddy of Stanley's -- arrives on the scene, Blanche begins to see a way out of her predicament. Mitch, himself alone in the world, reveres Blanche as a beautiful and refined woman. Yet, as rumors of Blanche's past in Auriol begin to catch up to her, her circumstances become unbearable.
Blanche Dubois goes to visit her pregnant sister and husband Stanley in New Orleans. Stanley doesn't like her, and starts pushing her for information on some property he know was left to the sisters. He discovers she has mortgaged the place and spent all the money, and wants to find out all he can about her. Even more friction develops between the two while they are in the apartment together...
Elia Kazan,who directed the Broadway play on which the black and white film is based, invited Marlon Brando, the male lead, and Kim Hunter and Karl Malden, his supporting cast, to repeat their Broadway triumphs in the film remake.Brando plays Stanley, a poor boy who grew up tainted by ethnic slurs, made financially stable by the fortunes of the second world war. He does well as a blue collar travelling salesman, moves to New Orleans and marries Stella (Hunter), daughter of an Aristocratic MIssissippi family anxious to escape the war;s invitable destruction of her family's land, wealth, property and social status. Stanley has never met his sister-in-law Blanche, the female lead of the play ,Vivien Leigh in the movie remake. Blanche arranges a visit to see her sister in New Orleans and shows up on Stanley's doorstop obviously annoyed that there is neither a guest bedroom for herself nor a master bedroom for her sister and brother-in-law, in their cramped, dingy apartment in a bustling quarter of the city. The tensions of wartime emergency cohabitation of family members somehow forced to move in with each other in tight, cramped quarters because of the fortunes of war are noted when it is obvious that Blanche and Stanley immediately get on each others' nerves, especially when Blanche, who passes herself off as the only Aristocrat in her new neighborhood, is the only one in her new neighborhood who actually resorts to tough bar language and ethnic slurs in passing conversation. This becomes no ordinary domestic quarrel when their tensions escalate beyond a war of words to hurtful, spiteful deeds and then to climatic physical violence. Hollywood icons Marlon Brando and Vivien Leigh are given close, tight photography in their lengthy scenes of escalating conflict, played with such deep insight and such technical brilliance that the audience is given pause, from moment to moment. to decide whether one really has a point and the other should really be apprehended by the authorities. Stanley first wants to know why Blanche seems to be planning to stay for life and what happened to his wife's claim on the family fortune, land, property and social status. Blanche wants Stanley to give up his weekly card game and his weekly bowling tournament with his friends including Mitch (Malden), to stay at home always sweating in his dirtied work clothes because he will have no place to wash and change with a lady in his house, sitting silent like a statue, until he decides it is time to just turn his paycheck over to Stella and move out so Blanche can rule the roost.
When Blanche attracts the attention of lonely Mitch who sees the remnants of her Aristocratic upbringing, Stanley investigates, through a friend travelling in Mississippi, why his emotionally disturbed, alcoholic, child molesting sister-in-law was fired from her job and kicked out of her boarding house. A telling interlude has Stanley striking Stella for interfering with his treatment of Blanche. She escapes to the upstairs apartment of her landlady (Peg Hillias), but is so dependent upon Stanley that she returns to him when he goes into the yard and calls for her to come back. Things do not go well for Blanche when Stella goes to the hospital to give birth to her child just after a teenage boy accuses her of making improper advances when he came to her door to collect money for Stanley's periodical subscription and Mitch dumps her. There is surrealistic moment, to be individually sorted out by each viewer, when Blanche insists she is going to cut up Stanley's face with the jagged edges of a broken liquor bottle and then insists he is going to rape her. The play and the movie cuts from the blackout to a scene some time later when Stella is putting her baby to sleep in the front yard, Stanley is having his card game over, and authorities arrive from the local mental institution to put Blanche away for life.The landlady calls Stella to the bathroom, where Blanche is soaking up her cares in another hot water tub and wants the ladies to dress her in her faded, fake finery so a nonexistent gentleman friend can escort her on a nonexistent world cruise. Stella, Mitch and the landlady seem in agreement that Blanche is an innocent flower ravaged by wartime whom Stanley destroyed with his crude bullying.
