An introverted loner living in the bowels of the Astrodome plots to develop - with the aid of a mysterious guardian angel - a pair of wings that will help him fly.
Brewster is an owlish, intellectual boy who lives in a fallout shelter of the Houston Astrodome. He has a dream: to take flight within the confines of the stadium. Brewster tells those he trusts of his dream, but displays a unique way of treating others who do not fit within his plans. When the fateful day arrives, and he enters the dome with his fanciful construction of bird wings, Brewster is surrounded by the police. Will he be caught before he attempts to fly?
A young man named Brewster McCloud secretly lives in a fallout room in the Houston Astrodome, where he is building a pair of wings to be able to fly. Only Hope, a health food store clerk, knows he's there, she who supplies what he needs to live, although an overweight security guard at the dome suspects something is going on with this young man who he constantly sees but who is always able to outrun/outwit him. Brewster has a Gremlin-driving, trench coat attired guardian angel who makes sure that he reaches their mutual end goal albeit under her rules. Things have the potential to change when Brewster meets Suzanne Davis, a part-time race car driver and new tour guide at the dome, she who starts to fall for Brewster without knowing either that he lives at the dome or has this dream to fly. Associated with the goings-on with Brewster, wealthy Houstonian Haskell Weeks under his own dollar brings in famed San Francisco detective Frank Shaft to assist the Houston PD with the investigation into a string a strangulation murders. While lead investigator Captain Crandall follows what he considers the normal course of murder investigations, Shaft, who demands things be done his own way, which he is able to do with the help of traffic cop Johnson, wants to focus on one specific aspect which Crandall and his team have ignored but which seems to be common to all the murders beyond the strangulation, namely that each victim was hit with bird droppings. Through it all, an expert in his field provides a lecture on the reason for the behavior displayed with Brewster and those caught in his vortex.
With the aid of Louise (Sally Kellerman), owlish Brewster (Bud Cort) constructs a pair of human-size wings in his Houston Astrodome nest to realize his dream. Meanwhile creeps, including a witchy "Star-Spangled Banner"-belting crone (Margaret Hamilton) and Brewster's skinflint boss (Stacy Keach), keep turning up dead and covered with bird droppings. The Houston Establishment calls in blue-eyed, turtleneck-wearing, "San Francisco super cop" Frank Shaft (Michael Murphy) to investigate. Brewster cooks his goose, when he defies Louise's edict against sex and hooks up with Astrodome usher Suzanne (Shelley Duvall). She impressed him (and saves his life) by out-driving Shaft in her Road Runner. Despite her sweetness, Suzanne will not compromise her comfortable home to choose flight with Brewster.
