A compulsive gambler dies during a shooting, but he'll receive a second chance to reform himself and to make up with his worried wife.
Chronic gambler and carouser "Little" Joe Jackson is shot by Domino Johnson at Jim Henry's gambling club over an outstanding gambling debt. Little Joe's wife, the God-fearing Petunia Jackson, prays not only for her husband's mortal life, but also his eternal soul as she's afraid that if he dies now, he, despite not being an evil man, won't make it into heaven. As Little Joe is close to death, he is visited by agents of both the Lord and of Lucifer. They make a deal with him: they will give him six months to atone for the errors of his human life. Once back on Earth, he won't remember the deal but both the Lord and Lucifer will be watching over him, trying to get him to see things their way. As both sides try to get Little Joe's soul, they figure that some of the most powerful tools they have at their disposal are the women in Little Joe's life: Petunia on behalf of the Lord, and Georgia Brown, a gold-digging floozy, on behalf of Lucifer. As hard as both the Lord and Lucifer try to get Little Joe on their side, they don't factor into the equation human judgment, which turns some of their work against them.
In this musical, Little Joe, an inveterate gambler, promises his wife Petunia he'll reform and confess his sins at church, but he slips out the side door to play craps at the Paradise club; he's shot and brought home with a mortal wound. Petunia offers powerful prayers, and Joe gets a six-month reprieve. Heaven's forces, led by the General, and those below, led by Lucifer Jr., try to pull Joe their way. Lucifer Jr. has a not-so-secret weapon, the sultry Georgia Brown, and his idea men cook up a great scheme to win Joe's soul. The General has Joe's good intentions and Petunia's inventiveness. Will she and Joe reach their cabin in the sky?
Little Joe is a compulsive gambler, who has promised several times to his wife Petunia that he'll quit this bad habit. Petunia is a very religious woman, and every Sunday goes with Little Joe to the church. Little Joe has debts with another gambler, which are threatening him to pay quick or assume the consequences. One day, Little Joe seems to make a serious promise to Petunia that now he's definitely out of gambling, but at the first opportunity, when the woman is distracted, Little Joe runs away to the casino. A shooting takes place at the casino, where Little Joe's severely injured. The unfortunate man, despite Petunia's prayers, dies and his soul makes a deal with the General, at God services, and Lucifer Jr.: to become a good husband and quit gambling in a lapse of six months, otherwise, his soul will be condemned. Little Joe resuscitates and apparently is behaving well, but later he finds out that has won a big money prize. He and a seductive singer, Georgia Brown, begin to hang out and exhibit themselves with elegant clothes, expensive jewelry and a luxurious car in front of Petunia. The General and Lucifer keep watching Little Joe, and maybe this could be his last chance.

