Fed up of his wife's bad cooking, Donald kills her and turns to cannibalism to satisfy his appetite.
Construction worker Donald is having a hard time getting anything good to eat since his wife has decided to only cook gourmet foods. That and her constant harping cause him to snap, and he whacks her. Somewhere in the confusion he comes up with a new use for the microwave oven, and begins to eat much better. Soon he's experimenting with different recipes. And different meats.
Poor Donald, an unhappily married middle-aged hard-working construction worker, can't remember the last time he had something good to eat, and it's all May's fault, his shrieking harpy of a wife, with her ideas for fancy cooking and high-class lifestyle. To make matters worse, May has recently invested in absolutely the latest in what technology has to offer, that is to say, Major Electric's state-of-the-art microwave oven, model X1-74A, threatening to never prepare a decent meal again, of course, all in the name of Donald's own good. But with each meal worse than the previous one, trapped in a culinary purgatory where even their dog eats better than him, enough is enough, and one night, Donald drunk and pushed a morsel too far, in a fit of despair, he will bludgeon May to death. With the antidote to May's cooking and her in the microwave, Donald will accidentally get a taste of human flesh only to find it sweet, unique and fantastic, yet a bit tough and old. Now that Donald has tasted blood, there's no turning back, but with his health keep getting better and a fridge full of evidence, he must act fast. After all, we are what we eat..
Donald (Jackie Vernon) is a construction worker living in an L.A. suburban neighborhood with a big problem: his shrew of a wife May (Claire Ginsberg) has started to only cook gourmet foods in a Hyacinth Bucket-style misguided effort to make themselves seem classier than they are. While his co-worker friends Roosevelt (Loren Schein) and Phillip (Al Troupe) dine on simple bologna-and-cheese sandwiches for lunch, Donald is saddled with crab sandwiches and other cooking atrocities. To his horror, he discovers his wife has bought an unusually large Major Electric microwave oven, which makes the meals worse in half the time.After coming home drunk one night and getting into an argument with May, Donald loses his temper and bludgeons her to death with a large pepper grinder. He wakes up the next day with a bad hangover, no memory of the night before, and a growling stomach. He discovers May's corpse in the microwave and after the initial wave of horror passes, he starts to take it in stride, telling his co-workers that he and May separated. After work, he then cuts up May's body and stores it in foil wrap in the fridge. A running gag involving May's head retaining some sort of sentience is introduced during this scene.Looking for a midnight snack one night, Donald unintentionally takes a few bites of May's hand, and (again) after the initial wave of horror passes, he realizes it's the best thing he's ever eaten. He even brings some to work with him and shares it with Phillip and Roosevelt, who concur. He soon starts picking up hookers and killing them so he us can use them for meat in his recipes.While cooking one night, Donald has a mild heart attack and goes to his doctor, who tells him of a pacemaker that was put in when he had some excess weight, but says he is fine overall. May's equally shrewish sister Evelyn (Sarah Alt) shows up, having not heard from her sister in some time. When Evelyn finds May's severed head, Donald attacks her in which she is gagged with bread and thrown, tied up, in Donald's closet.Donald's lunches continue to be a hit with his friends, and he decides to cater an outing to a wrestling match with a new recipe he calls "Peking chick." When Roosevelt and Phillip show up to pick up Donald, they discover him dead on the floor of a heart attack, and some body parts in the microwave. They leave in horror and disgust, realizing what Donald had been serving them.Some time later, the Donald's house is up for sale and movers are taking the furniture out. A repairman examines the microwave and discovers a problem with the wires, commenting that it would be bad for someone with a pacemaker. We then zoom into the fridge, which opens to reveal May's head. Her eyes glow orange as the film ends.
