It's April 5, 1941, somewhere in Serbia. A group of people go on a bus to Belgrade, on a journey that will change their lives forever.
On April 5, 1941, a date Serbs will recognize, men on a country road board Krstic's bus for Belgrade: two Gypsies who occasionally sing about misery, an aging war vet, a Nazi sympathizer, a dapper singer, a consumptive, and a man with a shotgun. Krstic is a world-weary cynic, out for a buck; the driver is his son, the simple, cheerful Misko. En route they pick up a priest and young newlyweds going to the seaside. Along the way, mis-adventure strikes: a flat tire, a rickety bridge, a farmer who's plowed the road, a funeral, two feuding families, an army detail, and a lost wallet slow the bus and expose rifts among the travelers. On April 6, amid rumors of war, they reach Belgrade...
On April 5, 1941(one day before the German army occupied Yugoslavia in the WWII), men on a country road board Krstic's bus for Belgrade: two Gypsies who occasionally sing about misery (occasionally predicting indirectly what shall happen next), an aging war vet (presenting a stubborn veteran who survived proudly two wars before the WWII), an educated, methodical intellectual (who is sympathizing German power which is known for their superior sense for order and efficiency in contradiction to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia mentality which is as he wants to say: chaotic, not well emancipated and inefficient), a dapper wannabe singer (traveling to attend an audition for singers), a consumptive, a hunter with a shotgun (who shows himself as very unintelligent and clumsy).
Krstic is a world-weary cynic, out for a buck and always calculated; the driver is his son, the simple, cheerful Misko (who represents an post-adolescent enthusiastic, hungry for life). En route they pick up a priest and young newlyweds going to the seaside. Along the way, mis-adventure strikes: a flat tire, a rickety bridge, a farmer who's plowed the road, a funeral, two feuding families, an army detail, and a lost wallet slow the bus and expose rifts among the travelers. On April 6, amid rumors of war, they reach Belgrade...It is an surrealistic story, showing different types of people that lived in the pre-WWII period in Kingdom of Yugoslavia, telling the behavior and ethnic psychology of folks that lived past then, with a large dose of sarcasm and sadistic humor. It is all followed with ingenious drama composition, casting and acting.
