Marine hero Al Schmid is blinded in battle and returns home to be rehabilitated. He readjusts to his civilian life with the help of his soon to be wife.
Married couple Jim &amp; Ella Merchant set up their single friend Al Schmid on a blind date with Ruth Hartley. The two hit it off and begin dating. A welder, one day at the workplace, Al learns of a friend's enlistment in the Marine Corps and decides to join himself. Al and Ruth have a last date, with Al insisting that she forget about him as he is about to go into combat. However, when Ruth goes to meet his departure train, he is overjoyed and gives her an engagement ring. Assigned to Guadalcanal, Al and his squad are tasked with preventing the Japanese from breaching their line. During a night attack, many of his fellow Marines are slain, but Al ends up single-handedly saving the day, killing scores of Japanese. However, he is wounded by a suicide bomber near the end of the the battle. At the hospital, Al learns that he is blind, a condition that persists even after surgery. Feeling sorry for himself, he dictates a letter to a nurse, informing Ruth that he is relieving her of any obligation to marry him. Neither his friend Lee, the nurse, or the doctors can persuade Al to try rehabilitation in order to attempt a return to a "normal" life. Finally, he has to be kicked out of the hospital. He returns home, but does not want to see Ruth. She sees him and pledges her love, but he is still discouraged, as he does not feel that he is a real man anymore and his pride will not allow her to take care of him. For his bravery, Lee is awarded the Navy Cross. Will he overcome his pride and give the audience a happy ending?
Al Schmid is a happy go lucky guy in Philadephia in 1941. He likes his life, despite his landlady's attempts to get him married off. One day he meets Ruth and she steals his heart. Pearl Harbor changes all their lives, as Al joins the Marines. His unit defeats a japanese attempt to retake gualcanal, but he is blinded in the action. Al has to struggle to adjust to life as a blind man and he breaks up with Ruth, but with the help of a red cross worker, his best friend Lee Diamond , he sees that his sacrifice was not in vain and he and Ruth are reunited
