A young woman meets a vital young man, but their love affair is doomed because of the man's materialistic nature.
In the suburbs of Rome, the translator Vittoria breaks her engagement with her boyfriend, the writer Ricardo, after a troubled night. Vittoria goes downtown to meet her mother, who is addicted to the stock market, and she meets the broker Piero on a day of crash. The materialist Piero and the absent Vittoria begin a monosyllabic relationship.
After an all night talk to discuss their relationship issues, Vittoria leaves the apartment of her long time fiancé, Riccardo, for good, she telling him that she no longer loves him, but she can't really express her feelings, most specifically why, beyond that. Riccardo accepts the news but doesn't really like it. Upon a visit to her mother at the Stock Exchange in Rome, where she spends the better part of her days monitoring her stocks, Vittoria meets her mother's stockbroker, Piero, a young, driven man. They are attracted to each other physically, and Piero ends up pursuing her doggedly, most specifically after a disastrous day on the market. She, in turn, is too physically attracted to him, although she is slow to let him into her life, she initially pushing him away whenever he gets physically close. She eventually does let him into her life. During their burgeoning relationship, they tell each other one thing, however their actions may tell a slightly different story.
On the verge of ending her tumultuous affair with her writer fiancé, Riccardo, the young literary translator, Vittoria, leaves his apartment in Rome after an endless and dead-end conversation. Free from an uncomfortable and meaningless relationship, Vittoria will soon find herself falling for the charms of the young and self-absorbed stockbroker, Piero, only to drift into yet another ill-fated romantic affair. In the end, against the backdrop of a nearly deserted city, the two reluctant lovers will eventually face a bitter and unbearable reality: sometimes, human connection is simply impossible.

