When a young Amish boy is sole witness to a murder, policeman John Book goes into hiding in Amish country to protect him until the trial.
An 8 year old Amish boy and his mother are traveling to Philadelphia, on their way to visit the mother's sister. While waiting at the train station, the young boy witnesses a brutal murder inside one of the bathroom stalls. Police detective John Book is assigned to investigate the murder of the man, who was a undercover cop. Soon after, Book finds out that he's in great danger when the culprits know about his investigation and hides out in the Amish community. There, he learns the way of living among the Amish locals, which consists of non-violence and agriculture. Book soon starts a romance with the mother of the little boy, but their romance is forbidden by the Amish standards. But, it's not long before the bad guys find out Book's whereabouts.
After witnessing a brutal murder, young Amish boy Samuel and his mother Rachel seek protection from police officer John Book. When Book uncovers evidence of police corruption involving narcotics lieutenant James McFee, Book must take Rachel and Samuel, and flee to the Amish countryside where Rachel grew up. There, immersed in Amish culture and tradition, Book and Rachel begin a cautious romance.
Samuel Lap is a young Amish boy who witnesses a murder in Philadelphia while traveling with his mother Rachel. A good cop named John Book must go with them into hiding when the killers come after them. All three retreat to Amish country and Book has to adjust to the new life style, and his feelings for the boy's mother. Of course the killers are still on their trail.
Young Amish widow Rachel Lapp is taking her young son Samuel to Philadelphia for the first time. While in a washroom at the train station, Samuel sees two men savagely murder a third. The detective assigned to the homicide case is Det. John Book who informs them that the murdered man was a police officer. It isn't long before the young boy fingers Philadelphia narcotics officer McFee as the murderer. Book soon discovers that McFee was involved in the theft of something called P2P, an ingredient used in the making of methamphetamine. Shortly after Book tells his boss this information, McFee comes after Book and wounds him in a shootout. Book determines that the best way to avoid detection is to blend in with the Amish community, which he does, working with them on their farms and helping with building a new barn. But the corrupt cops Book has exposed are determined to keep their dirty work a secret, and they come looking for Book &amp; Samuel to silence them for good....
When a young Amish woman and her son get caught up in the murder of an undercover narcotics agent, their savior turns out to be hardened Philadelphia detective John Book. Harrison Ford is sensational as Book, the cop who turns head-on into the non-violent world of the Pennsylvania Amish community. The end result is an action packed struggle of life and death, interwoven with a sensitive undercurrent of caring and forbidden love.
As the film opens, we see an Amish funeral procession. One of Lancaster County, Pennsylvania's Amish farmers, Jacob Lapp, has passed away. His widow, Rachel (Kelly McGillis) and her 8-year old son, Samuel (Lukas Haas), later head by train to visit Rachel's sister in Baltimore, Maryland.At the 30th Street Station in Philadelphia, Samuel enters the washroom. Only 1 other man is in the room, but as Samuel enters the stall 2 other men enter. One of them very stealthily nods to a second, while the third stands at a sink. Seconds later the 2 men attack the third at the sink. One covers the victim's head with a coat while the second draws a switchblade and cuts the victim's throat. Samuel sees the murder through a gap in the door, and escapes the killers' detection by standing on the toilet seat inside the stall. Captain John Book (Harrison Ford) is the policeman assigned to the case. Book informs Samuel and his mother that the murdered man is a police officer.Book and his partner, Sergeant Elton Carter (Brent Jennings), question Samuel. He is unable to identify the perpetrator from mug shot photographs or a police lineup. But, while Capt. Book is on the phone with Sgt. Carter, Samuel wanders through the detective bureau office and notices a display case with trophies and a newspaper clipping inside. The newspaper clipping has a picture of highly regarded narcotics officer Lt. James McFee (Danny Glover) - and Samuel recognizes him as the man who cut the victim's throat. Book sees Samuel standing at the display case, and walks over to him. Samuel looks at Book and then points to the photograph of McFee, then nods. Not wanting to possibly alert others, Book takes Samuel's hand and lowers it, then reassuringly puts an arm around Samuel and nods, indicating his understanding.Later that night, Capt. Book visits his boss, Deputy Chief Paul Schaeffer (Josef Sommer) at his home, and advises him that Samuel has identified Lt. McFee as one of the killers. Book remembers that 4 years before, McFee had conducted a drug raid in which several gallons of a substance called P2P, an ingredient in the making of methamphetamine, were seized. When the time came for the trial, the police evidence room had no records of the P2P in inventory. It appears that the P2P was sold by McFee to drug dealers, as the total value of the substance confiscated was estimated at $22 million. Schaeffer advises Book to keep the case secret so they can work out how to move forward with it. As Book returns home, he hears footsteps behind him as he approaches the elevator in his parking garage. He turns around to see McFee standing there, walking towards him! A wild gunfight breaks out, and Book is badly wounded in the ensuing gunfight before McFee escapes. Since only Schaeffer had been told, Book realizes Schaeffer must have warned McFee and is also corrupt.Book calls Carter and orders him to remove the Lapp file from the records. Book then hides his Dodge and uses his sister's VW to return Rachel and Samuel to Lancaster County. After the Lapps' safe arrival in rural Pennsylvania, Book collapses from loss of blood in his vehicle in front of the Lapp farm.Even as Book hides out among the Amish in Lancaster County, the corrupt officers - Schaeffer, McFee, and a third man - 'Fergie' Ferguson (Angus MacInnes) - begin hunting for him. They encounter a wall of frustration as local police in Lancaster County cannot help them, since most local Amish farmers have the same last name and do not use telephones. They also pay a visit to Book's sister Elaine, but Schaeffer is satisfied that she does not know where Book and the others are. McFee warns that Sgt. Carter may pose a risk to them, and tells Schaeffer that he is 'working on' Book's partner.Impressing upon them that hospitalization will allow the corrupt officers to find him, Book is gradually tended back to health by the Amish. As Book heals, he begins to develop feelings for Rachel. He also helps the locals build a new barn. The Lapps' neighbor, Daniel Hochleitner (Alexander Godunov) had himself hoped to court her and this becomes a cause of friction. Later Rachel and John are caught dancing - an affront to the conservative Amish way of life. Rachel's father-in-law, Eli, takes her aside and warns that if she continues she could be shunned (ostracized) by the community. Rachel, in turn, feels she has done nothing wrong.The corrupt officers intensify their efforts to find Book, who is informed via a call from a payphone that Carter has been killed. While still in town, Hochleitner and the other Amish men are harassed by local punks. Book confronts the punks who are harassing them. They continue to harass Hochleitner and Book despite Book's warning, 'You're making a mistake'. Book angrily attacks one of the men, breaking his nose, and drives off the others. The fight gets noticed by the local townspeople and is reported to the police. The news reaches Schaeffer.John subsequently comes upon Rachel as she bathes, and she stands half-naked without shame before him. He walks away without a word. Soon after, the two realize they are in love, but because of the publicity the fight has gotten, Book knows he must leave. Upset, Rachel removes her bonnet, and she and John run to one another, embracing with a passionate kiss.McFee, Schaeffer, and "Fergie" Ferguson, the second killer at the train station, arrive at the Lapp farm with 12-gauge pump action shotguns and revolvers. Book, unarmed and in the barn with Samuel, sees them coming and orders Samuel to run to Hochleitner's farm for safety. The trio split up and search for Book. John tricks Fergie into the corn silo and suffocates him under tons of corn. McFee, hearing the falling corn in the silo, heads inside. Book retrieves Fergie's shotgun and blasts McFee with it, killing the murderer instantly. A crazed Schaeffer then forces Rachel and Eli out of the house at gunpoint; Eli signs to Samuel (who returned unseen upon hearing gunfire) to ring the warning bell. Schaeffer, with his .38 snubnose revolver aimed at Rachel's head, forces Book to surrender to him, and forces Rachel and Book out of the barn at gunpoint. However, the loud clanging summoned all other Amish within earshot, and Schaeffer is confronted by over 20 Amish. With so many witnesses present it is clear to Schaeffer that he cannot escape, and he gives up.As Schaeffer is taken by local police and Book prepares to leave, he shares a quiet moment with Samuel, then exchanges a silent, loving gaze with Rachel. Eli bids Book goodbye for his return to Philadelphia, saying "You be careful out among the English [i.e., non-Amish]", as he had said to Rachel at the beginning of the film, and showing Book that he now respects him like the people of his own faith. As Book drives away from the Lapp farm, he passes Hochleitner, presumably on his way to court Rachel, and exchanges an amicable wave of farewell.
