A little girl is left by her father in an exclusive seminary for girls, due to her father having to go to South Africa to fight in the Second Boer War.
When her father, Captain Crewe, goes off to fight in the Boer War, young Sara Crewe is placed into the care of Amanda Minchin, the head of an exclusive private school for girls. Sara lives a wonderful life of a privileged child and is quite happy in her surroundings. When her father is listed as missing in action however, her life goes from one of plenty to that of a poor house maid. Mrs. Minchin agrees to keep her on at the school, but in the absence of her tuition payments, she has to work for her keep. She is soon cleaning out the fireplace and scrubbing floors and is dubbed the little princess by her former schoolmates. She also refuses to accept that her father is dead and prowls the hospitals in the hope of locating him. Luck - and Royal intervention - assist her in her quest.
In Victorian England little Sara Crewe's widowed father is sent to the Boer War. When he is reported killed the evil head mistress at her boarding school turns Sara into a servant.
The story sets in the England ruled by Queen Victoria. Sara is a little girl who doesn't have anything in the world but her father, Captain Reginald Crew. War times run, and Captain Crew's sent to fight with the British army to Africa, to fight against in the Boer War. Sara's worried about her father and she's afraid of his security. The girl is registered in an exclusive seminary for girls, only for a period of time, until Captain Crew returns from Africa. Amanda Minchin is a strict woman who runs the seminary. Sara makes friends with a kindly young teacher, called Rose, and with the horse instructor Geoffrey. So, Sara's life at Minchin Seminary is very happy, but everything there has a monetary cost, even the birthday party and the presents that Miss Minchin sets up for the girl. When Sara finds out about Captain Crew's death, she's devastated but all the privileges will cease, because there's no money to pay for them. Miss Minchin tells Sara that she can stay, but in a dark and creepy attic and she'll have to work as a servant for all her friends. However she makes friends with a nice Indian servant from the house next door and with the other servant girl, Becky, at the seminary. But Sara, keeps hoping that her father is still alive.
Sara's army captain father must put her in boarding school because he has been ordered to the Boer war. He brings her to the "best" girls' school in England, but the owner, Miss Minchin only accepts her after he emphasizes his financial and social status. He instructs Miss Minchin that he will reimburse her for additional expenses to ensure that Sara has the best of everything in his absence.The unspoiled Sara enjoys her privileged life but misses her father. Her kindness stuns the young school servant, Becky. Sara befriends Ram Dass, a servant in the house next door, who is from her beloved India. She also makes friends with a teacher and her secret boyfriend, the riding instructor, and assists their meetings. Sara also discovers a secret dancer, Miss Minchin's brother Bertie, and they delight in impromptu performing when they won't get caught.Sara's father's letters cease when his station at Mafeking is besieged. When new troops arrive and relieve Mafeking, Sara's hopes are dashed when her father is reported missing and presumed dead. Miss Minchin is furious because she has received no reimbursements for Sara's special treatment. She confiscates all of Sara's presents and possessions, and keeps her on as a servant although her work will never repay her debts. She assigns Sara to work in the kitchen and sleep in a cold room in the attic.Sara refuses to believe her father is dead. She performs her chores but always checks new arrivals at the soldiers' hospital in hopes of finding him. Bertie enlisted in the army and works at the hospital, so he aids her search despite his misgivings. They dance and sing for the wounded men.In the servants' quarters, Sara comforts herself by furnishing her room with her imagination: a comfortable bed, a warm fire, plentiful food and books. Her friend Ram Dass observes her misery, and one night he secretly makes her room into the luxurious palace she has envisioned.In the meantime, Sara's father is brought to the hospital, but due to his amnesia is unidentified. He is scheduled to be transferred to another hospital the next day. That morning, Miss Minchin discovers Sara's new things and assumes they are stolen. She locks Sara in to await the police.Sara desperately escapes in order to check the hospital. She is stopped at every turn until she stumbles into Queen Victoria who is visiting the soldiers. The Queen allows Sara to search, and she finally finds her father. She hugs him and cries, but is devastated when he does not recognize her. Finally, she gets through to him and they are happily reunited.
