A mad scientist captures young women and drains their blood, in order to keep alive an ancient, evil duchess.
When four young women are found in Paris with the blood completely drained, the ambitious and snoopy journalist Pierre Lantin decides to investigate the cases of the killer known as The Vampire. Inspector Chantal does not approve Lantin's behavior. Soon Pierre suspects that family Du Grand, who lives in an ancient castle, may be involved with the murders but Inspector Chantal does not give support to his investigations. Meanwhile Pierre avoids the harassment of Giselle du Grand, who is the niece of the wealthy matriarch of the family Margherita du Grand.
In Paris, France, a crazed duchess, obsessed with retaining her youth, has her scientist lover kill various women and draining their blood for her use while a smug journalist seeks out leads for the so-called 'vampire murders' and links a local drug addict to the case whom is connected to the mad scientist.
Someone is killing women in Paris. Four have died in the past six
months, all of them young, with the same blood type, and drained of their
blood. The newspapers have dubbed the killer a "vampire." When it seems
that dancer Nora [Ronny Holiday] has become victim number 5, journalist Pierre Lantin [Dario MIchaelis] is on the story, much to the annoyance of police Inspector Chantal [Carlo D'Angelo], who
thinks of Pierre as a meddler looking for publicity.Pierre learns that one of the murdered girls used to attend Ecole
Jean d'Arc, so he heads over to the school to interview her classmates.
All they remember (that they haven't already told the police) is that they
were followed by a dazed-looking man in a trenchcoat just days before the
murder. Pierre finds this interesting because the one picture he has of
Nora also shows a strange man in a trenchcoat walking behind her. The next
day, as Pierre drops off Lorette Roberts [Wandisa Guida], one of the students at the school, he notices the man in the trenchcoat. Pierre follows him to his apartment but, when Pierre returns with
Inspector Chantal, he goes to the wrong apartment (they all look the
same), and the Inspector is duly unimpressed.Knowing that he's being tailed, Joseph Signoret [Paul Muller] (the man in the
trenchcoat) goes straight to the Clinica Salus to see Professor Julien du
Grand [Antoine Balpêtrè], for whom Joseph works in return for drugs. It's been Joseph's job
to kidnap young girls for du Grand's experiments, but now he wants out. Du
Grand's assistant gives him an out by strangling him. Du Grand, knowing
that Joseph might have attracted the police, fakes his own death and goes
into hiding on the advice of his cousin and benefactor, the duchess
Margherita du Grand . Reduced to working in secret now, du Grand hitches up
Joseph's body to a machine that circulates his blood and keeps his organs
working, while the duchess Margherita demands that du Grand complete his
experiments because she is giving a ball tomorrow evening and wants her
niece Giselle [Gianna Maria Canale] to attend. Giselle, considered the most beautiful woman in
Paris, has the hots for Pierre, but Pierre prefers to keep a wide berth
around Giselle and her aunt Margherita, because Margherita destroyed
Pierre's parents with her selfish love for Pierre's father. Still, Pierre
is ordered by his editor to cover the ball for the society page, and
Pierre reluctantly agrees.Meanwhile, Lorette is stopped on the way home from school by a blind
man asking her to deliver a letter to an address next to the Church of the
Sacred Heart. When Lorette goes there, however, she is chloroformed and
taken to the du Grand castle, where she is slated to become du Grand's
next victim. When Lorette doesn't show up for dinner that evening, Pierre
and her parents go to the police. The police find the blind man and get the address of the
apartment, but the apartment has been abandoned.The next evening, Pierre attends the du Grand ball. He fends off
Giselle's attempts to interest him and leaves, but Pierre's partner Ronald
Fontaine [Angelo Galassi], who is lusting after Giselle, remains after hours and scales the
castle wall to get into her bedroom. When Giselle irately refuses his
advances, her resulting anger shows in her face as she rapidly ages,
turning into old Margherite. Now that Ronald knows Giselle/Margherite's
secret, he cannot be allowed to live, so Margherite shoots Ronald and
steps up her demand that Prof du Grand complete his treatment on her, even
if it is not yet perfected. Reluctantly, du Grand prepares Lorette for the
treatment, which involves hooking her and Margherite to the blood machine.
After three hours on the machine, Margherite turns back into the beautiful
Giselle and Lorette falls into a deathlike sleep.The next day, Pierre runs into Giselle on her way into an art store.
He watches as she writes a check using her left hand. This catches
Pierre's attention because Lorette is also left-handed. When Pierre finds
out that Ronald never returned from the ball last night, he puts 2 and 2
together and attempts to get Inspector Chantal to investigate. Chantal
refuses to search the castle until Pierre provides with proof, so Pierre
goes to the castle alone. There, he runs into Joseph, who has mysteriously
awakened from his death and is lumbering around the castle grounds trying
to get away. Pierre takes Joseph to the police, Joseph confesses his part
in the murders, drops dead...again, and Inspector Chantal finally agrees
to pay a visit to the castle.The police search the castle but find nothing. Just as they are about
to leave, Giselle reverts into Margherite before their eyes. This time a
fevered search finds a passage they missed before. It leads to a hidden
room where they are surprised to discover Professor du Grand alive and
well just before they shoot him. Looking in du Grand's coffin, the police
find Lorette, weak and in need of medical attention, but well enough to
reveal her attraction to Pierre. While the ambulance takes Lorette to the
hospital, Pierre and Chantal go out for coffee together. [Original synopsis by bj_kuehl]
