Col. Paul Tibbetts piloted the plane that dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima in World War 2.
1943. In viewing an act of subordination, Maj. Gen. Vernon C. Brent of the US Air Force decides to take a chance in appointing Lt. Col. Paul Tibbets, the said insubordinate, to lead the testing of a new long range bomber, Boeing's B-29, for use in military service, as the plane operates like a dream in ideal conditions, but is known to be a deathtrap in extreme conditions often faced by the military. The General has a long term plan about which he does not inform Paul at this stage, but which is designed as a preemptive measure designed to end the war, the Allieds who seem to be losing: drop an atomic bomb, which is being developed in a top secret mission called the Manhattan Project, on a major Japanese city. While the testing of the bomber is a dangerous mission in and of itself, each progressive step along the way to the end goal becomes increasingly dangerous and difficult. When the team, including the Manhattan project researchers, come together at Wendover Air Force base in Utah to do the final testing with Paul the commanding officer, security will be paramount, where only a handful of people know the full story, all others will only know their small part of the entire plan, and when questioned one is supposed to answer evasively in not saying anything. As such, Paul has a zero tolerance policy for anyone breaking this protocol. Who are seen as the biggest security risks in total secrecy are the wives, who may talk out of turn at the proverbial hairdressers if they know too much. Although used to secrecy, Paul's wife, Lucey Tibbets, may not be able to withstand what Paul has turned into all in the name of national security in she not knowing what's going on. Also placing the mission at risk is Paul himself, who admits solely to himself that he is scared in wondering if the lives of innocent Japanese justifies the end of a better world if the mission is successful.
The story of Colonel Paul Tibbets, the pilot of the Enola Gay, the bomber that dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima. Although unaware of the full potential of this new weapon, he knows that it is capable of doing tremendously more damage than any other weapon used before, and that the death toll resulting from it will be enormous. He is reluctant to be the person who will end so many lives, but if using it may bring an end to the war, then not doing so may result in even more lives being lost in continued ground assaults as the fighting goes on. At the same time, the intense secrecy surrounding this mission leaves him with no one he can express his thoughts and doubts to, not even his wife. As time goes on, the pressure upon him only increase.
Colonel Paul W. Tibetts has been put in charge of the bomber squadron assigned to drop A-bombs on Japan. Training at Wendover Field, in the Utah desert, is gruelling. Col. Tibbets wife Lucey provides voice over narration. Gradually, she comes to accept that she and the children are not as important as the A-bomb.
