A young couple with a newborn baby don't realize that the nanny they hired is a magical nymph who sacrifices infants to an evil tree.
Phil and Kate have a baby boy named Jake. They hire a baby-sitter, Camilla, to look after Jake and she becomes part of the family. The Sterling's friend and neighbor, Ned, takes a liking to Camilla and asks her out. She refuses, but Ned follows her and discovers that she is not quite human. Camilla discovers that she has been followed and Ned is pursued. He leaves a desperate message for Phil and Kate which reveals that Camilla has special plans for baby Jake.
From Chicago for a new job, Phil and Kate Sterling have moved into one of the remote canyon areas of Los Angeles. Within the year, Kate gives birth to their first baby, who they name Jake. Within a few weeks of the delivery, they make the decision for Kate to return to work as a designer immediately, which means hiring a full-time, live-in nanny. Of the prospects sent by the Guardian Angel agency, they hire Camilla Grandier, a young, beautiful British woman. They believe Camilla is the perfect nanny for Jake as she has an easy going, natural way of child-rearing. This view is supported by their new group of friends, one in particular, famed local architect and contractor Ned Runcie, who is attracted to her. Immediately after hiring Camilla, Phil begins to have dreams/nightmares concerning Jake and Camilla, these nightmares from which he awakens in a cold sweat solely because of how real they feel. Phil specifically begins to get warnings about Camilla, which he initially does not know whether to believe. If the specifics behind those warnings are indeed true, Phil and Kate will have to protect Jake and themselves against Camilla and the natural/supernatural forces surrounding her and one specific locale in the forested area behind their house.
Allan and Molly were the first couple we see who have Camilla as their baby's nanny. After they discover their daughter is missing, Camilla (who took the baby for her Druid practices), inquires about working for Kate and Phil, who have a son named Jake. Ned Runcie - who designed Kate and Phils house is the one stalked by Camilla after he is found lurking after her (he is the one who has an attraction for her).

