10 vignettes about scandalous behavior of horny German schoolgirls. First, a strict, conservative teacher is lured by three of his beautiful, nubile young female students into a compromising situation with tragic results.
The second installment in the Schoolgirl Report series is based on anecdotes provided by viewers of the first installment:Scene 1: Elfie (Karin Götz), Sybille, and Christa plot to seduce their science teacher, Dr. Mallinger, and take incriminating photos that insure their control over him for good grades -- and anything else they may want! The girls couldn't imagine where this would lead.Scene 2: Traudel and Rosel are young teens innocently embarking on a journey of sexual awakening with a couple of the village boys out in the barn. Things are going fine until Huber the Policeman barges in.Scene 3: Monika (Rena Bergen) and Emilie are a pair of runaways who came to Munich to escape the boredom of village life. Robbed and with no place to stay, they accept whatever is offered in order to survive -- in exchange for sex, of course. Eventually the exhausted girls turn themselves in to the police so they can go home.Scene 4: Gaby and her friend Heini have driven out to the woods to have sex, but he's a virgin, and not up to the task. To make matters worse, a local rascal steals their clothes, and forces Heini to sing while he and Gaby make off in his car.Scene 5: A drunk 16 year-old named Tessie gets picked up at a bar by a couple of guys who hustle her off to a "party" -- where she's shot up with drugs and raped.Scene 6: Margot is out shopping for a wig with a friend, and discovers they don't even have enough money to pay for their coffee. The man at the next table offers to pay, in exchange for a bit of photo modeling. When Margot's nude photos appear in a men's magazine, and she's seen wearing her hot new wig, her classmates want to get in on the action. Soon, every girl in school is wearing a wig...Scene 7: 15 year-old Elke (Astrid Kilian) feels like she's the last virgin in her class, and has made it known she's ready to change all that. Her friend Gitte (Felicitas Peters) organizes a party for the occasion, where the "stallion" Günter is scheduled to deflower her. But it's a trick -- both of them are virgins! And Elke's fine with that.Scene 8: The story continues at Gitte's party -- she failed to invite any other guys, and the girls are restless. So they call a taxi, and dupe the driver into posing nude for their "art class". Once he grasps their true intent, he wisely calls for three more drivers -- "young and strong"!Scene 9: Susanne Lippert (Karin Wieland) is 14 when she loses her virginity, and soon becomes quite promiscuous. An accountant living as a border in their home has agreed to tutor Susanne in math, but she only wants to bed another man. They're caught in the act, and he's charged with child molestation. He gets an acquittal when Susanne's promiscuity is made public, which sends her father into an outrage, and Susanne to attempted suicide.Scene 10: Barbara Martin (Heidi Hansen) is 18 and pregnant. Her parents are understandably upset -- until the little tyke comes along, and they warm to the role of grandparents.
