A psychologically distraught woman is committed to a private sanitarium by the man she witnessed commit a murder.
Dr. Cross, a psychiatrist, is treating a young woman, Janet Stewart, who is in a catatonic state, brought on when she heard loud arguing, went to her window and saw a man strike his wife with a candlestick and kill her. As she comes out of her shock, she recognizes Dr. Cross as the killer. He takes her to his sanitarium and is urged by his nurse/lover, Elaine Jordan, to give Janet an overdose of insulin. Can he bring himself to murder Janet in cold blood?
In San Francisco, Mrs. Janet Stewart checks in a hotel late night to meet her husband Lieutenant Paul Stewart. However Paul does not arrive and Janet goes to the balcony in the middle of the night after a nightmare. She witnesses the renowned psychiatrist Dr. Richard Cross asking for the divorce to his wife and having an argument with her. Out of the blue, Dr. Cross kills her with a candlestick and Janet has a nervous collapse and stays catatonic in shock in her room. When Paul arrives and sees his wife, he summons Dr. Stevens. After the examination, Dr. Stevens tells that Janet has had a psychological breakdown and recommends Dr. Cross to treat her. When Dr. Cross comes to the room, he realizes that Janet might have seen him and he tells that she needs to be interned in his clinic. He calls Nurse Elaine Jordan, who is his lover, and they take Janet to their clinic. He decides to make Janet forget the incident but then they decide to discredit her proclaiming Janet insane. But when the District Attorney O'Neill asks for the authorization to Dr. Cross to carry out an autopsy in his wife since he believes that she might have been murdered, Elaine tells that Dr. Cross must kill Janet.
Janet Stewert checks into a hotel to meet her husband Paul who is returning from World War II. He is delayed and she witnesses a murder. Emotionally fragile Janet goes into shock and the hotel doctor calls in noted psychiatrist Dr. Cross, who realizes that Janet saw him murder his wife. To keep her from revealing what she knows, Cross convinces Paul to let him take her under observation at his sanitarium. There his lover, Nurse Jordan, helps to keep Janet medicated and confused. Can Janet convince anyone that she is not crazy before it's too late?
When Janet Stewart (Anabel Shaw) checks into a hotel to wait for her husband (Frank Latimore) to return to her from overseas duty at war she falls asleep and has disturbing dreams about him. As Janet awakens and looks out the window to see Dr. Cross (Vincent Price) in an adjoining building murder his wife, she goes into shock and will not respond when her husband arrives the next morning. When the hotel doctor calls in the psychiatrist on call Dr. Cross arrives, and seeing that Janet may be able to identify him sweeps her away to a private sanatorium he operates in the country. Eventually it becomes clear to the good doctor that in order to keep Janet quiet he must commit her to an insane asylum but when her husband begins to get suspicious and Janet begins to get her bearings Dr. Cross resorts to some tactic that may be fatal to his patients.
