Middle-aged bride Ann Hamilton soon begins to suspect that her charming husband is really a psychotic who plans to murder her.
Approaching middle age, spinster Ann Hamilton, the daughter of Science Professor David Hamilton - more affectionately referred to as Dink - is intelligent, but dowdy and unsophisticated, she who never expects to get married and does nothing beyond be her tomboyish self in an effort to attract a man. Being single does not bother her as she repeatedly turns down the marriage proposal of Dink's colleague, Professor Joseph Bangs, a man she does not love. So it is with some surprise to her that she not only likes Alan Garroway, a wealthy and handsome industrialist who is doing business with Dink, but that they fall in love and get married after a whirlwind courtship. Alan made his wealth during the war in a family started business which ended up being a parts supplier to the military for their aircraft. In their bi-coastal marriage - Alan's company's headquarters in San Francisco, while he grew up and still owns property in Middleburg, Virginia, outside of Washington, DC where he has many friends in high society - Ann begins to have doubts primarily concerning two aspects. First, she feels out of place in his high society world, and like she is the laughing stock among his friends. He is able to quell her fears about this issue as he acts as her guide to fashion and society behavior. Second, and arguably more important, Ann begins to feel she doesn't really know Alan, mostly as he hid from her the fact that he has a brother, Michael Garroway, from who he is estranged and whose whereabouts he does not know. Michael was once part of the business in its early struggling days, but they parted when Alan caught him stealing from the company. Although she loves and trusts Alan, Ann begins to feel a kinship to what little she learns of Michael through her own investigation, which could place her at odds with Alan, and place her life in potential danger at either the hands of Alan or Michael, which of the two depending on if Alan is telling her the truth about his brother.
Life is good for Ann Hamilton (Katharine Hepburn), living with her popular scientist father and poised to become a spinster scientist herself, until one fateful night she meets the inventor Alan Garroway (Robert Taylor) whose distance controller has revolutionized the aeronautics industry. Alan woos Ann and they marry in a whirlwind affair with Alan whisking Ann away to Washington to live. In Washington Ann realizes that she knows little of Alans past, particularly his emotionally charged relationship to his brother Michael (Robert Mitchum), rumored to have bankrupted the company Alan and he had created. Michael is missing and has been absent for years with speculation by many that some dark activity may be connected to his disappearance. When people keep mentioning Michael to Ann she asks Alan and every time Alan responds with drama, at one point verbally abusing Ann for her interest in the brother. When Michael appears lat one night to confront Alan about how he obtained his original plans and patent for the long-distance regulator that has made him a millionaire, Alan plans a method of revenge that includes another murder.
