A New York taxi driver stalks a beautiful actress attending the Cannes Film Festival, which coincides with a series of violent killings of the lady's friends.
Vinny is obsessed with famous actress Jana Bates and is determined to have her star in his movie. He travels to the Cannes Film Festival in France to try and convince her. Unfortunately, he goes about things in a rather unprofessional manner and people invloved with Jana Bates begin to disappear.
A horror movie actress is stalked by a crazed fan wanting her to appear in a horror film he wants to direct, while a mysterious killer begins murdering all people associated with her. Are the stalker and killer one and the same, or is something else going on?
A New York City taxi driver obsessively stalks an beautiful actress attending the Cannes Film Festival while at the same time, a masked killer beings killing off all her protégé and associates. Is the obsessed fan the killer, or is there someone else behind the whole thing?
Vinny Durand (Joe Spinell) is a New York City taxi driver who is obsessed with the international cult actress Jana Bates (Caroline Munro), who is known as the "queen of horror films". Vinny returns home to his apartment in Queens where he lives with his mother (Filomena Spagnuolo, aka: Mary Spinell; Joe Spinell's real life mother), where he tells her that he's packing to go to the annual 1981 Cannes Film Festival in France hoping to meet Jana Bates and get her to star in his movie as his career start of being a film director. But his mother calls it just another one of his "crazy ideas."Vinny arrives in Cannes and tries to get to meet Jana several times, but is turned away. Jana is in Cannes to promote her latest horror film 'Scream' where he has been nominated for Best Actress. Accompanying Jana is her manager and ex-husband Bret Bates (Glenn Jacobson), and the film's producer Alan Cunningham (Judd Hamilton) who is her current beau. Vinny dresses up in a full regala suit and attends the local high class nightclub Studio Circus to spy on Janet and her entourage at the club while he films it with his 16mm camera.The next morning, Vinny phones Bret at his hotel room to talk to Jana, but gets hung up on. Shortly afterwards, Jana is at a press conference with Alan when she receives flowers and a note saying, "You've made your last horror film." That evening, when Jana goes to see Bret at his hotel room, she finds him dead, from being slit with a Bowie knife and runs away. A hooded figure stands in the bathroom stall filming it with a movie camera. But when Jana returns with Alan and the local police, the body is gone.Vinny continues following Jana around and filming her with his movie camera. Marty Bernestein (Devon Goldenberg) runs into Vinny and shrugs him off when Vinny asks him if he's willing promote his movie. Marty meets with the movie's director Stanley Kline (David Winters), and his personal assistant Susan Archer (Susanne Benson) where they reveal that all of them have received the same notes that Jana and Bret received. But when Marty takes his suspicious to the police, they think that Bret's disappearance is another publicity stunt. The next day, Marty gets a letter from Bret to meet him in a theater screening room. When Marty shows up, he is murdered with a blue hatchet by the same hooded figure.While Jana attends more press conferences, Vinny goes to a nightclub where he attacks a stripper after seeing her as Jana. He goes to a local cinema where he watches a gory horror film of Stanley Kline, and runs into him outside the theater. The following day, Susan tells Stanley that she wants to leave Cannes, but he convinces her to stay a while longer. That evening, both of them are killed by the hooded figure atop a building where Stanley is stabbed, and she falls off the building's ledge after getting shot. The killer has a movie camera and films all the deaths.Across town in Jana's hotel room, Vinny sneaks in with a bottle of champagne and surprises Jana as she's taking a shower. He asks her to appear in his movie, but she tells him to leave. Angered, Vinny breaks the bottle and threatens Jana with the bottle's jagged edge. When the doorbell rings, Jana pushes Vinny aside and escapes. Jana, clad only in her bathroom towel, runs screaming through the hotel lobby being chased by Vinny. The people in the lobby think it's another public stunt and applaud. Vinny, caught off guard, stops and smiles for them, allowing Jana to escape, who runs into Alan and a group of reporters outside the hotel. After explaining what happened, Alan tells Jana that he will take her away from the city.The next day, Alan drives Jana to a remote castle in the French countryside where a musician friend of his, named Jonathan, is staying. Vinny follows them. That evening, Vinny sneaks into the castle, but is chased away by Jana's two lackluster bodyguards who accidentally kill Jonathan as he trying to stop Vinny.Alan and Jana return to Cannes for the awards ceremony where Vinny sneaks into the festivities dressed as a local policeman. While Jana waits in the back wing of the building, Vinny subdues Jana with chloroform and takes the unconscious actress away in his car back to the castle to film a scene there. Vinny films a scene with him playing Dracula and Jana as a victim.Suddenly, Bret Bates shows up with another camera and a gun, and congratulates Vinny on setting everything up for him. Bret is revealed to be the killer and the mastermind behind this whole thing. Bret reveals that on the day when Vinny phoned him about his movie proposal, he faked his own death after realizing that he had the perfect fall guy to set Vinny up for all the killings of Marty, Stanley and Susan in order to get even with Jana for leaving him. Vinny throws his cape over Bret, distracting him, and runs. But Bret grabs Jana and taunts Vinny to come out in the open. Outside, Vinny turns on a motorcycle's headlights, blinding Bret, and as Jana flees, Vinny attacks Bret with a chainsaw by slashing his chest, cutting both of his arms and finally decapitates Bret. As Alan arrives with the police, Jana runs over to him while Vinny stands before Bret's dead body and screams in anguish. Freeze frame.Suddenly, the image falls back to reveal that this whole story is a movie that Vinny filmed at the Cannes Film Festival with Jana Bates, and he is now back in New York showing a rough cut of it to his mother in a small screening room. Vinny's mother tells him that she's finally proud of him for directing and starring in his first movie, but with Vinny saying that it will be the last horror film he will ever direct. As Vinny starts to talk to his mother ideas about his next movie, the old woman interrupts him to ask for a joint and both accept.After the credits, there is a film tape that is being hanged up, saying "The End".
