In an oppressive future, a fireman whose duty is to destroy all books begins to question his task.
Based on the 1951 Ray Bradbury novel of the same name. Guy Montag is a firefighter who lives in a lonely, isolated society where books have been outlawed by a government fearing an independent-thinking public. It is the duty of firefighters to burn any books on sight or said collections that have been reported by informants. People in this society including Montag's wife are drugged into compliancy and get their information from wall-length television screens. After Montag falls in love with book-hoarding Clarisse, he begins to read confiscated books. It is through this relationship that he begins to question the government's motives behind book-burning. Montag is soon found out, and he must decide whether to return to his job or run away knowing full well the consequences that he could face if captured.
In a future totalitarian and oppressive society, where books are forbidden, Guy Montag is a fireman. The mission of firemen in this society with fireproof houses is to burn books at 451o F, the temperature of combustion of paper. Montag is married to Linda, a futile woman that joins "The Family" through the interactive television. When Montag meets Clarisse, she asks him if he has ever read a book - Montag becomes curious. He decides to steal and read a book, twisting his view of life.
In a future dystopian society, all printed materials have been banned. Enforced by the fire department - whose role it is to burn books - the attempt to create an emotionless, egalitarian society has been taken to an extreme. Guy Montag is a senior fireman who is much respected by his superiors and is in line for a promotion. He doesn't question what he does or why he does it until he meets Clarisse. As his doubts grow, he begins to steal some of the books he is meant to burn.
From the Ray Bradbury novel, Fahrenheit 451 is the temperature that paper will burst into flame. Oskar Werner plays a fireman who does not put out fires, but who searches out books and burns them. Books make people unhappy. In a parody of social correctness, all discordant strains are removed. The world is a lonely one of separate people in which Werner begins to read the books before burning them.

