A World War II veteran wants to return to advertising on his own terms, but finds it difficult to be successful and maintain his integrity.
Victor Norman is just out of the service and looking for a job in advertising. By playing hard to get, he figures that he can get a good job and a large salary. The first thing he has to do is get a war widow to endorse Beautee Soap - a client of the Kimberly Agency. He meets with Kay Dorrance and gets the endorsement and Mr. Evans, the head of Beautee Soap is temporarily happy. Victors job is now to work with Mr. Evans, a man who is a strict and demanding client. Everything should be rosy, but Victor, a bachelor, finds himself more attracted to Kay, a widow, than young single Jean Ogilvie.
After the World War II, the arrogant and self-confident Victor Norman returns to New York and seeks a job in the advertising agency of Mr. Kimberly. He is assigned to convince the widow Kay Dorrance to modeling to promote the flagship of the agency Beautee Soap. Then he has a meeting with the rude and capricious millionaire Evan Llewellyn Evans, who is the tyrannical owner of Beautee Soap. Victor dates Kay but they have a misunderstanding and Victor returns to the arms of his former lover, the singer and aspirant Hollywood actress Jean Ogilvie. But Victor misses Kay and does not like the treatment of the untouchable Mr. Evans to him.
Victor Norman was a successful radio advertising executive before he was drafted, and now that he's returned from the war, he was determined to claim his throne back.Vic went to an interview with Mr. Kimberly, owner/president of Kimberly Advertising Agency. After putting on an act to make Kimberly believe that he has plenty of money and couldn't care less if he gets the job, he won a chance to handle Kimberly's biggest and most difficult client - a brassy, rude, vulgar businessman Evan Llewellyn Evans.Beautee Soap is Evans' golden egg, and the most dispised sponser of soap operas - the only way to not hear a Beautee Soap ad is to turn off the radio. Evans ran everyone around him like his slave, and what he wants he gets - or else. Fresh on the job and wanted to make an impression, Vic went all out on his maverick act.Evans wanted the widow of a general, Kay Dorrance, to endorse his soap, by posing for his ads wearing sheer negligee. Kay agreed to the endorsement because she needed money to raise her two children, but refused to disgrace herself in front of a camera. Vic overwrote Evans and had the picture taken with Kay in a regal black silk evening gown, accompanied by her children.Vic then went on to rewrite Beautee Soap commercial without Evans' consent and took the liberty to record a demo. Two subordinations within a day brought him to Evans' attension - Kimberly, Vic and Cooke were summoned to Evans' office.Vic's talent and instinct as an advertising genius paid off. Evans loved his commercial and ideas, and his position in Kimberly Advertising was now almost guaranteed.In the midst of all the commotions, a romance developed between Kay and Vic. He asked her to join him for a weekend retreat, not knowing that the little quaint seaside inn he once knew had changed owners and is now just about as reputable as a brothel. Kay arrived and found herself not only in a run-down inn, also that her room is connected to Vic's. As much as Kay loves Vic, she was not going to become one of Vic's "girls"; she left immediately.While Vic was trying to get over his heartache, Evans gave him another assignment. Evans wanted a second-rated comedian Buddy Hare to star in a comedy show Beautee Soap sponsors, but Buddy had already signed with another agency, owned by Dave Lash, an old friend of Vic's. Dave would be on a train to Hollywood, and Vic was to catch that train at all cost.Before Vic left New York, he went to visit Kay, and the two official ended their relationship. But life proofed to be good to our returning soldier - Vic ran into old flame Jean Ogilvie, a club singer, who was also signed to Dave Lash's agency, on the train. Jean helped Vic with his anti-Buddy Hare act, and he managed to get Dave to sell him Buddy's contract at a low price.Vic had plenty to keep him busy in Hollywood: Buddy turned out to be even less than a second-rate comedian; the writers were having problem writing up the show; Jean broke up with Vic after she realised that Vic was still in love with Kay; Evans wanted to approve the scripts before they were even written.......And then one night, Vic found Kay waiting for him in front of his hotel room...The lovers had a short, sweet weekend together and Kay flew back; they had decided to get married as soon as Vic got the job with Kimberly.Vic returned to New York a triumphant man, even Evans' 2AM meeting couldn't dempen his spirit. Evans and Kimberly were ordered to report to Evans' offic the moment Vic's plane landed; when they arrived at the office Evans' secretary took the recorded programme and kept the two waiting.Now a man with a wife and family to support, Vic had something to lose. He began to feel the same terror Kimberly feels whenever he goes to see Evans. What if Evans didn't like the programme? What if he were to lose this job?It turned out that Evans was just playing Vic. He loved the programme, he liked Vic's defiance and his talent; it's just that his wounded pride needed a little payback.But the hours of suspense had revealed to Vic that he had become someone he had vowed not to become - a professional selling machine, without beliefs and passion about the products he's selling.Vic turned down the job, told off Evans, poured a bucket of water over his head, and stormed out of the office - and got into Kay's car.
