Ataru and Lum must replay their fateful game of tag to decide the fate of Earth, that's being threatened by giant space mushrooms, as well as their relationship.
After falling asleep in class, Lum has a strange dream of a dark hooded figure coming to her as a child on her home planet of Oni. When Lum answers where she lives, the old man cackles with joy, claiming that he will come to claim her when she is older to take her to a dark place.Lum wakes from her dream and asks Ataru for console, but he refuses to listen to her concerns. Growing frustrated with his attitude, Lum zaps him and flies away. Eventually, Ataru encounters Sakura and Cherry, who soon after encounter 3 bad omens in a row: Sakura's sandal thong snaps, a black cat appears, and a hearse soon drives past.Back on her UFO, Lum receives a message from her parents, claiming they found her Great-Grandfather, who somehow had his sleeping chamber misplaced when the family moved some time before. Having never met his Great-Granddaughter, Lum's parents invite her to meet her elderly relative.Meanwhile. Ataru, Sakura, and Cherry have returned to Sakura's temple, and consult a crystal ball for more information about the bad omens they encountered. Lum soon appears in the crystal ball, and is slowly swallowed up in darkness. As Ataru leaves, Lum's words about the dream she had flash through his mind, and he rushes back to his home, only to find Lum gone. Lum's nephew Ten explains that Lum left, but does not say where to.Arriving at her parent's place, Lum finds her Great-Grandfather, who upon seeing that Lum is a girl, begins to sob uncontrollably. Noone can figure why this is, until a dark figure (whom Lum recognizes from her dream) appears at the door, and Lum recognizes the figure from her dream.Upon seeing the dark-cloaked stranger, Great-Grandfather then relates a story from a long time ago, where the dark figure came upon him, weak from hunger. Great-Grandfather was offered two mushrooms to choose from, one of which was poisoned. Great-Grandfather chose the poison mushroom, and in exchange for the antidote, agreed to let the dark-cloaked man marry one of his daughters. However, even though he was dying, Great-Grandfather tricked the old man, claiming he had only sons. The stranger then vowed he would return to claim the first daughter born into the bloodline, which now happens to be Lum. The cloaked figure claims that since he is too old, he intends Lum to be the bride to his Grandson, Rupa. This revelation is soon met with the family tossing the old man out of the house.The next day on Earth, Rupa arrives at Tomobiki High School looking for Lum. Upon finding her, he places a strange ring on her finger, claiming it will make her an adult sooner. Lum attempts to take the ring off, but it won't budge. It turns out that the ring is actually an accelerator mushroom that will cause Lum to mature to the point where she will lose her oni horns.This occurs the next day, and with Lum now being powerless, Rupa abducts her and Ten. Upon finding out, Ataru, Mendo, Oyuki and Benten 'borrow' Ran's spaceship, and head for Rupa's home planet. However, in the process of reaching The World of Darkness, Ran's ship collides with another, and both ships eventually arrive at the planet.Rupa is alerted to this, but when he sees the ship that collided with Ran's he suddenly demands that the wedding to Lum take place immediately! Lum's friends are captured, with the exception of Ataru, who managed to evade capture. Ataru soon encounters a dark-skinned girl with white hair, who demands he sign a marriage license to be wed to her, to which Ataru eagerly accepts.The two then head to the chapel where the girl, named Carla, attempts to open-fire on Rupa and Lum, claiming that Lum stole Rupa from her. In the scuffle, Rupa's Grandfather hides Lum in a hidden room, and uses a decoy to distract Carla and Ataru. Ataru asks the decoy-Lum to come with him, but she claims she wants to stay with Rupa. Carla again demands Rupa come with her, but when he refuses again, she threatens to kill him before she kills herself. The fight then escalates up to the roof where Lum has also come about.Rupa's Grandfather attempts to help him and Lum escape in a hot-air balloon. Lum begs Ataru to help her, but after being fooled by the decoy, he refuses to assist her. In the meantime, Lum's friends have managed to escape their confines, and Mendo manages to slice through the rope ladder that Rupa and Lum are on. Rupa lands safely, but Lum ends up falling over the side of the tower. Ataru falls after her, but as they fall they both argue that the other has been unfaithful. When Ataru claims that he is finished with her, Lum's horns manage to regrow, and she emits a large temperamental electrical charge, frying Ataru, before returning to the roof. She then claims she is going to stay with Rupa.
