Roy edits a small town newspaper. A rancher is murdered, and his fortune is inherited by a young boy. Editor Roy, with the assistance (?) of big city reporter Dale, brings the killers to justice.
In this Roy Rogers entry, featuring a song written by Oklahoma Governor Roy J. Turner (making him and Louisiana's Jimmie Davis and Texas' W.E. "Pappy" O'Daniel possibly the only state governors to write songs used in a western), Flying T ranch owner Sam Talbot is killed by a fall from a horse. St. Louis reporter Connie Edwards comes to check a rumor that he might have been murdered. She goes to Roy Rogers, editor of the local newspaper, and he takes her to the reading of Talbot's will. The ranch is left to Talbot's 12-year-old ward, Duke Lowery, much to the dismay of Talbot's niece, Jan Holloway. After some attempts on Duke's life, Roy finally proves that Jan, Steve McClory and coroner Jim Judnick had Talbot killed and are conspiring to do the same for Duke, making Jan the last heir.
Duke (Lanny Rees, "The Life of Riley"), a 12-year-old orphan of unknown parentage and provenance, unexpectedly and inexplicably inherits a 50-million-dollar ranch from his informal guardian who is not related. Roy (Roy Rogers), as editor of the local newspaper and on the basis of a puzzling note from the dead man, takes on the role of investigative reporter and determines to ensure justice is done. Meanwhile, the late ranch-owner's daughter Jan (Carol Hughes), who is left a paltry sum of cash, reflects that if little Duke were out of the way, she would be the only possible remaining heir. Connie (Dale Evans), a singing ace reporter from St. Louis, joins the hunt, but soon there are two reasons for Duke to die.
Wealthy rancher Sam Talbot has died in an accident and his only relative Jan expects to inherit his ranch. Instead it goes to an unrelated 14 year old boy. When an attempt is made on the boy's life, newspaper reporters Roy and Connie investigate. At the scene of the accident they find Talbot's broken watch and later learn that the time on it proves his death was not an accident.

