Fearing that his recently-acquired step-mother, Ann Dennis, is competing with him for his father's affections, and saddened by the death of his dog, young Danny Mitchell, in the first film of the long-running "Rusty" series, seeks consolation in the companionship of a ferocious, Nazi-trained police dog, Rusty, brought to the U.S. by a returning WWII-veteran. The step-mother, with tender understanding, eventually wins Danny over while Danny pacifies his new dog.
1944. In the small town of Hillside, two traumatic events happen in quick succession in the life of preteen Danny Mitchell. First, his widowed father, Hugh Mitchell, remarries to who becomes his new mother, Ann Mitchell. Although he liked Ann before she and his father became serious, Danny now sees her as competition for what he believes are his father's limited affections. Ann, who can see Danny's hostilities toward her, does whatever she can to gain his affections, he who she loves like her own son. And second, Danny's beloved dog, Skipper, dies from being accidentally run over by a truck. Despite being bitten by him, Danny becomes obsessed with Rusty, neighbor Will Nelson's new German Shepard. A former soldier, Will inherited Rusty, a German army dog, when he was decommissioned. And being an army dog who only understands German commands, Rusty has a seeming vicious streak as demonstrated by biting Danny. When Rusty is able to escape from his enclosure, Danny, who finds him injured, is eventually able to convince his father to let him keep him. This move is supported by Ann, who wants to be on Danny's side despite the seeming dangers associated with Rusty, and by Will, who has no interest in keeping Rusty. Danny believes all Rusty needs is love and affection to become in turn a loving dog. When that doesn't work, Danny turns to "professional" advice on how to train Rusty, much as Ann turns to that same expert on how to manage Danny's hostilities toward her. The path to true love, from Rusty to Danny, and from Danny to Ann, may be unwittingly assisted by Rusty doing what he was trained to do in the war which is still raging overseas and is a little closer to home than the townsfolk in Hillside may think.

