Against the backdrop of a cloudless summer, love's unforeseen complications will entwine an Athenian writer, a morosely beautiful daughter, and a scorned local suitor. And then, calamity strikes. Can love redeem the sad girl in black?
Under the cloudless summer sky--against the backdrop of a derelict mansion ravaged by death, hate, and shame in post-Greek-Civil-War Hydra--a silently sinister undercurrent of intense rivalry among men unfolds. Eager to spend their carefree vacation at the sun-kissed Saronic island, the well-to-do Athenian writer, Pavlos, and his equally sophisticated architect friend, Antonis, rent a small room at the house of the disdained widow, Froso, and her morosely beautiful daughter, Marina. But, little by little--as Marina's brother, Mitsos, is fighting a losing battle to salvage what's left of the family's already tattered reputation--love's unforeseen complications will pave the way for an unavoidable head-on confrontation between Pavlos, and the scorned local suitor, Christos. And then, as bottled-up emotions and suppressed prejudice blemish both lambs and wolves, calamity strikes. Can love redeem the sad girl in black?
Marina's sister drowned herself, her brother is both headstrong and weak, and her widowed mother has a reputation for sleeping around. Plus, Marina, who's family was rich before the war, is aloof: so she's the object of the jealousy and scorn of Hydra's young men, especially Christos, whom she rejected. She fears harassment whenever she leaves her house. When two Athenians on vacation board at Marina's family home, things come to a head: she falls in love with Pavlos, one of the visitors, and he with her. The young men in town stalk and jeer her; then play a cruel trick on Pavlos that goes awry with tragic results. Can any good come from the catharsis of tragedy?
An impoverished young girl who loses her sister is ridiculed by a suitor finally finds love and understanding in the arms of a stranger who gives courage and learns to love her when tragedy strikes that engulfs many people and finally sets them free to go on with their lives.
