An aging, reclusive Southern belle plagued by a horrifying family secret descends into madness after the arrival of a lost relative.
Aged, wealthy Charlotte Hollis has lived as a recluse in the crumbling family plantation mansion in Hollisport, Louisiana since her father Sam Hollis' death thirty-six years ago. The only people who regularly see her are her hard-as-nails but seemingly loyal housekeeper, Velma Crowther, and her longtime friend and physician, Dr. Drew Bayliss. She has lived there most of her life except for a short stint in London thirty-seven years ago following the vicious murder of her married lover, John Mayhew, at the plantation's summer house while Sam was hosting one of his legendary grand balls in the mansion. She and John had planned to run off together that night, but instead he was bludgeoned to death, his head and right hand severed from his body. Nobody was ever convicted for his murder, but most people believe Charlotte did it after John changed his mind about running off with her. They also believe that Charlotte, whom they haven't seen in years, is a crazy old woman. Conversely, Charlotte has hidden away fearing that people would always be glaring at her. She believes that any bad thing that has happened to her since John's murder has been initiated by his widow, Jewel Mayhew, whom she blames for orchestrating the expropriation of her property to build a bridge across the lake. Charlotte is surprised that her younger cousin Miriam Deering, who left the area years ago and was once Drew's romantic interest, has accepted her invitation to stay at the mansion. While Charlotte wanted Miriam to help her overturn the expropriation with the state government in Baton Rouge, Miriam has actually come to help her pack her belongings. Her visit coincides with the arrival to Hollisport of insurance investigator Harry Willis, who has always wondered why the insurance was never claimed. Not expecting to find anything serious, he tells only Sheriff Luke Standish the true nature of his visit. By this time, Charlotte's mental state seemingly hits a sharp decline, perhaps because she would be leaving her family home, but could it be issues surrounding John's murder? Or is someone trying to drive her crazy if she isn't already? If the latter, the truth of who killed John and why may finally come to light to those who matter.
Charlotte Hollis is a semi-recluse, and widely believed to be insane. 37 years earlier her boyfriend, John, was brutally murdered. She was charged with his murder but her wealthy, influential father managed to have the case dismissed. She is still haunted by John, thinking she sees or hears him at times. With the state government about to demolish her house to build a road, and her resisting their attempts to get her to leave, her cousin Miriam visits for a few days. The idea is to help her leave but soon sinister, threatening events start occurring.
Charlotte Hollis, an aging recluse driven into dementia by horrible memories and hallucinations, lives in a secluded house where her married lover, John Mayhew, was beheaded and mutilated thirty-seven years before by an unknown assailant.
Wealthy southern spinster Charlotte Hollis is shunned by her community for the grisly murder of her intended, John Mayhew, thirty-seven years previously. Although her guilt was never proven, the townspeople liken her to Lizzie Borden; the children even taunt her with cruel rhymes. This is why she lives secluded from society, her needs cared for by her faithful servant Velma. Now, progress in the guise of new highway construction threatens the Hollis plantation, Charlotte's family's domicile since Civil War times. She refuses to leave when the Sheriff issues her an eviction notice, even taking potshots at the highwaymen when they encroach upon her property line. Charlotte summons "Cousin Miriam" to fight the public battle to save her home, but Miriam has come to help her pack up, not to save her mansion from the bulldozers. After Charlotte, Miriam is the sole heir to the Hollis estate--motive enough for her to have Charlotte committed for her reclusive, strange behavior. But is Charlotte insane? Doctor Drew seems to feel that she needs help to cross the threshold of insanity.

