An unsophisticated young woman from the Mississippi swamps falls in love with an unconventional southern gentleman.
When Pete's plane crashes in the swamp, he's rescued by young Tammy, an unsophisticated backwoods girl who lives with her lay-preacher-cum-moonshiner grandfather. When Pete's well, he goes back home to his fiancée. But then Grampa gets sent to jail and he sends Tammy to stay with Pete. At Pete's house, Tammy's home cooking, enthusiasm and quaint sunshiny personality bring about changes in Pete's family and in Pete himself.
Living in the Mississippi River bayou country of Louisiana, seventeen year old Tammy Tyree and her grandpa John Dinwitty rescue Peter Brent, whose float plane crashed in the swamp near their houseboat. For Tammy, it's love at first sight. After Tammy nurses Peter back to health and he leaves to go home, Tammy is torn up believing that she'll never see him again. But when Grandpa is arrested for moonshining, he sends Tammy to stay with Pete, who previously agreed to look after her if anything ever happened to him. The uneducated and not traveled Tammy is more scared than excited to see Pete's life first hand: that he comes from a wealthy family, lives in a large country mansion with his bookish father, judgmental mother and artistically inclined Aunt Renie, and wants to work in the country doing agricultural research developing a new higher yielding and disease resistant tomato variety. Pete dreams of converting their land into a working, economically viable farm. Tammy also meets Pete's girlfriend, Barbara Bissle, who Pete talked about during his recuperation. Barbara and Pete admit that they have their fundamental differences, which they'll have to resolve if they ever decide to marry. Despite Tammy being in a different social class, she has a profound effect on those she meets there. She particularly catches the eye of Pete's friend, Ernie. But it still is Pete she is hoping will notice her as more than just a friend.
Tambrey "Tammy" Tyree lives in the bayou with her grandpa John Dinwitty. She rescues the pilot of a downed private airplane, Peter Brent, and over several weeks nurses him back to health. She also takes quite a liking to him. When Grandpa is sent to jail for moonshining, Tammy decides to accept Peter's offer to visit. Peter lives in a once grand plantation house that he is desperately trying to save by experimenting with new crops that he hopes will provide an income to maintain the place. He loves farming life, something that sets him at odds with his fiancée Barbara. Tammy is like a breath of fresh air and she has a positive influence on all of those around he, including Peter.
Aunt Renie, who has named her cat Picasso, would rather be a real artist in New Orleans than the owner of the Tara-like Southern estate where Tammy comes after her grandfather is jailed for making moonshine whiskey. Aunt Renie also plays the role of Tammy's fairy godmother who transforms her into a captivating belle who looks just like the portrait of an ancestress of this elite Southern family, an ancestress who walked barefoot from Virginia.
TAMMY TYREE, 17, lives with her GRANDPA in a houseboat on the Mississippi River. Although Tammy lacks "schooling," she has a remarkable, unpretentious wisdom about life, which she imparts by way of an effective, if amusing, use of archaic words and phrases. Tammy adores her "amateur preacher" Grandpa, but she worries about his drinking.When a plane crashes nearby, Tammy accompanies her Grandpa, who hopes to find something of value to salvage. What they end up finding is the small plane's pilot, PETER BRENT, unconscious but still alive, and they take him home to recuperate. Over the next few days, Peter finds Tammy's simple ways charming, and she develops a secret yearning for him, crushed when he's finally well enough to leave.After Grandpa is arrested for making moonshine whiskey, he tells Tammy to look up Peter, who promised Grandpa his help should he ever need it. Tammy heads on foot to Brent's family mansion, taking along her pet goat. She meets Pete''s stuffy family, PROFESSOR and MRS. BRENT, the latter an unhappy, fearful and somewhat judgmental woman. She also meets Peter's AUNT RENIE, a likable eccentric who takes to Tammy.Tammy impresses the household with her good cooking and charming homespun manner, even though her tendency to be outspoken often annoys Mrs. Brent. Meanwhile, Peter is trying to restore the mansion's lost splendor, hoping to make it self-sustaining again by developing a hardy new crop of tomato plants. Peter is engaged to socialite BARBARA, who'd prefer that he move to the city. Barbara's father, ALFRED BISSLE, a houseguest, wants Peter to work for him in advertising, but Peter turns him down, convinced he can make it farming.Tammy grows closer to the family, trying to keep her jealousy of Barbara in check. Meanwhile, ERNIE, Peter's playboy friend, tries to move in on Tammy, but Peter puts a stop to it. Gradually, Tammy affects the whole household, figuring out what's bothering each of them. During an annual festival during which the history of the household is relived, complete with costumes of the era, Tammy enchants VISITORS with her charming performance as Peter's great-grandmother. Meanwhile, Barbara becomes aware that Tammy has enchanted her fiance. When she finds out that Tammy's grandfather is incarcerated, she hopes to use it against her.When a huge storm hits, destroying Peter's crops, Tammy tries to keep him from giving up, but a weary Peter decides to take up Mr. Bissle's offer to work in advertising. That morning, Tammy takes off. In the meantime, her effect on the family is complete: Professor Brent comes out of his books to tend to the emotional needs of Mrs. Brent, and Aunt Renie has decided to move to New Orleans, where she'll pursue her life-long dream of being an artist. When Barbara guesses that Peter's in love with Tammy, not her, Peter confesses that she's right. He goes off in search of Tammy, finding her at home on the river, where Grandpa, now out of jail, rejoices when he sees the two of them in each other's arms.
