Exiled into the dangerous forest by her wicked stepmother, a princess is rescued by seven dwarf miners who make her part of their household.
The beautiful and kindhearted princess Snow White charms every creature in the kingdom except one - her jealous stepmother, the Queen. When the Magic Mirror proclaims Snow White the fairest one of all, she must flee into the forest, where she befriends the lovable seven dwarfs - Doc, Sneezy, Grumpy, Happy, Bashful, Sleepy, and Dopey. But when the Queen tricks Snow White with an enchanted apple, only the magic of true love's kiss can save her.
For fear that Snow White's beauty will surpass her own, green with envy, the treacherous and vain Queen orders her loyal huntsman to take the princess deep into the impenetrable woods and kill her. But fate has other plans. In an act of unprecedented kindness, the pitiful hunter spares the maiden's life--and as Snow White finds refuge in the cozy cottage of seven friendly dwarfs--for once in her life, she feels what it is like to be safe. Eventually, with the curse of the Sleeping Death at her disposal, the disguised Queen will set off to trick the unsuspecting Snow White into eating a poisoned apple and falling into a deep sleep; nevertheless, is there a spell more potent than love?
The first, and by far most memorable full-length animated feature from the Disney Studios, "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs" may have been superseded technically by many of the films that followed it. But its simple story of a charming princess saved from the evil deeds of her wicked stepmother, the Queen, by a group of seven adorable dwarfs made history when it was first released in December 1937 and has since become an incomparable screen classic.
A beautiful girl, Snow White, takes refuge in the forest in the house of seven dwarfs to hide from her stepmother, the wicked Queen. The Queen is jealous because she wants to be known as "the fairest in the land," and Snow White's beauty surpasses her own. The dwarfs grow to love their unexpected visitor, who cleans their house and cooks their meals. But one day while the dwarfs are at their diamond mine, the Queen arrives at the cottage disguised as an old peddler woman and persuades Snow White to bite into a poisoned apple. The dwarfs, warned by the forest animals, rush home to chase the witch away, but they are too late to save Snow White from the poisoned apple. They place her in a glass coffin in the woods and mourn for her. The Prince, who has fallen in love with Snow White, happens by and awakens her from the wicked Queen's deathlike spell with "love's first kiss."
