The true story of a prosecutor's fight to prove the innocence of a man accused of a notorious murder.
This dramatization of a factual incident opens in a quiet Connecticut town where a kindly priest is murdered while waiting at a street corner. The citizens are horrified and demand action from the police. All of the witnesses identify John Waldron, a nervous out-of-towner, as the killer. Although Waldron vehemently denies the crime, no one will believe him. District Attorney Henry Harvey is then put on the case and faces political opposition in his attempt to prove Waldron's innocence.
After an elderly and much loved local priest, Father Lambert, is shot and killed on the street in broad daylight, the police come under great pressure to find the shooter and bring him to justice. They extradite John Waldren who was arrested in a nearby State and question him unrelentingly until he's completely exhausted and signs a confession. DA Henry Harvey is under political pressure to show that his party isn't soft on crime but as he looks at the case, he concludes that the accused is innocent. He lays out the evidence in such a way as to try and prove Waldren's innocence. Based on a true story.
In Connecticut, a well-known priest is murdered by a man on the street and flees. The politicians and the police are pressed by the society to find the killer, but the Chief of Police Harold F. "Robbie" Robinson has no clue despite the witnesses. When the former soldier John Waldron that has fought in the World War II is captured in another town, the witnesses identify him as the killer and he is forced by Robbie and his men to sign the confession of murder. The he claims innocence, but everybody believes he is the killer. However the righteous State's Attorney Henry L. Harvey finds inconsistent evidences and decides to investigate against the opposition of the politics and the society.
In a small Connecticut town, local minister Reverend George Lambert is shot to death point blank on the street. Although he was beloved by most, he did have his detractors for not absolving those he deemed to have done bad deeds. The shooting is witnessed by many, although the murderer's face is unseen. Weeks go by with no progress on finding the killer, the police and city officials under much pressure to make progress. Based on circumstantial evidence including seven witnesses identifying him and the bullet used in the murder coming from his gun, drifter and WWII veteran John Waldron is charged with murder. State's Attorney Henry Harvey is initially as anxious as anyone to see Waldron charged. However as the case goes to preliminary state hearing, Harvey proceeds to prove Waldron innocent. Some see his move as purely a political one as prosecuting a loyal war veteran is not seen as a popular move for potential gubernatorial candidate Harvey. With the hullabaloo swirling around him, Harvey strives to discover the truth behind the charges against Waldron, despite pressure from some to prosecute Waldron for murder regardless of his guilt or innocence.

