A desert guerilla, with flashing scimitar, opposes a tyrannical prince and marries the caliph's daughter.
"2000 years ago" desert guerilla Omar, with henchmen Aladdin and Sinbad, opposes tyrannical Prince Murad. To prevent Murad from marrying caliph's daughter Schaharazade, disguised Omar marries her himself. When the trick is discovered, both prince and princess want Omar's head; but Murad has yet more dastardly plans, leading to more captures, rescues, and scimitar-play.
Princess Shaharazade, daughter of the Caliph of Bagdad, is tricked into marriage to Omar, the Desert Hawk, while he is posing as Prince Murad, a wealthy suitor. The furious princess demands that the Desert Hawk be captured by the real Prince Murad or he will be severely punished. Murad goes after the elusive Desert Hawk but he always evades capture. Taking matters into her own hands, the princess changes clothes with one of her handmaidens, is promptly kidnapped and sold as a slave on the open market. The Desert Hawk takes a dim view of his bride, willing or otherwise, being so rudely treated, and rides to her rescue.
Arabian Princess Sharahazade is ordered to marry Prince Murad, who is a despotic ruler over his subjects. A thief known as the Desert Hawk, knowing of her coming and that she has never seen her groom, disguises himself as Murad to get her gifts and has success. The next morning the real Murad is coming, seeing that the reason why he has agreed to the marriage is gone, he orders to fake a massacre commited by the Desert Fox. Due to the fact that the Princess had some doubts and changed clothes with one of her maids, who then gets murdered. The Princess, like the rest of her servants are sold into slavery. Per chance the Desert Fox purchases her on the slave market, while Murad starts a war with a neighbour, trying to make him responsible for backing the Desert Fox, getting suport from the Princess' father. Now the Desert Fox tries to stop the Prince and get the Princess for himself with her father's agreement.

