A business tycoon decides to wed a Middle Eastern princess whose customs dictate the pair must live apart for several months before marrying; even more complications settle in when the tycoon's ex-fiancée is assigned to chaperone the pair.
Clemson Reade, a business tycoon with marriage on his mind, and Effie, a U.S. diplomat, are a modern couple. Unfortunately there seems to be too much business and not enough pleasure on the part of Effie. When Clemson meets Tarji, a princess trained in all the arts of pleasing men, he decides he wants an old fashioned girl. Princess Tarji's father is king of oil-rich Bukistan. Because of the oil situation and to maintain good political relations during the courtship between Clemson &amp; Tarji, the State Department assigns a diplomat to maintain protocol until the wedding. Effie!
American businessman Clemson Reade is feeling a little emasculated by his relationship to his fiancée, the emancipated Priscilla Effington - Effie to her friends - who seems more committed to her job with the State Department and maintaining friendly relations with oil rich Middle Eastern countries, such as Bukistan, than marrying Clem. Clem wants a wife that will stay at home and attend to his needs, much like the beautiful Princess Tarji of Bukistan did when he took a recent business trip there. Princess Tarji, like all Bukistanian women, was raised to cater to the needs of the men around her, especially whoever will be her husband. That fact makes Clem come to the realization that Tarji would be the perfect wife. As such, Clem and Effie break up and Clem, through a telegram, proposes to Tarji. She, through her father, the Khan of Bukistan, accepts, which brings into play the State Department to ensure that whatever happens between Clem and Tarji will support the soon to be signed oil agreement with Bukistan the Americans so desperately want and need. The person assigned to the Clem/Tarji file is Effie. Clem and Effie, with Tarji, end up spending more time together than they have in months. In the process, all three come to a realization of what they want personally, which may not mesh with what needs to happen diplomatically.

