After Los Angeles is invaded by an army of subterranean monsters, a small group of people must fight for survival in the deserted metropolis.
A giant monster comes to the surface from the subterranean sewage.The dead body of a man is at the shore of the beach with a spear thrust onto him.A plane. The pilot does not look professional. Tom Gregory (Robert Hutton) lands in a small airport. There is nobody at the airport, not on the runways or at the offices. He phones, but nobody answers, not even the operator. A car appears. Professor Galbraith (Robert Burton), Lisa Galbraith (Susan Hart) his daughter, and Bonnie Galbraith (Judee Morton) his wife, at the wheel are running away from the monsters. Tom thinks that it's a weird joke until he sees a car wreckage and all buildings destroyed around. Prof. Galbraith takes a spear. It was the slime people... but nobody has ever seen them. The city is empty of people.At the cinema, the Galbraiths and Tom see how the KTTV Reporter Vince Williams (John Close) interviews Mrs Castillo (Blair Robertson). A newsreel talks about evacuating the cities. A scientist called Dr Timothy Brough (Tracy J. Putnam) says that these "animals" come from the sewer and they create fog. The reporter feels that there is danger in the thick fog. A bum (Joseph F. Robertson) breaks the last newsreel. They leave the cinema, but they see one of the slime monsters. They enter another building where they find a fighter, Cal Johnson (William Boyce), who thought he was the only surviving person in the world. They fight the monsters with fire extinguishers.The slime people kill another drunken bum (Edward Finch Abrams). They broadcast a public emergency announcement on TV and radio talking about the fog wall and the slime people.Everybody is going out of the cinema to find the origin of the fog wall. Galbraith thinks that the lizard-monsters come from the core of the Earth and they are working to make the whole planet colder.They go to the countryside and meet a farmer called Norman Tolliver (Les Tremayne) who doesn't want to be evacuated because he's never seen the slime people, but finally they . Cal doesn't want to carry Tolliver's hurt goat in his car. It's shiny until they meet the origin of the fog wall.They enter the fog. The slime people (Bob Herron, Fred Stromsoe and Jock Putnam) chase people. They are clearly humans within a green costume. Tolliver doesn't believe in the slime people until they see one. On the road, they find some zombie humans, so they have to turn around. They come back to the same theatre again. They are trapped outside. Galbraith asks Tom what he saw while he was flying and he saw one dying in the sea. Galbraith says that they can break the fog wall with sodium chloride - table salt - . Lisa wants to go with Cal, who she is falling with, and the rest of the family. Cal finally agrees.They get into one of their cars. Cal traps a paw of a slime person with the door to study it. Lisa has to be rescued from the slime people later on. They create a machine to manipulate the sodium chloride. Cal repents now - he wish they had been evacuated with the rest of the people.The finally attack the slime people. After much running from one place to another, they kill two of the slime people. It's only then when army planes arrive.The family and their friends reunite in the sunshine in the countryside. A soldier congratulates Galbraith because he was the one who broke the fog wall. They all leave in an army car.
