Letitia "Tish" Carberry, an eccentric New England spinster, lives with her nephew, Charlie Sands, and her two cronies, Aggie Pilkington and Lizzie Wilkins, live in a near-by boarding house. Cora Edwards also lives at the boarding house and is in love with Charlie, who, however, loves Katherine "Kit" Bowser, the daughter of Judge Horace Bowser. Tish and her cronies promote a romance between Cora and Charlie, but Cora decides it is Theodore "Ted" Bowser she loves and they are secretly married before Ted leaves for a training school in Toronto, learning to ferry planes to England. Charlie and Katherine also elope secretly. Cora, anxious to join Ted, borrows money from the church organ fund and leaves, telling no one where she is going. Tish takes the blame for the shortage. Cora raises the money to repay Tish and goes to the post office, while Ted is on a flight. Before she mails it, she opens a letter she received from the Canadian government announcing Ted's loss at sea. She faints, is taken to the hospital and gives birth to a boy, and dies. The only clue to her identity is the letter addressed to Tish. She arrives, decides the baby is Charlie's son, declares herself the grandmother and takes it home. Once there, she and her cronies take care of it in a rented cottage and she now claims it is her own. As a result Charlie, not knowing why she makes such a claim, has her put into a sanitarium for mental cases, and he and Katherine take the baby and plan to send it to an orphanage as Katherine does not realize it is her own nephew.
Living in the small town of Sunville, middle aged headstrong spinster Tish Carberry feels that it is her business to get involved in everything, even if it really is none of her business. Usually her meddling ends in disaster, but her two best friends, Aggie Pilkington and Lizzie Wilkins, follow her schemes regardless. Her latest project is to get her thirty-one year old nephew, Charlie Sands, who is the editor of the local newspaper and who lives with Tish in the family home, to fall in love with eighteen year old recent orphan Cora Edwards, who she knows is in love with Charlie. But Charlie is instead in love with Kit Bowser, the daughter of Judge Horace Bowser who Tish detests. In addition to Kit being a relation to the judge, Tish feels Kit is too haughty. What Tish does not know is that Charlie and Kit are engaged, and that Cora has since fallen in love with Kit's brother, the more age appropriate but bumbling Ted Bowser. Charlie and Kit eventually get married, and Cora and Ted secretly elope because Ted plans on going into flight school in Canada without his father's knowledge. Through a series of accidents, misunderstandings and preconceived beliefs, Tish ends up the guardian of a baby, who she believes is Cora and Charlie's out of wedlock. She only tells Aggie and Lizzie of her beliefs. In keeping the secret about the baby's believed parentage, Tish is willing to sacrifice herself and her well being for those she loves.

