In 1953, a cashier poses as a writer for blacklisted talents to submit their work through, but the injustice around him pushes him to take a stand.
In the early 1950s Howard Prince, who works in a restaurant, helps out a black-listed writer friend by selling a TV station a script under his own name. The money is useful in paying off gambling debts, so he takes on three more such clients. Howard is politically pretty innocent, but involvement with Florence - who quits TV in disgust over things - and friendship with the show's ex-star - now himself blacklisted - make him start to think about what is really going on.
In the 50's, in New York City, the screenplay writer Alfred Miller meets his apolitical friend, the cashier of restaurant and smalltime bookmaker Howard Prince and tells him that he can not work anymore since he is blacklisted. Prince offers to sell his scripts to the producer of a TV station using his own name and Alfred offers a 10% commission to Prince. Prince uses the money to pay his debts and improve his life and soon he offers his name to two other blacklisted writers. Meanwhile he dates the TV screenplay editor Florence Barrett. When the veteran actor Hecky Brown is blacklisted and fired by the producer Phil Sussman, the idealistic Florence quits her job. But when Hecky Brown commits suicide, Prince takes a stand against the unjust system.
It's the 1950s New York. The livelihood of successful television writer Alfred Miller is threatened when he is blacklisted, there no official recourse as the blacklist does not officially exist despite the very real consequences of those in power not hiring those on the blacklist. Such is the case with the producer of Alfred's show, Phil Sussman, who is unwilling to make waves against the network or the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) by retaining Communists or suspected Communists like Alfred. To get around the problem, Alfred, knowing that he cannot just write under a pseudonym, asks his childhood friend, Howard Prince, to be his front in submitting Alfred's scripts for the show under Howard's name. Howard, who works a low paying job as a tavern night cashier, accepts Alfred's offer for a small but still lucrative percentage as he is deep in debt in his side job as a bookie, and figures it's easy money. Initially, it being easy money does seem to be the case as Sussman and the show's script editor, Florence Barrett, love the scripts and don't seem to suspect anything. In fact, Howard wants Alfred to find more blacklisted writers for who to front, and Florence, despite already being in a relationship, seems to be falling for Howard largely due to the quality of his writing. All these items lead to Howard ending up rich and famous. Things begin to get complicated for Howard when the network, without telling him, wants to find out more about him, he a writer they had never heard of before mysteriously landing on their doorstep with these great scripts. An added complication is when Sussman is forced to fire larger than life lead actor Hecky Brown from the show for suspicions of he being a Communist, Hecky whose sole crime in this matter being in the wrong places at the wrong times in chasing after a girl. When Howard is eventually subpoenaed to testify in front of HUAC, he has to decide how best to handle the situation to protect himself, and to protect people like Alfred who he begins to feel are being persecuted for no good reason.
Woody Allen plays a man of no real talent or strong political convictions who is paid to be a front for a group of black listed writers during the McCarthy period in the United States (early 1950s). There are comedic elements in his attempts to pass off stories he hasn't read as his own, until he comes under the view of the UnAmerican Activities Subcommittee.
Does Hecky himself turn anybody in? I remember he is an alcoholic with a ridiculous excuse for being one, namely that he saw his father drink one shot glass of whiskey every night by gulping it and so grew up thinking there is no way to drink except by gulping, though he consumes more than one glass. (What's your excuse?) And that he is blacklisted---did somebody rat him out in retaliation?
