Going alone into an abandoned, living city, a woman tries to cross a forbidden zone swarming with the Morning Patrol and traps. Meeting one of the last city guards, they attempt recall the past and penetrate the zone together.
A woman is walking alone through an abandoned city. She approaches the forbidden zone and tries to pass through. Everywhere the Morning Patrol and deceptive traps are watching. The city itself is alive but uncontrolled. Computer voices warn non-existing inhabitants to leave the city. The communication system works... cinemas show films... classic faces of a past era flash across TV screens. She is confronted by one of the few survivors guarding the city. They will come close to each other ; they will try to recall the past. Together they unravel their tangled memory - threads of this catastrophe and decide to penetrate the zone together ; They are linked by the bonds of violence and death since no other behaviour is possible in this kind of world. Is there an end? Is there hope and any future since no person that was allowed through ever returned to tell us whether the freedom of the sea exists. The fugitives encounter increasing dangers... A story of love in this unbearable world... what point can it have?
A woman travels alone, through a destroyed and abandoned city. She wants to pass the Forbiden Zone and get to the Sea... Deceptive traps lurk everywhere. The Morning Patrol is guarding and they are on her trail.
Electronic voices warn the nonexistent citizens to desert the city. The communications system is working, theaters are projecting films, and familiar faces of older times fill the television screens...
She is approached by one of the few survivors. Yet he is one of the men who guard this city now. He will help her to get where she wants. That place from where no one has ever returned, to claim that exists. "The Sea"...
Having a fractured memory in common, they will come close to one another.
Together, they will try to recall the past and make some sense out this catastrophe.
A story of love in an unbearable world, surrounded by violence and death...
What point can it have?
