In prison four long-sentence inmates planning an elaborate escape cautiously induct a new inmate to join in their scheme which leads to distrust and uncertainty.
Just as four cell-mates are about to launch their elaborate escape from a tiny cell, a detainee from a cell-block under repair is transferred in. The four all face certain conviction and long sentences. Does the young new jail-mate have the same incentive and if so, can they trust him?
In 1947, in La Santé Prison in Paris, the inmate Claude Gaspard is transferred to the cell of Geo Cassine, Roland Darbant, Manu Borelli and Vossellin a.k.a. Monseigneur. Gaspard befriends the four cell-mates who soon disclose to him that they have long sentences and they have plotted an escape plan from the prison. Gaspard joins the quartet, digging a tunnel through the sewage system. On the day that they are ready to go, Gaspard is called to the warden's office and learns that his wife has dropped her accusation against him. He stays for two hours with the warden and when he returns to the cell, his mates have serious suspicions about what he talked about to the warden.
Four convicts in a French prison share a single cell. As all are incarcerated for serious crimes, including, perhaps, execution, they decide to escape and have collected materials for the purpose. Before they can begin carrying out their carefully prepared plan, another inmate is moved to their cell. What now? They have no choice but to tell him what they intend to do. He becomes an accomplice, and all five begin the laborious and very clever process of digging their way through the concrete floor to access underground tunnels beneath the prison and, eventually, the sewers to which those tunnels are connected.After much work, they find a way out onto the streets of the city, not far from the prison. But they must wait until the next night to effect their escape. During their final day, the newcomer is taken to the warden, who informs him that the charge against him has been dropped and that he will be released very soon, though not on that day. After a two-hour meeting, he is returned to the cell, where he is questioned, his faithfulness to the plot is challenged, he is accused of ratting on his mates, and he finally wins back their trust and gains an apology. What has he done? Can the plot succeed?
