Borka and his band and Mattis's band of robbers are rivals. Birk, his parents and their band live in the wild in Mattisforrest. They move in to Metis-stronghold, which belonged to his ancestors, in an attempt to escape being caught by the king's men. The children have to learn to live in the woods.
Ronya lives happily in her father's castle until she comes across a new playmate, Birk, in the nearby dark forest. The two explore the wilderness, braving dangerous Witchbirds and Rump-Gnomes. But when their families find out Birk and Ronja have been playing together, they forbid them to see each other again. Indeed, their fathers are competing robber chieftains and bitter enemies. Now the two spunky children must try to tear down the barriers that have kept their families apart for so long.
Ronja is born on a stormy night. The daughter of the chief of a band of robbers, Mattis, and his woman Lovis, her life revolves around learning to cope in the beautiful but dangerous wilderness surrounding their home. One day a rival band of robbers, run by Borka, move in a bit too close for comfort. Ronja befriends Borkas son, Birk, as the conflict between the two chiefs escalate. The situation soon becomes unbearable. Ronja and Birk takes to the woods, and must use all their know-how to survive.
High up on a rock, in the middle of a large forest, there is a stronghold. In that stronghold lives a band of robbers, who robs the innocent people who travels through the forest. Mattis is their leader. One night there is a terrible thunderstorm. A great lightning strikes the rock and makes a wide crack which divides the rock and the stronghold into two. The same, during the thunderstorm, two children are born. One is a girl - the daughter of Mattis and the other is a boy - the son of Borka. Borka now becomes the leader of the other part of the stronghold. From that day, there are two bands and they are the worst of enemies. It looks like nothing can bring them together again. But there are two things that can overcome all obstacles - love and friendship. The two children grow older, older each in their part of the strong- hold, till one day, they are old enough to go out in the forest on their own and take care of themselves, like the band's children have done in all times. And that will not be easy. There are many strange and dangerous creatures in the forest but also fantastic adventures... and friends.

