Young Pauline is left a lot of money when her wealthy uncle dies. However, her uncle's secretary has been named as her guardian until she marries, at which time she will officially take possession of her inheritance. Meanwhile, her "guardian" and his confederates constantly come up with schemes to get rid of Pauline so that he can get his hands on the money himself.
(First Episode) Stanford Marvin, a rich retired manufacturer, has a son Harry, and also an adopted daughter Pauline. Harry is in love with Pauline and Pauline likes Harry very, very much. Old Mr. Marvin, who feels his health failing, asks Pauline to marry Harry at once, so that he may see them happy and see her provided for in case anything should happen to him. Pauline, although admitting that she loves Harry, says that she will not marry him for a year or two at least, until she has satisfied her ambition to become a great writer. She proves that she has some talent by showing Harry and his father a story written by herself, which as appeared in one of the magazines. Mr. Marvin recognizes her talent and agrees to send her on a year's trip around the world, in order that she may see life and be able to write better. Mr. Marvin has had a hobby for collecting antiques, and among his other treasures is a mummy. Just after his decision to give Pauline her trip, he is sitting in the library when he is attacked by one of his fainting spells. While in a semi-unconscious state, the mummy steps down from her case and addresses him. This causes an attack of heart failure, resulting in his death. His will, when read, leaves one half of his fortune to his son, and the other half to his adopted daughter Pauline, with the provision that in case of her death before she marries Harry her share will go to his secretary, Owen. Owen is a villain at heart and plots to secure Pauline's fortune for himself. How these plots are laid, how they are carried out and Harry's share in protecting Pauline is shown on the screen in the different episodes of the story. Owen is a very remarkable villain and leads Pauline into a series of the most thrilling adventures. Harry, as Pauline's self-appointed protector, is kept a very busy man.(Second Episode) Hicks, the tough man, and Owen, the secretary, try to find some way in which to cause Pauline's permanent injury or death. While they are talking, Hicks notices in the paper the announcement of an aviation meet in which some of the aviators will carry passengers. Immediately he gets an idea and proposes to Owen that he persuade Pauline to try an airship flight at the race. Owen persuades Pauline in spite of Harry's protests to undertake the adventures and after having made arrangements with one of the operators, Owen sneaks into the hangar and tampers with the machine in such a way that an accident is assured. On the morning of the race Harry tries in every way to persuade Pauline not to go and, finding it useless, puts the big touring car out of business so that it will be necessary for Pauline to ride with him in his runabout. Before starting, he punches a hole in the gasoline tank and when only about half way to the meet they are stalled. Owen, having reached the field, is very much annoyed at the delay and finally hires an automobile to go out and meet Pauline and Harry. He discovers them on the road and taking Pauline into his car he hurries her to the field. They, however, do not arrive in time as the aviator with whom they have made arrangements has already started. The pictures here show the airship coming towards the finish line when suddenly it crumples up and falls to the ground. Harry, who has arrived at the field and has discovered that all of the operators took up passengers with them and that one took up a lady, is in terror, especially when some of the spectators tell him that the machine to which the accident has just happened is in the one carrying the lady. He, however, soon discovers Pauline in the crowd and learns that they did not arrive in time.(Third Episode) Owen is bitterly disappointed at his failure to injure Pauline in the airship accident, plotting with Hicks, in whose power he is. They decide that they must lure Pauline away from her home or from the influence of Harry, if they are to be successful with their plans. They finally locate an old sailor who agrees to tell Pauline a history of his life. They persuade Pauline to listen to this, and the old sailor tells the most blood-curdling stories of his life on a piratical treasure-laden ship on which he sailed as a boy. The pirate leads Pauline to believe that the ship was wrecked, but that he escaped ashore with the treasure and buried it on an uninhabited island. Fearing to tell his rescuers of the treasure, it is laying buried all these years. Pauline falls for the story and agrees to fit out an expedition to help the old sailor to recover the treasure. Harry tries to persuade her not to take the trip, stating that he distrusts Owen. Pauline, however, having perfect confidence in Owen, defends him and the two lovers have a serious quarrel, which results in Pauline refusing Harry to accompany her. Harry, however, disguises himself as an old man and on board the liner in the presence of the three conspirators, warns her to have nothing to do with them. They do not suspect his identity, but fearing that his influence may persuade Pauline not to carry out her purpose, they decide to do away with the old man. They do not succeed, but their efforts afford a very spectacular dramatic episode.(Fourth Episode) We see the travelers preparing to go on the last stage of their journey to the Treasure Island. They engage a cook for the yacht and after having received Pauline's approval of the cook, we see them evidently persuading the cook to put poison in her food. The old pirate, however, being of a rather excitable nature, has a quarrel with the cook and uses such arguments, that the cook quits on the spot. Harry, who is suspicious, disguises himself as a cook and is taken along to provide for the "inner man." His cooking is not a brilliant success, and the old pirate disapproves so strongly that Harry is in great danger. He however, is saved by Pauline's intervention. Later, when he thinks he is alone, he removes his disguise, but Owen sees him without it. Owen immediately hunts up his fellow conspirators and they decide to kill two birds with one stone, and double their winnings. They plant a bomb in the yacht and row away, leaving Pauline and Harry to their fate. Harry, however, accidentally discovers the infernal machine, and he and Pauline jump overboard before the explosion occurs. We see the yacht sailing on, when suddenly it blows up - very spectacular. Pauline and Harry are rescued by a passing liner, and later the three conspirators are picked up. They, of course, think that their plot has been successful, but suddenly they see Harry and Pauline on the deck of the vessel. Owen and Hicks cannot afford to have any suspicion cast upon them, so they bribe the old sailor to take the whole blame and he, upon being discovered by Harry and Pauline, jumps overboard. Harry accuses Owen, but Owen tells him the very plausible story that the old pirate had done the trick to get even with the cook, and that they had not discovered it until after Pauline and Harry had escaped, when they seized the old pirate and had intended handing him over to justice. Harry, of course, does not believe him, but Pauline does, and this lays the way for the villains to continue their plotting.(Fifth Episode) Harry has been trying to get Pauline to consent to marry him at once, but on one excuse or another, she has always put him off. Believing that a little jealousy will help, Harry starts a flirtation with Miss Sampson, one of Pauline's girl friends. This arouses Pauline's jealousy and making her so cross that she goes to a large reception alone, although both she and Harry had been invited. Here she meets Signor Baskinelli, a noted pianist. Signor Baskinelli is much attracted by Pauline's charms, and in his violent Italian way makes love to her. She, however, repulses him. Owen and Hicks see the by-play and propose to Signor Baskinelli that he run off with Pauline. They make arrangements with some tough characters, and then Signor Baskinelli invites the party for a trip through Chinatown. On this trip, they so manipulate things that Pauline is detained in a Joss House. As she comes out, the tough characters attempt to seize her, but Harry hears her screams and rushes back and puts them to rout. Pauline flees while Harry is fighting, and is seized by some Chinamen. She is tied up and placed in detention. Harry misses her and in his search of the Joss House, discovers her place of detention. He demands her release, but it is only after a great struggle with the Chinese inmates that he has any success whatever.(Sixth Episode) The last attempt to secure Pauline's fortune having failed, the two villains are desperate. Harry is exerting all his influence to have Pauline marry him at once and they see their opportunities slipping fast. When looking around they see that there is going to be a balloon ascension and they decide to get Pauline to the grounds, trusting to be able to do something there to cause an accident. Pauline, much to the chagrin of the conspirators, asks Harry to go along. When they arrive, the balloon is about to go up. Harry unconsciously helps them by asking Pauline to see what sitting in a balloon basket feels like. Just as she enters the basket a wild horse runs away and in dashing through the crowd knocks over the men who are holding the ropes. Pauline is carried up alone in the balloon. She is carried up some distance and then the anchor catches in some rocks. There is only one way down. She is forced to slide down the rope. Harry has been following the course of the balloon in his car and arrives in time to see Pauline land on a ledge about halfway down the cliff. The sides of the cliff are so steep that there is no way either up or down. He gets a rope and proceeds to slide down to her. Just then the conspirators arrive on the scene and cut the rope. Both Harry and Pauline are caught in the trap. A good idea comes to Harry and he climbs up the rope to the balloon and pulls the cutting rope. The balloon falls and they have a rope to the ground. Hicks and Owen, however, are on the job and as they land they are attacked. Harry is knocked senseless and Pauline is carried away and locked up in an old house. She at last is in the power of the two people interested in her disappearance and Harry has been left unconscious far behind.(Seventh Episode) Having left Harry on the road for dead, and having Pauline in his power, Hicks takes her to an old house and locks her up. As he leaves the room he lights a cigarette and carelessly throws the match away. It lights in some straw and sets the house on fire. Hicks starts to put the fire out, but gets an idea and walks out, leaving Pauline to her fate. Harry has revived and tries to follow the trail taken by Hicks. He meets an old farmer who has seen an automobile pass that looks suspicious. Harry borrows one of the farmer's horses and follows. In the meantime, Owen has notified the police that Pauline is missing. One of the newspapers hears and sends a reporter to get the story. He meets Harry and joins him in the search. They are attracted to the burning building and hear Pauline's cries for help. Breaking down the door, they rescue her just in the nick of time. The reporter has a big story and does it full justice in the papers the next day. The publicity is very annoying for Pauline and Harry, so she decides to go away for a time. She sends a telegram to her uncle in Montana that she is coming to visit him. Harry telephones the message to the telegraph company and is overheard by Owen, who at once arranges with Hicks to go to Montana. Pauline's uncle arranges some real Western life for her in the shape of a fake holdup by some of his cowboys. Hicks also arranges with some bad men to hold up Pauline on her way from the station. The Hicks holdup is successful, as the uncle thinks that it is his own prearranged joke. By the time he realizes his mistake the party, with Pauline, is far away and Harry is not at hand this time to go to her assistance.(Eighth Episode) Satisfied that their plan to cause the disappearance of Pauline would this time be successful, Hicks and his associates ride away. Mrs. Haines decides to notify Harry of Pauline's disappearance. A curious mental message seems to warn Harry that Pauline is in danger, and he prepares to leave for the West. As he is making his preparations he receives the wire from Mrs. Haines. He leaves at once. At the big powwow of the Sioux Indians, the medicine man prophesizes that a great white goddess will come to the Sioux from the ground and will help them to throw off the yoke of the white man. The tribe are very much excited and start out on a hunt to secure the provisions to entertain the expectant guest. One of the Indians chases a coyote over the hills and is very much surprised to see Pauline rise in front of him apparently from the solid ground. Pauline had discovered a way out. He takes her to the camp and she is proclaimed the goddess of the prophesy. They try to induce her to lead them in a war on the white settlement, but she refuses. Disgusted they tell her she will undergo the trial by Oracle. This consists of placing her in a trench from which there is no escape and rolling down on her a huge boulder. If she is not hurt then she must indeed be what they think her. Harry, in the meantime, as arrived at the ranch and on learning the truth and has set out to do what he can to find Pauline. There is one half-breed in the Indian encampment who has become very much attached to Pauline and he sets out to tell the settlers the peril that she is in. He meets with an accident, however, and is unable to carry out his intention. Harry in scouring the country finds him and gets the message. He rides as fast as he can to the place where the half-breed tells him the trial is to take place. He arrives just as the boulder is started on its death-dealing trip. There is no time to get Pauline out of the trench, and to jump in himself means sure death. There seems to be no help within miles. Harry has been resourceful in the past, but this seems almost too much. He finally - but this would be telling tales out of school. The pictures shown here will show you just what he did and the terrible danger both he and Pauline encountered.(Ninth Episode) Rescued from the savage Indians, Pauline promises Harry to be good and not get mixed up in any more adventures. But she finds it impossible to long endure the quiet life at the ranch, and as a harmless experiment they all agree to let her take part in moving pictures. She goes to Pathé Frères, finds Chief Director Gasnier and is taken along on a trip to Devil's Island as one of the angels in a production of "Paradise Lost." Business affairs keep Harry back temporarily and Owen, who has booked himself as one of the "lost souls," leaves Hicks behind to hold Harry on the main land. At last when Harry is ready to go he finds that the regular steamer has sailed. He gets a fast motor boat but the owner has been bribed by Hicks, and he maroons Harry on a desert island. On Devil's Island the production of "Paradise Lost" has started and a young dissolute player named Booth has become enamored of Pauline. Owen sees an opportunity and bribes him to carry her away. Pauline is nearly distracted. In the nick of time to prevent this scoundrelly abduction Harry scrambles up on the shore from an improvised raft on which he has made the trip from the island on which he was marooned. Rushing up he knocks Booth out. Pauline flees away to the shore, sees a hydro-aeroplane, speaks to the pilot who agrees to take her to the main land. They have barely started however, when the pilot lights a cigarette. The match he carelessly tosses away, lights on one of the wings and in a few moments the machine is in flames. Coward that he is, he grabs the only parachute and leaves Pauline to her fate. Quite equal to her emergency however, Pauline rights the plane and lands in safety, fully determined to take no further part in such foolish experiences. She has not reckoned, however, upon the villainous plans which Owen and Hicks are perfecting for her destruction.(Tenth Episode) Pauline has been through so many hairbreadth escapes which the villainous Owen and the henchman, Hicks, have arranged for her in the hope that she would meet with an untimely end that Harry has at last rebelled against his position as protector. He claims that he should be allowed to arrange all future escapades. Pauline consents to this and Harry plans something of his own that entails no danger. But he calculates without the villains. Owen hears his plans and makes arrangements to do the same thing, but with men of his own who will not be so careful as the ones Harry has made the arrangements with. Harry's plan has been to take Pauline with him to see the work of some smugglers. He has cooked the plan up with some of his friends to show Pauline something that will be near enough to the real thing to impress her. However, Owen overhears the plan and immediately gets in touch with Hicks, who goes to the wharves and picks up some of the hangers-on. He pays them well and drills them in their parts. They come to the house and ask for Pauline. The butler refuses them entrance, but Owen carries the message to Pauline, who thinks they are the men sent by Harry. In spite of the apparent protests of Owen, Pauline insists on going away with them. They take her to a lonely deserted inn off the coast and lock her up. She discovers a telephone on the wall and, having become suspicious of their intentions, tries to phone Harry. She only gets the message started when her guard discovers her and tears the phone out. The men become alarmed and take her away to another place. Harry has heard enough to give him an idea of the location of her place of detention and starts to get her. When he arrives he finds that she has been removed. The pirates have left a trail, which he follows. He loses it but meets a boy who has seen them pass and with fresh information he locates her prison. The men have taken her to an old lighthouse some distance from the shore and have rowed away. Harry and the boy rush to the life-saving station but find that the lifeboat crew have gone out on a call, taking their boat with them. They discover a rocket gun and breeches buoy, which they take to the top of the cliffs. Loading the gun, Harry shoots a line to the lighthouse and passes Pauline a cable and the life buoy. She starts to come ashore but is seen by the pirates, who give pursuit. Harry sees that they will overtake Pauline before he can pull her ashore, so he loads the gun again and, taking a desperate chance, fires at their boat. His aim is true and the sinking of the boat enables Pauline to get safely ashore.(Eleventh Episode) Owen, Pauline's rascally guardian, is growing desperate as the tie of his guardianship passes, and is ready to resort to desperate measures and take great risks to secure Pauline's fortune. Although he has been ready with an alibi in each accident to Pauline, Harry has grown very suspicious and has decided that he will bear watching. Pauline receives an invitation from one of her girlfriends to a wedding. A personal note accompanying the invitation mentions the fact that in order to make the wedding conspicuous arrangements have been made with a lion trainer to perform with some of his trained lions. Pauline accepts the invitation. A little later Owen enters the library and reads the letter. Harry sees him read the letter and decides to have him watched. Owen immediately proceeds to the animal camp and makes arrangements with the trainer to accidentally allow a couple of the lions escape when Pauline is standing near the cage. Harry, who has been following from a distance, sees Owen make these arrangements and decides to prevent Pauline from attending the wedding. He fixes it up with his chauffeur so that the automobile will break down and then arranges with the chauffeur to fake a telephone message to him from the office calling him away on important business. Owen overhears the chauffeur's telephone message and tells Pauline, who is furious, not understanding Harry's reasons. Earlier in the day Harry had been approached by a man who asked for a job, and needing a gardener, Harry had given him the position and had taken Pauline to introduce her to the new gardener. In this man Pauline recognizes a racing automobile driver whose photograph she had seen in the magazine in connection with an account of an accident in which he had been severely hurt, causing the loss of his memory. After the chauffeur had telephoned Pauline that the car had broken down and it would be impossible to use it that evening, Pauline goes to the gardener and asks him to drive her to the wedding. He disclaims all knowledge of an automobile, but Pauline persuades him to get into the driver's seat. The feel of the driving wheel and the hum of the motor evidently brings back some realization of the past, and he starts with her for the wedding. Pauline being late urges him to drive faster, and finally he evidently imagines that he is again driving in a race. The speed at which he drives alarms Pauline and when he will not slow down at her request she foolishly seizes the driving wheel. This causes him to lose control of the car, and leaving the road it plunges down an embankment, throwing both of them out and severely injuring them. Harry on his way home from the office, satisfied that his plans have been successful, recognizes in an automobile which passes him at great speed his gardener and Pauline. He follows them, see the accident, and arrives in time to take have them both taken to the hospital.(Twelfth Episode) Pauline is very angry with Harry because he has prevented her from attending the McCallum wedding and blames him for causing her recent automobile accident. Harry, however, shows an account of what happened at the wedding where the lion tamer, true to his promise to Owen, let the lions escape, endangering the guests. Pauline realizes that Harry has acted for the best and becomes reconciled. Owen not being satisfied with the activities of his friend Hicks and having discovered in the person of the leader of a band of gypsies a man who is as daring as he is unscrupulous, decides to use this man to carry out his plans. He goes to the gypsy camp and makes arrangement with the leader to carry Pauline off and do away with her. The chief uses one of the old women to lure Pauline away. This old woman under the guise of selling Pauline some of the famous beauty cure or of telling her fortune get her to a place where some of the band are in hiding. The band capture Pauline and take her to their camp. There the gypsy leader refuses to do away with her as he is much taken with her charms and wants her for himself. This arouses the jealousy of one of the young women of the band to whom the lead had paid of great deal of attention. She goes to the house and tells Harry where Pauline is. Harry sets out to get her. He arrives at the camp but on attacking the leader is set upon by the whole band and the young woman as well who has suddenly changed her mind on seeing the leader in danger. Harry has the fight of his life on his hands but finally manages to get into a position from which he can force the gypsies to give up Pauline.(Thirteenth Episode) Three separate times in this episode has Pauline a narrow escape from death through the machinations of Owen. Someone sends the girl a magnificent basket of flowers and she is about to plunge her face into them to inhale their odor, when Harry see a movement in the basket and strikes it from her hand just in time to save her from being bitten by an angry rattlesnake. The very next day Pauline buys a race horse and is persuaded by Owen to ride it in a steeplechase. Owen drugs the horse - it falls while flying along in the race and Pauline has another miraculous escape. When she has recovered from the shock, she and Harry leave for a house party at the McCallans in the Adirondacks. Owen orders the gypsy chief to follow them. Pauline and Harry are individually enticed away from the rest of the party and are set upon by the gypsies and made prisoners. The band decides to kill the captives, but Harry breaks away from them, helps Pauline free herself and then in the confusion they escape. Hotly pursued by the gypsies they find themselves on a big cliff over a lake and all paths cut off by their pursuers. They make a thrilling jump of some seventy-five feet from the cliff into the water, swim to shore and are safe.(Fourteenth Episode) Owen hires Balthazar, the gypsy chief, to set fire to the Marvin factory. He makes plans to have the rest of the gypsies capture Harry and Pauline when they come to the fire. Harry and Pauline are seized by men in the disguise of firemen and taken to a ruined mill. Here they are tied and put in a cellar. Meanwhile the fire rages and threatens the destruction of the town. Harry manages to loosen his bonds and frees Pauline just in time, for the gypsies have blown up the mill face and the water rages into the cellar. Soon the prisoners are in the water while around them swarm countless frenzied rats. Harry remembers seeing an old fireplace in the cellar and tells Pauline they must take a desperate change. They swim under water to the fireplace, rise up inside of it and climb the chimney to safety. Harry discovers a telegraph wire which leads across the river which flows beside the mill. Taking Pauline upon his back, he starts to cross. The gypsies discover them. Balthazar fires his revolver at them. The bullet cuts the wire, precipitating the fugitives into the water below. Harry retains his hold on the wire and pulls Pauline and himself to the opposite shore to safety. Drenched and exhausted, the two return to their home, where Owen, thinking they have been put out of the way and that he sees their ghosts, rushes from the room in terror.(Fifteenth Episode) Determined to posses the Marvin fortune, Owen realizes it will be necessary to remove Harry from his path. This will leave only Pauline to contend with. Owen and Balthazar hatch a new plot. Pauline has purchased a new racing car and entered it in a coming race. Harry is thunder-struck when she announces she intends driving it. Owen gives her every encouragement. Owen and Balthazar engage the services of Ferrari, a low character to force Harry into a duel. The next day Ferrari encounters Pauline and Harry near the Marvin estate and insults Pauline. Harry knocks him down, which is really the result Ferrari looked for. He gives Harry his card, which is promptly torn in two. Ferrari mocks him into accepting his challenge. Receiving a note from Ferrari, Harry explains its import to Pauline, who is pleased at the prospect of witnessing a duel. Harry tells her he has no intention of really fighting, but Pauline points out to him that he should fight the bully. Harry agrees if Pauline will allow him to drive her car instead of doing so herself. Pauline consents, then accompanies Harry to where the duel is to be fought. They find Ferrari and his second, who approaches with the rapiers. Harry chooses the sword that extends nearer to him. Ferrari seems pleased with the choice. The duel begins and Harry takes the offensive, engaging his opponent fiercely, and maintains a furious attack. He disarms his adversary. Ferrari stoops to get his rapier; Harry picks it up, tossing his own sword at Ferrari's feet. Ferrari is stricken with fear for the sword he now holds was poisoned, in the hopes Harry would receive his death thereby. At a prearranged signal, Ferrari's henchmen rush in to seize Pauline and Harry. Pauline picks up the poisoned sword and goes to Harry's assistance. They battle against the odds, but finally manage to escape. Owen is foiled once more, but his resources seem exhaustless. Once more he calls Balthazar to do his nefarious work. This time he hopes to destroy the pair. Knowing Pauline will accompany Harry in the race as his mechanic, Owen and Balthazar induce Ferrari to enter the race and collide with them. Balthazar sprinkles the road with pieces of metal, expecting to cause a blow-out of Harry's tires, which will give Ferrari the opportunity to collide. Fortunately, Harry's machine runs off the track, but Ferrari's car swiftly following, runs in the midst of the metal pieces, puncturing all his tires. With a terrible lurch, his machine turns turtle, pinning Ferrari and his mechanic under the ruins. The crowd rushes to their rescue, but Ferrari has paid for his misdeeds and lies lifeless on the road. Balthazar, pursued by the maddened crowd, makes his escape. Pauline and her lover are spared from the evil scheming of Owen.(Sixteenth Episode) Raymond Owen still covets the Marvin fortune and still seeks the "Open Sesame" to the vast estate. Many times has he attempted to eliminate Pauline and her lover, Harry. As many times have his schemes been frustrated. To assist Owen to do away with Pauline and acquire her fortune, Balthazar secures a position with "Professor Laroux", a scientist. Laroux has just discovered the germ of a particular disease, one of which the patient is possessed with a mad desire to submerge himself in water. Soon after, Balthazar steals a test tube containing the germ culture and turns it over to Owen. Seeing a box a chocolates on the veranda table, Owen secretly injects some of the germ culture therein. Offering them to Pauline, he is much pleased when she eats liberally of them. Owen manages to upset the remainder on the lawn, one of which is quickly devoured by the Marvin's dog, which soon after leaps into a lake and drowns. Harry, who has gone to his camp in the mountains, telephones to Pauline asking her to form a party and join him. Pauline immediately prepares to do so. With her friend Lucille, she sets forth in her auto. Owen and Balthazar decide to engage themselves of Savalli, a dope fiend and disbarred physician. They tell him that Pauline is on her way to the mountains and explain the germ episode to him, advising him that she is likely to become ill on the way. Owen tells Savalli to follow Pauline and hints that he is to see that she does not recover. When Pauline arrives at the camp she is already in the grip of the terrible malady. Discovering water on the table, she eagerly pours out a glassful and gulps it down. Then, filling the glass once more, she empties its contents over her hands and arms. Harry notices her apparent nervousness and agitation and becomes alarmed. Taking up the telephone, he attempts to call a doctor, but is unable to connect. Owen has cut the wires. The secretary has come into the lodge and simulates surprise when told of Pauline's attack. He offers to go for a physician on his motorcycle. Instead he meets Savelli and gives him his cue. Savelli, introduced by Owen, examines Pauline and diagnoses her case as acute appendicitis. He advises an immediate operation. This Harry will not permit, which decision Savelli indignantly protests. Harry tells him that he is going to go for Laroux, the scientist, but Savelli threatens to operate in his absence. Thoroughly aroused, Harry drives Savelli into the cellar at the point of a gun. He also compels Owen and Paul to join Savelli, as they side against him. Leaping into Savelli's buggy, Harry furiously drives away. Quickly explaining the urgent task to Laroux, Harry induces the scientist to accompany him back. Meanwhile Pauline, in her agony, stumbles out of the lodge. Balthazar, discovering the plight of the three prisoners, liberates them. Noting Pauline's absence, Harry demands to know her whereabouts. Getting no satisfactory explanation, Harry and Laroux commence a search. Laroux discovers the test tube dropped by Savelli, and recognizes it. Suspecting that Pauline is a victim of the dread germ, he orders a search by the nearby river. Harry, mounting Owen's motorcycle, is first to reach it and sees Pauline in midstream in a canoe leaning over the sides into the water. He is horrified to see the canoe tip and precipitate Pauline into the river. Without slackening speed he dashes out on the pier on the motorcycle and plunges headlong into the stream. With swift strokes he swims to Pauline and Laroux administers an antidote to Pauline who soon responds to his treatment. Owen, whose evil schemes have failed again, vows that he will yet be master of the Marvin's millions.(Seventeenth Episode) Completely restored after her last harrowing experiences, Pauline idles the moments away in harmless pastimes. Much of time is given to a small bull terrier which was given to her by her friend, Lucille. Her very evident affections for the small brute is looked upon with disfavor by her lover, Harry, who jealously begrudges each caress bestowed by her. The presence of the dog gives Owen, the scheming secretary, an idea which he speedily starts to put into execution. Meeting his fellow conspirator, Balthazar, he arranges with him to steal the dog and entice Pauline away from the Marvin house by getting her to call for the dog later. Then he would capture his ward and remove her from his path and then gain control of the Marvin estate. Balthazar manages to steal the dog, which is taken to a supposedly vacant house in the suburbs. In reality, the house is occupied by a notorious gang of counterfeiters who are on friendly terms with Balthazar. He explains his mission and is promised co-operation by them. An old hag, a member of the gang, is later induced by Owen, who is presented to the counterfeiters by his henchman, to write to Pauline advising her that she is in possession of the "lost" dog which was advertised for in the papers. Pauline immediately sets out in her racing car to claim her pet, but is plainly perturbed to note that the address given is that of an old deserted house. Overcoming her fears, however, she rings the bell, which is answered by the old hag. Bidding Pauline to follow, she leads the way into the house. She approaches a wall and knocks with a secret signal. A panel opens and the two women pass through. Stepping into a room, Pauline see her dog and eagerly starts toward it. She is seized by the counterfeiters. During the struggle that follows, the dog makes a dash from the room and escapes. Some time later Harry is surprised to see the dog running toward him trailing a broken piece of rope. Picking up the rope, Harry is led away by the dog in the direction from whence he came. Suspecting foul play, Harry allows the dog to lead him and finally reaches the old house in front of which he sees Pauline's racer. Making his way into the basement, the dog scratches on the panel which leads to the room where Pauline is held captive. Harry hears the approach of the counterfeiters' distributing agents and hides. He sees them give the secret signal and pass in. Waiting a moment, he also gives the signal and passes through the panel which he fastens with a chunk of wood. As soon as Harry is seen, the gang makes a rush for him. Shouting to Pauline to rush out, Harry quickly avoids the gang and, followed by the dog, they dash out to the racing machine in which they make their escape. The gang gives chase in the agent's touring car. Owing to a punctured tire, Harry and Pauline desert their machine and take refuge in a contractor's shack nearby. The gang attempts to follow, but Harry stands them off with a rifle which he finds in the shack. Balthazar discovers some powder bombs left by the contractor and determines to blow up the shack. He sneaks toward the shack and lights the fuse. Attracted by the sputtering, the dog grabs it and dashes away, trailing the bomb after him. Coming to a bridge, the dog leaps down into the water, extinguishing the fuse. He then swims to shore where he is found by a party of campers. They discover the bomb and wonder at it being in the dog's possession. Following his lead, they arrive at the shack just in time to save Harry and Pauline from the attack of the counterfeiters, who had already succeeded in smashing down the door. A furious struggle follows, but the youthful campers soon have the counterfeiters hors de combat. Balthazar, however, has managed to escape and carries the news of his latest failure to Owen, his villainous employer.(Eighteenth Episode) Ensign Summers, the commander of a submarine, and the inventor of a new torpedo, meeting Harry and his fiancée Pauline, invites them to luncheon to meet his friend, Mlle. de Longeon. Owen, the wily secretary who is scheming to secure the Marvin fortune, is included in the invitation. The next day, Mlle. de Longeon is presented to the Marvin party. She is an international spy, but is unsuspected by Summers, who is in love with her. Learning from Summers that his torpedo is to be completed in two days' time, she slyly writes a note containing the information and slips it to Hako, the Japanese servant, who is also employed as the naval officer's valet. During the luncheon, Mlle. de Longeon learns of Owen's hatred for the lovers and decides to enlist his aid. She invites him to call, which he does the next night. She advises him that she has a plan for Pauline's demise, which Owen heartily accepts. Hako has meanwhile reported to Namashaka, his superior. He is instructed to secure the plans of Summers' torpedo after which he must place a bomb in the submarine to destroy the original torpedo. It is planned to do this while Summers is on board. This means that Hako must also die, but the fanatical patriot is willing to perish for Nippon. At the naval ball that night, Mlle de Longeon catches a signal from Namashaka and meets him in a secluded spot in the conservatory. Pauline, standing in the seclusion of some palms, hears the plotters talking and realizes from their conversation that some deviltry is afoot. Meeting Summers later, she asks him to take her down in the submarine the next day. He agrees. The next day Hako discovers Summers' plans and mails them to Mlle. de Longeon. He then hastens to the navy yard where the submarine is moored. Summers gives the order to sail, but Hako manages to get aboard. He gives Summers a letter from Mlle. de Longeon and sneaks below while it is being read. Hako places the bomb in the pump room and hearing sailors approach, hides. The submarine is now well out in the harbor. Harry, having no faith in the submarine, follows in his motor boat. Summers orders the sinking of the submarine, and soon Harry has only his periscope to guide him. Hardly had the submarine sunk, when a terrific explosion is heard. All hands rush to the pump room where it is found that the explosion has disabled the pumps thereby preventing the raising of the boat. After a search, Hako is discovered and defiantly confesses his deed. Summers realizes that they are all doomed to die. He tells Pauline that the only way to reach the surface is through the torpedo tube. She decides to risk it and crawls into the tube. Pauline wriggles out of the tube and shoots up to the surface where she is rescued by Harry, to whom she explains everything. They report the affair to the commander of the navy yard and immediate preparations are made to raise the helpless vessel. As soon as it is located, divers are sent below to place chains about the submarine, which is raised to the surface and the exhausted sailors revived. Having learned through Hako that the plans are in Mlle. de Longeon's hands, they hasten to her hotel after they recover them after a fierce struggle. They then return to the navy yard where the papers are returned to their rightful owner, who overwhelms them with his gratitude.(Nineteenth Episode) The villainous Owen, ever striving to secure possession of his ward, Pauline, is not discouraged by the numerous times his plans have been foiled by the courage and enterprise of his intended victim and her fiancé, Harry, disgusted with the lack of success which has attended the efforts of his accomplice, the gypsy Balthazar, lets him go and enlists the aid of a villainous cut-throat who masquerades under the name of "doctor" Louis Wrents. Unconsciously aiding Owen in his new plans Harry is called out of town upon business thus leaving Pauline without the aid of his advice. Owen has printed up some letterheads giving the name of a fake publishing house in Philadelphia. He then typewrites upon one of these a letter to her, stating over the signature that they have seen in the Cosmopolitan magazine her marine story and believe her to be just the person to write a new serial story they have in mind. The letter requests her to call upon them at the earliest opportunity. Pauline is completely taken in by their offer, and at once leaves for Philadelphia. On the same train go Wrents and his accomplices, men of his own stripe. Arriving in Philadelphia that night Pauline goes to a hotel and is assigned to room 95. Wrents arrives shortly afterwards and requests the room next to her -- 94. He has sent to his room a large wardrobe trunk which he has brought with him. The same day Pauline leaves the hotel to look up the publishers and Wrents and his men take advantage of her absence to change the numbers on the floor. Failing to find the publishers, Pauline returns to her room and is determined to return to her house. Deceived by the room numbers on the doors, she enters Wrents' room and is at once captured, gagged and bound, and then placed in the trunk and locked in. A few moments later Wrents leaves for his room and has his trunk sent out the back way to where an auto is waiting. Placing the trunk in the auto, the whole gang is whisked out of the city and into the country. It so happens that all this time a cage containing a huge gorilla is being unloaded from a circus car on a railroad siding a few miles out, and in the unloading falls and is broken open. The gorilla escapes from his prison, and when the men try and recapture him kills one of them and rushes to freedom. Wrents, when in the country, frees Pauline from the trunk and drives his car at such a furious pace that he soon finds himself pursued by two motorcycle policemen. Finding them gaining on him, he turns the car loose at the highest speed of which it is capable. Going around a curve on two wheels, the car skids and is overturned. Out of the dust and confusion, only two persons live to rise and extricate themselves from the wreckage - Pauline and Wrents. Shouting that Wrents still feebly pursues her, Pauline runs from him and seeing an empty freight car standing on a railroad siding nearby enters it to hide. To her horror she finds that she has escaped from one danger only to run into a worse. The huge form of the escaped gorilla looms up in the semi-darkness of the car. The great beast seizes her in his powerful arms and drags her away. In the meantime the motorcycle policeman have reached the wreck and having seen two persons leave it, separate and hasten off in pursuit of them. The gorilla and his fainting burden are spied by one of them and bravely the policeman rushes to the girl's assistance. The gorilla is cornered at the edge of a rocky precipice and a furious fight ensues, which ends in the gorilla being severely wounded by numerous revolver shots fired by the policeman and plunging to his death far below. Pauline bends over her heroic rescuer, and finds to her delight that though badly injured he will live. Thus again she triumphs over her enemies.(Twentieth Episode) Having seen the futility of his plans, the wreck of one villainous scheme after another, and his utter failure to secure the result he is looking for through the aid of various unscrupulous machinations, Owen finally decides to get rid of Pauline by his own efforts. While the three are taking a pleasure trip on the Marvin yacht, Pauline begs Harry to teach her to run the motorboat which is taken along as a tender. He consents and before long the girl considers herself competent to run the boat unattended. It happens that at this time the U.S. Naval Department purchases an old barge to be used as a target in gun practices. This barge is towed out to sea and then anchored barely out of sight of the Marvin yacht. That night Pauline, very proud of her newly acquired knowledge of running a motorboat, determines to take a trip in it on the morrow by herself. Harry protests against her folly, but as usual she insists upon having her own way. Owen overhears her conversation and determines to profit by it. Favored by the darkness, he gets into the motor boat and bores a hole in the bottom which he partially stops up with cotton waste in order to make a slow leak. But Nemesis, in the person of a old sailor, is at hand. Owen's actions are seen by this man, who then visits the motorboat and learns what has been done to it. But for the time being he holds his peace. The next morning Pauline, with her dog under her arm, starts off on her motorboat trip. Harry protests to the last, but is laughed down by Pauline who chugs away triumphant in the boat. As Harry turns away in anger the sailor steps up to Owen and leads him aside and then asks him why he scuttled the boat the night before. Owen, in terror at the knowledge of his guilt bribes him to be silent. An hour later Pauline discovers the leak and tries in vain to stop it. The water comes in faster and faster and before long the girl sees that she must make a landing very soon, or drown. Spying the old barge, she drives her waterlogged boat to it at top speed and reaches it just in time. Carrying her dog with her, she clambers up the forechain and makes herself as comfortable in the cabin as she can. But she is saved from one danger only to be plunged into another. Suddenly a shell passes through the cabin with terrific noise. The battleship is firing at its target and Pauline is caught like a rat in a trap. Another shell hits the vessel and then another. Conscious that it can only be a few minutes before the boat will be utterly destroyed, Pauline hastily writes a note on a scrap of paper telling of her peril, tying it to her dog's collar, points out to him the warship and throws him into the water. The intelligent beast successfully performs his mission, swims to the battleship, is picked up by the sailors and before long Pauline is rescued just as the barge is sinking. Meantime the old sailor demands $50,000 from Owen as the price of his silence. Owen rendered desperate by the fear of betrayal, tries to push the man into the water, catching him at an unguarded moment. But the sailor, seizing Owen, hurls him into the water. Later Pauline is brought back by the blue-jackets to the yacht and receives a loving welcome from Harry. Owen, who has been struggling vainly to keep afloat, with a last despairing cry, sinks unnoticed, unwept and unregretted. To such an end does his unscrupulous avariciousness bring him.END
