A man dreams he committed murder, then begins to suspect it was real.
Bank teller Vince Grayson wakes from a nightmare in which he and an unknown woman murdered a man in a strange, mirrored room. Only a dream...but Vince finds that he has physical objects and bruises from his "dream." His cop brother-in-law dismisses his story...until the family, on a picnic, takes shelter from a thunderstorm in a deserted mansion containing that mirrored room. Is doom closing in on Vince?
In a small room, composed completely of mirrored doors, a woman is standing over a man who is cutting into a safe with a blowtorch. Vince Grayson ('DeForest Kelley (I)'), his eyes glassy and fixed, enters through one of the doors. The two men struggle and Vince grabs a drill from the woman's hand, and thrusts it deep into the safe-cracker's heart. The woman disappears through one mirrored door, and the frantic Vince stuffs the body into a closet, and runs through another door still clutching a button from the victim's jacket and the key to the closet. The next morning, with the button and key serving as proof, Vince is shocked to discover that he has not had a nightmare. Vince seeks the aid of his sister's husband, detective Cliff Harlan (Paul Kelly). The latter insists Vince has just had a nightmare. But, a week later, Cliff is convinced that Vince actually did kill, when he and his wife, Lil ('ann Doran'), and Vince and his girlfriend, Betty Winters (Kay Scott), go on a picnic, and Vince is thoroughly familiar with every room in a large mansion in which they seek shelter from a storm. It is the murder house.
Vince Grayson (DeForest Kelley), a young man has a terrible nightmare in which he sees himself killing someone. When he awakens, Vince finds a coat button and a key and some blood on his own wrist indicating that his dream was no dream. Calling in sick, he goes to see his brother-in-law Detective Cliff Herlihy (Paul Kelly) and asks for help. Cliff doesn't believe that Vince has killed anyone, but agrees to investigate. When it happens that on an afternoon picnic Vince and his girlfriend Betty Winters (Kay Scott) and Cliff and his wife Lil (Ann Doran) discover the remote mansion from Vince's nightmare, and stumble upon a mirrored room just like the one in Vince's dream, Cliff confronts Vince accusing him of murder. When a local Detective Torrence (Jeff York) interrupts them and they learn more about the actual murder of Mrs. Belnap, the lady who lived in the mansion, Cliff tells Vince that he must turn himself into the police. The nerve-jangled Vince is driven to a suicide attempt, but Cliff, from his experience as a crime detective, deduces that his friend's nightmare was the handiwork of Lewis Belnap (Robert Emmett Keane), the mansion's owner, who is an expert hypnotist. Cliff convinces Vince to go to Belnap's mansion and confront him, while secretly taping the meeting for evidence. Belnap proves to be a slick character again hypnotizing Vince and getting him to try to kill himself.
