Travelers in the 1870s Southwest discuss a recent murder trial in which all the principals told differing stories about the events.
Three disparate travelers, a disillusioned preacher, an unsuccessful prospector, and a larcenous, cynical con man, meet at a decrepit railroad station in the 1870s Southwest. The prospector and the preacher were witnesses at the singularly memorable rape and murder trial of the notorious Mexican outlaw Carasco. The bandit duped an aristocratic Southerner into believing he knew the location of a lost Aztec treasure. The greedy "gentleman" allows himself to be tied up while Carasco rapes his wife. These events lead to the stabbing of the husband and are related by the three eyewitnesses to the atrocity: the infamous bandit, the newlywed wife, and the dead man through an Indian shaman. Whose version of the events is true? Possibly there was a fourth witness, but can his version be trusted?
A Hollywood adaptation of Akira Kurosawa's "Rashomon". Three men meet at a deserted station in the middle of nowhere. Soon their discussion turns to the trial that occurred in the nearby town the previous say. The trial concerned the death of a man. Three people claim they killed him, and we see their version of the events. Who is correct and why are two of them (at least...) lying?
During the post Civil War era in the desert town of Silver Gulch, the town's preacher, a prospector and a con man meet somewhat by chance in the town's isolated and generally deserted train station. While the preacher and the con man wait for the train which does not usually stop here, the preacher and the prospector tell the con man the story of the murder trial with which they were just involved, a notorious womanizing Mexican bandit named Juan Carrasco who was charged with the murder of Colonel Wakefield of Tennessee as he and his wife were traveling through the area. The prospector and the preacher were subpoenaed to testify as the person who found Wakefield's stabbed dead body in the woods and the person who saw the happy couple on the road earlier in the day, respectively. What came out in the trial was the reason the preacher is leaving town for good, that testimony which he could not reconcile with his moral beliefs. Beyond the preacher and the prospector's testimony, the court heard the conflicting accounts of the three people who should know what happened as the three people on the scene at the time: the accused Juan Carrasco, Mrs. Wakefield, and through spiritual means Colonel Wakefield himself. Although there are similarities in their three stories including Carrasco gagging and tying the Colonel up to a tree in the process of robbing him, and Carrasco sexually violating Mrs. Wakefield, there are marked differences in the rest of the stories including who actually killed the Colonel. The question then became and still becomes which of any of the three accounts is the accurate one, or if there is another completely different reality to what happened.
A Mexican bandit, Juan Carrasco, spies a newlywed couple journeying through rugged country. He confronts them, rape and robbery on his mind, and the husband ends up dead. From the viewpoints of each participant and witness, a different story is told of what "really" happened. The "true" version is.....

