The story of a terminally ill man who wishes to live life to the full before the inevitable occurs, as told by his best friend.
Dr Bhaskar Bannerjee is not happy with his profession as he cant save the lives of people dying of illness due to poverty.His Dr friend Kulkarni charges huge for imaginary illness of rich and uses that money to people who cant afford treatment.Things change when Anand a cancer patients enters Bhaskar's life Anand is cheerful and believes in spreading happiness to everyone as he knows he is on last stage of cancer and has few months to live.Bhaskar and Anand bond very well Anand also gets Bhaskar's love life back on track and Bhaskar doesn't want him to loose anymore.As time passes Anand's condition starts to deteriorate and everyone around him is just hoping for a miracle.
A melodramatic tale of a man with a terminal disease. The story begins with Dr Bhaksar winning a literary prize for his book about a patient called Anand. The rest is flashback. Anand, the title character, is suffering from lymphosarcoma of the intestine. He, however appears to be cheerful on the outside and is determined to extract as much pleasure from his remaining lifespan as is possible. Dr. Bhaskar his physician tends to Anand in his last days. After Anand dies we can however still hear his voice which was recorded on a tape. Dr Bhakser writes a book on his patient and wins a literary prize for it
Dr. Prakash Kulkarni (Ramesh Deo) is a skilled doctor working to assist the poor and needy, however, there is a weakness in him, which is to over-charge his more wealthy clients, even encourage and magnify minor aches and pains, much to the dislike of his more enthical colleague Dr. Bhaskar Bannerjee (Amitabh Bachchan). It is because of his "charitable disposition" that both get to meet their new, terminally ill patient, Anand Saigal (Rajesh Khanna), who is aware that he has only a short time to live, but even during this short period he will manage to bring about positive change in the lives of both the doctors as well as the people around him.
The film begins with a felicitation ceremony arranged for Bhaskar (Amitabh Bachchan), a doctor who has just written a successful book titled Anand. Bhaskar was a cancer specialist and after the congratulatory speeches, he reveals that the book is not a work of fiction, but taken from his own diary and pertains to his experiences with a real person named Anand.The flashback starts with Bhaskar, fresh from his training as an oncologist, trying to treat the poor for no charge, but often disheartened by the fact that he cannot cure all the ailments in the world. He becomes pessimistic after seeing the suffering, illness and poverty all around him. He is straightforward and won't treat the imaginary ailments of the rich. His friend, Kulkarni follows a slightly different path. He treats the imaginary illnesses of the rich and uses that money to treat the poor.One day, Kulkarni introduces Bhaskar to Anand (Rajesh Khanna), who has lymphoma of the intestine, a rare type of cancer. Anand has a cheerful nature and despite knowing the truth that he is not going to survive for more than six months, he maintains a nonchalant demeanour and always tries to make everyone happy around him. His cheerful and vibrant nature soothes Bhaskar, who has a contrasting nature and they become good friends.Anand's condition gradually deteriorates, but he does not want to spend his remaining time in a hospital bed; he instead roams freely and helps everyone. He discovers that Bhaskar has strong feelings for Renu (Sumita Sanyal), whom he treated previously for pneumonia. He helps Bhaskar to express his love and convinces Renu's mother to bless their marriage. He tells Bhaskar that everyone should remember him as a lively person and not as a cancer patient. His end comes and he dies amongst his friends and everyone remembers him as a vibrant and lively person. Bhaskar becomes more philosophical and continues to help the helpless with more empathy and maturity.
