Student in a South Indian college Prabhu is elected as the student leader of the college. When the principal asks him to invite the Governor of the state, Ranjit Singh Rathore, to be the chief guest at the annual day function Prabhu meet up with Ranjit Singh's daughter, Shruti who happen to be the girl of his dreams. In order to captivate her attention Prabhu join Shruti's dancing class and is able to impress her thus both fall in love; due to fear of terrorism in the region Shruti is not allow to move without bodyguard. She decides to break this rule in order to run away with Prabhu to a dance festival in Chidambaram only to find life threaten by a bomb that is implanted in that region at that time. But she manages to elude this only to return home whereby her father objects to her relationship with Prabhu and on his behest Prabhu is arrested by the police and accused of planting the bomb in Chidambaram, torture and then later on release. Unknown to the general public Ranjit is involved with a dangerous bomb expert who is responsible for many bomb blasts in the region and Prabhu's life is under his threat as he has certain evidences that can incarcerate the duo.
Student leader in his South Indian (Tamil Nadu) college, popular collegian, Prabhu, is asked by the Principal to invite the Governor of the state, Ranjit Singh Rathore, to be the chief guest on the annual day of the college. When he goes to invite Ranjit, he meets his lovely daughter, Shruthi, and instantly falls in love with her. She too subsequently gets to meet him, and falls in love with him. Since there is considerable fear of terrorism in the state, Ranjit does not permit his daughter to travel anywhere without bodyguards. On one occasion, she does manage to give them the slip and runs away with Prabhu at a dance festival in Chidambaram. Shortly thereafter there is a threat of a bomb being planted there, Shruthi is immediately returned home, and Prabhu is arrested. Shruthi is forbidden to see Prabhu again, while Prabhu is released from police custody, albeit after a severe beating. Prabhu then goes to meet Shruthi, unaware of the changed circumstances, and this is where he will find evidence that will lead him to a hideout of a daredevil terrorist who is responsible for planting bombs and killing people. The question is, will Prabhu be able to get out alive and tell this tale, or will he end up as another victim?

