An extended family split up in France and Germany find themselves on opposing sides of the battlefield during World War I.
Julio Madariaga is the Argentine patriarch of a wealthy family. He has two daughters, the elder wed to a Frenchman and the other to a German. He prefers the Frenchman and his family, especially his grandson Julio, causing jealousy from the German and his three sons. When Madariaga dies, the family splits up, each son-in-law returning to his own country. The Frenchman and his own move to Paris, where Julio becomes an artist and has an affair with an unhappily married woman, the lovely Marguerite Laurier. Her husband finds out, but before he can finalize a divorce, World War One rears its head and both sides of the family will endure great suffering in the conflict, especially since they must fight one another on the battlefield.
It's the early twentieth century. In Argentina, Frenchman Marcelo Desnoyers and German Karl von Hartrott are the two sons-in-law of well-off Argentine farm owner Don Julio Madariaga, Desnoyers the favored one. Within this family collective, there is a special bond between Madariaga and one of his grandsons, Julio Desnoyers, who, like his maternal grandfather in his day, is a ladies man. Out of circumstance, the Desnoyers and the von Hartrotts move to their respective fatherlands of France and Germany following Madariaga's death. In France, Julio leads a rather carefree and irresponsible life, making a living as an artist and a tango instructor, the meager income from which is supplemented by money from his mother on the sly for him to be able to maintain the lavish life to which he is accustomed. That lavish life, through his "work", includes casual relationships with multiple women. Julio's view of life changes when he and Marguerite Laurier fall in love, Julio who has no interest in any other woman anymore. The issue is that Marguerite is already married, she who is not nor has ever been in love with her older husband in an arranged marriage, Etienne Laurier. Beyond the issue of Marguerite being a married woman, the murder of Archduke Ferdinand leading to the onset of the Great War affects what happens not only between Julio and Marguerite but also within this entire collective. The war complicates the family unit as the Desnoyers and the von Hartrotts are on opposing sides of the conflict, patriotism in this case which may trump blood seeing as to the nature of their time together in Argentina. And while Marcelo sees himself as being patriotic to the cause of France, Julio may not feel the same for his adopted home, he who may focus more on his own personal situation of wanting to be with Marguerite.

