College student Regina wins a getaway vacation at the quiet Red Wolf Inn, which is run by a friendly elderly couple, but it gradually becomes clear that something is amiss.
College student Regina comes back to her room from class one day to discover she's won a getaway vacation at the quiet Red Wolf Inn. Before she can even call her parents to let them know where she'll be, the lodge owners arrange her transport and she soon finds herself with two other young women as guests of a kindly old couple. The place is beautiful and the food is fantastic, but something just doesn't seem right. One of the guests has suddenly vanished, and the hosts are certainly reluctant to have anyone poking around the meat locker. Still, the barbecued ribs are delicious, so what's there to complain about?
Regina (Linda Gillen) is a lonely young college student. As the rest of the school is departing for spring break, Regina feels left out because she has nowhere to go for her time off. When she returns to her dormitory, she receives a letter informing her that she's won an all-expenses paid vacation to a small seaside resort. When she phones the number given, they tell her that she is to meet a small private plane that will take her to the resort that evening. With no time to plan, Regina hurries away without calling her family.After landing at the airport, Regina is driven to the resort by Baby John (John Neilson), the son of her hosts. Baby John seems to be somewhat slow, but he bonds with Regina when a police officer attempts to pull him over and they have an adventure in escaping him. Instead of being afraid, Regina seems to enjoy the excitement of the high speed chase.After arriving, Regina meets Henry and Evelyn Smith (Arthur Space, Mary Jackson), the proprietors of the "resort", which is a large seaside mansion. Regina also meets the other guests, who all happen to be attractive young females. Each night, the Smiths and the guests sit down to an extravagant dinner featuring some main course consisting of meat. The first night, Regina is terrified when she goes to the kitchen to look for antacid and Baby John bursts out of the large walk-in freezer with a wicked looking knife. Evelyn arrives and tells Regina and the others that the freezer is off limits.Regina enjoys the beach near the mansion and flirts with Baby John. However, she is shocked by his outlandish behavior; after reeling in a shark on his fishing line, Baby John beats it against a rock on the beach, killing it. Afterwards, he tells Regina "I think I love you," and walks away.Regina starts to feel uneasy about the circumstances of her "vacation", especially the fact that nobody knows where she is. Evelyn initially tells Regina that the phone is out of order, but the naive Regina doesn't get suspicious until she notices that the other guests "go home" suddenly in the middle of each night. Pamela (Janet Wood) is the first to go, but after she has supposedly gone, Regina pokes around and finds Pamela's stylish black dress hanging in the carriage house behind the mansion. She also finds a typewriter, and she deduces that it was the very one on which her "notification letter" was composed. She finds a framed photograph of a man whom she recognizes as the pilot who flew her to the area.Regina befriends another guest named Edwina (Margaret Avery), and that night Edwina is drugged. The Smiths come to her room and carry her unconscious body downstairs into the large walk-in freezer in the kitchen, and immediately chopping sounds are heard.Regina is confused when she finds out that Edwina has "gone home" without a word just like the others, and Evelyn forbids her to use the telephone, disconnecting a phone call Regina makes to her mother. When Evelyn and Henry leave her alone with Baby John, Regina enters the forbidden walk-in freezer and discovers the decapitated heads of Edwina and Pamela, and she belatedly realizes what they've all been eating. When she tries to escape, she flags down a police officer (Michael Macready), who turns out to be another relative of the Smiths, and he takes her back to the mansion. But Baby John has become attached to Regina and tells the Smiths "I want her, she's mine." Evelyn tries to discourage this, but it's clear Baby John has made up his mind.Eventually it's Regina's turn to "go home", and there is a strange, unspoken challenge she must endure: she again sits down to a meal with the Smiths, this time knowing full well that it's human flesh on the plate. The elder Smiths watch her carefully to see if she could ever "fit in" with them and become a mate for Baby John, but when she can't eat the meat, she knows she will be killed that night. She convinces Baby John to help her escape, and the Smiths turn their dog on them. Baby John kills the dog but they are cornered in Henry's greenhouse. Baby John gets a spanking for helping Regina, and Henry comes after Regina with a meat cleaver. Evelyn tries to distract Baby John by pretending to weep over the corpse of the dog, while Henry chases Regina into a corner. It appears as if it's lights out for Regina, and blood splatters across the leaves of a nearby plant.But the epilogue reveals Regina and Baby John living at the mansion. Regina prepares meals for Baby John while he plays with trucks like a child. The camera pans into the large walk-in cooler, where we see the heads of Evelyn and Henry resting in the freezer. The cycle of flesh eating at the Red Wolf Inn will continue.
