Pluto is tied up in the backyard and has been ordered by the maid to stay outside while she prepares a roast. Of course, once Pluto smells the scent of the roast, he makes a beeline for the kitchen. Unfortuantely, staying undiscovered proves difficult for Pluto once he gets inside particularly after he inhales a bucket of soapy water and starts sneezing.
Mammy has roasted a wonderful ham, and its scent is calling to Pluto, who was sleeping out in the yard. He sneaks in, and tries to get hold of the ham. At first, he's stymied just because the ham is up on top of the stove, but then he bumps into a box of soap flakes, swallows some, and begins sneezing, then trying to save the cups he knocked off the table.
Mammy Twoshoes throws Pluto out to the doghouse for being a naughty... pantry pirate. Pluto eventually falls asleep. However, when Mammy takes a delicious roast ham out of the stove, the smell hypnotically twists Pluto's nose up into a knot, wakes him up, and lures him toward the kitchen. And, after managing to pull himself out of his rope, old Pluto comes in for the kill. Unfortunately, the only way to reach the ham cooling on top of the oven (unnoticed, that is) is to walk across a very long ironing table. Pluto starts out nicely, but he has to hold on tight when the end starts to wobble dangerously. It ends up with Pluto reaching out for the ham, falling off the ironing table, landing in the stove, shooting out the oven door, and bumping into a box of soap flakes. He sneezes and blows them into a full water bucket. He inhales for another sneeze, and almost inhales some of the soapy water. This happens again, and he exhales just in time. The third time, however, he inhales too far and swallows it. Then he starts to sneeze bubbles. At one point, Mammy comes running when she hears Pluto go shooting under the table from one particularly large sneeze. She walks off suspicious. Unfortunately, Pluto sneezes under the table and blows 8 or 9 delicate teacups into the air, landing on airborne bubbles. As each bubble carrying a cup comes down, Pluto spikes them with his tail and catches the cups by their holders. Quite relieved, he carefully takes them back to the table. But right when he's trying to use his back paws for lifting the cups off his tail and up to the table, he has to sneeze. He unwisely stifles the sneeze and his rear end bounces. The teacups fly into the air, crash to the floor, and instantly shatter.

