Two mysterious women lure various passers-by to their rural mansion in the English countryside and hold them captive in order to feed on them to satisfy their insatiable thirst for blood.
Fran and Miriam are a pair of beautiful vampires who get victims to pull over by hitchhiking. They proceed to bring them back to their house and drink their blood.
While driving through a road in the countryside of England, John and Harriet see a beautiful woman hitchhiking and Harriet sees another one hidden behind a tree. Soon they stop their trailer nearby an old house to camp. Later the woman, Fran, arrives with a man called Ted in the old house and she brings him to her room. They drink wine and have sex, but on the next morning Fran vanishes and Ted sees that his arm is cut. He drives to John and Harriet's trailer and they treat his wound. He returns to the house and sleeps in his car. In the night, Fran and her girlfriend Miriam arrive with another man. What Ted does not know is that they are vampire and they have just attacked the man to drink his blood. Meanwhile the snoopy Harriet decides to investigate the women.
A large mansion and the surrounding woodland are for sale. For some reason, it is difficult to sell it... Two female vampires ensnare male and female victims with their sexy bodies, then chew their blood the old way. When an American Lady fights back, they team-up against her...
John (Brian Deacon) and Harriet (Ally Faulkner) are a young couple driving through the English countryside in their camper. It is getting dark and they have not found a place to park their camper for the night. They pass two mysterious women in the road and pull up beside a deserted castle where they intend to pass the night.For the next few days they camp there, not knowing that during the days the two women, Fran (Marianne Morris) and Miriam (Anulka), are a lesbian vampire couple. They lie asleep in the cemetery during the day while at night they pick up men and take him to their castle. There, they feed them wine, have passionate sex, and then stab them to death while drinking their blood. The only exception is Ted (Murray Brown), who manages to survive for three nights in a row.One of Fran and Miriam victim's is a local playboy (Michael Byrne) they invite to their mansion one evening where they tease him with their come-ons, give him fine wine, and kill him by slashing his neck and draining his blood for them to drink. (Note: Fran and Miriam do not appear to have any fanged teeth as other literacy vampires).One evening Ted escapes. He runs to the camper to enlist John and Harriet's help. When John goes to start the car, Fran and Miriam get him. When Harriet goes to check on John, the girls capture her and take her into their basement lair and kill her and drain her blood. Ted apparently gets away by driving away in John and Harriet's car.The next morning, a real estate man shows a young American couple the mansion where Fran and Miriam continue to lurk telling them that many years ago two unknown women were murdered there and that their bodies later vanished. The film ends here, implying that Fran and Miriam will continue their killing spree against trespassers on their domain.
