A female goalie player faces prejudiced opposition when she joins a boys hockey team in Parry Sound, Ontario.
When a young girl wants to join her high school's hockey team as goalie, she meets with resistence, but also gets support, especially from the star forward of the team.
Needing to reenter the workforce following the separation from her husband, Alice Yarrow moves with her two daughters - fourteen year old Cathy Yarrow and adolescent Laura Yarrow - from big city Toronto to small town Parry Sound where she has a job teaching elementary school. Of the three, Cathy may have the biggest adjustment in the move because of her age. Although Cathy quickly makes a friend in Evelyn, a girl who can only think about Toronto life, Cathy will need more stimulation in Parry Sound than just hanging out with Evelyn. She decides to continue doing something she's done the past several winters in Toronto, namely play organized ice hockey as a goalie. As there is no girls' league in town, she decides to try out for the town's minor bantam boys team, the Parry Sound All-Stars, there no official regulation stating that she can't. To her excitement, she makes the team, passing muster with both her teammates, who can't help but provide a little ribbing in the process, and the coach, Willy Leipert. The star of the team is Spear Kozak, who comes from a naturally talented hockey family. While Spear's older brother Bradley had the talent perhaps to make it to the NHL, he didn't have the temperament or the maturity. As such, Spear and Bradley's father places a lot of pressure on Spear to take up the slack - Spear accepting that pressure - Mr. Kozak expecting Spear to make it into the NHL by the time he's seventeen. Because she's a girl, Cathy has more scrutiny placed on her to do better than the boys to even have a chance. Added to the mix is Spear and Cathy's burgeoning friendship, one that is not only as teammates but also as a teenaged boy and teenaged girl. The team's longtime sponsor, Bill Moss, may have some say into what happens, his bottom line being the almighty dollar and what he sees as the negative repercussions of having a girl on the team on his stereotypical male-oriented business, "Mr. Lumber". As the All-Stars approach the ever important tournament against the team from North Bay, Spear, the only player who has the necessary clout, will have to decide if he will fight for Cathy to stay on the team or go with Mr. Moss' flow, especially as some scouts will be attending the tournament specifically to see him.

