Frau Kusters is preparing dinner late one seemingly ordinary afternoon in her seemingly ordinary kitchen in Frankfurt, Germany. Mrs. Kusters wants to add canned sausages to the stew, her annoying daughter-in-law thinks otherwise. The point, we soon find out, is moot: Mr. Kusters has murdered the personnel director at the soap factory where he works before committing suicide.
The Film opens with credits in front of classic photographs of German cities and culture. The film fades to a woman, Emma, and a man, Ernst, assembling electrical sockets. Emma then begins talking with her daughter-in-law, Helene, as they make a stew. Helene argues with her mother-in-law about all the poisons and preservatives in meat nowadays. However Emma insists that Hermann, her husband, will never be converted into a vegetarian. Ernst, Emmas son, continues to assemble electrical sockets. He tells his wife Helene about the cold weather in Finland, expressing his distaste for their vacation selection. She insists on the importance of going to a cold and quiet place for the sake of their unborn child. He reluctantly accepts even though he also works in a cold environment. Emma looks over at a clock and wonders where her husband could be. Just then, a breaking news flash is heard on the radio. The reporter announces that a worker at a chemical plant in Frankfurt has beaten a fellow employee to death, before committing suicide. Emma wonders if a tire plant is the same thing as a chemical plant. Helene continues to rant on about all the filth and pollution as well as the poor working conditions in the chemical plants. As the camera zooms out, the three clean up the electrical sockets off the table and begin to set the table for dinner. Suddenly, the door bell rings. Emma assumes that it must be Hermann, who must have forgotten his keys. A man is at the door, looking distressed and upset. He explains to Emma that there is not much time, but there is terrible news. Hermann has killed the bosss son, Dr. Berthold before killing himself. He explains that the fear of mass layoffs were probable cause for Hermanns actions. Ernst puts a hand on the shoulder of a speechless and shocked Emma.The scene cuts to inside a dark club with women dressed in very little clothing. Corinna, is told she has an important phone call from her mother. Corrina doesnt want to answer because her boss, Hennecke, hates calls during working hours. Corrina decides to answer the call anyway. Emma is on the other line and apologizes to Corrina for calling, though it is an important matter. Emma urges Corinna to come home as her father Hermann has killed himself. Corinna tells her mother not to cry or get upset, she will be home as soon as she can. Corinna hangs up the phone and goes back inside to talk with Hennecke who reluctaly gives her a drink. She tells him that her father has killed himself but she forgot what else her mother told her. Hennecke tells her to have another drink and forget about the whole thing. Who has a family these days he says. He tells her to get back to singing, but she of course cannot go on after hearing the news. She cannot let her mother down. Hennecke believes she is too soft for the business, Corinna argrees.Emma comes home to find a group of photographers taking pictures and asking Helene and Ernst questions about Hermann. The two explain how average and normal Hermann was as each had a good relationship with him. They explain how Hermann was the quiet type and never picked quarells. A reporter asks Ernst if his father ever beat him as a child and Ernst answers yes. As the two are interviewed, Emma stirs stew in the kitchen. A reporter finds Emma and begins to ask her questions. Emma agrees to meet with the reporter on the following day as her head is empty. Another man, Karl, comes in and tells Emma to keep her chin up. Karl steps outside with a woman, Marianne, and walks down the street. They speak of the photographers who represent tabloids and newspapers only out to exploit the murder. Karl, however, is only interested in the truth.The photographer is back with Emma, taking pictures and asking her questions as he directs her to perform actions for the camera. Emma stirs a pot and works on the electrical outlets as the photographer asks questions about Hermann. Emma explains that Hermann was a drinker, but not an alcoholic. Emma is then told to make the bed as the photographer takes more pictures. Emma tells him that Hermann used to give the kids and her a beating when they upset him. But he would always calm down and get quiet. Lastly, Emma is then instructed to hold a recent picture of her husband. She finds one of him at the zoo, taken three weeks earlier. She begins to cry as she remembers the frequent Sunday trips to the zoo. The photographer asks Emma to turn and face the camera as she weeps holding the picture in her hand. The photographer is pleased with the image. A telegram arrives from Corinna who will be arriving at the airport at 10:00. Interested in the fact that Emma also has a daughter, the photographer offers to give Emma a ride to the airport to meet with Corinna.
Emma meets with Corinna at the airport, they embrace as the photographer continues to take pictures. He then introduces himself to Corinna as Niemeyer, a reporter. They drive back into town and continue to talk about Hermanns death. Niemeyer tells the two women how touched he is about Hermanns death. Emma explains how she still has not read any newspapers as she fears they will say nasty things about his death. Emma insists on Hermann being a good man. Niemeyer promises the two he will report as objectively as possible. Emma thanks him. Niemeyer then offers to take the two women to lunch as he is very interested in Corinna, who seems very willing to answer all of Niemeyers questions.At a Japanese restrauraunt, Niemeyer asks Corinna about her childhood. Corinna explains how hard-off her childhood was and that she left right after high school to study. Hermann and her brother Ernst, she explains, never approved of her studying. She says that fate led her to become a singer/songwriter. Corinna excuses herself from the table and Niemeyer watches her as she walks away. Alone, Corinna calls the editor of the murder case and explains that she is the daughter of the murderer. Emma is seen in the background watching Corinna as she talks on the phone. Corinna explains that her latest hit song, Men? Who Cares About Them? She also tells the editor that she is interested in talking to him. She then goes back to the table where Niemeyer agrees with Corinna to me at 8:00.Back at the house, Emma tries to convince Helene and Ernst not to go on vacation. Helene and Ernst argue that they cannot back out of the trip as they have already invested too much money into the vacation. They also agree that they must think about the baby. Corinna comes in and argues with Helene about her singing career. Corinna dresses and speaks with her brother Ernst, still in shock over their fathers sudden change in personality. A doorbell rings and Corinna leaves. Ernst asks Helene if they should stay with Emma, but Helene disagrees. She accuses Ernst of not taking her side.At the funeral, Niemeyer continues to take pictures. Very few people are at Hermanns funeral. Only a couple family members and a group of photographers taking pictures for their reports remain after the casket is lowered. Corinna looks up to see Niemeyer, who looks back and snap a few pictures. Corinna poses for the photographers over the grave and drops a bouquet of roses. Corinna is then interviewed by several of the photographers questioning about her future as a singer. They ask if her fathers death has helped or hindered her career, in which she does not have an answer. Though the reporter points out that her popularity has increased significantly since Hermanns death. Corinna says she will continue to focus on her art and will possibily perform in Frankfurt in the near future. Karl and Marianne appear and comfort Emma, asking her to have coffee with them.
At Marianne and Karls house, Emma is served coffee and speaks to Marianne about Hermanns death. After years of nothing, overnight, everything comes crashing down on you. Karl comes in and insists that there is a lesson to be learned in all of this. Karl tells Emma that what Hermann did was actually considered in a sense, revolutionary despite the papers calling him crazy. Karl argues that Hermanns problem is a problem of all workers. Only when they are strong and united can changes occur says Karl. A killing, however, does not help the cause. Emma says that she never felt Hermann to be oppressed by any means. Karl then argues that there doesnt need to be a society of servants and masters, but a Socialist society where everyone works together as a unit. Marianne then points out that factories all around Germany are making small profits for what they sell, and the business owners are reaping most of the money. The Capitalists are consuming the profits and that is unjust, she says. When there is a crisis, the Capitalist push the burden onto the workers and therefore they are fired or laid off. Karl and Marianne argue that Hermann did not want to accept this truth and took action, but in the wrong manner. Emma states that Hermann was always one to think of others first over himself. Karl takes a drink before declaring his and Mariannes true identities as Communists. Emma thanks the two for their company and leaves. They both tell Emma that she is welcome back anytime. Niemeyer and Corinna are seen in bed together. Corinna is then seen back at her mothers house, as Emma explains the meeting she had with the two Communists. Corinna is unsure about Karl and Marianne, but Emma assures her that they are good people.Back at Karl and Mariannes, they speak of Emma. Marianne think they scared her off with their wild Communist theories, though Karl thinks otherwise. They hope to use Emma to their partys benefit.Corinna and Niemeyer are at a local bar watching a man dressed as a woman performs on stage. The owner says that pretty much anyone can perform here as long as they have some musical ability. The main thing is that the audience is interested and drinks a lot. The owner recognizes Corinna as the daughter of the murderer and asks if she is OK with it. She agrees to perform.
Back at the house, Corinna is using the typewriter while Emma reads the newspaper aloud. A light melody plays in the background. The paper describes Hermann as a drunkard and a tyrant who beat his family and haggard, aged wife. The article then mentions Corinna in a positive light, as she wanted to study even though her father did not agree with it. Emma is upset with Niemeyers article as it did not present the truth as he said it would. Corinna defends Niemeyer, saying that he was just trying to do his job. Emma is upset with Corinna and Niemeyer, swearing to call them to account for their mistakes.Emma visits the pension office to discuss the death of her husband. A man, Mr Holzapfel, explains to Emma that since his murder was no accident and that he did indeed kill a man, Dr Berthold, during the incident, Emma has no legal claim. Back home, Corinna is packing to move out. Emma is upset, because she feels as if everyone is deserting her, especially in her time of need. Emma begins to cry as she realizes Corinna is moving in with Niemeyer.Emma is in a phone booth speaking to Karl. She wants to come by and talk as she feels all alone. Karl is excited that Emma is coming by. Emma agrees, hangs up the phone, and enters the subway station.Marianne greets Emma at the door as shows her inside. Marianne makes coffee as Karl asks to show Emma something. Emma sits down and Karl pulls out his newspaper in which he has written an article about Hermanns case. Karl wants Emma to compare Niemeyers story with his. Emma agrees that Niemeyers article was terrible. She calls Niemeyer a filthy swin and an animal. Karl asks Emma to read his article. Emma likes his article much better, though she realizes not many people will read it as it is a Communist newspaper. Emma thanks Karl for writing the article and Karl claims it was his duty to write the truth. Back at the house, Ernst drinks and tells his mother about the horrible vacation to Finland. Helene is upset with Ernst who was lazy the entire trip. Emma supports her son for relaxing. Helene gets upset as she always feels ganged by the mother and son duo, she threatens to move out. Helene calls a couple ads in the newspaper looking for a furnished apartment for three. Emma is upset with both Helene and Ernst and asks them to move out, as she will be better off on her own. The door bell rings, its Corinna who comes in to pick up some stuff she forgot. She asks Ernst and Emma to come to watch her sing in Frankfurt. They agree.At the show, the announcer expresses his wonder for Corinnas powerful voice. Along with Emma and Ernst, Niemeyer watches from the crowd. The announcer then introduces the sensation as the daughter of the factory murderer. Emma cant believe it. Corinna comes out and sings a very depressing song. Niemeyer takes more pictures as Corinna sings. As Corinna ends her song and the audience claps, Emma cries and leaves with Ernst. Again at the house, Ernst and Emma work on the electrical outlets. Helene brags about the apartment she has found. Ernst leaves Emma alone at the table to help Helene pack.Emma visits Marianne and Karl once again. Marianne invites her in for sandwiches. Emma tells Marianne her troubles of living alone. Karl comes down the stairs and invites Emma to come along with them to meet some comrades.Emma sits at the table assembling the small electrical outlets by herself. The door bell rings, its Ernst, who asks to come in. The baby has been born and has been keeping him up at night. He sits and helps his mother. She tells him that she has joined the German Communist Party along with Karl and Marianne. She tells Ernst that she is beginning to understand why Hermann did the things he did. Ernst is happy to see his mother progressing; he leaves to return to Helene and the baby.Emma attends a Communist Party meeting in which Karl speaks to the audience. Karl talks about the struggle of the working class and Socialism. The audience applauds after Karls speech. Another man stands up and introduces Emma to the audience, who will also make a speech. Emma explains that she never has spoken to such a large crowd, though she will try her best. She explains that not everything is God-given or of fate, but theres a reason for everything terrible that happens in the world. She explains how she thought she knew Hermann, but apparently she did not, even after 40 years of marriage. How can we really know anyone, she asks. She claims that her husband was not a murderer or a crazy person and that the magazines are filled with nothing but lies. He is a man who hit back, because he was beaten all his life. A camera and tape recorder captures Emma on the stand as the audience applauds. Emma walks out and a man, Horst Knab, greets her. He tells her that he appreciated her speech, though the people in the room are using her for the wrong reasons. He says that the Party is all talk and no action. He tells Emma that she needs to take action to bring them out of their sleep. Horst leaves a confused Emma.After the meeting, Emma walks with Marianne and Karl down a sidewalk at night. Marianne tells Emma that the party members were very impressed and touched by her speech. Emma then tells the two that she was approached by Horst who told her she needed to take an action. Karl tells Emma that Horst is one who wishes to destroy, rather than build and he does not even talk with Horst anymore. He describes Horsts group as anarchists and enemies of the Communist movement. They walk Emma to her home and say goodnight. Marianne warns Karl that he promised Emma too much. Emma looks back at the two as if he heard what they said.Emma meets with Marianne and Karl, upset that the party has not taken any action in helping her with Hermanns image and rehabilitation. She wonders why the truth has not been revealed to the people. Karl assures her that it is a slow process and she must be patient. Emma becomes angry, wanting to act now, but Karl tells her that they are very busy at the moment with an election campaign. Karl says the partys main task is to gain more voters. Emma leaves disappointed.Back at the house she continues to assemble electrical sockets, Horst is there. Horst tells her that her party is small with limited power and courage. Horst tells her that his party is free of rules and constitutions. Though their group is even smaller than the Communists, they make up for it with spirit and guts. He suggests going to the editorial office with Emma and 4 or 5 others and sitting on the floor until their demands are met. Emma tells him shell think it over.Emma, Horst, a few others walk up the stairs of the editorial office demanding to speak with Niemeyer. The woman tells them that Niemeyer is not there and that the editor is in a meeting. Horst tells her to pull him out of the meeting as they have important information. Dr. Linke comes out and greets the group. Emma introduces herself as Mrs. Kusters. Linke recognizes her name and Horst steps into the conversation. Horst accuses Linke of defamation to Hermanns and the Kusters name. Emma demands Linke to reprint the truth about her husband. Linke tells Emma that a retraction cannot be made every time someone complains. He suggests Emma write a readers letter, but she declines as she cannot wait any longer. Linke asks the group to leave. Horst pulls out a gun and puts it up to Linke, another member pulls out an automatic weapon. Emma cannot believe it. Horst declares that everyone in the office is a hostage. Horst orders Linke to call Niemeyer. The phone rings at Niemeyers apartment, he sits reading the paper while Corinna paints her toenails, half-naked in the background. Niemeyer hangs up the phone telling Corinna that her mother and some anarchists have taken hostages at the editorial office. Corinna doesnt believe that her mother is with them. Niemeyer leaves as Corinna sits confused.Back at the office, Horst is on the phone calling themselves the Kusters Kommandos. He tells the person on the phone that the hostages will be shot if their demands are not met. Horst demands restitution for the article written about a lone revolutionary, Hermann Kusters. In Hermanns honor, Horst demands the release of all political prisons held captive in the Federal Republic of Germany. Horst hangs up. The phone rings again, its the chief of police. Horst demands free passage with the hostages in a Mercedes 600. Also, he wants a Boeing 707 with a crew of four ready for takeoff to leave the country. Before hanging up the phone he finishes with long live the revolution. Niemeyer arrives asking Emma to stop the war games. Horst orders Niemeyer against the wall with the others. The phone rings again. Horst answers and says that they will take Linke and Niemeyer as hostages once the car arrives. If the car is not there within one hour, a hostage will be shot.The film ends with titles. Apparently, the German version does not have the final scenes so the director, Fassbinder, had to insert titles in their place.In the German version, the group goes outside to the waiting car. People and police surround the borders. Ernst sees his mother and breaks through the barrier. He runs to her. Just then, Emma is shot and falls to the ground. Horst shoots and kills Linke, before he is shot by police. Corinna runs to her mothers side as she lies dead in the street. Corinna poses for a picture lying next to her dead mother.
