A charming bailiff's assistant poses as a young woman's butler until she can pay her debts.
Recently released from jail, Raymond Dabney is the black sheep of his family. His father and brother want him out of England and out of their hair. Only his mother seems to harbor some affection for him. Looking for work in London, Raymond gets a job assisting a bailiff in collecting debts. Crystal Wetherby, a lovely young woman living outside her means, hopes to romance a wealthy man in order to pay her bills. When the bailiff shows up at her house with a writ, Raymond is left behind, taking possession of the house and everything in it as an official representative of the Crown. Until Crystal can pay her debt, Raymond will stay in her house and keep an eye on things, a rather unwelcome guest. Encouraged to be courteous and offer domestic assistance in his awkward duty, Raymond agrees to act as Crystal's butler. As butler, Raymond is surprised to learn that Crystal's fiancé is his brother Claude. Raymond's interference seems to ruin Crystal's chances with both Claude and Sir Charles Cartwright, a wealthy gentleman friend. Raymond falls in love with Crystal and tries to find a way to get her the money she needs and make her happy at the same time.
Recently released from prison, Raymond Dabney is the black sheep of his family. His father and brother want him out of England and out of their hair. Only his mother and the maid seem to harbor some affection for him. Looking for work in London, Raymond gets a job assisting a bailiff in collecting debts. Crystal Wetherby, a lovely young woman living outside her means, hopes to romance a wealthy man in order to pay her bills. When the bailiff shows up at her house with a writ, Raymond is left behind, taking possession of the house and everything in it as an official representative of the Crown. Until Crystal can pay her debt, Raymond will stay in her house and keep an eye on things, a rather unwelcome guest. Encouraged to be courteous and offer domestic assistance in his awkward duty, Raymond agrees to act as Crystal's butler.When Crystal has her fiancé and his parents over for dinner, Raymond is surprised to learn that it is his brother Claude and his own parents. Claude is outraged, thinking that Raymond purposely deceived Crystal in a plot to sabotage his engagement. After a disastrous dinner with the Dabneys, Crystal makes plans to meet with Sir Charles Cartwright, a wealthy gentleman friend. Raymond wrecks those plans and spends the night with Crystal himself. The next day Raymond tells Sir Charles about Crystal's engagement, sending him away before Crystal has the chance to see him and costing her the payment that she needed.Claude arrives and exposes Crystal's "butler" as an ex-con. Crystal knows Raymond has a legal right to remain in the house that Claude doesn't realize, but as a gesture of his affection for Crystal Raymond offers to leave if she wishes him to. Crystal allows him to stay, not wanting him to lose his job.When Claude tries to entice Raymond to leave, Raymond shows Claude the writ and tells him that Crystal has no money. Shocked, Claude feels deceived and is about to leave when Raymond brings up the possibility that Crystal could sue him for breach of promise. Afraid of the scandal, Claude instructs Raymond to pay Crystal off.Crystal is disappointed to learn that Raymond's interference has scared off both Sir Charles and Claude. Raymond confesses that Claude is his brother and Crystal is embarrassed about the awkward dinner the night before.With a newfound sense of urgency, Sir Charles returns, proposing marriage. Faced with a difficult choice, Crystal turns down Sir Charles and his money because "that Dabney chap" means too much to her. Crystal decides to go away and tells Raymond to take any property from the house to satisfy the bill collectors. Raymond is glad that Crystal isn't marrying Sir Charles and gives her the money from Claude to pay the bailiff. The bailiff is happy that the matter was resolved so quickly and makes sure that Raymond's behavior was satisfactory.
