The head of a cyborg reactivates, rebuilds itself, and goes on a violent rampage in a space marine's girlfriend's apartment.
In the future, a nuclear war has transformed the Earth into a radioactive wasteland where the sea has dried up leaving it as a post-apocalyptic desert. In the desert, A desert scavenger named Nomad discovers a robotic head, arriving in New York City, A space marine named Moses Baxter buys the robotic head from Nomad as a Christmas present for his girlfriend Jill Grakowski, who decides to use it for one of her sculptures. But all hell starts breaking loose, when the robotic head is activated and begins to rebuilt itself. When Alvy, a junkyard dealer discover the robotic head is a Mark 13, a military cyborg of a project that was abandoned. Moses learns Jill's life is in danger, as the Mark 13 cyborg goes on a violent rampage in Jill's apartment as Jill has become the the prime target for extermination.
In the desert wasteland of a post-apocalyptic future, a scavenger known as a "Zone Tripper" discovers some robotic remains which he sells on to a marine returning home from an off-world tour of duty. After failing to negotiate a decent price with a local junk dealer called Alvy, the marine, Mo, decides to give the dismantled robot to his girlfriend Jill as a Christmas present. But as she begins to use the wreckage in a sculpture she's been working on, a frantic call from Alvy brings Mo back to the junk yard, where he discovers that the robot is more than just a service droid; it is a MARK 13: a military robot suffering a major design fault that rendered it a deadly killing machine. But worse than that, the Mark 13 is capable of self-repair. With Jill trapped in her apartment, the terrifying fight for survival begins. Will any flesh be spared?
Radiation clouds choke the sky and over-crowded mega-cities threaten to dissolve into madness. A wandering junk merchant finds the remains of a defunct robot and sells them to Mo, also a nomad, who buys them for his urban artist girlfriend named Jill to use in her work. But he doesn't know the robot is a self-regenerating prototype, a military drone intended to control the exploding population utilizing indiscriminate, gruesome murder. Trapped, alone in her apartment and spied on by her perverted neighbor, Jill must battle to survive against a relentless killing machine re-built from her own possessions and which will stop at nothing to tear her apart.
