Eve Mannering realizes too late that her abusive husband is a philanderer and murderer and seeks protection with her true love, explorer John Beetham.
Sir George hires Hillary Gatt to find out more about Eric who wants to marry Lois. Gatt is murdered and the couple, married, run off to India. Old friend John Beetham sympathizes with the bride who sees that her hubby is a liar and drunk. John and Lois fly to San Francisco. Eric shows up and tries to kill John, but Scotland Yard and Lt. Charlie Chan intervene.
The story begins as noted with Sir George being assured by Mr. Galt - some sort of private investigator - that he has the evidence to prove that Eric Durand is a thorough cad and rotter unworthy of marrying Sir George's heiress niece Eve - and will bring it to him in the morning. Shortly after, Colonel Beetham and Galt have an argument in Galt's office witnessed by Galt's aide. Late that night, Galt is killed at his office, and a pair of Chinese slippers are placed on the dead man's feet by the murderer, who, when he flees, is observed and followed by the building's night watchman, a low, but cunning Cockney type, who will later blackmail Durand. Next day, Eve and Durand confront Sir George (who favors Beetham as an in-law and helps to finance his exploring expeditions) with the news that they have been married the night before - apparently Durand had saved Eve's life - "something any man would do." Sir George turns his metaphorical back on the couple, and they leave for India for no particular reason. Beetham prepares to leave for the "deserts of Persia." Meanwhile Sir Frederick of the Yard - who speaks more slowly than your average person on the edge of mortality - by the way, British and American accents are parceled out randomly among the characters - has called his friend Chan, the latter having explained that the slippers had been a gift from the emperor of China to Beetham for meritorious service and that their embroidery means, "Walk lightly, go far." This is odd because the film is made and ends in 1929 though it begins several years earlier, Beetham appears to be meant to be in his early thirties, and the last emperor of China (a child) was overthrown in 1912. Anyway, Sir Frederick notes, "The Chinese - they see things that we don't." In India, a year later, the Durands are living quietly, if unhappily for Eve. Her uncle has died, apparently of heartbreak. Her husband sits around drinking whiskey-sodas - "strong ones" and having an affair with their servant girl who fans him and sings the same song over and over. Eve serendipitously runs into Beetham in the market - he is leaving for Persia the next day. He swears to take care of her if she should need him. Eve goes home and finds a: one of the singing servant's earrings on her bed and b: a letter from the Cockney porter back in England who has not been receiving his 100 pound stipends and who hints strongly that Durand killed Galt. Eve confronts Durand, who more or less admits things. She says she will not make a scandal or divorce him, but he needs to stay away from her. He tries to break in her bedroom door, and she flees to Beetham and begs him to take her with him so that she can "totally disappear" in the dunes of Persia. Beetham reluctantly agrees - there is danger (which we never see) but he loves her. Sir Frederick (of the Yard) has been following these people around the world for the past year. He drops in on Durand (whom he suspects as the man is an obvious bounder) to talk to Eve. Then he, Durand and a Persian official fly a monoplane to Beecham's encampment. They search for Eve, but Sir Frederick (who knows a gentleman when he sees one) makes it clear that he really hasn't tried to find her, though he knows she is there because of Beetham's sketches of her on his maps. Beetham's servant (played by Boris Karloff) leads Durand astray. Sir Frederick enjoins Beetham on his honor to meet with him the next day in Teheran and to bring Eve. (If he is only a day away from Teheran, one wonders what Beetham is exploring.) Anyway, Eve has already fled on horseback, and Beetham's party make no attempt to go after her, though later Beetham will say that he had been searching for several days before he comes to see Sir Frederick. Another year passes. Eve is taking the ferry into San Francisco when she reads that Beetham is to give a lecture that night - she saves the clipping and goes to her job as an elevator operator. Durand comes on the elevator and she stops it between floors. He has already killed the blackmailing cockney and tries to force Eve to give him the incriminating letter or he will kill her too. Under duress she agrees, takes Durand to the fifth floor, pushes him out the door, plummets the elevator to the lobby and flees to her apartment. As she arrives, two Chinese detectives from the San Francisco Police who have ransacked her room and found the letter are leaving. (One of them is said to be Chan.) Eve determines to go to Beetham at his lecture. Sir Frederick has instructed Chan to have the place heavily guarded, but to allow Durand to get in. Eve quietly enters the back of the hall and takes a seat. Beetham sees her, and, instead of delivering his lecture, begins talking about love, much to the mystification of his audience. Durand appears at a side door with a gun and a bad twitch. He attempts to shoot Eve, but Sir Frederick takes the bullet - only a flesh wound. Beetham and Eve explain everything, and the news comes that Durand has been killed resisting arrest, probably because Chan (whom we do not see) thought the world would be better off without Durand. The lovers embrace (off camera), and Sir Frederick takes his leave for the hospital, saying, "We have walked softly, gone far, and now the journey is ended."

