A bounty hunter arrives in a mining town and is hired to track down the missing daughter of the town's crippled mayor and learns she has been kidnapped by the mayor's corrupt right-hand-man and a band of outlaws he is secretly working for.
Arriving in the mining town Suttonville, after claiming the bounty of a outlaw known as Burt Craven, a bounty hunter named Blade (armed with a hatchet instead of a gun) is hired by the town's wheelchair bound mayor McGowan and his corrupt associate Voller to track down McGowan's daughter Debra who has gone missing. Blade is unaware that Voller kidnapped Debra and is secretly working for a group of outlaws who are looting shipment of silver from the silver mines that are run the mine owner McGregor. Caught up in Suttonville's affairs, Blade not only has Voller and the outlaws to deal with, he also goes to settle a score with McGowan (who was responsible for the death of Blade's father) and takes on Voller and his gang who are out to gun him down.
Bounty hunter Blade and his prisoner Burt Craven, a small time crook arrive in the mining town Suttonville, so Blade can hand over Craven to the local marshal and collect the reward money for Craven's capture. After Blade goes to the local saloon to speak with Theo Valler, right hand man of the town's crippled mayor Ed McGowan whom owns the local gold mines, about finding a place in town to sleep for the night, only to shoot and wound Valler's men whom attempt to kill him, when Valler loses a card game to Blade. Blade releases Craven and offers his services to McGowan. Blade observes a carriage containing shipment of gold from McGowan's mines being attacked and raided by a gang of outlaws led by Dolman. After Valler sets a trap on Blade, which Blade is injured in a rockfall. Blade manages to kill Valler's men whom have come to kill him and Blade is nursed back to health by traveling impresario Johnny-Johnny. McGowan is forced to take Blade up his offer, when Dolman and his gang ambush and attack the stagecoach which Valler and McGowan's daughter Deborah were passengers and McGowan learns Dolman and his gang are working for Valler and Valler is holding Deborah for ransom in exchange for gold. McGowan accepts Blade's help and agrees on the condition that Johnny-Johhny sets up his own saloon in town and McGowan soon learns there is nothing else Blade wants for him - revenge. Blade wants to kill McGowan whom was responsible for the death of Blade's father Gerald Merton, whom was killed when a tree collapsed on top of him, which McGowan claims was accidental. After McGowan justifies his actions and convinces Blade that he is not the one Blade should kill and that they should kill their common enemy Valler. Blade rides off to meet with Valler and arrives with the gold. But, Blade engages Valler, Dolman and the gang in a shootout. But, Deborah stops Blade from shooting Valler and Deborah reveals that Valler and herself are lovers and they set up the ransom and Valler wants to take control of McGowan's mines. But, Voller is furious when he learns that Blade replaced the gold with rocks. In Suttonville, Dolman and his gang attack Johnny-Johnny's new saloon and Johnny-Johnny is gunned down and one of the saloon girls Angela is taken captive and Valler uses Angela to force Blade to reveal where he has hidden his gold. Angela is stabbed and killed by Valler and Blade is beaten and tortured and is blinded and left to die. Craven rescues Blade and brings him to a cave and nurses Blade back to health. But, Craven rides back to Suttonville and tells Valler that Blade is in a cave and Craven accompanied by Dolman and some of his men return to the cave and Dolman and his men enter the cave to finish Blade off - But, Blade uses the caves to his advantage and he manages to kill Dolman and his men and Blade, whom has confronts Craven and Craven is shot and killed. Blade returns to Suttonville, only to find the town shrouded in mist and that a battle broke out between the miners, Valler and his men and McGowan has been killed by Valler. Blade shoots and kills Valler's dogs and Blade kills Valler with a hatchet. Deborah mourns and cries over Valler's body and is left with nothing and Blade walks away and leaves.
