The Griswolds win a vacation tour across Europe where the usual havoc ensues.
The Griswolds win a vacation to Europe on a game show, and thus pack their bags for the continent. They do their best to catch the flavor of Europe, but they just don't know how to be be good tourists. Besides, they have trouble taking holidays in countries where they CAN speak the language...
In a game show called "Pig In A Poke," the Griswold family -- Clark, Ellen, Rusty, and Audrey -- accidentally wins a trip to Europe, winning against a family that had previously never been defeated on this game show, which is hosted by Kent Winkdale. Just before the trip, Clark makes an erotic videotape of Ellen, promising to erase the tape later. Clark likes the game show's itinerary of what they are scheduled to do in Europe, but Ellen and the kids don't feel the same way. They begin their trip to Europe in London, England, where they stay in a ratty hotel. Clark has problems learning how to drive European cars, which have the steering wheel on the right side instead of the left. In London, the Griswolds see things like Big Ben, Parliament, and Buckingham Palace repeatedly because Clark cannot figure out how to exit a circular "roundabout" intersection. Audrey misses her boyfriend Jack so much that she wants to go back to Chicago. Clark is oblivious to how his family feels as he takes the family to see places such as Stonehenge, which Clark accidentally knocks down by backing a rented car into it. The trip to Europe then moves from London to Paris, France, where Clark has a Frenchman use the camcorder to tape the Griswolds near a water fountain, but the Frenchman steals the camera, with a videotape inside of it. In Paris, the Griswolds visit the Eiffel tower. The hotel room they check into in Paris is better than the one they had in London. The Griswolds visit the Musée du Louvre, then Audrey gets a letter from Jack, saying that Jack has been seeing Audrey's best friend Debbie while Audrey is in Europe. The next stop for the Griswolds is Germany, to visit their long-lost relatives Fritz and Helga, but they end up at the wrong house and mistake this house's residents for their relatives. Nevertheless, they have a nice visit. Next, the Griswolds visit a festival where Clark joins in on some German dancing that he has no idea how to do. Not surprisingly, the dancing ends with a fistfight. The Griswolds get on a train to Rome, Italy, but on the way there, they get off the train to go to the traveler's-check office, but they are greeted by a pair of men who they don't know are robbing the place. After getting $3,000 from the place, the Griswolds get a car from the same two men, who have placed the clerk in the trunk of the car. The Griswolds make their way into Rome, where they buy new clothes and Ellen sees a picture of herself on a billboard -- the thief who stole their video camera has been selling copies of the erotic tape of Ellen, which Clark forgot to erase, and Ellen is livid. The two thieves who robbed the traveler's-check office show up in Rome, and one of them, who has fallen for Ellen, kidnaps her. Audrey sees them leaving, and Audrey and Clark set off to rescue Ellen.
In a game show, the family Griswold wins a trip to Europe. They set out for Britain, France, Germany and Italy, ignorant to the damage they do to other people: In Britain Clark has slight problems adapting to driving on the left side, runs several people over and accidentally knocks over Stonehenge in reverse gear. In Germany, they visit the wrong relatives and are chased by angry 'Schuhplattl' dancers. Finally, in Rome, they unknowingly help robbers in a hold-up and then Ellen gets kidnapped... simple jokes, always following the same scheme.
When the Griswolds accidentally win the grand prize on the "Pig in a poke" TV show, a trip to Europe for all of them, they happily decide to go. But the family's name would not be Griswold if everything went without complication. In London, they see Big Ben and Parliament extensively, but only after Clark learned to drive on the left side by not doing so; in Paris, Rusty's hormones disastrously spring to live; in Germany, the Griswolds visit the wrong relatives and in Italy, the family gets in touch with crime and a videotape that was in the camera that was stolen back in Paris. In addition, Audrey, who is in love with less-caring beau Jack, keeps ringing up the phone bill, Rusty keeps hitting on girls and Ellen keeps keeping them all together when times are bad.
Clark W. Griswald (Chevy Chase), his wife, Ellen (Beverly D'Angelo), and their teenage children, Audrey (Dana Hill) and Rusty (Jason Livey), are contestants on a TV game show called "A Pig In A Poke." After facing off against the eccentric and intellectual Froeger family, the Griswald's win the show's grand prize: a two-week, all-expense-paid European vacation.During a cookout the next day, Audrey does not want to leave her boy friend, Jack, behind. Before they leave, Clark videotapes a provocative striptease performed by his wife.On the plane to London, England, Ellen dreams that she meets Queen Elizabeth and Princess Diana, Audrey has a nightmare of gaining weight from the rich European cuisine, and Rusty dreams of beautiful women fawning over him. Clark dreams of spending time with his family in the Bavarian Alps.Arriving in London, they follow the itinerary provided by the game show, which promises luxury accommodations. However, their hotel room is not up to par. Clark has trouble driving on the opposite side of the road, gets into three car accidents, hitting one man on a bicycle (Eric Idle), and is stuck driving for hours in a roundabout.Sometime later, they take a drive in the countryside and visit Stonehenge, and Clark reverses his car into the rock installations, knocking them over like dominoes, as he drives away.Next, the Griswald's arrive in Paris, France, and a local man steals Clark's video camera after he offers to take a family photograph. Clark buys everyone berets with their names on them. They have lunch at a local cafe where the waiter insults them in French, knowing that they are tourists and cannot understand the French language.During the day, The family visits the Eiffel Tower. Later, they race through the Louvre museum in 15 minutes, and Ellen pleads with Clark to slow down their tour. Audrey is distraught when she receives a break-up letter from Jack.The family drives to Germany to visit Clark's distant relatives, Fritz and Helga. They arrive at the wrong home, however, and fail to realize the elderly couple are not Fritz and Helga. The German couple do not speak English, but welcome the Griswalds to dinner, and allow them to spend the night. The family leaves the next day, thinking they had a nice visit with their family.At a German festival, Rusty meets a local girl named Claudia (Claudia Neidig). After kissing her, she shows him her breasts. Elsewhere, Clark wears a Bavarian costume and joins performers on stage where he participates in a traditional dance. Clark accidentally incites a riot, and the family flees as an angry mob pursues. They board a train for Rome, Italy, but lose their luggage in the process.Meanwhile, two criminals hold up a Rome traveler's check office, and tie-up the shopkeeper. When Clark arrives to reclaim his lost traveler's checks, the lead criminal (Victor Lanoux) pretend they work in the shop, and give him three times the amount he lost. Additionally, they provide him with a rental car, in which they have hidden the shopkeeper in the trunk. The thieves secretly follow the Griswalds around Rome. The family buys extravagant Italian clothes, and later, the teens demand some time away from their parents. Ellen sees a billboard with a suggestive photograph of her on it, and realizes it came from the stolen video camera. She is furious with Clark for not erasing the provocative videotape as promised. The family goes their separate ways, and the criminals follow Ellen, who drives off with the hostage in the trunk.Elsewhere, Rusty meets an American girl (Moon Zappa) and flirts with her, while Audrey attempts to purchase a ticket home to salvage her relationship with Jack.Meanwhile, Ellen proceeds to get drunk at the hotel bar, and is joined by the lead thief, whom she recognizes from the travelers check shop. Believing him to be the shopkeeper, she regales him with her marital woes. When she goes to her hotel room, the man follows, and tries to seduce her. Ellen fights him off, and picks up the telephone to call police, but he holds a gun to her head and kidnaps her. As the thief escorts her out of the hotel, Ellen sees her daughter in the lobby, and throws her the keys to the car. Audrey realizes something is amiss, and when her father arrives, they chase Ellen and her kidnapper. Clark and Audrey race through the streets of Rome. As Clark crashes along the narrow streets, he sees Rusty and his new girl friend, who get into the automobile. When he gets a flat tire, Clark opens the truck and finds the bound shopkeeper inside.In mid-pursuit, Clark takes a nearby bicycle and chases after Ellen. He jumps into the convertible and the kidnapper crashes into a fountain. The thief is arrested, Ellen embraces Clark, and the Griswalds happily return to America. But in the final scene as the plane arrives over New York City, Clark accidentally stumbles into the cockpit and knocks the pilot down which the plane nose dives and knocks the torch of the Statue of Liberty over.
