A stalwart Spanish soldier turns to a life of crime to prove his love for a mysterious and promiscuous gypsy woman.
In 19th century Spain, young sergeant Don José falls in-love with beautiful gypsy girl Conchita who works inside the military fort in a small workshop. There she gets in a fight with another woman and tries to stab her with a knife. Arrested, she is entrusted to Don José who must escort her to the police station in town. However, clever Conchita gives Don José the slip. Because of her escape, he is demoted to private and must pull additional guard duty. One night, Conchita shows up at the fort to see Don José who's on guard duty. While she apologizes to him and seduces him, she also distracts his attention from a small group of smugglers who enter the fort. Don José is furious and goes to see Conchita at her friend's place. Unfortunately, Conchita is there with a gentleman lover, an officer. In a fit of jealousy, Don José loses his head and punches the officer who falls and dies. Don José deserts the army and runs away with Conchita. She takes him to a gypsy camp where many smugglers live. Conchita and Don José plan to save money and board passage on a ship bound for a new life in America. In the camp appears one man, former Lt. Miguel Garcia, who has just been released from prison. A shocked Don José learns that Miguel Garcia is Conchita's husband. He refuses however to see that Conchita is a lying, manipulative woman who has many secret lovers and who uses all of them. Nevertheless, Conchita gets a servant's job in the household of a rich Englishman from Gibraltar. She finds out that her employer plans to transport a lot of gold and money, via stagecoach, to the bank in another town. Conchita, her husband Miguel Garcia and Don José hatch a plan to ambush the stagecoach and rob it. Don José insists that no weapons should be used, because the penalty for murder is death. In principle, they all agree but Miguel Garcia is armed for any eventuality. The plan goes ahead without any problems up to the point where they transfer the chest with gold to their horses. After that, things start going bad.
When stalwart Spanish soldier Don Jose meets the stunningly beautiful Carmen, he becomes instantly obsessed with the mysterious gypsy woman. After discovering she has cheated on him with his Lieutenant, Jose kills the officer during a brawl and flees the city. Forced to become a bandit, Jose partners with Carmen's villainous husband Garcia to rob a stagecoach and prove his love for the seductive femme fatale. Also known as WITH DJANGO COMES DEATH, this unique 'Spaghetti Western' based on Prosper Merimee's novella Carmen was co-written and directed by Luigi Bazzoni and beautifully lensed by Academy Award-winning cinematographer Vittorio Storaro.
