Photographer Grif Henderson is assigned a photo shoot in Paris. He decides to take his wife Jenny and his hippie son Davey with him on the shoot. Jenny unknowingly rents a house that belongs to a French lawyer. She must fend off his charms and stay true to Grif, while he likewise tries to stay true to her on the shoot.
Comedy movie starring James Garner and Debbie Reynolds, Garner plays a photographer who brings his wife, Jenny, and teenage son, David, along on a Paris shoot, with both husband and wife struggling to stay faithful under extreme temptation. The film was written by Muriel Resnik (from her novel The Girl in the Turquoise Bikini), Garry Marshall, and Jerry Belson, and directed by Jerry Paris. Jimmy Webb wrote the title song, and Patrick Williams scored the sound track.
Married couple Grif and Jenny Henderson of New Rochelle, New York, enjoy getting reacquainted with each other in the biblical sense after his returns from business trips, he a magazine photographer. One thing they don't agree on is the maturity of their fifteen year old budding flower child son, Davey Henderson, who wants to spend a month in Europe following his girlfriend, Linda "Bootsie" Wax - the daughter of Grif's boss, Haskell Wax - who will be on a girls' only student tour. While Grif sees the trip as a passage into manhood for Davey and is thus willing to let him go, Jenny still sees Davey solely as her baby. Although Grif doesn't like it, he has no choice but agree to what Jenny and Bootsie's mother Vera Wax concoct as a compromise: that Grif cover the tour photographically for the magazine, with Davey as his assistant. Placing her on a strict budget, Grif allows Jenny to come along, she who will rent a house on the French Riviera during the span of the tour, the house where the family will convene for another month after the tour is over. All three will accompany the tour directly from New York, which includes a ten day trans-Atlantic cruise before Grif and Davey part company with Jenny in Paris to go their separate ways for the month. With Grif supposedly acting as chaperon for his son, Davey and Bootsie will test if they truly do believe in the flower child concept of free love. Being separated for the month, Grif and Jenny will also test the strength of their marriage as possible European temptations come into their path, and as Grif, who desires his wife, still wants the rest of the world solely to see her as a middle aged housewife. The temptations for Grif and Jenny respectively are Nancy Leigh, the nubile young guide of the student group, and suave Parisian lawyer Phillipe Maspere, who is as renowned for his womanizing ways as he is for his skills as a lawyer.

