An average television repairman must care for the newborn triplets of his former hometown sweetheart, now a famous movie star, so her career will not suffer.
About the only thing kept in this film from Preston Sturges original story for "The Miracle of Morgan's Creek" is a girl that gets drunk, gets married, gets pregnant and doesn't even remember any of it. A major difference is that "The Miracle of Morgan's Creek" was a classic comedy and "Rock-a-Bye Baby" isn't. This time out, Clayton Poole is a small town TV repairman who is still in love with his former hometown sweetheart, Carla Naples, who is now a famous movie queen. When Carla becomes pregnant due to a hasty marriage in Mexico, which she has forgotten about, the studio tells her a baby will ruin her career so she turns to Clayton, the only person she can trust, and he agrees to care for the baby when it is born. Carla gives birth to triplets and Clayton finds he must get married before he can adopt them. He marries Sandy, Carla's younger sister who has always loved him. The press learns about Carla's triplets and she tells reporters she is secretly married to Clayton. Clayton, having rapidly gone from no wife and kids to two wives and three kids, goes into hiding. He returns after several months---nine to be exact for those old biddies who are counting---and learns that Sandy has given birth to quintuplets.
Carla Naples ran away from her small town life, her small town family, and a small town boy with a crush on her to become a big star. But while on a shoot in Mexico she got secretly married and turns up pregnant with no proof of marriage her agent suggests a little bit of help keeping her babies and keeping them secret, he suggests family but Carla knows there's only one person who'll do anything for her and that's small town crush Clayton Pool. Carla's little sister has had a crush on Clayton as long as Clayton has had a crush on Carla. Clayton agrees to find the baby on his doorstep and keep it for Carla until....
Carla fails to tell him it's not one baby, but three..and the laughs go on from there.
