After a boiler explosion aboard an aging ocean liner, a man struggles to free his injured wife from the wreckage of their cabin and ensure the safety of their four-year-old daughter as the ship begins to sink.
Cliff Henderson and his family are traveling aboard the SS Claridon en route to Japan. The Claridon is an old ship, on its last voyage before heading to the scrap heap. An explosion in the engine room weakens the hull and the ship is now taking on more water than the bilge pumps can deal with. The Captain seems to have difficulty accepting that his ship will sink. Henderson's wife Laurie is severely injured and trapped under a fallen beam. While the men in the engine room work frantically to shore up the hull, Henderson tries to free his wife from the wreckage with the help of one of the crew, Hank Lawson.
The SS Claridon, an ocean liner, is on its fifth to last voyage, this time en route to Japan across the Pacific, before it is decommissioned and sent to the scrap yard. Among the passengers is the Henderson family - husband and wife Cliff and Laurie Henderson and their adolescent daughter Jill - who are moving to Japan for Cliff's job. The passengers are generally unaware that a fire has simultaneously broken out in the engine room and one of the currently unused dining rooms. The crew is able to contain the fires without needing to inform the passengers. But the crew eventually learns that the fires were the result of malfunctioning aged equipment. As they rush to fix what they now know is a ticking time bomb with the equipment, they are too late as while they are mid-ocean, an explosion occurs in the boiler room, causing a massive hole to be ripped out mid-ship, including through the Henderson's cabin. Captain Robert Adams, who seems to be working toward his own agenda, has to decide what to do, he getting conflicting advice from his officers and crew. The problems for him are surveying and dealing with the damage, assessing and dealing with what potential damage may still occur - the main initial problem seeming to be that one of the bulk heads may burst, which may cause the ship to sink if it does - not causing mass hysteria among the passengers, and if they do decide to abandon ship, weighing the dangers involved doing it mid-ocean. All the while, Cliff has to get both Laurie and Jill out of precarious situations with little help from other passengers or crew, he too who may have to make some difficult life and death decisions for himself and his family.
The S. S. Claridon is scheduled for her five last voyages after thirty-eight years of service. After an explosion in the boiler room, Captain Robert Adams is reluctant to evacuate the steamship. While the crew fights to hold a bulkhead between the flooded boiler room and the engine room and avoid the sinking of the vessel, the passenger Cliff Henderson struggles against time trying to save his beloved wife Laurie Henderson, who is trapped under a steel beam in her cabin, with the support of the crew member Hank Lawson.

