A serial murderer is strangling women with a necktie. The London police have a suspect, but he is the wrong man.
London is terrorized by a vicious sex killer known as The Necktie Murderer. Following the brutal slaying of his ex-wife, down-on-his-luck Richard Blaney is suspected by the police of being the killer. He goes on the run, determined to prove his innocence.
In London, a serial killer is raping women and then strangling them with a necktie. When the reckless and low-class with a bad temper bartender Richard Blaney is fired from the pub Global Public House by the manager Felix Forsythe, he decides to visit his ex-wife Brenda, who owns a successful marriage agency. Her secretary Miss Barling overhears an argument of the couple, and Brenda invites Richard to have dinner with her in a fancy restaurant. Then she put some money in his overcoat and does not tell him to avoid his embarrassment with the situation. Meanwhile, Richard's friend Bob Rusk visits Brenda in her office, rapes her, and kills her with his necktie. When Richard finds the money in his pocket, he visits Brenda, but finds the agency closed. Then he goes with his girlfriend Babs Milligan to an expensive hotel. Miss Barling sees Richard leaving the building and finds her boss strangled. She calls New Scotland Yard and Richard becomes the prime suspect. When Bob kills Babs, he frames Richard, who is arrested and sentenced to life. But Chief Inspector Oxford, who was in charge of the investigation is not absolutely sure that Richard is the serial killer.
Life for Richard Blaney has taken a downward turn since his days as a commended R.A.F. squadron leader. After ten years, his marriage to Brenda Blaney ended, she, in the intervening two years, who went on to become a successful business owner of her own matrimonial service. They have, however, remained on good, albeit distant terms despite the divorce petition, the abuse listed within, which was made-up and agreed to, on both sides, to expedite the divorce. He lives from paycheck to paycheck, those which end when he is fired, somewhat unfairly, from his job as a barman at a Covent Garden pub. With that job goes his shelter, as the job came with a room above the pub. A small measure of what can go wrong will go wrong when he doesn't even have enough money to make a sure thing bet on a twenty to one horse, that lead, which came in, provided to him by his friend from the pub, Covent Garden produce wholesaler Bob Rusk. The only seemingly bright spot in his current life is the mutual devotion between him and Babs Milligan, a barmaid at the pub. These events have made him an angry man, manifested by a temper which he is no longer ashamed to display in public. When he's already down, his life gets arguably as worse as it can when evidence arises pointing him to being a serial murderer, the so-called "Necktie Murders", which are characterized by the young female victims being raped before they are strangled to death by a necktie, which the murderer leaves tied around the victim. The lead investigator for New Scotland Yard is Chief Inspector Oxford, who has no other suspects before Richard comes to his attention following the discovery of the latest victim. Richard, who knows the police are after him, needs to elude them. He has to decide who to trust, him making a mistake in this realm which could make his situation worse, or worse yet, get him killed at the hands of the true murderer.
Covent Garden wholesale fruit merchant Bob Rusk is an impotent serial killer who strangles women with a necktie. One of his victims is Brenda Blaney, the ex-wife of his best friend, Richard Blaney, who becomes a prime suspect. Fearing discovery, Rusk kills Blaney's girlfriend, a barmaid, and Blaney is arrested. Escaping from jail, Blaney is followed by the police to Rusk's flat, where he's headed to seek revenge for his wrongful conviction of the crimes.
There is a serial killer working the streets in London raping and strangling women with a neck tie, the last of whom is discovered floating in the Thames. Richard Blaney (Jon Finch), a disillusioned former Royal Air Force officer working as a bartender, has just been fired for drinking on the job and is seeking career-direction with his bar-maid girlfriend Babs Milligan (Anna Massey). As Blaney hits the streets in search of another job he wanders to Covent Garden Market to chat with his friend Bob Rusk (Barry Foster), a local fruit dealer, to figure out what he will do. The police are clueless to the culprit in the ongoing crime and working on a solution casually speaking with Rusk whose sarcasm offsets the serious tone of the authorities. After having too many glasses of brandy, Blaney goes to see his ex-wife Brenda Blaney (Barbara Leigh-Hunt) whose matrimonial agency is moderately successful at putting people together. Brenda takes Blaney to dinner and surreptitiously puts money in his pockets which he discovers as he is sleeping the night at the local Salvation Army. When Brenda is raped and strangled by the necktie murderer the police suspect Blaney and a manhunt led by Chief Inspector Oxford (Alec McCowen) is initiated for him. Inspector Oxford seems to be experiencing his own form of gastronomical torture in his marriage with a wife experimenting in gourmet cooking by using her husband as a test subject. As the net tightens and the police eventually capture Blaney, suspicions arise in Oxford's mind about the possible true culprit.
