A mad scientist and his bevy of vampires terrorize a German village. A detective and a witch set out to stop them.
A European village is alarmed by a number of unexplained deaths that the local police are unable to solve. The authorities call in Inspector Doren of Interpol, and the only clue the Chief Constable can give the detective is the fact that, each time a murder was committed, the electric lights in the whole neighborhood went out. The locals believe that the killings of the young girls are linked to the vague shadows in the caves under the local castle and to the mysterious Curse of the Green Eyes. They distrust the inspector and offer no assistance when still another murder takes place at the village inn---in the room next to that occupied by the inspector---and the body disappears. There are many suspects: the chattering innkeeper; the mysterious Professor Adelsberg; his manservant John ; the deaf-and-dumb Tom; and the inscrutable doctor, who has been issuing strange death certificates. Doren moves to the castle, where Professor Adelsberg is carrying out some scientific studies. There he meets the Professor's pretty assistant Karin. She is marked as the next victim.
While he's supposed to be on vacation, Inspector Frank Dorin [Adrian Hoven] is sent
to investigate the deaths of six women. In all cases, the village doctor [Carl Mohner]
has ruled the deaths as natural (heart failure), and the only thing
suspicious is 1) they were all between the ages of 18 and 22, and 2) each
death was accompanied by a one-hour blackout of all electrical power in
the village. On the inspector's first night in the village, his car goes
dead, his flashlight battery dies, he meets Karin Schumann [Karin Field] who is working
as a secretary to Professor von Adelsberg [Wolfgang Preiss] who is conducting blood research
in the castle on the hill, the Professor's assistant Maria is murdered in the room next to
his at the inn, his infrared viewer is stolen from his car by the village deaf guy,
Thomas [Emmerich Schrenk], and he learns of the local superstition about vampires
living in the nearby grottoes.The next morning, on the advice of the innkeeper, Inspector Dorin
goes to see Old Nanny , the village witch. Nanny tells him that the
vampires were forced by a curse into the grottoes over 200 years ago and
that each night they come forth at midnight for one hour minus one minute
looking for blood. Nanny gives Dorin a cross to protect him from the
vampires and a bag of powdered thorns from mountain roses picked at full
bloom on Walpurgisnacht, which will reverse the curse of vampirism if
sprinkled on a freshly-made wound.After his visit with Old Nanny, Dorin is visited by the Professor's manservant
John [John Kitzmiller], who invites him to come and stay at the castle. Dorin
accepts, but first he investigates the grottoes, with John accompanying
him. Other than some loose stalagtites, their search reveals nothing. Upon
returning from the caves, Dorin gets a message from headquarters
instructing him to get a blood test on Maria. Unfortunately, she has
reawakened as a vampire, and her body has disappearedThat night, Dorin moves over to the castle and is pleased to be
greeted by Karin. Later, as Karin changes into her nightgown and prepares
for bed, she notices for the first time that the professor opens locked
doors and casts no reflection in her mirror. As Dorin sleeps, two
vampiresses enter his room through a secret passage behind a large
picture, but they are thwarted by Nanny's cross around his neck.The next morning, Dorin notices the picture, which opens up to reveal
a passage into the caves. Before he gets a chance to explore it, however,
the police drop by to inform him that Maria's body has been found at the
bottom of a well. This allows the doctor to get his blood sample, which
Nanny pours on a snake. The snake dies, and Nanny acclaims it as proof of
vampire blood. Today is also Karin's last day working for the professor.
When she gives him her resignation, he asks her to do one last thing--run
down to the crypt and bring up an old bible.On her way down...down...down the spider-ridden passage to the crypt,
a gate suddenly swings shut, and Karin is trapped. Fortunately, John
notices that Karin has vanished, tells Dorin, and Dorin goes looking for
her. In making their way out of the crypt, they happen upon a coffin that
looks recently slept in and contains a book of instructions for vampires.
As they read the book, the doctor arrives with the news that Maria's body
has disappeared again and that the power is out to the whole village. They
search for Maria's body but find nothing, so they send Karin back to the
castle while they continue to search.Along the way back to the castle, Karin is attacked by Maria. Her
screams bring Dorin and the doctor running, but it is too late.
Fortunately, Dorin remembers Nanny's antivampire powder, sprinkles it on
Karin's wounds, and she is saved. Nanny then gives Dorin a stake and
hammer and explains how to use them on the Master in order to free the
village of the vampires' curse. The doctor and the villagers search the
village while Dorin, John, and Karin (with her shirt open and black bra
showing) search the grottoes. They find the professor lying in his coffin
and easily stake him. As he bursts into flames, Maria dies again and Dorin
gives Karin his jacket to cover up her bra. As John carries Maria's body
out of the grotto, he turns back to Dorin and says, "Vampires...I do
believe!"Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl
