A bickering couple driving cross-country pick up a murderous hitchhiker who threatens to kill them unless they take him to a sanctuary. In return he agrees to split some bank loot he has on him.
Walter Mancini is a egostical newspaper editor whom is driving across California with his spiteful wife, Eve, on a weekend getaway to save their troubled marriage. But things take a turn when they pick up a straded motorist, named Adam, whom takes them hostage revealing himself to be a fugitive running from both the police and his two acomplices after robbing a bank and making off with all the loot. But things are not always as they seem as Walter and Eve try to find a way to not only get rid of their unwanted car guest, but find a way to deal with each other when both see the tempting offer of the stolen $2 million in cash Adam always has on him.
Somewhere in northern California, Walter Mancini (Franco Nero), an alcoholic reporter, and his spitful wife Eve (Corrine Clery) are on a road trip with a trailer heading back to Los Angeles. Their marriage is strained over their long conflict over Walter's drinking, and Eve's suspected infidelity. During an overnight stay at a local campground, Walter gets a little too roudy with some of the other campers and breaks his left hand.The next day, as Eve is driving with Walter along a deserted two-lane road, they pick up a hitch-hiker (David Hess) whose car has just broken down. The hitchhiker introduces himself as Adam Konitz and he intially asks them to drive him to the nearist gas station so he can get to a phone to call a tow truck for his car. When Eve and Walter protest over driving their guest over a long distance, Konitz pulls out a gun on them and reveals himself to be a sadistic escapee from an institution for the criminally insane, and he is running from the law after robbing two million dollars from a bank in a nearby town with his partners. Holding the couple hostage, he orders Eve to head to Mexico. They are soon stopped by two policemen for speeding. After Walter attempts to signal them by writing "SOS" on his matchbox, Konitz shoots them both. He threatens to kill both of them if they pull another half-baked stunt like that again.While the three stop for the night off the road, Konitz's two partners, whom he had betrayed to get all the loot for himself, shoot at Konitz and take control of the money and the car. They decide to keep the Mancinis alive until reaching the Mexican border. While driving, they are attacked by someone in a truck. The attacker turns out to be Konitz who kills his former associates and again takes the Mancinis hostage. After they reach a secluded place, Konitz rapes Eve and forces Walter to watch the act. As Konitz gets ready to kill Walter, Eve shoots and kills him with Walter's hunting rifle.Despite Eve's opposition, Walter decides to keep the $2 million for themselves instead of going to the police. After four young motorcyclists the couple meet at a gas station pass them and pour oil on the road, the Mancinis' car goes off the road and crashes. One of the youngsters steals Walter's wallet and Eve's purse taking $200 in cash from it and leaves the couple in their wrecked car for death. But the thugs leave the suitcase on the back seat untouched (they do not know about the stolen cash in it). After the road thieves ride away, Walter wakes up and sees that Eve is badly hurt and she requests help from Walter. Walter brings Konitz's body from their trailer and plants it on the accident scene. He then tells the dying Eve that the thieves had only helped him. He had planned to stop after 15 to 20 miles, kill her and make it look like an accident. The sadistic Walter lights up a cigarette and sets the car and the trailer on fire. Eve is burned to death. Walter starts walking and, hearing a car come by, thumbs a ride.
