Retired performer Mike Morgan sells original illusions to fellow magicians, and although he believes in the supernatural, likes to expose sham psychics. This involves him in some mysterious murders.
Mike Morgan creates the illusions that magicians use in their shows. While his business is Miracles for Sale, his hobby is exposing fake spiritualists. At the club, he is invited to attend the calling from the other world by Sabbatt, but Judy wants Mike to help her instead. Later that night, after spoiling an attempt on the life of Judy, and meeting Madame Rapport, Mike goes to Sabbatt's hotel only to find the doors chained from the inside and a strange voice speaking. Busting in, he finds Sabbatt strangled. While there seems to be no way for anyone from this world to commit the murder, it is only the first murder. Mike must find the how and why before Judy becomes the third and final victim.
Magician Mike Morgan has largely left his on-stage career behind him to develop illusions for sale to other magicians. While he respects his profession and the use of magic to entertain, he does whatever he can to expose charlatans who use illusions to trick innocent people for their own personal gain at the expense of their victims. Although Mike does believe in psychic powers, he mostly tries to expose fake psychics. One evening, he is approached by a young woman named Judy Barclay who wants him to dissuade a female psychic, a fake, from continuing in her work. Judy seems truly frightened about something, which she seems not to want to divulge, and which probably includes the reason for this task. Before Judy can even tell him who this psychic is, Judy and Mike get involved in a murder of a person associated to both of them. The long list of suspects include many of Mike's own magician clients, as well as many in the psychic world. As Mike tries to uncover the truth behind the murder, someone seems to be trying to kill Judy, who Mike believes is an innocent bystander to all the evening's goings-on. Mike also believes these attempts on Judy's life are because the murderer thinks she knows something that could implicate him/her for the murder. Mike now has the associated task of trying to protect Judy. Even Mike, who is considered the best in his business, may not be able to figure out what is real and what is illusion with regard to this murder. Being the best, he also can use illusions in trying to expose the murderer.

