A group of disparate travelers are caught and thrown together in a posh Alpine hotel when the borders are closed at the beginning of World War II.
When song-and-dance man Harry Van returns from World War I, he finds work hard to come by. His greatest success comes as straight man in a phony vaudeville mind-reading act with the tipsy Madame Zulieka. While on tour in Omaha he meets acrobat Irene Fellara, and they have a brief romance. Twenty years later while Harry is on tour in Europe with a troupe of leggy blonde dancers, his train is stopped at the Swiss border and he finds himself stranded in the Alps in anticipation of World War II hostilities. Harry and his chorines take refuge in an Alpine hotel with a group of disparate travelers who are also marooned there. Among them are an American pacifist, British newlyweds, a cancer researcher, a German munitions manufacturer, and a beautiful blonde expatriate Russian aristocrat who looks suspiciously like the Irene of two decades earlier.
The Great War has disrailed what was the promising pre-war performing career of ladies' man Harry Van. Upon his decommission following the war, the best he can find is a mind reading act with dipsomaniac Madame Zuleika, who is often drunk on stage. That act and Harry are one step up for a young woman named Irene, an acrobat on the same one-week vaudeville bill in Omaha as Harry and Madame Zuleika. Irene is as attracted to Harry as she is about becoming exotically rich and famous. She tells Harry not only of her dreams and aspirations but also fantastical stories about her past, which Harry knows are lies. After their one week stint, they part company heading in opposite directions, but not before a mutual romantic interest in the other is declared. Fast forward twenty years. Harry is traveling through Europe with his latest act, a song and dance troupe called Harry Van and Les Blondes. On the day they are scheduled to cross the border into Switzerland for a stint in Geneva, they along with everyone else are stopped from crossing the border because of what looks to be the imminent onset of another great war. They take refuge in a mountaintop hotel whose other stranded guests include wealthy munitions dealer Achille Weber and his exotic and seemingly wealthy Russian socialite traveling companion, who looks remarkably like Irene. After talking to her, Harry is almost certain that she is Irene as her background is as Irene had described both her own made-up background and her dream future. But this woman does not acknowledge knowing or ever meeting Harry, or that she is the Irene that he knows. As war is indeed declared, war related actions of those at the hotel may bring into certainty whether she is indeed his Irene and what the immediate future holds for her.

