Inspired by fairy-tales such as Alice in Wonderland and Little Red-Riding Hood, "Valerie and her Week of Wonders" is a surreal tale in which love, fear, sex and religion merge into one fantastic world.
A thief awakens Valerie, just 13, taking earrings left to her by her mother. By morning, the earrings have been returned, Valerie's first period has begun, and a troupe and a missionary have arrived in her 19th century town. The thief is Orick; he reports to a cloaked constable who may also be the missionary. Attention to sexuality is everywhere: Valerie's grandmother's puritanical nature, the missionary's sermon to the town's virgins, the parish priest's attempt to seduce Valerie, and lusty adults at play. Valerie's nascent sexuality puts her in great danger. Can she navigate the passage from innocence to experience, a route teaming with vampires, a murderer, and an obscure family tree?
Valerie [Jaroslava Schallerová] has just come of age with her first bleeding. Babischka [Helena Anyzová] says
that it's time to put away her magic earrings and attend to the
missionaries who are coming to town. Valerie, however, is more interested
in the performers who have arrived for Hedvica's wedding. As the
celebrators pass below her dining room window, Valerie sees a "monster," a
masked man whose face changes from human to a nosferatu-like vampire. Even
Babischka pales when she sets eyes on him.Now Valerie begins to see the vampire everywhere. He is the Bishop,
he is the Constable, he is her boyfriend Orlik's guardian, he is the
Weasel, he is Babischka's lover Richard. Babischka wishes to be young
again so that Richard will find her beautiful, so she signs away her house
(Valerie's inheritance) in return for a drink of Hedvica's blood on her
wedding night. Babischka then shows up as Valerie's second cousin Elsa,
young, beautiful, and vampire. When Valerie learns that the Vampire is
dying and must have blood, she steals a chicken and feeds him the blood
off her lips.A visiting priest, another of Babischka's lovers, tells
Valerie that her father was also Orlik's father, which greatly disturbs
Valerie to find that she and Orlik are brother and sister, but she is more
disturbed when the priest attempts to seduce her, so upset in fact that
she kills herself with her magic earrings. The priest then kills himself
but comes back to life. The priest convinces the town that Valerie
bewitched him, so the townsfolk tie Valerie to a stake and set her on
fire, but her magic earrings save her.Suddenly, Babischka is back. She reveals to Valerie a story about how
her lover Richard had two children with Valerie's mother (of which Valerie
is one, of course) just as a carriage drives up and Valerie's parents get
out. A hunter kills a weasel which has been eating the chickens, and much
merriment ensues as the whole town turns up to celebrate. The story ends
with Valerie asleep in a bed in the middle of the forest. [Synopsis by bj_kuehl]
