A meek pharmacist creates an alternate identity under which he plans to murder the bullying liquor salesman who has become his wife's lover.
A mousy drugstore manager turns killer after his conniving wife leaves him for another man. He devises a complex plan, which involves assuming a new identity, to make it look like someone else murdered her new boyfriend. Things take an unexpected turn when someone else commits the murder first and he becomes the prime suspect.
Warren Quimby, mad about his beautiful but unfaithful wife, Claire, plans to murder her lover, Barney Deager. He creates another identity so that when he commits the murder he will not be suspected. He is painstakingly precise in every detail of his plan, even to becoming friendly with Deager's neighbor, Mary Chandler. But when Warren, as Paul, falls in love with Mary, he is appalled that the could have even comprehending his planned action. And, then, Deager is actually murdered.
The timid pharmacist Warren Quimby works hard in the night shift of a drugstore to give a good life to his promiscuous wife Claire Quimby. When Claire leaves him to live with her lover, the liquor salesman Barney Deager, Warren plots a scheme to kill Barney. He creates a new identity of a man called Paul Sothern and moves during the weekends to an apartment, telling that he is a traveling salesman to explain the absence along the week. He creates evidences that Paul Sothern wants to get rid off Barney, but soon he falls in love with his next door neighbor Mary Chanler. One night, he goes to the Barney's house by Malibu beach but he gives up killing him; instead he tells Barney that he will divorce Claire. He goes home to move to Mary's apartment but out of the blue, Claire returns and tells that Barney was murdered. When Lieutenants Collier Bonnabel and Edgar Gonsales come to his apartment, Warren provides alibi to Claire. However the smart Lieutenant Bonnabel proceeds his investigation and finds that Warren Quimby and Paul Sothern are the same man and Warren is arrested. Will Bonnabel finds the truth?

