Dr. Noah Praetorius falls in love with Debra, a student who finds out that she is pregnant by her old boyfriend.
Successful and well-liked, Dr. Noah Praetorius becomes the victim of a witch hunt at the hands of Professor Elwell, who disdains Praetorius's unorthodox medical views and also questions his relationship with the mysterious, ever-present Mr. Shunderson. Fuel is added to the fire when Praetorius befriends young Deborah Higgins, who has become suicidal at the prospect of having a baby by her ex boyfriend, a military reservist who was called up for service in the Korean War and killed in action.
Dr. Noah Praetorius (Cary Grant) is a successful and extremely gifted gynaecologist, a popular university professor and conductor of the student symphony orchestra. He is often regarded as a genius and considers life is the only real priority. Noah's constant companion is Mr. Shunderson, a quiet, mysterious old man; many believe he is Noah's "bat" or manservant (Finlay Currie). Noah says Mr. Shunderson is his friend. A lovely student nurse, Deborah Higgins,(Jeanne Crain) is ill during one of Noah's university classes; Noah treats her at his private clinic. Deborah is in love with Noah. When they learn that Deborah is pregnant, she tries to commit suicide; she is single and cannot tell her father. Arthur Higgins (Sidney Blackmer) is a dreamer, a man who believes his greatest contribution to life is Deborah. Before Noah realizes it himself, he falls in love with Deborah. So, Noah tells her she is not pregnant; then he marries her. Noah's best friend, Professor Lionel Barker (Walter Slezak) worries about his friend; Noah's success, both financial and professional, makes him the source of envy of many, including the nasty little Professor Rodney Elwell (Hume Cronyn). Noah has the genius to make sick people well and relies equally upon faith and the science of medicine to achieve amazing miracles. Noah believes medicine is much more than "pills, serums and knives."
Dr. Noah Praetorius is a practicing gynecologist, he with his own medical clinic, and a university professor. He is a bit of a Renaissance man, conducting the university's student and faculty orchestra. He is also a controversial figure in the world of medicine. His controversial belief, subscribed to by some and vehemently denounced by others, is that medicine is not merely a technical science, but an emotional one, where the well being of patients is in large part dependent upon their mental state. For example, at his medical clinic, patients are not to be awaken by staff at some prescribed meal time. One of his latest patients is Deborah Higgins, who seems to be suffering under some personal issues. Dr. Praetorius feels that he has to get to the bottom of these issues if he is to help Deborah fully from her medical issues. But he may not be able to help Deborah or any other patient if Rodney Elwell, one of Dr. Praetorius' fellow university professors and one of his detractors, has his way. Elwell plans on mounting a case against Dr. Praetorius to a university disciplinary board. Part of Elwell's case is trying to find information about Mr. Shunderson, Praetorius' constant and mysterious elderly companion.

