Two travelers are tormented by Satan from inn to inn and eventually experience a buggy ride through the heavens courtesy of the Devil.
Two travelers are tormented by Satan from inn to inn and eventually experience a buggy ride through the heavens courtesy of the Devil before he takes one of them down to Hell and roasts him on a spit.
It begins with a scientist and his assistant who visit mysterious Alcofrisbas's laboratory. His lab looks like a circus from inside and then, together with other helpers he shows the scientists his magic white balls. If you throw those magic balls to the floor, then you must imagine what would you like to have and it appears in the white smoke. Scientists are impressed, but the refuse to sign a special contract with Alcofrisbas. They take one box of white balls and leave. At the moment when they go, Alcofrisbas transforms into a devil and the others becomes and evil demons. When scientists, who took the balls come home, they make a big train and go for ride around the town, together with family, but unfortunately, the train crashes on the bridge and the only survivors are scientist and his assistant. They go into the inn to sleep, but then slaves take their demolished train. When they are inside the inn, two black imps arrive and start to creep them away. Suddenly, all the inn is full of running cooks, demons... Scientist and assistant want to escape with an old coach, but the devil transforms it into a skeleton horse ride. George Melies himself made a name - Skiddo-Horse. Then a coach takes them for a ride trough heaven and hell, space and sky, mountains and clouds, until they all fall trough a hole in the clouds and the scientist and assistant lands in a house full of friendly slaves. They try to help the scientist, but then the devil returns and push him down in hell where they boil him and at the end they probably eat him.
The British engineer, William Crackford, arrives at the mystic alchemist Alcofrisbas' private laboratory to witness firsthand his immense powers. Before long, the excited but unsuspecting man will leave the mysterious place with a promise to make a trip around the world, a handful of wish-granting magical pills, and an eternal contract to unknowingly sell his immortal soul to the Devil. As the Crackford's begin their magical, yet bizarre journey to the wonders of the world, pretty soon, it will be clear that behind their cruel adventure is none other than the evil Mephistopheles himself, who is already heading straight to hell. Is there a way out from the Underworld?

