A young college student arrives in a sleepy Massachusetts town to research witchcraft; during her stay at an eerie inn, she discovers a startling secret about the town and its inhabitants.
A young coed (Nan Barlow) uses her winter vacation to research a paper on witchcraft in New England. Her professor recommends that she spend time in a small village named Whitewood. He originally came from the village , he also recommends she stay at the "Raven's Inn," run by a Mrs. Newlis. When she arrives at Whitewood, she notices macabre happenings, Soon, things begin to happen in earnest, and she finds herself "marked" for sacrifice by the undead coven of witches. It seems that the innkeeper is actually the undead spirit of Elizabeth Selwyn, and the "guests" at the inn are the other witches who have come to celebrate the sacrifice on Candalmas Eve. As one of them said when Nan walked away, "HE will be PLEASED."
On 3 March 1692, in Whitewood, Massachusetts, the witch Elizabeth Selwyn is sentenced to be burned at the stake, and her partner Jethrow Keane asks Lúcifer to save her. About three hundred years later, the college student Nan Barlow decides to spend her vacation in the town to research witchcraft. Her professor Alan Driscoll suggests Nan to lodge in the Ravens Inn, managed by Mrs. Newless. Once in the village, the naive Nan is advised by the local priest, Reverend Russell, to immediately leave the place, where devil has ruled over for three hundred years, but she decides to stay and find that she is in a coven of evil witches. Nan vanishes, and the granddaughter of Reverend Russell, Patricia Russell, pays a visit to Nan's skeptical brother, Richard Barlow, and her boyfriend Bill Maitland, and they decide to follow her steps. Once in New England, they realize that a group of immortal witches have to sacrifice two beautiful women per year, one on Candleman Eve on February 1st, and the other on the Witch Sabbath, to stay alive forever, and only the shadow of a cross would be able to destroy them.
In 1692, accused witch Elizabeth Selwyn (Patricia Jessel) is burned at the stake in Whitewood Massachusetts. She appeals to compatriot Jethrow Keane (Valentine Dyall) for help, and Lucifer intercedes, causing a rainstorm. Cut to the modern day, where History Professor Alan Driscoll (Christopher Lee) is regaling his class with tales of witchcraft in New England. Student Nan Barlow (Venetia Stevenson) decides to study the subject further, over the objections of boyfriend &amp; fellow-student Bill Maitland (Tom Naylor) and her brother &amp; Science Professor Richard Barlow (Dennis Lotis). Driscoll sends Nan to Whitewood (his hometown it turns out), where she meets Innkeeper Mrs. Newless (Patricia Jessel), Jethrow Keane, a mute servant girl who tries to warn her, the blind local reverend and his granddaughter Patricia Russell (Betta St. John). Nan gets murdered by the coven of witches, Maitland and brother Richard get suspicious and follow up, eventually destroying the coven, which practices human sacrifice in exchange for immortal life. In the end, Mrs Newless is revealed as the charred Elizabeth Selwyn, finally fulfilling her fate to be burned at the stake.
