Based on a true story, this compelling drama relates the difficulties of a young woman married to a Japanese diplomat during World War II, victim of suspicion and animosity from her husband's government.
In 1935, nineteen year old Gwen Harold of Johnson City, Tennessee, is visiting her Aunt Peg and her casual beau Fred Tyson, a low level bureaucrat, in Washington DC. Fred is able to get them an invitation to the Japanese Embassy's annual reception. At that gathering, they meet among others Hidenari Terasaki - called Terry for ease by Americans - the Under Secretary to the Japanese Ambassador. Terry and Gwen start to date, fall in love and decide that they want to get married. The entire process leading to this point has not been easy for either as she has largely hidden their relationship from her family due to the racial divide, and as his diplomatic post makes marrying anyone not Japanese difficult in what are increasingly tense geopolitical times globally. They are able to get married, which only increases the difficulties in their life, especially as Gwen is ill-prepared to accept the patriarchal customs of Japanese society, Terry who is expecting her to be a typical Japanese wife, most specifically while they are in Japan. Their problems are increased exponentially with the events of December 7, 1941. Terry, a Japanese national, is not allowed to stay in the US under the circumstances. Gwen has to decide to follow Terry back to Tokyo, he who she still loves despite their problems, or stay in the relative safety of the US. They now have a young daughter Mako Terasaki to consider, Mako who will face prejudices on both sides. Beyond Terry being sent back to Japan, he has to decide to stay true to his professional obligations and work for the Japanese war effort or stay true to his love for Gwen in not only protecting her and Mako but not work toward killing Americans.
The woman (Carroll Baker) meets Japanese mid level diplomat prior to outbreak of World War II in Washington, DC. They fall in love and get married despite misgivings of ambassador. When he is transferred home, she goes with him. With bumps and starts, she begins to learn Japanese culture. Once again he is sent to DC and she goes along in 1941. There is intrigue throughout the embassy between the war mongers and those, like her husband, who want to keep the peace. December 7, the Day of Infamy, arrives. While the embassy is in talks with the US govt pursuing peace, bombs are dropping in Hawaii.
An exchange of embassy staff between Japan and US is arranged. She and her husband are returned to Japan. They try to settle into "normal" life while she is the American amongst all the Japanese. Heer husband is still among the diplomatic core while he is part of a secret group trying to get to the Emperor to tell him he is being misled by the military into a disastrous war that can't be won.
As the war starts to go badly for the Japanese, the husband sends his American wife to a small village to stay out of sight of the warmongers in Tokyo. Starvation is getting bad and she rarely see him as he works in Tokyo. He is being watched due to his alleged ties with the secret peace seeking group. As U.S. fire bombing campaign gets worse, suspicions are running rampant everywhere. Then the atomic bombs are dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Her husband finally gets to see the emperor who is persuaded to record a speech of surrender. As the military are closing in on the peace group, the record is played on the Tokyo radio, surrendering to the Allies. It's over. The people finally hear the emperor's voice for the first time. The war has ended with millions of lives saved on either side due to the husband and his group.
