In 1900, in Egypt, archaeologist Mark Brandon is asked by Ann Mercedes to find the tomb of Ra-Hotep but their quest is marred by intrigue, betrayal, murder and danger.
Hard-boiled archeologist Mark Brandon is searching for ancient tombs in Egypt when he is approached by beautiful Ann Mercedes, who convinces him to help her fulfill her deceased father's life's ambition - to provide solid proof of the biblical Joseph's travels in ancient Egypt. As an ex-pupil of Ann's father Mark accepts and the two embark on a search for the tomb of the Pharoah Ra Hotep, said to have had some connection with Joseph. The trail to the tomb is fraught with intrigue, betrayal, murder and the possibility that the tomb itself has been emptied of all its artifacts by ancient looters.
Ann Barclay Mercedes wants to continue her father's quest to find tomb of Rah-ho-tep, believing that it may have definite proof of the biblical tale of Joseph in Egypt. He believed that a gold statue he found for sale in London comes from that tomb and the find suggests that the tomb has already been located by someone. Ann enlists the aid of archaeologist Mark Brandon to help her and her husband trace the tomb. They have little success but a dealer in mostly dubious antiquities does seem to provide the information she needs. There are those however who will go to any lengths to prevent them from interfering with their very lucrative black market dealings.
1900 Egypt. Ann Mercedes, the daughter of celebrated and now deceased archaeologist Dr. James Barclay, wants to continue her father's work in discovering proof among the Egyptian ruins to support the stories contained within the Old Testament, most specifically Joseph's existence in Egypt. Her newlywed husband, Franco-Italian Philip Mercedes, supports her in this work due to her passion. Dr. Barclay was close to discovering that evidence, but artifacts from the tomb of the pharaoh Ra-Hotep have been seen in antique stores in Europe, she, like Dr. Barclay believing that tomb is where the evidence lies. The problem for Ann is that the location of the tomb is unknown and the tomb, if discovered, may already be looted of all the evidence for which she is looking. She enlists the help of American Mark Brandon, who knew of Dr. Barclay and who fell into the archaeology of Egypt following his work as a laborer on the Suez Canal project. Despite he not agreeing with Ann's assessment of this tomb containing the evidence for which she is looking, Mark reluctantly agrees to help her due largely to his attraction to her, that agreement before knowing of her marital status. Beyond the issues already stated, they, in their search for the tomb, will have to face the hazards of the desert, the hazards of many of the natives who believe all western archaeology is looting of their history, and arguably the most dangerous and unknown hazard of one of their party being among the looters who already knows the location of the tomb. Through it all, Mark and Ann have to reconcile their growing attraction for each other against the work, Ann who will settle for nothing less than proof of her father being right.
Dr. Barclay was an archeologist in search of proof corroborating the Old Testament - that Joseph was in Egypt and there was one pharaoh who believed in one god. After his death, daughter Ann decided to carry on her father's work and enlisted the help of Barclay's former star pupil Mark Brandon, a rough-edged archeologist famous for his knowledge on both archeology and women.Back tracing her father's last days, Ann and Mark were sure that Ra-Hotep is the pharaoh in question. So Mark, Ann and her devoted husband Philip set out in search for Ra-Hotep's tomb, in the Valley of Kings.It turned out that Philip was working with a grave robber named Hamed Backhour, and was only coming along because they are heading for the same tomb to finish off what they've already started. In a sand storm the caravan was broken up, Philip and Hamed went on to the valley while Mark and Ann traveled days in the desert in search of Philip. During this time, they realised that they have fallen in love with each other.With the assistance of a nomad tribe, Mark and Ann got to Abu Simbel and found more clues about the location of Ra-Hotep's unknown tomb. They also found Philip who had killed Hamed, after Hamed had him trapped in a cave. After Mark got him out, Philip tried to kill him, and ended up falling off the statue and died.The clues led Mark and Ann back to the Valley of Kings, near the tomb of Amenhotep. Inside Ra-Hotep's tomb, Mark and Ann found their proof - a secret chamber resembling a chapel, filled with Christian-themed objects and wall paintings done in Egyptian style; and (now that Philip's no longer in the picture) each other.
