A former policeman sets out to unleash violent vengeance upon deer poachers when they rape and kill his long lost daughter.
The hero of the film is a murderer. He is an ex cop who served eight years in prison for the murder of his wife's murderer. Upon release from prison, he decided to return to his hometown to escape from his past. En route to his ancestral home in Georgia, one of his friends gives him a gun that fires grenades, smoke bombs, steel balls, rockets, and several other types of projectiles. One day, while just looking through the scope of his gun for no apparent reason, he happens to spot a large buck. He follows the deer with the scope and is surprised when he witnesses a group of local boys poach the deer. The hero puts the gun under the floorboards of the porch, where it remains until very near the end of the movie. Upon investigating the poaching, he uncovers a horrifying poaching ring run by a man from Hong Kong who is paying the locals a couple of thousand dollars per deer and using bits of the animals for Oriental medicines. Our hero decides to clean up the ring. However, he runs into difficulty when he finds out that the whole thing is sanctioned by his former best friend who appears to make the rules in the town from the comfort of his logging company, in total disregard of the local laws and police. The hero's daughter shows up and complicates matters. The confrontation escalates and people around the hero begin to die. He decides to take revenge. After his daughter is killed, he breaks out the gun under the porch...
Jake 'Tiger' Sharp, a former Georgian police officer has been released from jail, after serving a 8-year sentence for taking the law into his own hands. Tiger decides to return to his hometown Georgia as he tries to live a quiet life and try to escape from his past. But for Tiger, things are about to get very bad. When he gets cruelly taunted by a group of deer poaches who are employed by a man from Hong Kong, who is using the deers they kill to make medicine. But when the poachers rape and kill his long-lost daughter Connie, Tiger looses his rocker. Armed with a arsenal of weaponry, Tiger, with a thirst for vengeance, decides to give the Poacher's a dose of their own medicine, as he sets out off on a violent rampage, as he blasts the poachers to pieces...

