An embittered woman, leader of a criminal gang, has a change of heart.
When she was a child, Anna Holm burned her face. This destroyed her looks, and she has become a mean and bitter woman. She and her 'friends' are black-mailers. One of the victims pay her by letting a plastic surgeon, doctor Wegert, make her beautiful again. Anna becomes a new person and leave the others. She becomes a governess for a young boy, who will inherit a fortune. The boy has an evil uncle, who wants to see the boy dead, so that he will inherit the fortune. He hires Anna's former colleagues as assassins.
As a child Anna Holm lost both her parents in a fire. She survived the accident, but her face was severely burnt. With half of her face malformed she feels like a monster. She has become embittered and hard, and her only passion in life is money. Together with three elderly gentlemen she has formed a gang of blackmailers. They have just got hold of some letters from a Mrs. Wegert to her lover, which they will return to her for 10.000 Swedish crowns, when a bigger bait turns up. A man called Torsten Barring has a huge inheritance in prospect, if they only could help him get rid of the principal heir, the 6 year old Lars-Erik Barring. Torsten agrees to give them 25 % of the inheritance for the job. When Anna the same evening visits Mrs. Wegert to get the money for the love letters, she is surprised by Mrs. Wegert's husband, Dr. Allan Wegert. He is a famous plastic surgeon, and when he listens to Anna's sad story and sees her malformed face, he wants to help her instead of calling the police. The surgical operation is successful and some weeks later Anna has a beautiful face. She goes to Forsa as a new governess for Lars-Erik Barring, to fulfill the plan of the gang. But the change of her face also starts a process of change in her soul. She becomes fond of Lars-Erik and the country life at Forsa estate. Her main concern is now to protect Lars-Erik from Torsten Barring, who is determined to kill him.
The left side twenty-five year old Anna Holm's face is disfigured from a fire when she was a child. Believing that society has not given her a fair shake because of the way she looks, she has turned to a life of crime largely in blackmail, fraud and embezzlement with a small group, their takes a few thousand krona here and there. She also believes that her terrible inside now matches her terrible outside. Among her associates, she is arguably the most cunning, cutthroat and ambitious. Her life has the potential to take a turn when she meets Dr. Allan Wegert, the husband of one of their blackmail victims, Vera Wegert. Dr. Wegert knows that Anna is a criminal but does not know of the blackmail against his wife. Dr. Wegert, who did reconstructive surgery in the war for disfigured soldiers, offers to reconstruct Anna's face solely in the hopes that an unscarred face will give her a real chance in life. With the surgery successful, Anna has to decide if she will use the opportunity to do as Dr. Wegert hopes, especially as she and her associates were to embark on what was to be their biggest crime to date, embezzling millions in the Barring fortune made through Forsa Industries. Even if Anna decides to go straight, she may not be able to get away from her past, especially as Forsa's Consul Magnus Barring's nephew, Torsten Barring - their inside person - has unknown motives in ensuring that they get his uncle's millions.

