An old-line Mother Superior is challenged by a modern young nun when they take the girls of St. Francis Academy on a bus trip across the U.S.A.
In this follow-up to "The Trouble with Angels", the wry but wise Mother Superior of St. Francis Academy For Girls accompanies a group of nuns including modern, progressive Sister George, with their high-spirited students on a bus trip across America to a California peace rally. Along the way, they encounter a series of adventures that include multiple bus problems, an overnight stay at a Catholic school for boys run by Father Chase, a Western dude ranch owned by millionaire Mr. Farriday, a flamboyant movie director shooting a Western on location, and a bunch of menacing biker toughs.
Mother Superior Simplicia has been head of St. Francis Academy for twenty years, she who has fairly traditional views and attitudes. Relatively new to the academy is young Sister George, a progressive nun who more closely matches the personalities of their teenaged female students than the other sisters. Sister George most closely identifies with Rosabelle, a bright but rather undisciplined girl who is always getting into trouble along with her best friend, Marvel Ann, who is the follower between the two. Mother Superior and Sister George generally do not see eye to eye on any subject, the latest being a multi-faith co-ed rally in Santa Barbara, California - 3,000 miles away - to which Sister George wants to expose the students. Much to Mother Superior's chagrin, the Bishop, wanting the academy to move into the new and ever changing world of the late 1960s, approves the trip for a select group of students and their sister chaperons. Although neither Rosabelle or Marvel Ann meet the criteria to go on the trip, they both manage to finagle their way along. Along the 3,000 mile bus ride, Mother Superior, the sisters and the students get into one misadventure after another. By the end, Mother Superior and Sister George will either be at each other's throats or will come to a better understanding of the other and what the academy needs to do to be relevant in this changing world.

