Both living in New York City, successful artist Phillip Gayley, most renowned for his series of Gayley Girls (swimsuit models in evocative poses), and Ellen Gayley, a one time Gayley Girl, have been divorced for one year. They each have six month custody of their only child, now seven year old Phillippa Gayley, nicknamed Flip. Flip loves both her parents and misses the other when she's not with that parent for that six months, especially when they have to say goodbye at the end of the six months. Phil didn't want to get the divorce, and Ellen only went through with it, convinced by her judgmental mother, Mrs. Hamilton, that Phil had a constantly wandering eye, most specifically with whoever the Gayley Girl of the day. Mrs. Hamilton would rather see Ellen married to someone more stable and secure, like her stuffy and officious lawyer, Rex DeVallon. However, both Phil and Ellen still love each other, and without telling the other would deep in their hearts want to reconcile. Beyond Flip, another person who does whatever he can to get them back together is their mutual friend Luigi, in whose restaurant they met, fell in love and got engaged. However as Gayley Girls still exist - the current, Nancy Graham, who sees herself as the future Mrs Gayley - as Rex is still in Ellen and Mrs. Hamilton's lives, as Mrs. Hamilton still dislikes Phil for what she believes he did to her daughter, and as Luigi's actions generally backfire, a road to a happy ending for Phil, Ellen and Flip may have a few bumps along the way. An added complication is the entrance of Flip's pen pal, US Marine Corporal Fenwick Lonkowski, who is in New York on his first leave in eighteen months.
Phil and Ellen Gayley have been divorced for a year, and their 8-year old daughter, Flip, is very unhappy that her parents are not together. Flip starts a correspondence with a marine, sending a picture of her beautiful mother as the author of Flip's flirtatious letters. When the marine shows up to meet his pen pal, Ellen takes the opportunity to make her ex-husband jealous.
Never Say Goodbye is about a divorced man (Errol Flynn), whose profession is drawing beautiful women for magazines, is trying to win back the love of his ex-wife (Eleanor Parker) with the help of his daughter, a restaurant owner and an unsuspecting GI home on leave. Errol Flynn's mother in law and Eleanor Parker's current boy friend, who just happens to be the couples divorce attorney, tries to sabotage all efforts in reuniting the couple. (Spoil Alert).....the daughter is 8 years old and openly wants mommy and daddy to be married again and pretends she has two invisible brothers to enhance her imaginary family life which currently does not include mommy and daddy living together.
