In 1850 Oregon, when a backwoodsman brings a wife home to his farm, his six brothers decide that they want to get married too.
Adam, the eldest of seven brothers, goes to town to get a wife. He convinces Milly to marry him that same day. They return to his backwoods home. Only then does she discover he has six brothers - all living in his cabin. Milly sets out to reform the uncouth siblings, who are anxious to get wives of their own. Then, after reading about the Roman capture of the Sabine women, Adam develops an inspired solution to his brothers' loneliness.
In 1850, in the Oregon Territory, the provincial farmer Adam Pontipee comes to the town to trade supplies and find a wife. When he meets the strong hard worker Milly working in a bar, he proposes her. Milly has a crush on Adam and marries him, expecting to have her own place with her husband. However, when they arrive in the distant farm, she leans that Adam is the eldest of seven unsophisticated and rude brothers. Milly educates the brothers, teaching them hygiene, good manners and how to win somebody's heart. In the annual town picnic, Milly, Adam and his six brothers go to the party and each of his brothers fall in love for a girl. However, they have to return to the loneliness of their farm. In the winter, Adam reads Plutarch and tells his brothers about "The Rape of the Sabine Women", when the Roman men had abducted wives for themselves from the Sabine families. He travels with his brothers to the town and they kidnap their beloved girls. When they cross a gorge, they provoke a snow avalanche and block the narrow passage. However, Milly keeps the girls in the house and sends Adam and his brothers to the barn. But until the spring, when the passage will be open again, many things happen in the farm with Milly, Adam, his brothers and their "brides".
During the 1850s, Milly, a pretty young cook, marries Adam, a grizzled woodsman, after a brief courtship. When the two return to Adam's farm, Milly is shocked to meet his six ill-mannered brothers, all of whom live in his cabin. She promptly begins teaching the brothers proper behavior, and most importantly, how to court a woman. But after the brothers kidnap six local girls during a town barn-raising, a group of indignant villagers tries to track them down.
On one of his few trips into town, backwoodsman Adam Pontipee has a big shopping list. One of the items is a wife, . He convinces a young woman named Milly to marry him. When three return to home, she discovers he has 6 brothers - all living in the cabin. Milly sets out to reform the siblings, who also want to get wives of their own. Adam develops a planl to helphis brothers.
Adam Pontipee comes into a small mountain town after the winter to get some corn, farming equipment and a wife. He is searching for a woman who is pretty, young, strong,
loving and a good cook. Whether he actually loves her doesn't matter; he wants a full
time maid more than a wife. Milly works at a local bar where the men of the town come
in droves to eat her tasty grub and ask her to marry them, but she always refuses with a
smile and another helping of food. But she falls in love with Adam the moment he walks through the door, and is soon on her way, much to the trepidation of the town pastor and Milly's aunt, to the Pontipee farm in the mountains. There she finds that Adam has six
younger brothers, and that the whole bunch are unmannered lumberjacks with no idea of how to
treat a woman. But Milly's tough love soon smooths out some, if not all, of the brothers' rough edges. On a trip to a barn-raising social in town, Adam's six brothers fall in love
with six very close and very sought-after young girls, and have a wonderful synchronized dance with them and a dance fight with their suitors. When they return to their farm, they
are completely love sick over the girls. Adam is thoroughly amused and Milly is sad for them. But Adam comes
up with a somewhat dubious plan to kidnap the six girls to be the brothers' brides! Modeling his scheme on the story of the Romans' kidnapping of the Sabine women, the brothers go into town and kidnap their sweethearts. They take them back to the Pontipee farm, but not before making such a ruckus that they cause an avalanche which snows in the mountain pass leading to the farm. Now, the girls are stuck at the farm all winter. Of course, the girls and Milly are furious with Adam and his brothers. Milly sends the boys off to sleep in the barn "with the other livestock." Adam is so infuriated that he goes off to a hunting cabin to wait out the winter by himself. In the meantime, Milly tells the girls that she is pregnant, and will have a baby in the spring. Over the course of the winter, the brothers gradually fall back into favor with the girls, and by the time spring and Milly's baby come, the couples have all reunited - except for Milly and Adam. Gideon, the youngest brother, goes to Adam's cabin to ask him to come back. Adam learns for the first time that he has a daughter. He eventually returns, and he and Milly make up. After the mountain pass clears, the menfolk from the town make their way up to the cabin to rescue the girls - who now have no intention of leaving their Pontipee beaus. After hearing Milly's baby cry, the pastor asks the girls whose baby he heard. The girls cry out in unison, "Mine!" The last scene of the movie is a (literal) shotgun multiple wedding for the 6 brothers and their brides.
