In feudal Korea, the evil King becomes aware that there is a peasant rebellion being planned in the country. He steals all the iron farming tools and cooking pots from the people so that he may make weapons to fend off the peasant army. After he returns the property to the people, an old blacksmith is imprisoned and starved to death. His last creation is a tiny figurine of a monster- Pulgasari, a Godzilla-like creature that eats iron. The blood of his daughter brings the creature to life, and fights with the poor, starving peasants to overthrow the corrupt monarchy.
The synopsis is mundane and terrible. For example, when it opens, you can already foresee the low quality expected from such a film.I understand that everyone back then was desperate to ride on the coattails of the ever-so famous (and way better) Godzilla, but an absolute nightmarish train wreck like this should have never been created! I feel bad for everyone who was forced to work on this far-below-Toho abortion failure because Kim-Jong couldn't stand not butting into cool Godzilla flicks and trying to make one of his own to put a smile on his fat, lard-layered face. Pulgasari is the Tommy Wiseau of monsters, and I can prove it. There are many issues with this film.1) The monster. :) (Oooooooooooooooh noooooooooo...)I know movie monsters aren't celebrities all the girls want to marry, but WOW! This thing drives all possible audiences away from it. I mean, this S U C K S !!!! The monster looks like an estranged bull who thought it was cool to graft metal (that must've been welded by low-functioning apes with designs that crappy) to his appendages. His feet are stubby and his tail is shorter than Michael Strahan's football career. And I think 80% of the movie's budget went towards designing the pig nose on it... Gross...And if his butt-ugly design isn't bad enough, he runs like Fat Albert after he ran the marathon 7 times when he really covered only 30 feet. I could gain 400 lbs and run faster than that scaly mess. Put that abomination on Weight Watchers!Oh, speaking of which, his gut hangs out more than my review does from the "duh, this is a great movie because it has a monster in it, and it takes me back many years to feudal Korea, because I'm dumb" nonsense reviews. Half the people must have been paid to say that mush. I could make a monster movie of my own."Once, during 10000 BC, there was a giant bird. It ate everyone. The end."It will still do better than "Puke-a-sorry."2) The plot. :) (This part gets educational.)Vomit is an icky substance that comes out of people's mouths, usually when they are disgusted with something or someone. It can vary in color and quantity, based off of what omnivorous things like you and I eat.This is what came out of my mouth before, during, and after the movie, and this must have been what the producers threatened to feed to the employees if they did not come up with such a stupid plot. I mean, what were they thinking?! Here is the plot from Google:"The blood of an evil king's daughter brings a monster to life to overthrow his corrupt regime."Okay, what? So if I am related to Ivan the Terrible, I cut myself and a friggin' bull-faced, Goji ripoff, Botox-can't-fix-it-cuz-it's-so-damn-ugly, vomit monster to kill him? That is stupid! The plot is pure butt hash, and anybody could have turned around and killed the king. The daughter is a bumbling F O O L for not doing it! Also, why would you want to team up with the Disgrace of the Monsters? He could kill the entire village! I don't know what Korea was thinking making this F-Movie flick.This is the plot:"A bunch of idiots get trampled by an ugly cow guy that came from a lady's paper cut."3) Everything else. :)To be nice, grabbing the disc, taking a plane to Hawaii, hiking halfway across one of the islands and throwing this wad of horse dung into a volcano is a better alternative to watching this. If you like this movie, jump into the volcano with the CD, and see if your interest in this propaganda dribble will save you. The characters were so boring and so impossible to relate to, I wanted a building to fall on them and end this waste that was put on a CD. I'd rather watch a poorly-pirated movie than this! You must be on every illegal drug known to man to enjoy the long, boring "action." Don't read into anything, because overall, you will be disappointed.All in all, Pulgasari is the definition of a terrible movie, and this thing should be smashed with a baseball bat, chewed on by every dog in your neighborhood, ran over at least 50 times with a car, drenched in oil, set on fire, have a dozen aerosol cans dropped on it, and laughed at.T H I S M O V I E I S A B S O L U T E G A R B A G E ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
The synopsis sucks.
