Nick Carraway, a young Midwesterner now living on Long Island, finds himself fascinated by the mysterious past and lavish lifestyle of his neighbour, the nouveau riche Jay Gatsby. He is drawn into Gatsby's circle, becoming a witness to obsession and tragedy.
Jimmy Gatz (Warmer Baxter), a poor boy, works his way to wealth and luxury after changing his name to Jay Gatsby. The lavish entertainments, beautiful homes, gorgeously gowned women are as nothing compared to Gatsby's unfailing love for Daisy (Lois Wilson). Watch this great drama unfold to a tremendous climax when at last Jay can truly be called "THE GREAT GATSBY."
On a summer night in Louisville, in 1917, Jay Gatsby, a young Army officer, falls in love with Daisy Fay, a society belle; before leaving for the war, Gatsby swears that he will raise himself to her social station, and they avow their undying love. Nine years later, Gatsby, through mysterious association with a Charles Wolf, has come to possess great wealth and a Long Island estate, while Daisy, swayed by parental authority, has married Tom Buchanan, a dissolute blue-blood, who also maintains an affair with Myrtle Wilson, a garage-keeper's wife. At a party given by Gatsby, Daisy declares that she still cares for him. Later, Tom charges Gatsby with making love to his wife and with bootlegging; and Daisy prepares to leave with Gatsby in his roadster. Wilson upbraids his wife for her infidelity; and dashing onto the road, Myrtle is struck down by Gatsby's car, and he confesses his responsibility to the police. Friendless and alone, Gatsby roams through his garden and is shot by the vengeful Wilson.
Gangster/bootlegger Gatsby buys a West Egg mansion to which society flocks for endless parties. Daisy and Jay were in love eleven years earlier but Jay went overseas in World War I and Daisy married wealthy Tom Buchanan. Gatsby hopes to rekindle the love with Daisy. When Daisy runs over Tom's mistress (Myrtle, the wife of Wilson who runs the garage down the road) Gatsby offers to take the blame.

