With only a week left before graduation, a young dreamer itches to renounce an uninspiring scholarship, stand up to his despotic father and pursue a career in oceanography. But, has anyone ever spread his wings away from Grandview, U.S.A.?
With only a week left before he graduates high school in the small Middle Western community of Grandview, the eighteen-year-old dreamer, Tim Pearson, is itching to renounce an uninspiring scholarship, stand up to his despotic father and pursue a career in oceanography, away from home. However, before long, an unexpected meeting with the struggling 27-year-old owner of the town's demolition derby track on the other side of the tracks, Michelle "Mike" Cody, and the Speedrome's king, Ernie "Slam" Webster, will bring Tim one step closer not only to his aspirations but also love. But, has anyone ever spread his wings away from Grandview, U.S.A.?
Life in the small town of Grandview, Illinois is one that is just like any other city or town. Tim Pearson (C. Thomas Howell), soon to be graduating high school wants to go to Florida to study oceanography. He meets Michelle "Mike" Cody (Jamie Lee Curtis) and is attracted to her. She runs the local Demolition Derby place. Ernie "Slam" Webster (Patrick Swayze) is on of the drivers in the derby who's wife is cheating on him, and wants to later on be with Mike. Tim falls for Mike and a big love triangle is about to happen.
Trama in italiano - Il film è ambientato nella cittadina di Grandview, in Illinois, nella provincia del Midwest. Tim è uno studente che, terminata la scuola superiore, ha deciso di proseguire gli studi presso un istituto universitario della Florida. Innamoratosi però di Michelle, che per lavoro organizza demolition derby, decide di rimanere a Grandview per contendersi la ragazza con Ernie, un pilota da poco tradito dalla moglie. I piccoli e grandi drammi quotidiani di molti personaggi tra cui spicca quello di Tim, ragazzo nel difficile passaggio alla vita adulta, e Michelle una ragazza indipendente che gestisce l'azienda paterna. Mosaico drammatico-sentimentale, focalizzato specialmente sui patemi dell'adolescenza.
