American Pre-Code color film starring Paul Whiteman and his Jazz orchestra.
This revue presents its numbers around the orchestra leader Paul Whiteman, besides that it shows in it's final number that the European popular music are the roots of American popular music, called Jazz.
Charles Irwin introduces items from "Paul Whiteman's Scrap Book," and in an animated cartoon sequence set "In Darkest Africa," Whiteman is crowned King of Jazz by animals in the African jungle. Whiteman then introduces members of his band and the chorus girls. In the "My Bridal Veil" number, featuring Jeanette Loff and Stanley Smith, a young woman conjures up visions of bridal costumes through the ages. "Ladies of the Press," written by William Griffith, presents Laura La Plante, Jeanie Lang, Merna Kennedy, Grace Hayes and Kathryn Crawford in a short "blackout" sketch. The Rhythm Boys (Bing Crosby, Harry Barris and Al Rinker) perform "So the Bluebirds and the Blackbirds Got Together." "It Happened in Monterey" features John Boles, Jeanette Loff, The Sisters G, George Chiles and the Russell Markert Girls, and includes a passage of "La Paloma," sung in Spanish by Nancy Torres and Loff. "In Conference," another very brief comedy sketch, presents Laura La Plante, Glenn Tryon and Merna Kennedy. Jack White, dressed as "The Property Man" back stage performs a comedy number about wanting to own a fish store. Jeanette Loff, Stanley Smith, The Brox Sisters and The Rhythm Boys appear in the production number "A Bench in the Park." A sketch, "Back of the Western Front," features Yola D'Avril, Walter Brennan, Paul Whiteman and others. Wilbur Hall, "One of the Whiteman Boys," performs "Pop Goes the Weasel" on a violin and finishes by playing "Stars and Stripes Forever" on a bicycle pump. In an opulent production number, Roy Bargy plays George Gershwin's "Rhapsody in Blue" on the piano, accompanied by The Sisters G and Jacques Cartier. A comedy sketch, "Oh! Forever More" with William Kent and Walter Brennan follows. The production number, "My Ragamuffin Romeo," presents Jeanie Lang, George Chiles and dancers Don Rose and Marion Stattler. In the sketch, "A Dash of Spice," a couple, Glenn Tryon and Kathryn Crawford, discover that they are not legally married. "Happy Feet," a production number, features The Rhythm Boys, The Sisters G and Al Norman. A segment titled "When Legs Were Limbs" featuring Frank Leslie performing the comedy song "Has Anyone Seen Our Nelly?," with the aid of magic lantern slides follows. Then John Boles performs "The Song of the Dawn." The finale, "The Melting Pot of Music," features most of the cast and shows that in America, music from various countries, including England, Italy, Scotland, Ireland, Mexico, Russia and France, and from the African continent is fused into one great new rhythm: jazz.
