Maggie Scott (Ann-Margret), a fashion buyer in Paris on her first buying spree where she meets famous fashion designer Mark Fontaine (Louis Jourdan) and he immediately gives her the big rush. When Maggie appears to have lost the lucrative contract with Fontaine, her boss Ted Barclay (Chad Everett), the son of her company's owner, comes to Paris to straighten things out, making an even bigger mess of things.
Maggie Scott's career at upscale New York clothing store Barclay Ames has had a meteoric rise, she starting as a model working her way up to assistant buyer. That upward trajectory is in part due to hard work, in part to talent and in part to the opportunity provided by "Barclay Jr." - Ted - a ladies man who has fallen for Maggie unlike all the other women he has dated before. Maggie, in turn, has played it relatively cool with Ted in being a good girl. That trajectory takes one step further when her boss, head buyer Irene Chase, announces that she is immediately getting married and heading off on her honeymoon, leaving Maggie in the position to take what was supposed to be Irene's regular buying trip to Paris, this time to attend the premier showing of designer Marc Fontaine's latest collection, his fashions in New York sold exclusively through Barclay Ames. "Barclay Sr." - Roger - isn't as certain Maggie is up for the job, this sojourn to Paris which may make or break her career. Because of Maggie's inexperience, Ted asks his Paris residing American journalist friend, Herb Stone - a ladies man himself - to take care of her while she's in town. While Irene intimated it before her departure, Maggie is surprised to learn the hard way upon her arrival at the company's Paris apartment where Irene always stays that Irene's trips included a long term casual sexual relationship with Marc who she had given a key to the apartment. Maggie not being Irene may threaten Barclay Ames' account with Marc. Able to get beyond Maggie's good girl image, both Marc and Herb end up having some designs on Maggie, which is only complicated with Ted on his way to Paris to salvage the account. In the process of Maggie experiencing all that Paris has to offer, she may ultimately come to realize what she wants in life to match to her outward persona.

