After inadvertently stopping an Indian attack on his stagecoach while traveling in the American West, an English gentleman finds himself appointed sheriff of a nearby town.
A proper English gentleman, traveling in the American West, inadvertently stops an Indian attack on the stagecoach in which he is a passenger. When the stage gets to the nearest town, the raucous Fractured Jaw--which is being plagued by unruly cowbys, bandits and marauding Indians--the story spreads, and he is appointed sheriff.
Jonathan Tibbs reckons that a good way to improve the fortunes of his uncle's London gun company is to sell their products in the Wild West, so he sets off for Fractured Jaw. Once there, a series of misunderstandings give him the completely false reputation of being a smooth-talking, fast-on-the-draw gunman, and he is inveigled into becoming sheriff. With the two trigger-happy local ranches squaring up against each other, it's as well he is getting advice from sassy and sweet-on-him Kate. The fact he's somehow become an honorary Indian doesn't hurt, either.
Jonathan Tibbs (Kenneth More) is trying to sell English sporting shotguns in the wild west. He happens upon a lawless town which is the battleground between two rival gangs of cowboys. The local saloon bar is owned by Kate (Jayne Mansfield). Tibbs is the innocent abroad and when mistaken for a hired gun, he is challenged to a drinking duel by a local gunslinger. In the ensuing chaos the gunslinger is killed and Tibbs gains a reputation as an ace 'quickdraw' . Tibbs is immediately made the sheriff by the local mayor(who has buried many predecessors in the role) and sets about bringing peace to the town.. Kate falls in love with this unusual English gentleman and they plan a life back in England - just as life gets complicated. Tibbs is accosted by local injuns whilst trying to ascertain the details of the war between the cowboy gangs. Tibbs' English charm saves the day and he is honoured with membership of the tribe. Meanwhile both cowboy gangs have decided that Tibbs is working for the other side, and determine to remove him from the town - permanently. Just as Tibbs and Kate are pinned down by the outlaws in a seemingly hopeless position, Tibbs' tribe come to the rescue. The happy couple are married in the chapel with the tribal chief giving the bride away.
