Dracula travels to the American West, intent on making a beautiful ranch owner his next victim. Her fiance, outlaw Billy the Kid, finds out about it and rushes to save her.
In the Old West, Count Dracula makes his mark. on a young woman who introduces him to her fiancé, William Bonney aka billy the Kid A European family who'd previously encountered Dracula warns Billy of who the man is, and the danger he will bring. But no one believes him.
A stagecoach arrives in Papago Wells for a night stopover. The four passengers are Count Dracula (John Carradine); Mrs. Mary Ann Bentley (Marjorie Bennett) and her brother James Underhill (William Forrest), wealthy easterners; and a drunken whiskey salesman, Joe Flake (George Cisar). Dracula has his beady eyes on Nana (Charlita), an Indian girl who works for the stagecoach company. That night a bat lures Nana from the Indian camp. The stagecoach departs the next morning without Dracula, and the Indians find Nana's body. Convinced the whites murdered Nana, the Indians attack the stagecoach and kill the three passengers. Dracula arrives later and steals Underhills papers, plus a picture of Mrs. Bentley's daughter, Betty Bentley (Melinda Casey). Billy the Kid (Chuck Courtney), a reformed outlaw working as the foreman on the Bentley ranch, and engaged to Betty, goes to Wickenburg to await the stagecoach. He meets Dracula, posing as Betty's uncle, whom she has never seen, at the hotel, where they learn of the slaughter of the passengers by the Indians, but some at the hotel insist it was the work of a vampire. Later, at the ranch, Billy is challenged to a gunfight by one of the hired hands and kills him in self-defense and has to flee town. Betty becomes under the power of her fake-uncle and agrees to marry him. However, Eva Oster (Virginia Christine), a ranch worker from some vampire kingdom in Europe, sees the teeth marks on Betty, recognizes them instantly as vampire-inflicted, and notifies Billy. Billy's task now is to rescue Betty while avoiding being arrest by the sheriff and his posse.
When Franz [Walter Janovitz] and Eva [Virginia Christine] Oster's daughter Lisa [Hannie Landman] is killed by Dracula, the Osters swear to fight this menace. Dracula shows up again in the guise of Uncle James Underhill [John Carradine], newly arrived in town to help out at the Double Bar B Ranch. Dracula has assumed this identity because he is smitten with Betty Bentley [Melinda Plowman], niece of the real James Underhill. Fortunately, Betty's boyfriend is retired gunslinger Billy the Kid [Chuck Courtney]. Billy gets suspicious of the gruff and heartless Underhill and starts to poke around. He invites the Osters to move onto the ranch and care for Betty. Mrs Oster bars the windows with wolfbane until Betty decides all this vampire stuff is silly. Billy talks to the town doctor who advises him to get Underhill before a mirror. If he casts no reflection, he's vampire.Underhill starts to throw his weight around. He fires Billy and drives the Osters out to the bunkhouse. Billy kills a previous foreman in self-defense but gets jailed anyway. Betty begins to awaken with bites on her neck. When Underhill comes to take Betty back to the ranch, the doctor holds up a mirror and sees no reflection. Sure now that Underhill is a vampire, the doctor springs Billy from jail and the three of them (Billy, doctor, and Sheriff Griffin [Roy Barcroft]) pursue the vampire and Betty out to the abandoned mine where Dracula has his coffin stored. The sheriff tries unsuccessfully to shoot Dracula, so Billy throws a gun at Dracula's head and knocks him out. While Dracula is on the ground, Billy stakes him with a kitchen knife. [Synopsis by bj_kuehl]
