An orphan goes to live with his free-spirited aunt. Conflict ensues when the executor of his father's estate objects to the aunt's lifestyle.
Mame is an unconventional individualist socialite from the roaring 20's. When her brother dies, she is forced to raise her nephew Patrick. However, Patrick's father has designated an executor to his will to protect the boy from absorbing too much of Mame's rather unconventional perspective. Patrick and Mame become devoted to each other in spite of this restriction, and together journey through Patrick's childhood and the great depression, amidst some rather zaney adventures.
On September 15, 1928, the day after he executes his will, wealthy conservative Chicago businessman Edwin Dennis unexpectedly passes away. As stipulated in the will, his ten-year old son Patrick Dennis, who is the sole heir to the estate, becomes the ward of their only living relative, Edwin's equally wealthy New York residing spinster sister, Mame Dennis. Edward's will states that Mr. Dwight Babcock with the Knickerbocker Bank, will act as trustee. He will pay Mame for expenses incurred in raising Patrick, he to use his power of discretion to ensure that Patrick does not inherit any of "crazy" Mame's "damned eccentric" ideas, flamboyant and free wheeling Mame who can be considered anything but traditional or conventional. Patrick's longtime nanny, Norah Muldoon, is to accompany Patrick to New York and continue her services. Despite the disruption each provides in the other's life, Mame and Patrick form a loving, supportive relationship. Mame wants to provide her sense of guidance to Patrick, which means exposing him to a broad spectrum of all that life has to offer. That changes when Mr. Babcock learns what is going on, and the stock market crashes resulting in Mame losing all her money, the events in combination leading to Mr. Babcock taking Patrick away to enroll him in boarding school away from Mame's daily influence. Although not for herself, Mame realizes that she needs money to get Patrick back and support who she considers her entire family, which includes Norah and her faithful butler, Ito. She may get a little help in the matter from her best friend, Broadway actress Vera Charles, and a southerner she meets named Beauregard Jackson Pickett Burnside. Over the next several years, Mame's influence on those around her, including Patrick, is presented, although those relationships are not always smooth sailing, especially as Patrick grows into a man who has been largely influenced by conservative Mr. Babcock's direction for him.
Always armed with a colorful dress and an acerbic quip, the flamboyant, vibrant socialite Mame Dennis is the quintessential roaring 20's flapper, with a huge desire to live life to enjoy it and also just for the hell of it. Into this world comes her young orphaned nephew Patrick Dennis, whom she is appointed the guardian of. Immediately the two fall in love with each other, and she spends the rest of the movie, which takes us through the Great Depression and beyond, trying to rescue him from the stuffy, conventionalist people he's used to. There are a couple of bumps along the way, but there are plenty of fun adventures that prove that Mame is one hell of a woman.

