Rafael Sabatini's story of the swashbuckling era and of Bardeleys, the handsome courtier who could win any woman he set his mind to...and was not above boasting about it to all who would listen.
In the court of French king Louis XIII, a courtier named Bardelys carries with him a grand reputation as an irresistible ladies' man. When another figure in the court, Chatellerault, fails to win the hand of the beautiful Roxalanne (whose family fortune the king wishes to bring under his control), Bardelys suggests that he could win the young woman's hand. Thus a bet is made, and Bardelys embarks on the pursuit of Roxalanne and her fortune. But intrigue and mistaken identity lead Bardelys into grave danger.
Bardelys is a wealthy courtier in the court of Louis XIII, with a string of affairs with beautiful women, and a silver tongue. In the middle of a duel with a wronged husband, he manages to reconcile the couple and get them out of his rooms before they discover a more recent conquest hidden behind a door. Meanwhile, Chatellerault, another courtier, has been rejected by the beautiful Roxalanne, whose family opposes the king. Chatellerault returns to find the court laughing at him, and he bullies Bardelys into a bet that he cannot win and marry Roxalanne. His honor at stake, Bardelys travels to Roxalanne's castle, but is wounded en route and is mistaken for a rebel leader. He keeps up the ruse, as Bardelys' womanizing reputation would interfere with his plans. But, falling in love with Roxalanne, he cannot bring himself to marry her under a false name, and plans to return to announce that he's lost the bet. His refusal to pledge his love upsets Roxalanne, who turns him over to the king's guards. The only judge at his trial who knows his true name is Chatellerault, who sentences him to death under the rebel's name. Roxalanne agrees to marry Chatellerault in exchange for Bardelys' life, but Chatellerault still fails to intervene. On the gallows, Bardelys effects an impressive escape, and the king arrives and vouches for his identity. Confronting Chatellerault in a duel, he renders the newly married Roxalanne a widow, and receives the king's blessing on their impending marriage. The surviving material is missing one reel (Bardelys' adventures while travelling to the castle), which has been reconstructed from still photos by Lobster Films.
