The Bellows family causes comic confusion on an ocean liner, with time out for radio-style musical acts.
New ocean liner S.S. Gigantic is about to race its rival, the Colossal. Gigantic owner T.F. Bellows sends his brother S.B. on the Colossal, hoping he will cause trouble; delayed by a golf game, S.B. lands on Gigantic instead, and so does his unlucky daughter Martha. Meanwhile, radio emcee Buzz Fielding announces a series of musical acts and tries to juggle fiancée Dorothy and three ex-wives who've come for the ride. Can the Gigantic win against all handicaps? Will true love triumph?
In the 1938 edition of "The Big Broadcast" series, the plot involves a transatlantic race from New York City to Cherbourg, France between a new steamship, the S.S. Gigantic, and the S.S. Colossal. Radio M.C., Buzz Fielding (Bob Hope) is in jail because he cant pay alimony to his three former wives. Dorothy Wyndham (Dorothy Lamour), a potential fourth Mrs. Fielding, bails him out with money she got from hocking her engagement ring.
T. Frothingill Bellows (W.C. Fields) intends to send his brother S.B. (also W.C. Fields) on the Colossal because he causes disasters wherever he goes. S.B. and his daughter, Martha (Martha Raye), end up on the Gigantic instead (there are a couple of W.C. Fields vaudeville-type comic golf routines; in the second one, his golf cart flies to catch the ship, but it lands on the wrong one). Buzz Fielding is onboard the Gigantic to broadcast reports of the transatlantic race and to M.C. the various musical acts that entertain on the ship and those listening on their home radios. Also aboard are Buzzs three alimony-seeking ex-wives, Cleo (Shirley Ross), Grace (Grace Bradley), and Joan (Dorothy Howe), and Dorothy, his current flame. The first performance on the ship is by Shep Fields and His Rippling Rhythm (themselves), who play "This Little Ripple Had Rhythm" for a cartoon sequence.
Next, Buzz introduces the Mexican singer of operatic and Mexican popular songs, Tito Guizar (himself), who performs two numbers: "Don't Tell a Secret to a Rose" and "Noche de Ronda."
Grace, one of Buzzs former wives, distracts S.B. Bellows, while Dorothy brings food to the inventor of the ships power source, Bob Hayes (Leif Erikson). They are quickly attracted to each other and sing "You Took the Words Right Out of My Heart."
At this point in the race, the Colossal is fifty-one miles ahead.
The next performance is opera diva Kirsten Flagstad (herself) singing "Ride of the Valkyries" from Richard Wagners music drama Die Walkure.
That exalted performance is followed by a comedy routine titled "Honey Child," which precedes Dorothy's reprisal of "You Took the Words Right Out of My Heart." Her song is followed by a comedy routine by Martha Bellows.
When Buzz and Cleo meet in the ships bar, he is depressed, so she tries to cheer him up. In the films most famous scene, Buzz and Cleo reminisce about their life together as husband and wife; the song reveals that they still have feelings for each other. They perform "Thanks for the Memory" in a half-spoken, half-sung delivery. (Leo Robin's tongue-in-cheek lyrics are a catalog of questionable thanks.)
Dorothy accidentally helps Bob fix the ships power source, so it speeds forward closing the Colossals lead.
Next, comes another W.C. Fields comedy routine; this one is about playing pool, followed by Martha singing "Mama, That Moon Is Here Again," which includes a comic acrobatic dance.
Buzz and Cleo perform "The Waltz Lives On," which develops into a production number that includes examples of the waltz, polka, can-can, an African tribal dance, a cakewalk ("At a Georgia Camp Meeting"), the Charleston ("Charleston"), and swing. Martha sings "Truckin' (They're Going Hollywood in Harlem)" as part of the swing section. Then in a rather abrupt ending, the Gigantic catches and passes the Colossal. Buzz and Cleo get back together, while Dorothy and Bob become a couple.
