A man with an asthmatic voice telephones bank clerk Kelly Sherwood at home and coerces her into helping him steal a large sum from her bank.
When the bank clerk Kelly Sherwood arrives home after hours, she is intimidated by a stranger that knows her routine habit. He threatens Kelly and her sister Toby to force her to heist $100,000 from her bank; otherwise he will kill her. Kelly does not see his face but notes he is asthmatic. Kelly succeeds to lure the criminal and contacts the FBI agent John 'Rip' Ripley that advises Kelly how to behave and assigns a group of agents to keep Kelly and Toby under surveillance. But when Toby is abducted by the stranger, Kelly tries to stay calm to help the FBI to catch the criminal.
Kelly Sherwood is terrorized by a man with an asthmatic voice who plans to use her to steal $100,000 from the bank where she works. He threatens to kill her teenage sister Toby, if she tells the police. However she manages to contact F.B.I. agent Ripley.
Coming home late one night Kelly Sherwood (Lee Remick) is accosted in her garage by an asthmatic thug Red Lynch (Ross Martin) who convinces her he knows of all her daily activities, particularly her schedule at the bank where she works. He terrorizes her into agreeing to help him rob the bank of 20,000 dollars or he says he will kill her and her sister Toby (Stefanie Powers) who lives with Kelly. Kelly agrees but out of fear calls the FBI and speaks with Agent Ripley (Glenn Ford) but the lines goes dead when Red comes into the house and overpowers Kelly. Eventually Agent Ripley connects with Kelly who has not been able to get a good look at Red to identify him, but because of his asthmatic breathing the FBI manages to track him down and set up men to catch him when Kelly takes the money from the bank but Red has kidnapped Toby and plans to kill her after he gets the money. Agreeing to meet Red at a baseball game at Candlestick Park for the money exchange Kelly goes there not aware that the FBI have located and saved Toby and are closing in for a final showdown with Red, if they can only get there in time.
