A million miles away from 'Camelot' or 'Excalibur', this film ruthlessly strips the Arthurian legend down to its barest essentials. Arthur's knights, far from being heroic, are conniving and greedy men who, just before the film starts, have failed miserably to find the Holy Grail. Aimlessly resentful at first, the developing relationship between Lancelot and Queen Guinevere focuses their rage, leading to inevitable tragedy...
First, we see some knights riding along thru a forest, and some of them are fighting, about three of them lose their fights, and cranberry juice comes squirting out of their severed necks. Some of the dead bodies are burning. We see a knight sweep some stuff off a table with his sword. It seems the knights set out to find the Holy Grail, but they didn't. We see one knight has gotten lost and an old woman offers to guide him.The knights come to a camp. Some are wounded. Lancelot is late (he's the one that was lost.) We see closeups of horse's eyes, terrified. There's no explanation of why, or why there are these weird sounds, such as a loud buzzer while Lancelot is reporting in, or the loud, annoying bell while some other stuff happens, also unexplained. Lancelot meets Guinevere in an old building full of hay, says he loves her but he can't be with her anymore.Three guys in black or dark gray armor walk around the round table. One says they can't use this room anymore, too many of the knights have died. Mordred comes in and the one guy tells him to go back out, and he does. The one guy wonders if all these deaths are a punishment from God? He tells the others to keep their armor on, stay in training, perfect themselves.Some knights discuss this and say they despise Mordred. The queen's window is lit in the night. Lancelot meets Guinever again in the barn. Still she will not release him from his vow. She thinks she is his strength. Then she looks up at him, back down. Then he looks up at her, back down. Then she looks up at him, back down. Then he looks up at her, back down.The knights are getting restless, you can tell because they are all standing facing right, having a chat together. Lancelot and Mordred talk; Mordred won't make friends. Lancelot and Gawain talk; Lancelot tells Gawain that Mordred won't make friends. To drive this home, Lancelot takes Gawain's favorite bridle and gives it to him, because it's his favorite.
