Charlie Brown and his friends travel to Europe as exchange students.
Charlie Brown, Linus, Peppermint Patty, and Marcie travel to France as foreign exchange students. Also along is Snoopy and Woodstock. While everyone is excited about the opportunity to travel to a foreign country, Charlie is disturbed by a letter he receives from a mysterious girl from France who invites him as her guest only to find that he does not seem welcomed to her chateau.
Charlie Brown is surprised in class, when it is announced that he and Linus have been selected as part of a student exchange program. Charlie leaves school to pack, and willingly invites Snoopy and Woodstock to come along. The surprises continue as Charlie finds a letter in the mailbox: and it's addressed to him! However, it's written in a 'strange language.'Shortly after going inside, Charlie receives a call from Peppermint Patty, who says that she and Marcie have also been accepted as part of a student exchange program, and will be on the same flight as Charlie and Linus.At the airport, the other kids see their friends off, with the majority calling "Bon Voyage, Charlie Brown." "And don't come back!" yells Lucy. After they have gotten to the ticket counter, everyone is shocked that Snoopy was able to procure a First Class ticket, over their economy-class seats.During the plane flight, Charlie shows the letter that he received, which came from France. As Marcie has been studying French, she offers to translate it. The letter seems to be anticipating Charlie's arrival, and offers to allow him to stay at the Chateau Mal Voisin ("The Chateau of the Bad Neighbor"). The letter is from someone named Violette, but Charlie has no idea who she is.Their plane soon touches down in London, England, where the group has lunch, while Snoopy drives up to Wimbledon and plays a short tennis match. From London, the group takes a train to Dover, before getting on a hovercraft to France.In France, the group manages to rent a car, with Snoopy serving as a driver. Their first stop is Morville, where Peppermint Patty and Marcie will be staying. Also with their exchange program family, is a son named Pierre. After Charlie, Linus, Snoopy and Woodstock leave, the girls explain where their friends are going. When Pierre hears about them going to the Chateau Mal Voisin, he grows apprehensive, saying that noone goes to the chateau, and the owner would never invite outsiders. They attempt to call the chateau, but receive no response, and decide to wait until morning.Meanwhile, Charlie, Linus, Snoopy and Woodstock arrive in the town of Le Heron, amid a rain storm. They pass by the school and a pub, and on the outskirts, they see the dark outlines of the chateau. However, noone appears to be home, and they end up camping in some nearby stables. Snoopy is assigned to watch the group, but once Charlie Brown and Linus are asleep, he and Woodstock sneak off to the local pub for some root beer.The next morning, Charlie and Linus awake to find themselves covered in blankets, and a meal prepared for them.
