Set in Palm Springs, California during a long, fun-filled weekend where several Los Angeles college students flock to spring break, centering on Jim who finds romance with Bunny, the daughter of Palm Springs harried, stressed, Police Chief. Jim's bumbling roommate, Biff, tries to get Amanda, a tomboyish girl's attention with a so-called love gadget. Meanwhile, Gayle Lewis is a high school senior posing as a wealthy college girl who is pursued by Eric Dean, a wealthy and spoiled college preppie, while Gayle has eyes for a cowboy from Texas, named Stretch. Also, Jim and Biff's basketball coach, Campbell, tries to romance Naomi, the owner of the motel where all of the gang is staying, which is interfered with by Naomi's young, trouble making brat son, who's dubbed "Boom-Boom".
It's Easter weekend, when many college kids with raging hormones head to Palm Springs, California looking for fun with members of the opposite sex. Among those heading to Palm Springs this year are a college basketball team, including medical student Jim Munroe, and comedian Biff Roberts. Doug "Stretch" Fortune, a Hollywood stuntman originally from Texas; Eric Dean, a rich playboy neglected by his equally playboy father; Beverly Hills socialite and Hawaii college student Gayle Lewis, who is not all she appears to be; and tomboy Amanda North. It's the worst week in the year for Palm Springs Chief of Police Dixon, the official ruler of order. This year will be worse for Chief Dixon as his pretty daughter, Bunny Dixon, although a responsible young woman, is the same age as the town's invaders. The unofficial ruler of order is Naomi Yates, the proprietor of one of the local motels where the kids stay, she who usually has enough to do in taking care of her precocious nine year old son, "Boom-Boom". Another adult supervisor this year is Fred Campbell, the basketball team coach who came along unexpectedly to ensure his players stay out of trouble. Through the hijinks of the weekend, the kids meet, fall in love, and then really get to know each other to see if there is a future past the weekend.

