In order to join a sorority, three friends go to a hazing party in an old house where a sadistic bloodthirsty demonic spirit is lying in wait.
Three gorgeous babes decide to join a sorority, and a whole bunch of horny guys dump bees in the sorority's back yard where a bunch of girls are naked in the outside hot tub so when the girls jump out the boys use a video camera to take lots of shots of them. Their house mother gets talked into letting the girls have a hazing party in a forbidden frat house, and when she goes there to make sure the place is safe, she first stops at a handy grave in the front yard to explain to 'Allan' why she's letting the girls use the house, and tells him that it was all an accident and it's time for him to just let it go. Allan doesn't answer her, since he's dead. Or is he? As she is nailing down a loose banister on the stairway, a mysterious figure appears before her, brandishing what looks like a tire iron, she turns, asks "What are you doing here?" and this person does answer her by striking her dead. Well, the three pledges go through a hazing (and there are some very nice set pieces here, watch for 'em), and are accepted into the sorority. One of the pledges is really good at special effects, horror stuff, and she is told that the only reason that she was accepted was that skill--they want her to gimmick up a traditional April Fools party that the sorority is hosting for a fraternity. Twenty-two years ago, the boy in the grave was killed at one of those parties by what everyone carefully refers to as an "accident." The girls talk about strange disappearances while they begin to set up the old house for the party, and more strange things happen. Vivia, the sfx girl, starts to pull off her stunts, but then really menacing things begin to happen. Will the youngsters figure out what's going on and who is doing it before they are all horribly killed? Is it still safe for us to go out to parties, or should be all be hiding under our computer desks?

