Django's father is framed by his business partner Clusker and shot by a bounty Killer. Django inherits his fathers part of the business and a score to settle with Clusker.
At the start of the film, "Django" meets up with a bounty hunter who happens to be taking the body of Django's dead father to town for a $5000 bounty. Django kills the bounty killer and then decides to bury the bounty hunter instead of his father. He then takes his father's body into town for the money.The rich town banker, Kluster, cautiously gives Django the bounty money but tells him that he must leave town immediately. However, as he tries to leave, thugs attack Django. There is some fist-fighting and gun play but, of course, our hero wins. Afterward, a local character tells Django that he actually owns half the town since his father was partners with Kluster; that is why the banker wanted him to leave town so quickly.Django goes to the saloon with local guy and makes friends with the woman who runs the saloon with her young brother. Soon afterward the banker's thugs come to the saloon to collect that day's money. A bar room brawl ensues with Django getting help from a mysterious gentleman who is staying in town.The next day Django goes to Kluster and tells him that he wants his share of the money. After he leaves, the banker and his wife tell the thug leader to take care of Django once and for all. So the gang of villains follow Django into hills and ambush him. They injure him when they shoot him in leg. However, he hides in the rocks until night. After dark, he finishes off most of the gang and escapes back to the saloon. However, he kills one of the baddies with his knife which is left behind.The banker Kluster and his henchman devise an evil plan. They kill the bank clerk with Django's knife and "steal" the money from the safe. Kluster tells the sheriff that he was robbed and that it was Django with his knife as proof. The sheriff &amp; a posse approach the saloon and call out for Django to come out &amp; give himself up. However, the posse start shooting him, so he takes cover inside and escapes through basement hatch.The posse chase after Django &amp; follow him back to Kluster's house. In searching the house, the sheriff walks in on the banker's wife in the bathtub. After the sheriff leaves, Django comes out of hiding from bubble bath. The wife tells Django that she is bored with the banker and wants to leave with Django and the money. She tells him where the baddie is hiding with the money.Django and the banker's wife go back to saloon where we learn that the mysterious stranger is the real husband of the banker's wife. He came to town to kill her but couldn't go through with it. Upset, the wife runs off and joins the gang of thugs who have the stolen money. She tells them the lie that Kluster said for them to go to Mexico with the money. Django follows them and cuts them off at the pass. Everyone is killed except the woman whom Django brings back to town with the stolen money. Kluster tells the sheriff that the wife stole money and so she is put in jail.Back at the saloon, Django and friends start a huge bar room brawl with everyone present. The mysterious stranger husband sneaks away and breaks his wife out of jail. However, she tries to double cross him. Of course he expected it, so his gun is not loaded. He tells her not to leave the jailhouse building because Kluster is waiting for her and intends to kill her. She doesn't believe him and leaves. Right outside the door, the banker kills her with a knife.Kluster follows the stranger, who has the money, to the graveyard. There, Django confronts the banker in front of his father's open grave. Django shoots Kluster in self-defense; the banker falls dead into the open grave. Django sneaks back to the saloon and hides the money. He sneaks back into the fight so it looks like he was there the whole time. When the sheriff finds out about the dead wife and the stolen money he assumes Kluster has escaped with the money because he was the only one not there.Django &amp; his new buddy plan on leaving town, but find out that the female saloon keeper has double-crossed him and taken the money. Django goes back to town to marry the woman and run the bank, now getting his full share from his father's partnership. However, a stranger turns up in town claiming to be Kluster's long-lost son. He demands his share of the money.
