Donald and Daisy are walking when he is hit by a flowerpot. He's convinced he's a famous singer, and he croons divinely, but does not recognize Daisy. He in fact does become famous. Daisy is devastated by her inability to get over him and sees a psychiatrist. He tells her she has to choose between the world having Donald, or her getting him back. She picks herself, and drops another flowerpot, which restores him.
As the film begins, Daisy Duck is talking to a psychiatrist about an incident that occurred with her boyfriend, Donald. She recalls how they were walking through the park, passing by a skyscraper. On the 99th floor of the skyscraper is a potted flower, which falls and hits Donald on the head, knocking him out. When he comes to, he hears a voice in his head, telling him, "You are the greatest singer in the world." He gets up, and proceeds to croon "When You Wish upon a Star" in a Sinatra-like voice. Daisy is stunned, but Donald coldly glances at her as though he does not recognize her. At that moment, a theatrical agent sweeps Donald into his window, causing the flower on his head to fall at Daisy's feet.She takes the flower home, as a way to remember her lost love. She sees Donald everywhere, hawking products and on marquees-- he has become a major celebrity. She almost drives herself insane, but eventually hears that Donald is playing at the Music City Radio Hall. She decides to go see him, but is greatly hindered by a massive crowd. Many months pass, during which Daisy has no success at being able to see Donald.One night, as she is going home, she runs into Donald on the street. She grovels at Donald's feet, but only succeeds in getting a dime thrown at her. She then comes back to the present, where she is talking to the psychiatrist about what happened. The psychiatrist concludes that the hit on the head from the flower pot is what caused Donald to change so radically. He offers to help, but warns her that Donald will no longer be successful if he changes back to normal. Daisy is eager to have him back, though, so the psychiatrist tells her to put the flower in another pot and drop it on Donald's head somehow. She agrees to this plan.That night, as Donald is performing, Daisy slips into the building through the back door. She makes her way past a sleeping security guard, and climbs up into the rafters, where she drops the pot on Donald. It hits him on the head, and he quickly reverts to his regular voice. He is booed off the stage and thrown out of the building, where Daisy is waiting for him. He is thrilled to see her, asking, "Where have you been?" They kiss as the film irises out.
