Johnny Kelly, who plans on resigning from the police force and leaving his wife the next day, has a very eventful last night on duty.
Chicago cop Johnny Kelly, dissatisfied with his job and marriage, would like to run away with his stripper girlfriend Angel Face, but keeps getting cold feet. During one crowded night, Angel Face decides she's had enough vacillation, and crooked lawyer Biddel has an illegal mission for Johnny that could put him in a financial position to act. But other, conflicting schemes are also in progress...
Uniformed Chicago cop Johnny Kelly, Jr., who originally joined the force to make his policeman father happy, has grown restless in the job and has decided to resign the next day. He allows himself to be compromised by a shady lawyer and has decided to desert his wife because of his obsessive affair with a stripper in a sleazy nightclub. Although the sergeant who partners with him for his last night of duty is a stranger to Kelly, the enigmatic cop seems to know Johnny very well. They leave in a squad car for what will be a very eventful last night on duty for the disillusioned young policeman.
In Chicago, the police officer Johnny Kelly is unhappy with his work that pays low-salary and with his marriage. His wife Kathy Kelly has a better salary and his mother-in-law frequently humiliates him. Johnny was forced by his father Sgt. John 'Pop' Kelly Sr. to join the police, but he intends to quit his job and leave his wife to flee to California with his mistress Sally "Angel Face" Connors, who dances in a night-club. When Johnny gets cold feet, Sally tells that she will move to California with the small-time actor Gregg Warren, who performs a robot in the window of the night-club where she works, and plans a show with her. During the night, the crooked lawyer Penrod Biddel summons Johnny to participate in a scheme to arrest the thief Hayes Stewart and protect his younger brother Stubby Kelly that has teamed-up with Hayes. However Biddel is betrayed by his ambitious wife Lydia Biddel along the restless and busy night.
The story begins with a voice-over the "Voice of Chicago" introducing the world and main characters of the film. There's Sally "Angel Face" Connors (Mala Powers), an exotic dancer; Gregg Warren (Wally Cassell), a former actor working as a performance artist, a "Mechanical Man"; Johnny Kelly (Gig Young) a cop having an affair with Angel Face and struggling with his conscience to leave his wife; Penrod Biddel (Edward Arnold), a successful and smooth attorney; Hayes Stewart (William Talman), a magician who has turned to making a career as a thief. Johnny Kelly is disillusioned with his job which he took to please his father, and writes a letter of resignation which he intends to hand in at the end of his shift. He calls Penrod Biddel to accept an offer that the lawyer had made for employment and agrees to meet him later that evening. Johnny's wife Kathy Kelly (Paula Raymond) discovers Johnny's plan to quit his job and calls his father Sgt. John Kelly Sr. (Otto Hulett) who talks to Johnny and is concerned for his son's happiness. On this night Johnny's regular partner calls in sick and his replacement is Sgt. Joe (Chill Wills) whose voice can be recognized as the introductory "Voice of Chicago". As they begin the nightly shift Sgt. Joe has a goodly amount of homespun homiletic advice for Johnny whose negative energy casts a pall on their working environment. As the night progresses Johnny visits his stripper girlfriend Angel Face to re-affirm their plans to go away. He also meets with the lawyer Penrod Biddel who asks Johnny to pick up Hayes Stewart and carry him across the state line for the Indiana Police to incarcerate him. Johnny turns down the offer but changes his mind when Biddel tells him that Johnny's brother 'Stubby' is associating with the criminal and will surely get into trouble unless Johnny intervenes and does what Biddel wants. Johnny and Sgt. Joe also answer a call for a woman having a baby and Johnny performs the delivery; they answer a call for an illegal gambling game on the street arresting the ring leader and getting the money back to the men who have been hoodwinked. After each call Sgt. Joe lays out another bit of wisdom that seemingly begins to affect Johnny to where he begins to reevaluate his life. Hayes Stewart has obtained incriminating evidence on Penrod Biddel and seduced his wife Lydia (Marie Windsor). Stewart shoots the lawyer and he and Lydia escape, running to the nightclub where Angel Face dances. Hayes Stewart, having discovered Biddels's agreement with Johnny to take him out of the state calls the police asking to meet with Officer Kelly, only Johnny's father takes the call. Stewart shoots Kelly Sr. and takes Lydia and escapes but can't get far because of the enclosing police. Stewart believes that the Mechanical Man has seen him and intends to stay close by to kill him. Gregg Warren thinks he can bait the killer for Johnny. This sense of honor, and his father's murder, makes clear to Johnny what he really holds valuable in his life. As the Mechanical Man performs in a window, Angel Face states her love for him and as the man begins to shed a tear Hayes Stewart see that he is indeed a real man and shoots, revealing his hideout. Johnny chases him and Stewart falls to his death from an elevated railroad track. Johnny considers what has happened this eventful night and re-evaluates his station in life.
