Bunny is a penniless widow who blackmails a robber into teaching her the trade. Soon the pair starts a successful crime spree, and the cops aren't turning a blind eye.
Aged Bunny O'Hare has just lost everything, the Bank of New Mexico which has foreclosed on her mortgage and demolished her house. What possessions of hers that were not repossessed by creditors were destroyed in the demolition. Bunny feels she cannot ask her adult children, Ad and Lulu, for help, as they depend on her. In reality, Ad and Lulu are ungrateful and selfish, wallowing in financial holes of their own making. The one person who seems to provide her some help in at least offering to drop her off wherever she may need or want to go is the man who gutted the house of the plumbing fixtures to sell in Mexico, while she doesn't know that he's really just trying to lose her anywhere. Things change when she discovers that he is William Gruenwald, an escaped convict who was behind bars for bank robbery. She offers him a blackmail deal which he has no choice but to accept: she won't turn him into the police in return for he teaching her how to rob banks. She figures that the Bank of New Mexico robbed her, so why shouldn't she rob them in return. In addition to revenge, she is taking this action solely to help Ad and Lulu. After a shaky albeit successful first robbery with Bill's help, Bunny, with Bill by her side all the way, figures that they will continue to rob Bank of New Mexico branches for as long as Ad and/or Lulu need money, a thousand dollars here or there. After that first robbery, they settle into what will become their standard hold-up M.O. Hot, or not so hot on their tail is the lead state police investigator, conservative and narrow minded Lieutenant Horace Greeley, who is working largely on his own anti-anti-establishment agenda. His new assistant, criminology student R.J. Hart, hired specifically for this case, may be able to see the evidence more clearly than Greeley. Complicating matters is a pair of copycat bank robbers who have their own non-monetary agenda.

