After a tragic accident, a man conjures up a towering, vengeful demon called Pumpkinhead to destroy a group of unsuspecting teenagers.
After a group of bikers accidentally murder a young boy named Billy Harley his father Ed harley is devastated and the only thing he wants is revenge and goes to an old woman who is said to be a witch and conjures a demonic creature known as pumpkin head and with Revenge on his Mind unleashes him upon the bikers.
A group of city kids go into the country to relax. While there, one of them is involved in a biking accident that takes the life of the son of the local storekeeper. In a fit of rage, the storekeeper has a witch unleash an unstoppable demon called "Pumpkinhead" to kill the group. When he realizes he's gone too far, the storekeeper attempts to save the kids, but is continually afflicted by visions of peoples' deaths through the eyes of the monster.
When a backwoods town is invaded by inner-city bikers, little Billy Harley gets ran over and left for dead. His enraged father Ed Harley takes vengeance into his own hands and conjures the demon "Pumpkinhead" to exact justice on the city kids.
A group of young vacationers heading to a cabin in the remote hill country incur the wrath of a demonic incarnation when the father of a boy they accidentally kill calls for revenge.
As a young boy, Ed Harley saw an evil demon kill a man. Many years later, Harley and his young son are running a grocery stand in Nevada that is visited by six city youths on their way to a cabin. While Harley is away on an errand, one of the boys accidentally kills Harley's son with a motorcycle. Remembering what he had seen that night years ago, and what he had heard, Harley pays a visit to a reclusive witch who helps him invoke that demon - known as Pumpkinhead - to avenge his son's death. As he sees the youths being killed, one at a time, through the eyes of the demon, Harley discovers that a horrific price must be paid...
The story begins a long time ago, out in the country when a mother, and father try to protect their son from seeing what is about to happen. The relentless revenge demon, Pumpkin is perusing his victim. The man tries to get into the home but the father will not allow it. Pumpkinhead finishes what he started and the little boy, Ed Harley (Lance Henriksen) got out of bed to watch it all from his window. Now Ed is a grown man who has a young son. After six out of town kids arrive at Ed Harley's store, Pumkinhead's story is told by some local children. Shortly after,one of the six out of towners, Joel a criminal, starts to race his dirt bike. He jumps over a mound of dirt and hits Ed's young son. Because he is on probation and has been drinking, the punk gets his bike and flees the scene. He fights with his friends about going to get help and the little boy dies. When the father, Ed finds his dead son, he can think of nothing but revenge. His thoughts turn to the demon that he saw take revenge when he was a boy. He seeks the old witch that can conjure Pumpkinhead. Ed Harley follows her instructions and the huge, evil demon awakens. After Joel has taken his friends hostage to keep his wrong doings a secret, one of the girls, Maggie starts to lose her mind. She runs off and as Steve, Joel's younger brother tries to stop her. Pumpkinhead hides in the trees and strikes. As it rips Steve to shreds, Maggie runs back to the cabin for help. Joe and Jeff go looking for Steve with guns. Just then, the evil vengeance demon appears at the window. It hangs Steve's bloody body in front of the door, and as Maggie screams, Pumpkinhead grabs her and runs off. It soon returns and grabs another girl and chokes her in the top of a tree and then drops her onto a boulder and claims victim number three. The remaining three victims run looking for help. The hillbillies that live in that area know that if they help, Pumpkinhead will come for them as well. Ed Harley feels something awful every time his demon kills. He decides to help stop it and he meets the three remaining survivors. Soon, Pumpkinhead arrives and Joel and Harley unload their guns into the beast. Then, when they think it is dead, it rises and shoves Joel's rifle through his chest. Ed is bitten by a dog and Pumpkinhead feels the pain, but Ed did not notice it. Kim and Jeff run for their lives until a young hillbilly, Jimmy Joe decides to help them. Pumpkinhead pursues them through an old burned down church and grabs Jeff, wounding him badly. Wanting to stop this, Ed Harley drives around until he finds Kim and Jimmy Joe, and then takes them into his home. Soon the evil one appears, drops Jeff's body and enters the house. In a terrifying scene it goes for Jimmy Joe first. Then they all escape outside where Ed gets stuck by a pitch fork and sees that is hurting Pumpkinhead. Ed figures out that he can only kill the beast by killing himself. Jeff who is still alive, helps Kim buy some time. Just as the monster is about to kill jackass Ed shoots himself. But Ed Harley still lives. Kim shoots him and ends this forever and Pumpkinhead goes up in flames, never to be seen again. Well, until the old witch buried the remains back in it's resting place until the next time it is called upon.
