An ailing vampire count travels to Italy with his servant to find a bride.
Udo Kier is without a doubt the sickliest of vampires in any director's interpretation of the Bram Stoker tale. Count Dracula knows that if he fails to drink a required amount of pure virgin's [pronounced "wirgin's"] blood, it's time to move into a permanent coffin. His assistant (Renfield?) suggests that the Count and he pick up his coffin and take a road trip to Italy, where families are known to be particularly religious, and therefore should be an excellent place to search for a virgin bride. They do, only to encounter a family with not one, but FOUR virgins, ready for marriage. The Count discovers one-by-one that the girls are not as pure as they say they are, meanwhile a handsome servant/Communist begins to observe strange behaviour from the girls who do spend the night with the Count. It's a race for Dracula to discover who's the real virgin, before he either dies from malnourishment or from the wooden stake of the Communist!
In Transilvania, Count Dracula is weak and ill since he needs the blood of virgin girls to recover. His servant Mario Balato suggests him to travel the Italy, a Catholic country were virginity is preserved to marriage, with his coffin. When they arrive at a small village, they learn that the Di Fiore family is completely broken and has four virgin daughters. Mario contacts the Marquee Di Fiore and his greedy wife invites them to stay in their manor and introduces their daughter Esmeralda, Saphiria, Rubiniaand Perla. Soon Dracula finds that Saphiria and Rubinia are not pure since they are lovers of the Marquee's servant Anton. Meanwhile Anton suspects that Dracula is a vampire.
Count Dracula [Udo Kier] and his renfield Anton [Arno Juerging] travel to Italy in search of a virgin's blood. They are invited to stay at the di Fiori estate where there are four unmarried girls. Perhaps the Count will choose one of them? Highly unlikely. The two middle girls -- Rubina [Stefania Casini] and Saphiris [Dominique Darel] --are screwing the hired hand Mario [Joe Dallesandro]. Dracula drinks their blood and promptly throws up. Mario gets wise to the vampire and rapes the youngest girl Perla [Silvia Dionisio] so she won't be of interest. The oldest girl Esmerelda [Milena Vukotic] is still a virgin and gives herself to Dracula. Dracula is staked by Mario after Mario chops off both Dracula's arms, one leg and few other parts. Esmerelda throws herself on the stake, too.
