A Hollywood film director assembles a group of friends and strangers for a social gathering on Valentines Day in a deserted movie theater where he interviews each one on their opinions on love and loneliness.
Filmmaker Danny Sapir and actress Helen Eugene are several months into their relationship. Helen's want for neither to "sleep over" following their sexual encounters - Helen says because she still feels more comfortable sleeping by herself - Danny sees as a deeper indication of the truly casual state of their relationship. Danny decides to send a blanket invitation to many of his friends inviting anyone who will be alone on Valentine's Day to a gathering at a grand old theater he and his financial manager brother Mickey own in Santa Monica but which Mickey had prearranged without Danny's knowledge prior to the purchase to be demolished to make way for a shopping center. Most of those friends that end up attending are expecting the gathering to be a traditional party. But Danny, who does provide a day long social of sorts with food and drink, wants to ask these friends the broad question, "why are you alone?", the question stemming in part from his and Helen's own relationship. He also has a film crew in place as he wants to film the experience to make into a movie. Beyond the surprise all his guests feel - those guests who do include Mickey and Helen - they each come into the process with a different perspective of the question itself and their answer to it. Some also provide their thoughts on the demolition of the theater, and use the gathering to address the question in a practical manner. One of Danny's friends, an older, more experienced filmmaker, watches the proceedings in the background unknown to Danny, the older man who ends up providing Danny with his own musings about the question and the cinematic aspect of such a movie.
During a party at movie director Danny's home, a group of friends and actors people are reunited to converse about love and relationship. Orson Welles is the "judge" of these conversations.
In Los Angeles, California, independent filmmaker Danny Sapir (Henry Jaglom) begins dating singer Helen Eugene (Andrea Marcovicci). In the opening scene, Helen is hesitant to let Danny stay the night at her apartment, having recently learned to live by herself again after her previous relationship. Later in Danny's apartment, he meets with his older brother Mickey (Michael Emil), a real estate agent visiting from New York. As Danny talks about his relationship with Helen, Mickey confesses he would like to fall in love, but he has commitment issues.Afterward, Mickey takes Danny to the closed Mayfair Theater, a property in Santa Monica, he recently sold, and which is scheduled for destruction. Inspired by the theater design, Danny decides to throw a party there before it is torn down. He gathers a number of his single friends for the St. Valentine's Day party, including Helen and Mickey. Danny surprises the guests by bringing out a film crew, and announces that he wants to know why everyone gathered is currently single, and encourages them to share their thoughts and feelings on relationships on camera.Over the course of the single day, Danny interviews dozens of people, including Mickey who reacts annoyed and angry over Danny prying into his and other peoples personal lives. One of the persons attending is Edith Helm (Sally Kellerman) a veteran actress who has just recently gotten divorced which she connects with Danny who sees her divorce from her latest husband as similar to his own divorce years earlier.After completing the interviews, Danny is asked by a friend of his (played by Orson Welles as more or less himself in his final film role) why he is alone, but he has no answer.Before leaving, Helen tells Danny she will keep a spare toothbrush at his home, just in case she stays over with him in the future.
