A dentist pretends to be married to avoid commitment, but when he falls for his girlfriend and proposes, he must recruit his lovelorn nurse to pose as his wife.
Toni Simmons believes that the only reason her married lover won't leave his wife is because of the children. Actually, her lover, dentist Julian Winston, doesn't have any children. In fact, he doesn't even have a wife--he just tells women he does to avoid getting involved. When Julian does decide to take the plunge with Toni, she insists on meeting the first wife and Julian enlists the aid of his long-time nurse/receptionist Stephanie Dickinson to play the part.
21-year-old Toni Simmons and middle-aged married dentist Dr. Julian Winston are in love. Toni values honesty above all else, but their relationship is based on a lie: Julian is not married. He initially told her this lie to avoid making a long-term commitment to her, but now he feels he might be ready to marry her, but her respect of honesty would keep him from telling him that he lied before, and he isn't actually married. Then, not wanting to be a homewrecker, Toni wants to meet the first Mrs. Dr. Winston to ensure that their marriage is over. So Julian asks his efficient, no-nonsense, loyal, devoted nurse/receptionist Stephanie Dickinson to pose as his wife. She's the logical choice in his mind, as she already does many personal chores for him. Stephanie, a middle-aged spinster who hides any aspect of her femininity, reluctantly agrees to the ruse. Toni has more questions about her own relationship with Julian after meeting Stephanie than are answered. But in posing as Mrs. Dr. Winston, Stephanie begins to bloom much like the cactus plant on her desk. Conversely, Toni's next-door neighbor, writer Igor Sullivan, has his own thoughts about what Toni should do with her life.
In Manhattan, dentist Julian Winston works with his efficient nurse/receptionist Stephanie Dickinson, whom he compares to a cactus flower because she represses her emotions. He spends the first anniversary of his affair with 21-year-old Toni Simmons on a date with an Australian air-hostess. Believing that Julian is married with three children and chose to spend the evening with his family, she attempts suicide, but her next-door neighbor, young aspiring writer Igor Sullivan saves her life. When Julian learns what Toni did, he decides to marry her. Toni does not want to be a homewrecker and asks to talk to Mrs. Winston to be sure that she wants the divorce. Julian does not want her to know that he is a liar, so he asks Stephanie to pose as Mrs. Winston.
Dr Julian Winston--successful Fifth Avenue dentist, and easygoing middle-aged bachelor--finds himself between a rock and a hard place, when his convenient, well-orchestrated lie paired with a failed act of despair force him to make a promise. As a result, Julian swears to walk down the aisle with his fresh young mistress Toni; however, when she insists on first meeting his nonexistent soon-to-be ex-wife, things take a turn for the unexpected. To get a divorce, Winston must invent a spouse--and who better than his highly competent, devoted, and stiff nurse Stephanie? This is the perfect plan, but what if things aren't what they seem?

