After finding out that the hippie lifestyle isn't as glamorous as the media makes it look, Dennie comes home to find disapproval and judgment at every turn, and her sister Susie wanting to follow in her footsteps.
Dennie has returned from a year among the hippies to her superficial, image-conscious suburban family. She must face their disapproval of her actions. They refuse to even try to understand. She must also deal with an ex-lover, and a beloved young sister who is following in her footsteps, wanting the idealistic hippie life but making some rash decisions in the process.
The year is 1970 and twenty-year-old hippie Denise "Dennie" Miller is hitchhiking back home after living with a group of hippies in L.A. for some time. As dawn nears, she arrives at her pleasant middle class family home, soaks her grimy feet in the swimming pool, wanders the quiet house, and falls into her childhood bed in exhaustion. At dawn, her stressed-out suburban parents wake to a typical busy day, clueless that their older daughter has returned. Their younger daughter, ornery teen Susie, gets ready for school. Susie soon finds Dennie asleep in her old room, and runs to alert her parents that prodigal daughter Dennie has returned. The family is overjoyed. Dennie tearfully begs her parents' forgiveness for her temporary abandonment and vows to stay in the fold. Dennie's parents are nervous and over solicitous around Dennie, while hyper-critical of Susie. We learn that during Dennie's absence, there has been friction between them and the increasingly disgruntled and rebellious Susie. They can't figure out what's gotten into Susie. There is a lot of shouting.Dennie spends the day cleaning herself up. She cuts her long, tangled hair into the same cute shag she wore as a child. She tours the empty home, rediscovers her childhood dolls, and has intense flashbacks to her childhood, filled with idealized images of traditional domesticity.Meanwhile, back in L.A., Dennie's ex-boyfriend is out to find Dennie and bring her back into the itinerant hippie lifestyle. He steals an exterminator's truck, steals a meal from a diner, abandons the first truck, and then steals an ice cream truck, throwing its contents to a flock of grateful schoolkids. Off he goes to find Dennie, cops at his heels.Dennie continues to clean up her act and play the good daughter at home, while having flashbacks of her former lifestyle: drugs, sloth, dirt, begging, and free love. One day, little sister Susie returns home to discover her bedroom in an unholy shambles. Her two parents have trashed it in the search for drugs. There is more shouting. Accusations and counter-accusations are made and denied. The whole family is just stressed out. We see a series of flashbacks where Dennie's ex-boyfriend is on a bad drug trip and throws himself again and again and again through a large glass window.Later, Dennie takes her parents' lead and starts searching the house for signs of Susie's alleged drug problem. Dennie finds hidden pills. (More flashbacks). Dennie informs Susie that she "can't handle meth", whether she thinks she can or not. More flashbacks reveal the reason Dennie had initially run: Her father had caught her on the couch with a boy and lost it. But it is Linda Ronstadt's ever-present soundtrack, as well as a little-girl-voiceover (voiced by Sally Field using a baby voice), that explain, in great detail, that Dennie's parents' anger, coupled with their rigid, consumerist, patriarchal, and anti-intellectual life views, have deteriorated their own health while forcing Dennie to "seek out a brand new day and really get going in a really brand new way". Dennie's parents throw a party for the adults in their neighborhood. Dennie plays the perfect hostess as her parents and their friends get drunk and lascivious (which is hypocritical). Susie is upstairs getting high on her pills, and soon crashes the party in what we are supposed to assume is a particularly inappropriate getup, humiliating her folks with her drug-fueled antics. Yelling and accusations follow, sober Dennie finally breaks under the pressure of this family strife, she dives into the pool fully dressed, and begins swimming laps, oblivious to her parents' desperate pleas. The other partygoers think the whole thing is hilarious.The next morning, Dennie's ex-boyfriend finally gets to Dennie's family's house, climbs a really tall tree by the swimming pool, and makes a big speech about how Dennie should follow him to Canada right away to get out of the evil clutches of her messed up family. He professes his love and they make out.Dennie's parents witness this scene and everyone starts yelling and screaming. Dennie can't handle it and runs back to her bedroom. The boyfriend takes off in his stolen ice cream truck.Back in the house, the parents discover that Susie has run away with her sister's ex-boyfriend. She's off to be a hippie.In the last scene, we're back at Dennie's family home where she is dressed like her mother and vacuuming without emotion.
