Young Jimmy is being pursued by the evil Wilhemina W. Witchiepoo. More specifically, Witchiepoo is after Jimmy's small friend, a small solid gold diamond encrusted talking flute named Freddy. Witchiepoo knows that if she has Freddy in her possession, she will definitely be named Witch of the Year at the upcoming witch's convention. In Witchiepoo's pursuit of them, Jimmy and Freddy escape to Living Island, where Witchiepoo's wicked castle is located. But Living Island is also a fantastical land of among other things talking animals, talking trees and talking winds. The mayor of Living Island is H.R. Pufnstuf, a talking dragon. Pufnstuf and his friends do whatever they need to to protect Jimmy and Freddy from Witchiepoo's evil grip. Pufnstuf and his friends have to get Jimmy and Freddy off the island to their ultimate safety. In the end, Jimmy may have to save Pufnstuf and all the good guys, as another of Witchiepoo's plans is to serve spit-roasted dragon at the convention.
Jimmy runs away to be by himself after a bad day at school. He takes his flute down by the sea to relax. When he lays the flute down it becomes alive. (Turns to solid gold with diamond studs). Plotting to steal is a witch named Witchiepoo. Jimmy hops aboard a beautiful magic talking board that wants to take him out to sea. But the boat actually belongs to the Witch... who turns the boat back into a black evil craft meant to trap Jimmy and bring him to her. But Jimmy escapes from the boat and makes a swim for land. A Dragon named Pufnstuf was watching the whole event between Jimmy and the witch. Pufnstuf and the cops (two ants named Cling &amp; clang) go to aid Jimmy. Jimmy ends up on the shores of Living island (where every thing is alive) &amp; is rescued by Pufnstuf &amp; Co. The rest of the movie has the witch trying to get the magic flute in order to impress Boss Witch and her Friend Witch Hazel (Mama Cass Elliot), while Pufnstuf and Friends are attempting to find ways to get Jimmy off of the island.

