At a tough penitentiary, prisoner Joe Collins plans to rebel against Captain Munsey, the power-mad chief guard.
At overcrowded Westgate Penitentiary, where violence and fear are the norm and the warden has less power than guards and leading prisoners, the least contented prisoner is tough, single-minded Joe Collins. Most of all, Joe hates chief guard Captain Munsey, a petty dictator who glories in absolute power. After one infraction too many, Joe and his cell-mates are put on the dreaded drain pipe detail; prompting an escape scheme that has every chance of turning into a bloodbath.
In the Westgate Penitentiary, the Warden A. J. Barden is a weak man, and the institution is actually ruled by the ambitious and sadistic Captain Munsey, who uses violence, fear and treachery to control the prisoners. After the suicide of Tom Lister, one of the inmates of cell R17, provoked by Captain Munsey, the prisoners loses their privileges and rest of the group of cell R-17 leaded by Joe Collins is sent to hard and insalubrious work in the drain pipe. Joe uses a successful strategy of war trying to escape, attacking the tower of the penitentiary from the outside with his men, and from inside with the team leaded by the leader Gallagher. However, the plan fails, ending in a bloodshed.
Joe Collins is a convict in the State penitentiary who decides he's had enough and wants to break out. All of them are fed up with the the Captain of the Guard, Mr. Muncey, who uses both physical and psychological torture to get his way with the men. When Joe and his cell mates are assigned to work in the drainpipe located just outside the prison gate, Joe uses a tactic from the US military during World War II in Italy as the basis of the break out.
Joe Collins (played by Burt Lancaster) is a prisoner in Westgate Penitentiary. The senior officer at the prison is Captain Munsey (Hume Cronyn), a power-mad, manipulative sadist. Collins is rebellious and constantly in trouble with the prison guards. He formulates a plan to escape but a confrontation with Captain Munsey is inevitable...
At the underfunded and overcrowded Westgate Penitentiary, the situation is like a ticking bomb ready to go off. Under those circumstances, the rebellious and tough-to-break inmate Joe Collins and his fellow prisoners of the crammed cell R17 are kept on a short leash by the sadistic, manipulative and power-craving guard, Captain Munsey. Eventually, Joe with dreams of escape and at the end of his tether, he will finally have all set to crack the wall open, but with his rusty shackles so thick and heavy, is it possible to escape from the prison and Munsey's ever-watchful eye? In the end, when freedom is so expensive and precious, who knows what great lengths one can go to be free at last.

