The Police Academy's commandant will be honored at a police convention in Miami Beach. At the airport he picks a wrong bag with stolen diamonds. The "owners" want them back.
The old Commandant Lassard, leader of the Police Academy (1984), goes to Florida to receive an award. In the city arrives also the cynic Captain Harris who wants to take Lassard's job. Harris wants to place himself in a favourable light in front of the high military hierarchy but, at the airport, Lassard exchanges his bag with another one...
Commandant Eric Lassard, the head of the Police Academy (1984), has reached mandatory retirement age, much to the delight of Captain Thaddeus Harris, who is planning to take over Lassard's job. Lassard and a handful of the Academy's former students travel to Miami for a special ceremony where Lassard is to be honored as the Police Officer of the Decade at a convention. Along for the trip to Miami are Moses Hightower, Eugene Tackleberry, Larvell Jones, Debbie Callahan, Laverne Hooks, Tommy "House" Conklin, and Commissioner Henry Hurst, along with Harris and his right-hand man Proctor. A jewel thief named Manny has smuggled stolen diamonds in a camcorder. Manny's suitcase is accidentally switched with Lassard's identical suitcase at the airport in Miami. This gets Lassard and Harris kidnapped by Manny and his two henchmen Julio and Pete, with everyone, including Lassard's nephew, Sergeant Nick Lassard, in pursuit.
Sun, fun and babes in shades. Where else but Miami Beach? Buffoons, blockheads and party-hearty animals. Who else but the Police Academy (1984) gang? In this fifth funfest, our heroes jet to Miami for a convention honoring beloved Cmdt. Lassard. But crime doesn't take a vacation, even if our police favorites do. Lassard is kidnapped. And not even the lure of limbo beach parties will stop the intrepid troopers' uproarious rescue attempts. How determined are they? As determined as a guy rasslin' an Okefenokee Swamp 'gator. Make that 10 guys and gals. Deploying the laugh weaponry are returning rookies Hightower, Jones, Tackleberry, Hooks, House, and Callahan, plus malicious meddlers Harris and Proctor. And on board as the ensemble's newest go-getters are Kate and Nick.
The Police Academy (1984) misfits travel to Miami, Florida for their academy's commanding officer, Lassard, to receive a prestigious lifetime award pending his retirement, which takes a turn involving a group of jewel thieves after their stolen loot that Lassard unknowingly has in his possession.
The cynical Captain Harris and his dim-witted lacky Lt. Proctor finally finds the goods he needs to push Commandant Eric Lassard out at the Police Academy: he is one year late for mandatory retirement. But before he retires, Lassard is chosen as "Police Officer of the Decade", and brings his favorite graduates Sgts. Hightower, Jones, Tackleberry and Hooks, Lt. Callahan, and new graduate Officer Thomas "House" Conklin to the National Police Chiefs Convention in Miami Beach to celebrate with him.Harris and Proctor decide to travel down to Miami Beach to discredit Lassard once again so Harris can attempt again to take over the police academy for himself. But Harris and Proctor are tricked into chartering an old rickety cargo flight down to Florida while the police academy group travels first class aboard a 747 plane.While there, the misfit police officers meet Lassard's nephew, Sgt. Nick Lassard of the Miami Police Department. The fun is complicated when he unwittingly takes a bag belonging to jewel thieves containing stolen merchandise.As the jewel thieves try to get the bag back, and Captain Harris tries to prove to Commissioner Hurst that he's the right man to replace Commandant Lassard, the usual hijinks ensue, including Lassard trying to guess the annual procedural demonstration.At the awards ceremony, when the jewel thieves kidnap Commandant Lassard, he goes willingly, thinking it is indeed the procedural demonstration. It launches a negotiation, which Captain Harris botches, getting himself captured as well. A chase across the Everglades ensues to rescue the oblivious and absent-minded Commandant. During the chase, Harris falls overboard and is nearly eaten by a large aligator, until Hightower dives into the water to rescue him and subdue the aligator. When the chase leads to the end, Lassard is held at gunpoint by the jewel thief's leader, still thinking that it's a demonstration. When Nick tells his uncle that this isn't a demonstration, the elderly Commandant knocks out the jewel thief by himself and captures him.The next day, when Commandant Lassard is giving his "Police Officer of the Decade" award and announces his retirement from the force, a loophole by Nick shows that his mandatory retirement is in fact optional and that he can retire anytime he wants to. Lassard then changes his mind about retiring much to great joy and applause.
