Despite marital problems, English Lord Albert Esketh and his rich American socialite wife Lady Edwina Esketh travel to India to buy a prize horse from the ruler of Ranchipur.
Rich American socialite Lady Edwina Esketh, who obtained her title by marrying English Lord Albert Esketh, travels to Ranchipur where Albert hopes to buy a prize stallion from the Maharani. Theirs is not a happy marriage and after she meets a prominent local doctor, Rama Safti, falls madly in love with him. He too is in love with her much to the Maharani's disapproval as she has great plans for the good doctor. Also living in Ranchipur is Tom Ransome an old friend of Edwina's who perhaps knows too much about her past. When a natural disaster destroys much of Ranchipur, disease follows forcing Safti to choose between treating the sick or being with Edwina, who is also deathly ill.
India. The spoiled and stubborn Edwina Esketh comes to a small town with her husband. She falls in love with an Indian doctor, Dr. Safti. She also meets an old friend of hers, the alcoholic Tom Ransome. A terrible earthquake is followed by days of rain.
Circa 1938 in India, the wise and astute Maharani of Ranchipur sadly bids adieu to her deceased husband, Maharaj Man Singh Bahadur, and departs to smoke a cigarette privately. Following this there is a condolence meeting with several dignitaries in attendance. Amongst them are Lord Albert Esketh and his wife, Edwina; Thomas alias Tom Ransome, a bounder, a drunk, a womanizer, are some of the titles bestowed on him by Ranchipurans, not to speak of his former affair with Lord Albert's wife, and an on-going affair with an 18 year old American by the name of Fern, daughter of local missionaries; And then there is Hindu Dr. Major Rama Safti - a man who once belonged to the untouchables, was adopted by the Maharaja and his wife, groomed to be a doctor so that he can assist the poor in Ranchipur, which also included his travel to the United States of America, and who is currently involved in an affair with Lady Esketh, much to the chagrin of the Maharani, who has other plans for Rama, and would like Edwina out of the way as soon as possible. Then all their plans and lives are changed when heavy incessant rains pound Ranchipur and the region, followed by massive earthquakes, pollution, and then plague - and even the Caucasians nor the rich can escape the fury of the elements.

