Dr. Peter Houseman is a brilliant geneticist who is working on a serum which will stop human aging, but his colleagues don't believe in his work. When his university funding is threatened by his skeptical benefactors, the doctor takes a desperate measure to justify his work. He administers the serum to himself, but the results are unexpected and horrendous.
Since the beginning of time the genetic code of life has remained a mystery to mankind, but now a brilliant scientist has discovered the secret to genetic reproduction. Forced to inject the serum into himself, the results are at first a mix of suspense, then terror, as we witness a total metamorphosis from man to the 'Regenerator'...
A teacher vs student basketball game. Sally Donnelly (Catherine Baranova) asks Dr Michael "Mike" Foster (Harry Cason) why Dr Peter Houseman (Gene Le Brock) gets such a huge grant money. Houseman is one of the people playing. He is an attractive man who looks at Sally at recess. Mike says that he is a brilliant scientist. During his lesson, he speaks about the 3-million alphabet within the human DNA structure. Hoffman complains that his funds have been taken away because he refuses to publish his findings. She recommends all funding to be retired, but it's a private university, and he has spent half a million dollars without publishing a line. Peter complains that he was promised freedom to research "no strings attached". She begs before Mike, - and without realising who she was - he calls the inspector "a hysterical old maid".As he is in a hurry, and he thinks that there is no way he can publish an inconclusive research, he hurries up. He takes a monkey and injects something in her head. The radiation is being absorbed too quickly, so the monkey screams in pain. It dies as Willy (David Wicker), the lab assistant, had predicted.Peter asks for 150,000 dollars more to the board, which includes Professor Huston (Tom Story), his friend. He follows the theory of Mechanism, which its first proposer, Brunel, abandoned himself as he had no technology available to check it. Peter has to go before a board and says that he has found the genetic bases which will prevent cells to decay or change, so making cells eternally stable, never changing... or dying. He admits he experimented with human foetus.An old man (Wayne Potrafka) at a surgery table who dies because of the research. It is only Houseman's dream. He explains to the bureaucrat about what he wants to accomplish. She realises that the human race will become so predominant that it will kill all other species.Dr Viallini (Marcus Powell) and Dr. Elliot Stein (Allen Lewis Rickman) decide to question Willy (), Peter's laboratory assistant, about the research. The driver (Ralph Grimaldi) stops so that Willy can get onto the limousine. Sally tells Peter that research with human foetus is absolutely prohibited, and that he should have known it.Peter goes to the lab on his own at night, and the security guard (Michael D'Andrea) lets him in without much interest. Peter uses the serum in himself. He doesn't flinch when the needle goes in, but later, it's awfully painful. He rests and looks at a rabbit in a cage. He has more acute hearing. Peter goes to the inspector's in the middle of the night. He says that he tried the diluted thing on himself, and that the results were even better than expected. She looks happy for him and invites him in.Alice, the baby sitter (Allison Stokes) has taken care of Sally's child, Tommy (Jason Arnold), who has an ET poster in his bedroom. Sally and Peter end up making love.During his lesson, Peter questions Patricia (Anna Colona), a blonde bombshell who tries to seduce him pouting and with sexy poses but who is not very intelligent or dedicated, because another student called Steve (Tim Wright) answers without difficulty. Patricia gives him her address in spite of her disapproving female friend (Serina Steinberg).Willy gives Peter a warning: Dr Lloyd (Stephen Brown) has taken over the lab. Mean Peter pushes Mike's cane on purpose, so that disabled Dr Lloyd falls to the floor. Willy alleges that he has not seen what happened. Peter sees a handkerchief with blood and stares at it in surprise. He suddenly remembers attacking a woman he was going to make love to, supposedly a prostitute (Laura Gemser).Peter plays fronton aggressively with his friend from university.Peter, Sally and Tommy visit the zoo. Monkeys will not even eat the nuts he throws at them, they are so afraid. Peter remembers the blood in the face and body of a screaming woman. He wakes up startled. He goes to the lab and finds a "chromosomic anomaly". The security guard asks him whether he is going to come back like he did the night before so that he will not block the gate for him. Peter doesn't remember, but he gave a match box from the Isle of Capri nightclub. The security guard reminds him that he even lent him a handkerchief so that he could ail his wounded hand.Peter goes to the Isle of Capri. The woman, who has a terribly beaten face, spits on him and calls for other men to come and fight with Peter. But Peter is stronger than all of them together.Peter startles Willy as he appears on the backseat of his car. He is freezing and has blisters all over his body and face. Willy is the only one who can help Peter, who feels he's dying fast. Willy calls Sally, but tells her to keep everything a secret.So Peter goes through the process again. He tries to contact one of the women, but she is terrified of him in spite of all his kind words.Peter's looks accelerates in its downturn progression. Sally runs away from him when he is at hospital. Willy gives a disc with the information of the research to his boss. Peter is deforming more and more - but it's not only that. He is modifying his DNA. The police are called, especially the Inspector (Wally Doyle) who is in charge of the beaten and abused woman.Peter metamorphoses more and more and becomes a savage animal. He kills the security guard and runs after Sally and Tommy in the parking lot, both stranded from each other. When what used to be Peter is killed, it becomes just an ugly muddy stain on the dirty floor.Pretty soon, Sally and Tommy leave their home and town. Tommy is carrying a lizard. Sally tells him to be careful with it on his lap while he is sitting on the front seat at the co-pilot's. Tommy says that it will never get sick or die. Sally looks at it in horror.---written by KrystelClaire
