In ancient Egypt, a poor orphan becomes a genial physician and is eventually appointed at the Pharaoh's court where he witnesses palace intrigues and learns dangerous royal secrets.
In eighteenth dynasty Egypt, Sinuhe (Edmund Purdom), a poor orphan, becomes a brilliant physician and with his friend Horemheb (Victor Mature) is appointed to the service of the new Pharoah (Michael Wilding). Sinuhe's personal triumphs and tragedies are played against the larger canvas of the turbulent events of the eighteenth dynasty. As Sinuhe is drawn into court intrigues, and bizarre secrets are revealed to him, he learns the answers to the questions he has sought since his birth. Short on historical accuracy, but strong on plot and characterization.
Based on the novel by Mika Waltari, Sinuhe the Egyptian, the film takes place during the reign on Akhnaton (around 1352 B.C.). The story, told in flashback, begins with an abandoned infant found in a reed basket on the Nile who is taken into the home of a talented physician, Senmut (Carl Benton Reid). Named Sinuhe, he grows into an idealistic young man. First he wants to become a soldier, but then his father talks him out of it, and Sinuhe undertakes studies to become a physician, just like his foster father.Sinuhe (Edmund Purdom) becomes best friends with the energetic and extroverted Horemheb (Victor Mature), who is training for the army at the same school run by the priests. Very different in character, the two friends go on an excursion hunting lions in the desert. They save the life of a strange lone man who they find worshiping a carved image of the sun. Unbeknownst to them, he is actually the new young Pharaoh Akhnaton (Michael Wilding), who is introducing a far less war-like type of rule into Egypt based on the worship of one god, the Aten.Akhnaton makes Sinuhe personal physician to the royal family and Horemheb a commander in his army. Enjoying the good life, Horemheb one night takes Sinuhe to the home of an infamous Babylonian courtesan Nefer (Bella Darvi), with whom Sinuhe becomes instantly infatuated. Nefer, however, only plays with men, and before too long, Sinuhe has sacrificed everything for her, only to be then cruelly rejected when she is tired of playing with him. Kaptah (Peter Ustinov) used to be a slave of Sinuhe's foster family, but he insisted in remaining with him, instead of going with Nefer. Kaptah and Sinuhe will remain in contact throughout the years, although they have a strange relationship based on equality; Kaptah will become a free man, a bar patron, and later, quite a rich merchant, with the help of Sinuhe, his initial investment, and his connections.Having neglected his duties, Sinuhe is a marked man and flees Egypt, spending many years in foreign countries practicing his medical genius. When he returns home, however, Egypt has slipped into serious trouble, as Akhnaton has lost the respect of the military, and his new religion is dividing the country. The fact that Queen Nefertiti (Anitra Stevens) has only been able to give birth to daughters is not helping either, but there may be other wives or a concubine who will finally succeed in having the heir the country needs so badly.Sinuhe finds Horemheb is plotting against the Pharaoh with the ambitious Princess Baketamon (Gene Tierney). In the rebellion that follows, Merit (Jean Simmons), who had always been a good friend of Sinuhe--and who may even be falling in love with him (and him with her)--is killed when Akhnaton's temple is sacked, and Sinuhe loses his young son Thoth (Tommy Rettig). When it is revealed he is actually the Pharoah's half brother, Sinuhe finally realizes how he has compromised all of his principles, and leaves to start a lonely existence on his own in the desert, bereft of family or love.
