Two childhood friends find themselves forced to become enemies.
When an adopted fox and a to-be hunting hound become inseparable friends as pups, their friendship grows stronger every day in their "childhood." But as they grow older, they grow farther and farther apart, to the day when the two old comrades' bond is put to the ultimate test.
An adopted fox named Tod quickly becomes friends with a hound dog named Copper and they are instantly growing close with one another. Unfortunate for them, they are on opposite sides of the fence with Tod living with a kindly widow and Copper living with an unscrupulous hunter who wants to train him to being a hunting dog. As time passes, their relationship is put to the test when Copper's owner sets out to murder Tod for almost killing his other dog Chief. With that, there are consequences ahead.
A wise owl and two henchmen birds see that orphaned fox cub Tod is 'found', adopted and 'raised' by childless human widow Tweed as a happy semi-wild pet in a rural backwater. He even makes friends with canine pup Copper, the apprentice of tweed's grumpy farmer neighbor Amos Slade's hunting dog Chief, who is kept in the dark. As they grow up, Amos takes Copper a season on hunting training, from which he returns as a routine prey killer. After a biter row with Amos, Tweed feels obliged to release Tod in the wild. There he is the prime prize for vindictive Amos and Chief's next great hunt, but both juveniles remember their friendship, leaving Copper with mixed loyalties and Tod challenged to act fox-smart.
A young fox named Tod is taken in by an old woman after his mother is killed by a hunter. Full of mischief, Young Tod befriends Copper, a hound dog pup. As they grow up, however, their friendship becomes endangered by what they have become; Copper is a hunting dog, and Tod is his prey.
A fox named Tod and a hound named Copper become such good friends and they play together. But Copper's owner, Amos Slade, wants to kill Tod and he'll do anything to get him. He even has his other dog Chief to help him. As Tod and Copper get older they start to become more of enemies. Will they ever get their friendship back? Find out by watching the movie.

