Olivia Pascal stars as Vanessa who was raised in a convent after the death of her parents. Due to an inheritance she travels to Hong Kong to find out the inheritance is a chain of bordellos. She soon has trouble coping with her inheritance as she is thrust into her new world of carnal delights.
Vanessa Anden's (Olivia Pascal in her film debut) parents are deceased, and she's being raised in a Bavarian convent school -- until one day she's told she has inherited the estate of her last remaining relative. Just one catch: she must travel to Hong Kong to assume ownership, where she learns there are two main assets in the inheritance -- a string of brothels, and a large citrus plantation. She first encounters the lascivious Jackie Grüder (Uschi Zech), who happily takes Vanessa under her wing, with an eye toward indoctrinating the virginal girl into the joys of the flesh ... in all its variations!However, the plantation is another matter. It's being run by Adrian (Günter Clemens), who claims to be the illegitimate son of her late Uncle Richard. On those grounds he is contesting the will he wants the plantation!Add to the mix Adrian's jealous servant/girlfriend, Ta Nei* (Eva Leuze), Jackie's sadistic brother-in-law, Major Kenneth Cooper (Anton Diffring) and his philandering wife Clé (Eva Eden). And then there's the enigmatic friend of the family, Prince Banda, with his mysterious powers.Major Cooper lusts after young Vanessa, and Adrian thinks to marry her to get legal title to the plantation. Meanwhile, Ta Nei uses witchcraft to drive Vanessa away from her Adrian, as Prince Banda uses his magical powers to oppose her. At other times, this "friend of the family" uses his psychic powers to copulate spiritually with Clé and Vanessa. As matters come to a head, Vanessa sells the brothels, and Adrian's challenge to the will is defeated. He tries to enlist Clé to come to his aid. She, however, arranges a tryst between her husband and Vanessa so that she can sue for divorce. But the Major's idea of romance involves whips and chains! So it's up to Jackie and Adrian to save the day...* Ta Nei is a Buddhist temple in Cambodia's ancient Angkor Wat complex.
