A strange young woman lives in a fantasy world where she can never grow up.
A disturbed young woman - a former for child of the 60's, named Noah lives alone in New York, where she's retreated into her past, yearning for lost innocence., searching for a "safe place." As a child, she met a magician in Central Park who gave her magical objects. She's romantically involved with 2 different men; Fred's practical but dull, and Mitch is dynamic sexy - her ideal fantasy partner, but neither man's able to totally fulfill her needs.
A small girl, named Susan (Sylvia Zapp), watches a magician (Orson Welles) in Central Park practicing his tricks, including one in which he makes a large silver ball levitate.As an adult, Susan (Tuesday Weld), is a hippy flower girl, now calling herself 'Noah', who relives her memories childhood and recreates it in her New York City apartment, which is filled with toys and pieces of carnival rides. One day, while on the beach boardwalk, Noah is approached by straight-laced Fred (Philip Proctor), who is entranced by her beauty, flightiness and inconsistency. Noah brings Fred home to her apartment, where she reveals to him her "magic box," in which she years earlier put a wish. She explains to him that she has never opened the box, and asks him to hold it for her without ever looking inside. Despite calling her crazy, Fred agrees to her demand, charmed and fascinated.Some time later, Noah and her many hippie friends hold a Ouija board ceremony on her apartment rooftop. As the board spells out "Hello Susan," Noah remembers the magician, who calls her Susan and reassures her that his friendship will help quell her loneliness. As soon as Fred joins the group, the messages cease to appear, after which he annoys the others by attempting to explain the practical, mechanical reality behind the Ouija board phenomenon. After dreamily remembering the magician's tricks, Noah instructs Fred to meet her the next day at the Natural History Museum to see the space capsule exhibit, which features a simulated trip to the moon. When he recites his phone number for her, she tries to explain why he should use the more poetic word-based prefixes of their past instead of numerals, and is exasperated by his failure to comprehend her. Frustrated but attracted, Fred kisses her.The next day, Noah is disappointed by the space capsule ride, and admits to Fred that as a child, she flew up into a pear tree. Although at first he scorns her memory of flying, she struggles tearfully to convince him, and he gently asks what it felt like. She recalls the magician, who states that he wants to perform real magic instead of tricks, and concentrates on various animals in the zoo in a failed attempt to make them disappear.As Fred works on a poem in his mind to express his love for Noah, she runs away from him, wandering alone through the park for over an hour. While searching for Noah, Fred paddles a boat for a young girl (Rhonda Alfaro). Upon finally locating Noah, he chastises her and demands to know why she fled, but she refuses to answer.Another day or two later, Noah is visited by Mitch (Jack Nicholson), an ex-boyfriend who returns sporadically for passionate sexual encounters. Mitch prowls her rooftop and has a discussion with Noah about her life, which he tells Noah she is simple-minded. Meanwhile, in the apartment, one of Noah's hippy friends, Bari (Gwen Welles), tells another hippie, named Larry (Dov Lawrence), about her experience walking the streets of Manhattan. Bari states that, despite the danger from men trailing her, she felt less isolated than usual, more at ease with the potential degradation than she had been earlier, when she was at a chic dinner party.Noah's memory returns to the time she was watching the magician trying to make the animals disappear. In the present, as Noah and Mitch kiss on the roof, in her memory, she finds in the magician's pocket a small box that contains a wooden rainbow that he calls a "covenant between man and God." Later, in the present, Noah cries in her bathtub while Bari admits that she attempted suicide because of a pain and loneliness that never stops.The next day, Fred brings Noah to his parents' posh Upper East Side apartment while they are away. To escape the opulence of the furnishings and the artwork, she hides in a closet, prompting Fred to call her "pretty and sad and weirder than hell." Telling Fred that he has a light in his eyes, Noah reveals that her father was abusive, and worries that she has no light in her own eyes. Meanwhile, Larry tells Bari that he plans to overdose on sleeping pills if his sick cat dies, because he will blame himself for the animal's death.In the middle of the night, Mitch returns to visit Noah, provoking Fred's jealousy. When Fred tries to intrude on the visit, Noah asks him to leave the room, then proceeds to make love with Mitch. Furious, Fred storms out and goes to his father's office, where he cries and considers the nature of love.At the apartment, Mitch tells Noah he may have killed his ex-girl friend, and they discuss the necessity of acting on impulses. Soon after, Mitch announces he is leaving town forever, as the magician in Noah's head tells her she cannot expect anything to remain the same.Fred soon returns to Noah and asks if she made love with Mitch. She replies that she did because he hurts her, something Fred refuses to do. She runs off to the roof to open her magic box, but upon finding it empty inside, screams in pain.In the final scene, when Fred comes upstairs to find her on the roof, she is nowhere to be seen. Fred is all by himself, wondering Noah has once again learned the ability to fly away.
