The story of Sir Thomas More, who stood up to King Henry VIII when the King rejected the Roman Catholic Church to obtain a divorce and remarry.
The story takes place in sixteenth century England. But men like Sir Thomas More, who love life yet have the moral fiber to lay down their lives for their principles, are found in every century. Concentrating on the last seven years of the English Chancellor's life, the struggle between More and King Henry VIII hinges on Henry's determination to break with Rome so he can divorce his current wife and wed again, and good Catholic More's inability to go along with such heresy. More resigns as Chancellor, hoping to be able to live out his life as a private citizen. But Henry will settle for nothing less than that the much respected More give public approval to his headstrong course.
King Henry VIII's desire for a son and heir leads him to seek a divorce from his first wife, Catherine of Aragon, to marry Anne Boleyn. He had already received a dispensation from the Pope to marry Catherine, she was his brother's widow, and he seeks the support of Sir Thomas More, who is soon named Chancellor. More is a devout Catholic, and while he does not agree with the King's desire to divorce, he is completely silent in his opposition. His principles are tested, however, when he also remains silent after the King is named the head of the Church of England, and subsequently when Parliament requires all to take an oath of allegiance. His silence is not sufficient for the King, who wishes to have More's public endorsement. He is eventually brought to trial on charges of having accepted a bribe, but it is one of his former supporters, Sir Richard Rich, who perjures himself leading to More being found guilty and beheaded.
The life of Sir Thomas More during the period of his service in various capacities to King Henry VIII during the 1500's is told. The story focuses on the last few years of the English Chancellor's life, as the struggle between More and Henry VIII's determination to break with Rome so he can divorcehis wife and wed yet again,
When the highly respected British statesman Sir Thomas More refuses to pressure the Pope into annulling the marriage of King Henry VIII and his Spanish-born wife, More's clashes with the monarch increase in intensity. A devout Catholic, More stands by his religious principles and moves to leave the royal court. Unfortunately, the King and his loyalists aren't appeased by this, and press forward with grave charges of treason, further testing More's resolve.
England, 1520s. King Henry VIII is in power and wants to marry Anne Boleyn. His current wife, Catherine of Aragon, seems unable to bear him a son and heir and he's besotted with Ann Boleyn. He wants to divorce Catherine but, other than the Pope, the main impediment is Sir Thomas More, a pre-eminent legal authority and devout Catholic. More is eventually made Lord Chancellor, one of the highest positions in government. He resigns this position out of protest against the King's plans to go ahead with the divorce. Surely, now that he is out of government and out of the limelight, as long as he doesn't air his views, his principles aren't a threat to the King's plans and he is safe from prosecution.
Thomas More (Paul Scofield) is at odds with Henry VIII (Robert shaw) over the king's wish to divorce his wife, Catherine of Aragon, so that he may marry Anne Boleyn. More understands that from the standpoint of the Roman Catholic church, the king would be heretical.More, the appointed Lord Chancellor, is so highly regarded that his outspoken unwillingness to break with Rome makes Henry VIII look unreasonable and the king is furious. As the king's wrath grows, he tries to discredit More by attempts at legal trickery, but the attempts fail. More feels the heat being turned up and determines it best to resign his post to retire to private life. Unfortunately, because More's resignation speaks so loudly of the king's intended impropriety, the king will still settle for no less than More's approval of the divorce. More, however, refuses to relent.Henry now has legislation passed that establishes himself as having supreme power in English religious affairs, breaking with Rome and, thereby, establishing the Church of England. He then has legislation passed establishing it as treasonous for any member of the king's court to refuse to sign off on it. More's refusal to sign off dooms him to be beheaded, but he will be remembered as a deeply principled "man for all seasons."
