Jocko De Paris, cadet leader in a Southern military academy, so manipulates events that George Avery, Jr., son of the school's executive officer, is found drunk and expelled. Through various pressures, Jocko silences such involuntary accomplices as his roommate Harold Koble, football star Roger Gatt and freshmen Robert Marquales and Maynard Simmons, a girl-fearing cadet whom Jocko terrorizes into dating Rosebud, a town girl.
Jocko De Paris is an upperclassman at Southern Military College. As a platoon leader, he is generally well respected by the officers and the other cadets, the freshmen in particular who must obey his orders as a leader and upperclassman. He is also seen as overly tough on his charges. However, he is a sadist, initiating hazing rituals carried out by his fellow upperclassman Harold Koble against lowerclassmen, using fear and intimidation for them to keep quiet, despite those lowerclassmen knowing that they could be expelled for following illegal orders. Jocko also does not hesitate to direct his psychological torture against any of the other upperclassmen for whatever reason, his victims who sometimes don't even know what he's done to them until after all is said and done. Jocko does whatever he needs to to protect himself. One of those late night hazing rituals, which involved two freshmen, leads to another upperclassman, George Avery Jr. - the son of Major George Avery, one of the college's officers - being expelled, he who did nothing wrong. The two freshmen victims of that hazing are: Simmons, a milquetoast with strict Christian morals; and Robert Marquales, who quietly takes what is happening to him. While Major Avery deep in his heart knows that his son did nothing wrong and goes about trying to get anyone to provide evidence to that end, some of De Paris' victims may end up getting consciences, reporting De Paris at the risk of expulsion for all those in the know.
At a military school in the Deep South, unrepentant sociopath Jocko DeParis engineers events leading to the expulsion of the son of the school's headmaster and officer-in-charge. DeParis attempts to terrorize, coerce and manipulate his reluctant conspirators in the crime to ensure their silence, but they ultimately turn against him, leading to his peers banding together to deliver their own form of justice.
