The demonic forces in the haunted Long Island house escape through a mystical lamp which finds its way to a remote California mansion where the evil manipulates a little girl by manifesting itself in the form of her dead father.
The demonic force lurking in Amityville for over 300 years escapes to a remote California mansion. It encounters a struggling family living together by uncertain means. The beast manipulates a little girl by manifesting itself in the form of her dead father. Soon it will be able to possess her completely... is it too late for a young priest to defeat the demon and end the curse?
With the evil spirits finally exorcised from the infamous Amityville House, a strange-looking brass floor lamp finds its way into the family home of Mrs Alice Leacock, who is living with her daughter, Nancy Evans, and her three children. However, once more, the ancient demonic force comes to life and finds shelter in the Californian residence, craving for the soul of an innocent girl. Under those life-threatening circumstances, only the young priest, Father Kibbler, can help desperate Nancy unearth the truth. Can they stop the brutal forces of darkness?
The infamous Amityville house in Amityville, New York. A rainy night, a priest called Father Manfred (Norman Lloyd) enters the house - flies are on the window of a room. Some priests enter the house carrying crosses in their hands, and blessing it with holy water. Doors close on their own, objects attack them, the paper-covered walls bleed... One of the young priests, called Dennis Kibbler (Fredrich Lehne) sees the face of the devil (Jon Rice) in a lamp. He is pushed against a wall and wakes up in hospital. The main priest thinks that evil has already left.Helen Royce (Peggy McCay) has insisted her friend Rhona (Gloria Cromwell) accompany her to a yard sale in a gloriously glowing day. Helen finds the ugly lamp in which the young priest saw the devil, and says that she wants to buy it for her sister for a laugh. She cuts herself with the lamp and Rhona advises to go to hospital to have the anti-tetanus vaccine, but Helen laughs it off. The finger bleeds and bleeds and she starts feeling badly.Alice Leacock (Jane Wyatt), who lives in 274 Oceanview Lane in Dancott, California 9311 is going to get the lamp. At that moment, even Bobby, the mover man, sees that that Helen's finger looks awful.The Evans family is moving with grandma. Amanda (Zoe Trilling as Geri Betzler), Brian (Aron Eisenberg) and Jessica (Brandy Gold) are the grandchildren. They are moving with their mother, Nancy (Patty Duke). Jessica is angry and doesn't even want to talk to her granny. Amanda hugs Pipper, the cat, in her bedroom, and reminisces about when she and her father took off a thorn from Skipper's leg. In the living-room, Alice says that Helen sent her the lamp as a joke, but that the joke has turned against Helen, because she intends to keep the lamp. She turns it on, which immediately upsets the pet parrot -called Fred- and the cat. The cat scratches Amanda, so Jessica, still carrying her favourite doll, is left alone staring at the lamp.Nancy feels guilty because she can't earn a living for herself and her children after the death of her husband. She is most worried about the childish behaviour of Jessica. While the women are having this conversation, the lamp turns itself on, creating panic in the pets. Lights fickle when the demon moves through the electric cables and wires. The radio turns itself on and the teapot burns Alice's hand.Alice puts a cover over the cage of Fred and turns the lamp off. Nancy sees her late husband on the mirror, but immediately he's not there. Jessica wants to sleep with Nancy, who will allow it only for tonight. That night, Nancy feels her late husband's arm hugging her. When she wakes up, Jessica is talking to the lamp. She says that her daddy was there, but Jessica won't believe her in spite of Jessica's insistence. When the females leave, two flies appear.The next morning, Jessica has a fever, although she insists to Amanda that she's seen their father. Amanda is angry. Peggy (Lou Hancock), who helps Alice around the home, dislikes the lamp. Peggy notices that Fred is not in his cage - they find him inside the microwave oven.Nancy droves Brian and Amanda to school - both of them are sad and nervous. Alice feels very upset about her mistake - she thinks she's left the door of the cage open.Both priests have already recovered from the exorcism of the house in Amityville. Dennis, the young priest, wants to come back to the house. The realty agent has already sold all the furniture, but can learn who has bought the lamp. Manfred is told about Kebbler's vision, and he believes him right away.Pipper meows in fear. Brian picks him up in the basement. The lamp turns on on its own while Peggy is dusting. Brian plays with an electric saw, which turns itself on and wrecks the paltry. Peggy uses an iron bar to protect Alice, who has fallen down the stairs. Brian insists that he didn't turn it on - his mother believes him. Peggy tries to tell Alice that strange things have been happening lately, so she should let things be.A neighbour tells Kibbler that Helen is at hospital. There, the doctor (Warren Munson) tells him that she cut herself with an old lamp. Kibbler calls Alice, but they can't hear each other.Danny Reade (Jamie Stern) and Amanda like each other. Danny and Peggy move the heavy lamp to the penthouse. Peggy says that when Mrs Leacock forgets about the lamp, she will give it to Danny. Later, the lamp turns itself on while Amanda is clearing the dishes, but Danny appears to talk to her, saving her from having a hand hurt by the waste disposal. However, when Danny tries to unstuck the stuck basin, he's the one who gets hurt, and blood spills all over the place. Alice is the one who accompanies Danny to hospital.Helen wakes up at hospital, but passes away. The priest blesses her. Manfred and Kebbler realise that the police won't believe them if they talked about the possessed lamp. This time, the phone rings at Manfred's office - a male voice tells Kibbler to keep away. The phone melts in his hand.Nancy wakes up to see Jessica talking to the lamp and thinking that it's her father. Nancy has to remove Jessie by force. Jessie calls out for her father's help and slaps Nancy, who tells Amanda to turn off the lamp. The lamp is off at that moment, even unplugged. Amanda looks at it suspiciously. Nancy stares at the presently-sleeping Jessie.Reade (Alex Rebar), the electrician, says that there is nothing wrong with the plugs, the wires or the electricity. Brian picks up a telegram for Alice, but Amanda inquires about a black t-shirt, so they start fighting about the clothes and he forgets about the telegram. The telegram flies away. Blood comes out of the tap. A plumber (Gary-Michael Davies) is called. Alice leaves deeply upset by all the accidents, but will be back way before Peggy leaves for her bingo game at 6. Peggy is cooking while the plumber crawls around the house following a pipe. Peggy is setting the washing machine, and that creates a clot which heats the plumber. Danny's hand appears and it falls on top of the plumber, with a lot of disgusting black goo. Peggy inquires if Jake, the plumber, needs something, but sees his van leave so that she will think he's somewhere else safe. Peggy takes some food to Jessie, but she's not in her room and her bedroom is in disarray, a mess of grafittied rooms. She looks for her in the penthouse and the cable of the lamp strangles her.Kibbler arrives to Mrs Leacock's home by taxi. Flies start buzzing everywhere. Jessie opens thedoor for Kibbler, who is frightened when he hears a lion roar, and says that he'll come back later, in spite of Jessie's invitation. Kibbler feels sick and writes a note. Nancy tells Amanda that they don't have any money to leave Alice's home, so they have to put up with her stuck-up ways and her blaming them for all the events in the home.Nancy stares at Jessie's bloody drawing. Jessie says that Peggy left, leaving her alone. At that moment, Alice arrives with the groceries. Peggy's coat and hat are still in the wardrobe, so she couldn't have possibly gone. Jessie only smirks when Nancy inquiries about Jessie's lie. Brian sees the chaos at Jessie's room, and they call the police, thinking that it was a criminal, a break-in. Jessie won't tell what happened in her bedroom, except that her daddy told her that Peggy had gone. Brian notices the key on the door of the basement and he finds Peggy's dead body.A detective (Jack Rader) thinks that Jessie must have had something to do with Peggy's dead. The doctor thinks that Peggy was a lot of time banging on the door trying to go out. Now Nancy defends Jessie, saying that she thought that Peggy had left the house. The detective will talk to Jessie the following day.Nancy finds Kibbler's note and leaves, telling Amanda to watch Jessie, who smirks at them menacingly. Alice prevents Brian from entering and seeing the lamp.Nancy and Kibbler talk at a local pub. At that moment, she learns of Helen's death. He advises her to leave the house with her children.The lamp is calling for Jessie, but she can't do anything as Amanda is reading. Jessie pretends to be sleeping, and the cat meows outside in the cornice. The window lands on Amanda's head, leaving her unconscious. Kibbler feels that something is wrong. Nancy is driving.Meanwhile, Brian tries to stop Jessie, who runs to the lamp. Amanda and Alice wake up but they can't stop Jessie. Kibbler is nervous about all the phenomena. He breaths deeply when the door closes with a slam after him. Kibbler and Amanda go for an axe to bust the door open. As the front door won't open, Kibbler breaks the window to let Amanda out. Kibbler tell Alice and Nancy to wait outside, but they enter with him.Jessie flies towards Kibbler and stabs him in a shoulder because she thinks that he's hurting her father. Alice sees the face of the devil when she tries to damage it. A wire thrusts itself around Kibbler's arm. The face which can be seen on the lamp and speaks to Nancy is that of her husband, but she knows it's not really him. Jessie picks up a knife again and attacks Kibbler. Nancy defends him, and Jessie leaves the knife. Alice pushes the lamp outside the window into the cliff, but the lamp is trying to take Kibbler with it. Luckily, Nancy holds the axe and cuts the remaining wire, which elongates for some reason. Jessie becomes herself again, a sweet girl who won't harm a fly. The lamp goes off like a bomb when it crashes at the bottom of the cliff.Alice leaves for Helen's funeral. Nancy and the children stay behind supervising repairals to the house. On the beach, the cat plays with the pieces from the broken cat, and his eyes glow unnaturally.--Written by KrystelClaire
