Navy frogman, Ted Jackson (Elvis Presley), balances his time between twin careers as a deep sea diver and nightclub singer. During a dive, Ted spots sunken treasure and returns with hope to retrieve it.
Lieutenant Ted Jackson (Elvis Presley) spends his lat day on active duty in the Navy disarming an underwater mine. While disarming the explosive he sees what appears to be a sunken ship. Overcome with curiousity, he investigates and finds a treasure chest filled with what he thinks are Spanish gold coins. He decides to investigate the vessel by asking Jo Symongton ( Dodie Marshall), the granddaughter of the ships owner, to show him the manifest.
After Ted reviews the sunken ship's manifest, he is convinced that the ship was indeed carrying a treasure. Ted gets his release from active duty in the Navy, then convinces his former business partner Judd Whitman ( Pat Harrington) to help salvage the treasure. Ted finally persuades Judd to chip in a thousand dollars to pay for equipment, but the still lacked some of the necessary equipment. They offered a local shop keeper Captain Jack (Frank Mc Hugh) a share of the treasure if he agreed to let them use his equipment and agree to help them during the salvaging opperation. Jack agrees, but as soon as he gets on board the boat Ted rented, he breaks down because he is afraid of the sea. Ted is disappointed at first because they need three people to salvage the treasure. Judd decides to solve the problem by inviting Jo to come along and help them. Judd's decision did not please Ted because he didn't want Jo to know the reason he had for asking her to show him the ship's manifest. When Ted told Jo that his real reason for wanting the manifest was to confirm that the ship was carrying treasure she became upset with Ted for being "greedy". Ted became frustrated with jo for not wanting to co-operate, but soon found that he had other problems too. Two adventure seekers Dina ( Pat Priest ) and Gil ( Skip Ward ) had followed the small boat and became curious about what the trio was up to. Gil quickly figures out what Ted and the others were up to, so he pretends that their engine's power cable burned out so Ted will have to tow them into port. Once back in port, Gil finds Captain Jack and convinces him that Ted is trying to steal a salvage that really belongs to Gil and Dina. Jack was taken in by Gil and decided to take the salvage equipment away from Ted and instead rents it to Gil. When Ted found out what happened, he tried to tell jack the truth, but Jack decided that the best way to handle the situation was to refuse to let either one of the men use the equipment. Discouraged, Ted drives out to Jo's house to ask her to help him convince Jack that he is the not a greedy thief. Judd had already convinced Jo to help them salvage the treasure so Jo agreed to try to explain everything to Jack. While Ted, Judd, and Jo were on their way back into town, Gil and Dina kidnapped Captain Jack and steal his equipment. When Ted reaches town and finds Jack, the equipment, and Gil and Dina's boat gone he pursued them along with Judd and Jo. When they reach the boat, Dina and Gil are diving for the treasure. Jack apologized for not believing Ted and agrees to help him. Ted manages to defeat Gil in an underwater scuffle then brings the treasure up himself. Ted, Jo, Judd, and Jack take the treasure to a coin collector to find out how much it is worth. They are disappointed to find that the coins aren't actually gold, but copper and only worth 30 cents each. They sell the coins to the collector for $3900, then agree to use the money as a down payment on an art center for Jo and her friends. Ted and Judd throw a benefit show at the end to raise more money for the building project. Ted ends the movie singing "I'll Take Love".
