Hwang Jang Lee is a corrupt Ming guard who frames John Liu for murder. A wanted fugitive, John hides out with a teen who is an expert in the infamous Iron Armor technique, a technique that means the expert can withstand anything. However, Hwang is an expert in it as well as the Eagle Claw's. Can John stop Hwang befgore it's too late?
Chow Lung Fu is a general working under Minister Liu. He meets a martial artist by the name of Hu Long after witnessing a street fight. Chow tries to recruit Lu Hong as an officer by inviting him to meet Minister Liu, but Hu assassinates Liu during martial art sparring and escapes. Chow is framed for the murder and is hunted by Minister Cheng, who bring the famed detective Shen Yu to catch Chow. Chow attempts to bring Hu to justice, but he is saved by his master, who also happens to be Cheng's brother. Chow is on the run offered shelter by two siblings who lives alone. Chow exchanges martial art techniques and learns the Iron finger technique, one that break through the invincible iron armor defense. Shen Yu eventually catches up to Chow, and takes him to custody. However, Shen refuses to let Chow be executed without a trial and gives him three days time to find the real killer. Hu's master finds out it is in fact Minister Cheng who hired Hu to kill Liu. He also deduces that Cheng plans to eliminate the emperor's loyal supports and overthrow the emperor. He and Hu plans an ambush for Minister Cheng, but the Minister has changed his Iron Armor technique and tricked his brother, killing him. In the meantime Hu escapes, being pursued by Chow. Chow and Shen defeats Hu's allies and continue to pursue Hu, but they are one step too late and Hu is killed by Minister Cheng. However Shen finds a jade medallion that points to the real killer, he goes to the capital to face Minister Cheng. Shen is greeted by the Minister's subordinates and kills them in a fight. The minister however shows off his Iron Armor technique and Shen is no match. Chow jumps in to save Shen and the two tries to figure out where the Minister's weak spot is. The minister tries the same trick but Chow is tipped off at the last second by the siblings who arrive. Chow manages to hit the weak spot and defeats the Minister.
General Chow is frame for the murder of his superior, Minister Liu. He must find the killer and prove his innocence. He is pursued by the relentless detective Shen Yu. They discover a hidden plot that exposes a powerful government official, who also happens to be a master of Eagle Claw and Iron Armor Kung Fu.

