Young Sherry Williams dreams of having a singing career, and she idolizes her older sister Josephine, who has gone to New York to perform on the stage. When Sherry is distraught just before performing at her school, a visiting Broadway producer encourages her by telling her positive things about her sister. Soon afterwards, Sherry decides to make a surprise trip to New York to visit Josephine - but what she finds there is not at all what she expected.
Sherry Williams (Jane Powell) is a fifteen year old girl at boarding school. On the day of the school show, in which she has a leading part, she goes to the rail station to meet her sister Josephine (Constance Moore). Sherry thinks that her sister is a Broadway musical star, but in fact she is in burlesque. Josephine has left the train on the wrong side to avoid meeting Arthur Hale (Ralph Bellamy), a Broadway producer who she fears might recognise her as "Bubbles Barton", her stage name. By the time that she emerges, Sherry and all the taxis have gone, so Josephine has to hitch a lift to the school, while Arthur gets there first. He is at the school talent spotting, so meets Sherry who is in tears because of teasing by other girls over the non-arrival of her famous sister. He earns Sherry's friendship by quick-wittedly supporting her belief that Josephine Williams is indeed a big star. The show goes on, Sherry is a smash and Josephine and Arthur meet. he is smitten but can't quite place her face. They return to New York separately, swiftly followed by Sherry who wants to see her sister perform. She catches the burlesque act and deeply shocked by the sight of her sister's legs, rushes from the theatre in tears to seek solace at Arthur's apartment. Eager to get rid of her, he calls up Josephine who comes round to collect her and reveals that she is Bubbles Barton. Josephine must leave on tour next day, so extracts a promise that Arthur will put Sherry on the train back to school next day. Sherry however, calls a friend, goes shopping and returns after the train time dressed to kill. It is her intention to make Arthur put her into his next musical, so that the money she earns can rescue her sister from a life of sin. Arthur is taken aback, but is persuaded to take her to a big night club, where she is the centre of attention, particularly when she sings with the band! The bandleader, Morton Gould (as himself) introduces her to a radio producer who is just about to sign her, when her sister appears and is recognised by a bystander. The producer reneges on his offer, as his sponsor can have no connection with the sister of a burlesque artiste. Undaunted, Sherry devises a new plan, records her sister singing, plays the record to Arthur, who recognises immediately that she is the star he needs to save his new show and puts both girls onto the stage. They are a smash and Josephine also gets a marriage proposal from Arthur.
