A small-time grifter and nightclub tout takes advantage of some fortuitous circumstances and tries to become a big-time player as a wrestling promoter.
Harry Fabian is a London hustler with ambitious plans that never work out. One day, when he encounters the most famous Greco-Roman wrestler in the world, Gregorius, at a London wrestling arena run by his son Kristo, he dreams up a scheme that he thinks will finally be his ticket to financial independence. As Fabian attempts to con everyone around him to get his scheme to work, he of course only ends up conning himself. This is an interesting tale of blind ambition, self-deception, broken dreams, and how a man who always thinks he's ahead of the game ends up tripping himself very badly.
In London, the swindler Harry Fabian is an ambitious loser, frequently taking money from his girlfriend Mary Bristol. When he meets the famous Greco-Roman wrestler Gregorius the Great in the arena of his son and the wrestling lord Kristo, he plans a scheme to become successful. He cheats Greorious, promising clean combats in his own arena, and the old man accepts the partnership. However, without money to promote the fight, he invites his boss and owner of a nightclub Phil Nosseross to be his partner, but is betrayed and his business fails ending in a tragedy.
Cagey swindler Harry Fabian (Richard Widmark as one of noir's most subversive antiheroes) aspires to make his mark as a promoter despite his nightclub singer girlfriend Mary Bristol (Gene Tierney) urging him to get a straight gig. Trailed by a slippery history of dead-end schemes, he stumbles upon legendary wrestler Gregorius the Great (played by retired legendary wrestler Stanislaus Zbyszko)-conning the wrestler into believing he can successfully promote the spectacular Greco-Roman contests Gregorius was once known for. But favorable outcomes can be bought in this interconnected syndicate of breakable contracts, unfathomable corruption, and disposable men-and naïve Fabian jeopardizes his own life with a foolhardy game plan that threatens a valuable family legacy. At the urging of 20th Century Fox studio head Darryl F. Zanuck, director Jules Dassin exported this assignment to London just as he was being blacklisted stateside.

