Six schoolgirls find themselves without their parents. Moreover their basket ball team are traveling. As they are at a loss what to do, they organize a slumber party during which each of them will tell about her first experience of sex.
In 1957 Southern California, six Beverly High School girl friends, Sherry (Rainbeaux Smith), Debbie (Debra Winger), Bonnie May (Bridget Holloman), Angie Willis (Noelle North), Jo Ann Starling (Mary Ann Appleseth), and Smitty (Janet Wood) are bored when their basketball player boyfriends go out of town for a weekend. Sherry (Rainbeaux Smith) proposes that they have a slumber party at her house because her parents will be away. After an afternoon of skinny-dipping in the pool, the girls get ready for bed. Debbie suggests that they each talk about the first time they had sex. Bonnie May volunteers to go first and the other five girls draw matches to see who goes next.Bonnie May recalls heading east two years earlier to visit her cousin, Cal (Sean Kenney), who tells her he has a surprise for her. Cal blindfolds her and drives her to a remote spot in the mountains. They arrive at a shack and Cal shows Bonnie May his still for making illegal liquor and his system for transporting it. Cal comments that Bonnie May has matured since he last saw her, and she responds by saying she is still a virgin. Their romantic moment is interrupted when police arrive and a car chase ensues. As night falls, Cal eludes his pursuers and parks at a drive-in movie theater. He and Bonnie May make love in his truck as 'Cauldron of Blood' plays on the screen.Back at the slumber party, the girls prod Bonnie May for details of her experience. Debbie, Angie, Sherry, and Jo Ann Starling are envious, but Smitty is dubious of Bonnie May's claims. Bonnie May says that Cal eventually was caught bootlegging and is serving time in prison. Angie's first time occurred after her sixteenth birthday party and she shares what happened:Angie is upstairs in her bedroom reading the novel 'Lolita' when a friend of her parents, Harold Perkins (Will Hutchins), asks directions to the bathroom. As Angie invites him into her room, they discuss the philosophical implications of Vladimir Nabokov's novel and Angie seduces the intoxicated Harold. As they lay in one another's arms, Angie's father (Bill Thurman) breaks down the bedroom door, chases Harold away, and spanks Angie.In the present day, before Debbie tells her tale, Sherry realizes there is no food in the house and the girls go to Jerry's drive-in restaurant. As they wait for their food, Debbie recounts when an older boy named Bud Hanson (Randy Ralson) took her for a drive:At a roadside market, Bud and Debbie are harassed by a group of bikers until the store owner steps in. Later, the bikers find the couple at a lakeside beach. Bud fights off the four bikers, then makes love to Debbie.At Jerry's drive-in, Smitty mocks the story and compares it to 'From Here to Eternity'. In the car next to them, a drug fiend and his friends tease the girls and Debbie jokes that they should race for pink slips. The young men accept the challenge and Sherry, driving her parents' convertible, beats them in the race.Back at home, Sherry privately takes a phone call from a member of the basketball team and invites him and his friends to come over when they return to town.Next, Smitty shares her experience working at a horse stable the previous summer with a young woman named Hank (Janice Karman) and Hank's brother, David (Bryan Englund). After a horseback ride, it starts to rain and Smitty, Hank, and David retreat to a barn to stay warm. As Hank watches, David and Smitty make love. Smitty tells the other girls she thought she had died and gone to heaven.Meanwhile, a cat burglar (Larry Gelman) uses a ladder to sneak into Sherry's house. The girls spot him and summon police. The two officers chase the burglar through the house until the girls push him out of a second story window and into the pool.Later, Jo Ann claims her first time was with movie star Rex Parker (Victor Rogers):On the set of a movie, Jo Ann visits Rex in his trailer after the director, Mr. Berman (Chet Morris), recommends her for a role. In the name of method acting, Rex seduces Jo Ann before performing the climactic scene.Back at the house, the basketball team arrives and Sherry confesses to asking them to all make love to her so that she will not be the only virgin. After she and the team go upstairs, the other girls admit to one another that they exaggerated their stories and are all still virgins. They rush upstairs to inform Sherry, but are too late, as she lies in bed, covered with naked ballplayers.
