Jessica has been raped by a bunch of hoodlums and goes for revenge.
A young Mormon couple is attacked by a bunch of outlaws. They kill the man and the woman is raped several times and left for dead in the desert. With the last ounce of her strength she gets to the hut of an old hermit who nurses her back to health and teaches her how to shoot. The woman then frees three female criminals and seeks vengeance on the outlaws...
Seth Hartwell (Rigg Kennedy), a Mormon priest, and his newly wedded redhead wife, Jessica (SONDRA CURRIE) are en-route by covered wagon from Utah to Arizona when they are accosted by five marauding outlaws headed by Sam Brock (BEN FRANK). They devastate the Mormons' belongings, don't't find any valuables to rob, strip Seth, and tie him up for interrogation and torture. They take exception to the fact that the couple only has US$55, and Brock decides to take the only thing valuable he can see. So, he strips and rapes Jessica in front of Seth, forced to watch her torture and rape, while Brock is acclaimed by his four thugs.In the morning, he shoots Seth with a single shot, and then Jessica, leaving her for dead in the desert, as he considers himself a good gunslinger, and does not confirm his shot. Jessica survives, however; she removes the bullet from her right breast with a knife, buries Seth with The Book, and sets off walking. Eventually, when she looks like an animal and is out of strength, she reaches a cabin and starts eating raw meat. Rufe (Rod Cameron), a prospector with a large beard, who leaves away from town. He nurses her back to health and on demand, teaches her all he knows about gun shooting, and the use of dynamite.Meanwhile, Rachel McBride (JENNIFER BISHOP), a beautiful brunette wanted for robbery and murder, is having trouble with her wounded horse. She pauses under the shade of a large tree and destroys a poster offering a reward for her capture, where she is ambushed by Sheriff Clay (GEOFFREY LAND). She spits on his face, but he slaps her hard enough to send her to the ground, and takes her to prison.Meanwhile, Claire (REGINA CARROL) , a sexy blonde dressing in black nylons and colorful decollete dress, takes a load of bank notes from the old man that is asleep after spending the night with her, and she places the money into her saloon-girl outfit. John (Hugh Warden) wakes up and starts crying, while the piano is still playing downstairs, and she starts shooting at him, more to frighten him that actually aiming at him. Sheriff Clay enters the bedroom and grabs the blonde girl from behind. Clay arrests her, saying, "You again, Claire?" and takes her to prison.Meanwhile, Brock's gang is robbing the Twin Cities Bank. The men come out with the bags of money, jump on their horses that had been kept quiet outside by a mixed-blood girl with long black tresses, an Indian skirt and a Mexican sombrero. The girl tries to mount the last horse, and calls out for her man, Link (BIGG YEAGER) [though she calls him Frankie] not to leave her behind. But so he does. Yet, when the Bank Teller (Joe ArrowSmith) comes out with a shot-gun to shoot the bandit, Kana (ELLYN STERN) stabs the Bank Teller in the back to prevent him shooting. Sheriff Clay arrives just in time to see the murder, disarm and arrest Kana - a girl that worked at the local saloon.The stories of the three girls are given in parallel with Jessi's long recuperation, and learning about guns. Jessica is intent on avenging her husband's death and proves to be a good pupil. Then she says her good-bye to Rufe, and sets off to track down the gang. Rufe offers her his best horse: he does not believe in gods, nor in lawmen - these are the worst of all - it's his last advice to her.Indeed, Jessi comes across a two-horse cart going to Tucson Prison, driven by Shag (William Hammer) and the Sheriff, who are finding it difficult to resist the temptation of three beautiful girls and the lurid remarks from Claire, the prostitute. Jessi stops the cart with a shot in the air. Shag sees that she she is just another woman, and pulls his rifle to shoot her down; Jessi shoots first, and he dies. The Sheriff also tries to pull his gun, discreetly, and she wounds him. She presents herself, and the talkative Claire assumes she is a robber; Rachel is going to kill the Sheriff but is stopped by Jessi, who doesn't allow unnecessary killings. Kana admits that she has nothing else to do but go along with Jessi, "for the time being". The three girls accept Jessi has their leader. With the extra horse, they manage to drive for a while. Jessi tends to the Sheriff, trying to get information about the Brock's gang, but that makes the other girl criminals suspicious of her. Therefore, Jessi has to tell them her plan, and promises to divide the money if and when they catch up with Brock's gang.Jessi finds Sheriff Clay the same age as her late husband, and handsome enough to untie him and make love to him, finally getting the information that Brock is probably at Copper Creek. Then, during the night, the Sheriff escapes and starts tracking the girls, whilst they are tracking the gang.The girls see Slime (Jon Shark) walking the desert alone, carrying a horse-saddle on his shoulder. He is glad to find company, saying that he had to shoot his horse after a fall in the mountain track; then he recognizes Kana, and therefore he exposes that she was related to Brock's gang. Jessi does not seem worried with this revelation, and Kana keeps her mouth shut as usual. Jessi sends the man away, only to use his back for target shooting - and she does not miss.Next they separate: Rachel is going to inspect a cabin where the bandits may be in, but it's empty; the other three girls come across Baldry (Joseph Cortese) and Moose (John Durren) on horseback, forcing an Indian (Gavin Murrell) to follow them, tied by a piece of rope to Moose's saddle. The bandits had been laughing and torturing the Indian, who was in poor condition already. The girls hold Moose in respect, but Baldry comes from behind Kana, and points his pistol to her head. The other girls must put their guns down. Rachel appears then, and forces Baldry to drop his gun. When Moose goes for his gun, Rachel shoots him, but can't avoid being shot herself - dead. Baldry is interrogated, and confirms that Brock and Link are at Copper Creek, to divide the money, and join with other bandits for the next robbery. Then, Jessi shoots him down on the road, by his partner.Claire tends to the Indian wounds, and he acts as scout for the group, but they must stop at a barn, to tend to the horses and to wait for the Indian to recuperate his strength for the journey. Claire goes into the barn to take care of him."Kana, why don't you go in to help her?" Jessi asks."Apache?! (spitting on the ground) Kana doesn't help the Apaches!" Her attitude hints at a possible rape of her Mexican mother by an Apache warrior.In the barn, Claire tends to the Apache so well that he is able to make love to her, with the blonde on top [cut in some versions].Meanwhile, the Sheriff finds Slime's body.Claire leaves the barn and tells Jessi that she decided to stay behind with the Apache, risking her life with his, while he rests from his wounds. She doesn't want her share of the money, if and when Jessi catches the Brock's gang.Kana doesn't hear this, and since the Apache was delaying the group's departure, enters the barn with her knife - and [off camera] kills him. The blonde sees Kana leaving the barn, goes inside in a hurry, and finds the Apache dead.Claire roars, and runs out of the barn, her blonde hair flowing, and launches herself against the murderess's back; as she turns around to face her, Claire gives her a punch that sends Kana down and her Mexican sombrero flying. Kana turns around and still on her knees, she pulls her big knife with which she has just killed the Apache. Claire gestures with her hands, teasing the man to attack her.Kana is getting up yielding her knife, but Claire immediately kicks her head, making her to loose the weapon. Kana rolls around to get away from Claire, and then the blonde pounces on her, and they attempt to strangle each other, rolling around fiercely on the ground. Both are in rough trousers and men's shirts, plus cowboy boots and heavy leather belts. The man wears white flimsy embroidered shirt and brown trousers, the blonde in a red shirt and blue cotton trousers, and with a bandanna around her neck. Both girls take a lot of punishment. Kana starts strangling her opponent, but is knocked aside with a punch to her head. Claire gets the upper position. Kana delivers an uppercut that sends the blonde rolling a couple of feet away, as her unbuttoned shirt shows the valley of her breasts. Both girls stand up and engage in a punch-up like men. Kana hits Clare's cheek with her right, Claire is shaken but reacts with a left that also forces the man to step back. They exchange a pair of punches each. The Indian walks forward still dizzy from earlier punches to the head, and takes another straight punch to the jaw. However, she takes it well, just backing down a little, and surprises the blonde with a similar punch. It's Claire who falls on her rump, though she gets up promptly and pays back via a mean kick to the crotch that makes Kana stagger, double over and grab her wounded belly to assuage her pain. She throws herself against the blonde and knees her high under the heavy breasts, making Claire shout out and double-up in pain, too. Kana tries to gain some space, and the blonde tackles her from behind. Again they arm-wrestle for control, rolling on the uneven ground.Jessi approaches, and shouts, "That's enough!" Claire doesn't hear, or doesn't care, and punches the retreating Kana between the breasts. They wrestle more on the ground, get to their feet, and the blonde is knocked down again with a punch to her head; she lays spreadeagled on the ground, and Kana gets hold of her Bowie knife again. Before she can kill her opponent, Jessica stops her by shouting her name, «Kana!» and shooting a warning shot. Both fighters stay put, breathing hard, and getting to their senses after the violent confrontation.On the move again, Kana stays with her horse behind the other two cowgirls, and takes a separate route. Claire calls Jessi's attention to her departure, and then tells her that she, too, does not want to go along with her to what in her view is a suicide mission. Claire says that Jessi has hated so much for so long, that she's unable of love, and that would make all the girls savages. Jessi argues that until she kills all the bandits who murdered her husband, she is not able to feel love again.Meanwhile, Sheriff Clay finds the bodies of the two gangsters on the road, and goes on his pursuit - without bothering to bury them.Kana arrives first at Copper Creek, a ghost town, and heads to the Pop Bar. Brock sends her to Link. She says she is mad at him for letting her behind and be arrested, but soon accepts his caresses. Link [who is called Frankie in some video versions] winks at Brock over Kana's shoulder, and goes inside a building to make love to her. Afterwards, Kana tells him, "Slime, Moose, and Baldry are dead; and Jessi is coming for you next!" Link is not too worried, as Brock has set his five new gangsters in ambush already, waiting for the Mormon girl.Jessi arrives alone, but before she enters Copper Creek, she is joined by Claire, who decided to risk her life out of loyalty to the girl avenger.As the girls drive their horses into the main street, a gun battle ensues. Gangster #1 falls off a rooftop, Gangster #2 from a first floor window, Gangster #3 from another rooftop. Claire gets shot once in the right shoulder, and tries to ramp away somewhere to hide, but then she is finished off with another shot in the heart by Brock, whom Jessi shoots down, a little later.Kana goes for Link with her knife when he is hiding at a street corner, but he moves and the knife sticks to the wooden wall instead. He pushes her to the ground, she pleads "No!" lying helpless on her back, but he shoots her point blank in the chest, killing her.Jessi uses sticks of dynamite to kill Gangster #4 in the saloon and Gangster #5 on a water tower. Sheriff Clay re-enters the scene, just in time to wound Link, whose shot also wounds Jessi. In a gun duel, face to face, Jessi puts a number of bullets in Link.The Sheriff compliments her on her well aimed shots. The Sheriff takes a leather belt hidden under Brock's shirt, and then draws treacherously on Jessi. In the ensuing duel, she prevails. Jessi has avenged her husband's death, and killed yet an unlawful sheriff.
