The ghosts of three elderly industrialists killed in an airplane crash return to Earth to help reunite a young couple whom they initially brought together.
Melton, Chadwick and O'Brien, rich but lonely heads of an engineering firm, invite three strangers to dinner on Christmas Eve. Only two show up, James and Jean, they fall in love and become friends with their three benefactors...until the latter are killed in a plane crash and come back to their old home as ghosts. In the coming months, true love encounters some rough spots; can ghostly O'Brien help the young folks?
On Christmas Eve's night, Michael O'Brien, George Melton and Allan Chadwick are three aging friends and millionaires businessmen that live alone in a mansion with Josef, the butler, and Madam Tanya, the innkeeper. After knowing that their party guests can't celebrate with them because one of them is sick, the three old men decide make a bet about the existence the goodness on the people, throwing by the window three wallets with ten dollars and a calling card, hoping that someone returns (the loser pays a dinner to the people that take back any wallet). Although the first wallet lost, the other two are found and returned in an independent way by two young ones, aspiring singer James Houston and Jean Lawrence, who works as nurse on an child hospital. Meeting in the home of O'Brien, Melton and Chadwick, Houston and Lawrence fall in love, making a strong friendship with the old men and helping to these ones to recovery the joyful of life. But when the three travel to Pittsburgh by business reasons, their airplane have an accident and they die, returning as ghosts to their former house. Josef and Madam Tanya ask Houston and Lawrence live with them on the house, for having someone to care. Having a chance to sing on the radio, Houston meets beautiful Arlene Terry, an ambitious music producer who put her eyes on Houston, causing a distancing between he and Lawrence. It causes that O'Brien, Melton and Chadwick try to help the innocent Houston to stay away from manipulative Terry and Jace Taylor-Terry's ex-husband and a singer in professional decline. Can the three old men save the situation and reunite Houston and Lawrence before the afterlife calls them to pass away from Earth?

