Intent on scuttling his ship, a financially-pressed shipowner conspires with the vessel's captain to collect the insurance money, unbeknownst to him that his daughter and her beau, Charlie, are aboard. Will they get away with it so easily?
A shipowner intends to scuttle his ship on its last voyage to get the insurance money. Charlie, a tramp in love with the owner's daughter, is grabbed by the captain and promises to help him shanghai some seamen. The daughter stows away to follow Charlie. Charlie assists in the galley and attempts to serve food during a gale.
Charles Chaplin is hired by the mate of Vaquero to help him get a crew. Chaplin hides in a barrel and thumps the men on the head with a mallet while the mate talks to them. They are then thrown into the hold. Finally the mate takes the mallet and thumps Chaplin on the head and he is shanghaied with the rest. The ship puts out to sea, but the water is exceedingly rough and the crew has many mishaps, all on board falling into the water at various times. Chaplin and the ship owner's daughter were in love, but the father objected to the match. The girl stows away aboard the vessel leaving a note with her father that she is going to follow her sweetheart. The ship owner had conspired with the captain and mate to blow up the vessel for insurance, so he hurries after the boat in his yacht to rescue his daughter before the ship is blown up. Chaplin finds the girl in the hold and they hide while the captain and mate light a fuse to blow up the ship. When the two take to a small boat Chaplin carries out the lighted dynamite and hurls it into the small boat, which is blown up and the captain and mate hurled into the water. Chaplin and the girl then climb aboard her father's yacht. Chaplin throws the father overboard and the couple sail away happy.
Intent on scuttling his ship, a financially hard-pressed shipowner conspires with the vessel's captain and first mate to collect the insurance money. Once again in love with the wrong girl--the shipowner's daughter, Edna--the dejected vagabond, Charlie, will soon find himself shanghaied along with a crew of three equally-deceived men who are forced to work for nothing. However, as true love knows no boundaries, Edna decides to stow away to follow Charlie, unbeknownst to her that the mate and his partner in crime have already put their plan in motion. But, will they get away with their wrongdoing so easily?

