The disappearance of people and corpses leads a reporter to a wax museum and a sinister sculptor.
In London, sculptor Ivan Igor struggles in vain to prevent his partner Worth from burning his wax museum...and his 'children.' Years later, Igor starts a new museum in New York, but his maimed hands confine him to directing lesser artists. People begin disappearing (including a corpse from the morgue); Igor takes a sinister interest in Charlotte Duncan, fiancée of his assistant Ralph, but arouses the suspicions of Charlotte's roommate, wisecracking reporter Florence.
In 1921 London, Ivan Igor is sculptor who owns a small wax museum. His works - which he refers to as his children - are exquisite and lifelike in every way. His financial backer, Joe Worth, is unhappy that they have made no money from the venture and sets the museum on fire to collect the insurance money. In New York on New year's day 1933, reporter Florence Dempster is under pressure from her editor to come up with a story or be fired. When she hears that Joan Gale, who supposedly committed suicide on New Year's eve may in fact have been murdered by her ex-boyfriend George Winton, she heads to the coroner's office to get the autopsy results. The problem is that the coroner can no longer find the body. For his part, Ivan Igor is preparing to open a new museum. He was severely hurt in the fire years before and is confined to a wheelchair with only limited use of his hands. Igor is captivated by his assistant's fiancée, Charlotte Duncan but Charlotte's roommate, reporter Florence Dempster, is more interested in the wax figure that bears a striking resemblance to Joan Gale.
In London, a sculptor of wax figures for a museum is horrified when his employer proposes setting fire to the unpopular museum in order to collect the insurance money. As the wax figures melt amid the blaze, the two men have a fight. After knocking out the sculptor, the owner leaves him to "perish" among the flames. Thirteen years later, the sculptor resurfaces in New York City for the launch of his own wax museum. The opening coincides with the sudden disappearance of some dead bodies from the city morgue. A determined reporter begins to suspect the deranged museum owner of stealing the corpses and using them for the wax figures in his exhibits.

