In May 1913 the Romanov Dynasty celebrates its 300th anniversary at the Russian throne. The last emperor in the long line is Tsar Nicholas II. He rules over a country with huge social and economic differences. Russia is for the most part still an agrarian society, but capitalism and its industries are growing. In 1914 Russia gets involved in the First World War. Tsar Nicholas II declares a general mobilization. A vast number of peasants and workers have to go to the front as soldiers. After three years the country is ruined by the war, and there is a shortage of provisions. In February 1917 workers begin striking in the capital, Petrograd. Their protests are soon joined by soldiers. A complete anarchy is threatening the country, when the parliament, called the duma, reorganizes the power structure by forming a new Provisional Government. At the same time the Soviet of Workers' and Soldiers' Deputies forms another ruling body at the City Hall of Petrograd. In this situation Tsar Nicholas II sees no other possibility than to resign from his government. On the 4th of March 1917 he declares his abdication from the throne. The new Provisional Government and its war minister Kerensky continue the war. This presents an opportunity for the Bolsheviks to organize demonstrations and to persuade the workers and soldiers to overthrow the Provisional Government and seize power themselves.
Using archival news footage, Esfir Shub pieces together a chronology of Russia, from 1913 to 1917. She introduces leaders of the Duma, gentry and peasants, soldiers and sailors, the bourgeoisie, and the Tsar. In May of 1913, Europe's crowned heads come to Petrograd to celebrate 300 years of Romanov rule even as most of them prepare for war. As war erupts, so does Russia: strikes in Petrograd and marches in Moscow threaten the regime. The Duma tries to survive, seeking accommodation with the Soviets. March 4, 1917, Nicholas abdicates; March 27, a mass funeral in Petrograd for those who died in the struggle to bring down the Romanovs; then, Lenin returns from exile.

