In colonial Malaysia, British big game-hunter Otto Abbot and American trapper Harry Stanton clash over the ethics of catching versus killing animals and over Abbot's mistress, Anna.
A German zoo hires two hunters to catch a rare breed of panther in Malaysia. The girlfriend of one of the hunters accompanies them on their hunt, which tenses the situation as the other hunter becomes attracted to her.
Wealthy British gentleman big game-hunter Otto Abbot hires American Harry Stanton to help catch for the Berlin zoo two tigers and a freakishly-rare 'enchantress' (natural tiger-panther-crossbreed) in colonial Malaysia. Chief boy Talib and his team perform excellently and Harry comes to terms with the native Sakai jungle tribe chief. Otto's mistress Anna does a better job at seducing Harry then Talib's wife to customarily 'entertain at night'. So the men are at murderous terms even before they deliver the feline catch, which triggers the dramatic finale.
A German zoo hires hires big game trapper Harry Stanton and renowned big game hunter Otto Abbot to travel to Malaysia to capture two tigers for the zoo. They are also tasked with capturing a very special cat known as the Enchantress, a cross between a tiger and a leopard. Accompanying them is Abbot's mistress, Anna. They fly into the jungles of Malaysia, an area that Abbot knows well having hunted there many times before, but it's Stanton who manages to get the local tribal chief's cooperation. They quickly capture two tigers but the Enchantress proves to be more elusive eventually leading to Stanton saving Abbot from the creature. Stanton and Anna are attracted to each other and convinced that they are having an affair, Abbot tries to get rid of his rival.
A hunter and a trapper are employed by a zoo to catch some big cats. They set off and soon fall out. The hunter is an arrogant aging Englishman who believes the only good animal is a dead one. But he also has an attractive and much younger mistress with him; while she has regularly had affairs she has always returned to him. He is confident that this is the most that will happen on this trip.

