The Girl in the Red Velvet Swing is the true story of Evelyn Nesbit (Dame Joan Collins), a beautiful showgirl caught in a love triangle with elderly architect Stanford White (Ray Milland) and eccentric young millionaire Harry K. Thaw (Farley Granger).
It's the early twentieth century New York City. There exists a high level of animosity by Harry K. Thaw (Farley Granger), a wealthy Pittsburgh businessman, toward renowned architect Stanford White (Ray Milland) for Harry feeling those dealing with the New York City and social set giving Stanford many of the perks that should rightfully have gone to him. While Stanford is mature and refined, Harry is brash, impetuous, and volatile. That animosity is ratcheted up a notch when they both meet Evelyn Nesbit (Dame Joan Collins), a beautiful but poor model with whom they are both infatuated, she appearing in the chorus of her first Broadway musical revue. After getting to know Evelyn, married Stanford, who still loves his wife and thus will not divorce her, wants nonetheless to provide Evelyn with the comforts and breeding of those within his social circle. His infatuation with her is also despite he being old enough to be her father. Harry, who is more age appropriate, takes a more direct approach in his pursuit of Evelyn, he doing whatever to convince her that Stanford is taking advantage of her. Regardless of what the two men do for her, Evelyn admits that she is in love with Stanford, although she is not sure if she can assume the role of the hidden other woman. What happens within this triangle is affected more not by what the two men will do to win Evelyn, but rather the stronger feeling the two men have in not wanting to see Evelyn with the other.
Stanford White (Ray Milland) is a wealthy and famous 47 year old architect in New York. Evelyn Nesbit (Joan Collins) is a stunningly beautiful 16 year old model and chorus girl. Harry K. Thaw (Farley Granger) is a young millionaire who later marries Evelyn when she is 20. Extremely possessive, Harry can no longer live the thought of what the lecherous White did with Evelyn on the Red Velvet Swing when she just 16. After seeing White at a café then again at a play the same day, Thaw uses a gun to defend his wifes honor. New York society is scandalized. White's "interests" in younger women, Evelyn Nesbit's trail of wealthy suitors, Thaw's insane jealousy. It was front page news and it was all true.
