A jilted man gives his divorced best friend and his ex-wife - to whom he was previously engaged - a potion that causes them to forget each other. Will they fall in love all over again?
Sky and Linda meet on vacation and become engaged. When Sky introduces Linda to his best friend, Jeff, Linda and Jeff fall in love and marry. But Jeff's work puts a strain on the marriage and a divorce is planned. Sky uses an experimental memory loss drug to make Linda and Jeff forget their rough times (and the fact that they were married) and they fall in love all over again.
Jeff Holland, a junior partner at Eaton, Eiton, Piper and Holland Advertising Agency, and Sky Ames, who works for McIntyre, a pharmaceutical agency which happens to be a long term client of Jeff's firm, have been best friends for twenty-one years. Despite their friendship, McIntyre has been one of the advertising firm's problematic accounts as Mr. McIntyre blames the poor advertising for poor sales, while Jeff sees the health tonic they have long produced as being an outdated product in today's modern times. On one of the few vacations that Jeff has not accompanied Sky, this one to Nassau, Sky meets and falls in love with Linda Bronson, the two, upon their arrival back in New York, who are to be married in a week's time. However, when Jeff first lays eyes on Linda even before knowing who she is, he falls in love with her himself, she who in turn seems to be falling for him despite the fact of Sky. The two friends begin a series of actions to one-up the other to Linda and to her aristocratic parents. Seeing what is happening between Jeff and Linda, Sky eventually proposes that the two of them spend as much time together as possible in his hope that they will get each other out of their system. The result of Sky's experiment, which has as many ups as it does downs for each of the three, leads to the third person out in this triangle taking what he/she believes is a decisive action to assist in the course of true love/true friendship. That action being a little too effective has unintended consequences not only for the course of that love and friendship, but for the advertising agency's problems with Mr. McIntyre.

