16-year old Anastasia and her adopted brother Damir live on a Greek island with their pervy grandfather. She dreams about having a large antique bathtub and he dreams about running a sea-side resort. They begin to fall for each other.
The story concerns a sister (Bo Derek) and brother (Peter Hooten), who return home after years abroad. Falling under the island's erotic spell, the girl and boy discover that their love goes beyond filial. The incestuous nature of the story evaporates when it is discovered that the two aren't actually related after all.
Damir (Peter Hooten) and his teenage "sister," Anastasia (Bo Derek; credited as Kathleen Collins), travel from their home on a small Greek island to Athens, Greece, where Damir romances Beautifuloni (Boucci Simis), the daughter of a cruise ship owner. She agrees to have her father's ships stop at Damir's island, but makes him promise that the island will be ready for tourists.Meanwhile, Antastasia admires an ornate bathtub in a shop and fantasizes about soaking in the luxurious tub. When Damir arrives at the shop, she is mad they cannot buy the bath and they argue as he carries her out of the shop. They set sail, but instead of heading home, they travel to another island to "spy" on the tourist trade. When they check into a hotel, Damir registers them as a married couple and Anastasia is surprised the clerk believes his lie. They eat dinner at a restaurant, asking for the meals that tourists prefer.In the hotel, Anastasia is excited about the bathtub, but she is self-conscious about her breasts. Insisting that she is not a little girl anymore, Anastasia asks Damir to leave the bathroom so she can have some privacy. He teases that she is not a woman yet, but complies. Later, Anastasia wonders if they should sleep in the same bed since they are not actually brother and sister, but Damir laughs and she joins him in the bed.When they return to their home the next day, a photographer takes pictures of them rowing to shore and asks for more photographs. Damir agrees to consider it after he meets with the mayor, Cleopatra (Anna Alexiadis). The wheelchair-bound mayor is ecstatic to learn about the tourist ship Damir arranged and has him wheel her outside where the island's residents await. Damir explains that preparations for tourists will include painting every building and creating a hotel, bar, restaurant and souvenirs. The islanders dance with excitement.The next morning, Anastasia awakens to find Damir working early. He asks her to rouse the islanders, so Anastasia rings the church bells. Later, Damir introduces the famous photographer and his female model to the mayor, announcing that the photographer's pictures will promote tourism. Damir, Anastasia and Mayor Cleopatra meet with the town's priest and insist the church buildings are the perfect location for a hotel, but the priest refuses to comply because he wants to build a school. Damir calls for a village vote and the church buildings are turned into "The Hotel by the will of the people."As the islanders paint the village buildings and fix the windmill, the photographer's model shows Anastasia how to apply makeup and the photographer takes pictures of the girl at various locations. Later, Damir comes across the photo shoot and is angry that Anastasia is wasting her time while everyone else works. Despite the photographer's protests, Damir throws Anastasia over his shoulder and they leave.That night, Damir shows a movie to the villagers as a reward for their hard work. When the photographer lures Anastasia away, Damir follows and the two men fight. Anastasia jumps on Damir's back to restrain him, but when she lets go, Damir chases the photographer. The islanders gather around as the photographer chides Damir for treating Anastasia like a little child. Damir challenges the photographer to a fight and the mayor says the bout will last until one of the men gets wet. When the photographer dodges Damir's fists, the young man's foot lands in water. Damir is furious that he lost the fight and he storms off, warning the photographer to leave the island or they will fight again tomorrow. The photographer and model sail away the next morning.Upset, Anastasia insists that Damir move out of her godfather's house. She declares that she is a woman now and they cannot live together unless they are married. Damir argues that they are brother and sister, but she reminds him that he is not a blood relative; they were orphans raised together. Damir discusses the situation with the mayor, who agrees that a man and woman cannot live together unless they are "blooded" or married. She asks how he feels about Anastasia and Damir admits he does not know. When Damir retrieves his belongings from his former home, Anastasia offers to make dinner.That afternoon, Damir rides a motorcycle to the mountains, finds a large, half-buried sarcophagus among ancient ruins and starts to unearth it. He is exhausted and dirty when he returns for Anastasia's dinner and she questions where he was, but he refuses to divulge his secret. He notices she is wearing makeup and tells her to wash it off but she rebuffs his order. Damir is angry to find his bed missing, but learns Anastasia moved it to the roof so he can stay close by and sleep on top of the house.The next morning, Damir orders her to guide the villagers, then leaves to do his "secret work." When Damir returns that evening, he bathes in the ocean and pulls Anastasia into the water. He rips off her shirt and uses it to wash the makeup off her face. She is furious and insists she will never speak to him again.Anastasia and the islanders continue their work while Damir unearths the sarcophagus. As Damir starts the arduous process of moving the sarcophagus into town, Anastasia strolls up the hill to investigate. Refusing to let her see the sarcophagus, Damir leaves it on the hill and takes her back to town.That evening, the islanders gather to watch another movie. Damir confers with the mayor, then slips away as the mayor plies Anastasia with wine until she falls asleep. The next morning, Anastasia awakens when a rooster is thrown into her room. Hearing islanders call her name, Anastasia runs to the center of town where everyone watches as Damir presents her with "Anastasia's tub," a wedding present. She joins him at the flower-bedecked, water-filled sarcophagus and accepts his marriage proposal. The joy of their wedding is enhanced as the first cruise ship of tourists arrives at the island.
