Shanghai Sam needs a new crew for his ship. Bugs signs on but rebels at the captain's cruelty.
In the dead of night, the Sad Sack (formerly the Jolly Roger) is moored in the harbour. Suddenly, the silence is interrupted by a screaming, disheveled sailor fleeing the ship. His former captain, Shanghai Sam, is visibly frustrated at his lack of crew, and decides he needs a new one. At that moment, he spots Bugs walking along the harbour. Sam nails signs advertising a free trip around the world to his ship, prompting Bugs to come on board, unaware he's being shanghaied.The ship departs, and Bugs is soon given a leg iron and forced to row the ship. An outraged Bugs orders Sam to throw away the leg iron, and Bugs is thrown into the sea. He reappears on the ship, and is forced to mop the deck. At that moment, Bugs gets an idea. He takes out a marker and writes "The Captain's wife wears Army shoes" on the deck. Bugs writes two other messages ("The Capt. loves Gravel Gertie" and "The Captain is a shnook") while an enraged Sam furiously scrubs the vandalized section. Realizing he's been had, Sam pulls a gun on Bugs.Bugs quickly convinces Sam that the ship is sinking, and Sam prepares to get into a lifeboat. Bugs stops him, saying that the captain should go down with his ship. After some struggle, Sam declares Bugs captain, but Bugs still won't let him escape, saying, "Women and children first, you know." Sam disguises himself as an old lady, and is set free. However, Bugs convinces him to come back and catch a baby, which turns out to be the anchor in disguise. The anchor crashes into Sam's lifeboat, and it sinks instantly.Sam makes it back on board, and discovers Bugs holding digging tools and a treasure map. He instantly swipes the map from Bugs and searches for the treasure himself. He ends up digging a hole in the ship's hull, causing it to sink. Sam takes the ship to dry dock and repairs it before setting off again. He attempts to kill Bugs with a cannon, but this causes the ship to sink and require repairs twice.After the third sinking, Bugs ties the mooring ropes to a post while Sam is repairing it, causing the ship's outer hull to completely tear off and cause it to sink yet again when it departs. Sam finally gives up, and agrees to take Bugs on the round the world voyage he'd promised, using a lifeboat. The boat sails off into the sunset as Bugs orders Sam to head for Rio de Janeiro. Iris out.
