After being hired to find an ex-con's former girlfriend, Philip Marlowe is drawn into a deeply complex web of mystery and deceit.
This adaptation of the Raymond Chandler novel 'Farewell, My Lovely', renamed for the American market to prevent audiences mistaking it for a musical (for which Powell was already famous) has private eye Philip Marlowe hired by Moose Malloy, a petty crook just out of prison after a eight year stretch, to look for his former girlfriend, Velma, who has not been seen for the last six years. The case is tougher than Marlowe expected as his initially promising inquiries lead to a complex web of deceit involving bribery, perjury and theft, and where no one's motivation is obvious, least of all Marlowe's.
In police custody and facing a possible murder charge, private investigator Philip Marlowe tells them his story. He was hired by Moose Malloy, who's been in prison for a number years, to find his girl Velma Valento. Soon after, Lindsay Marriott hires him for protection when he's to meet someone in a secluded area to buy back a lady's jewelry. It doesn't go well and the trouble really starts when Marriott is killed. Ann Grayle is next in line claiming that the missing jewelry belonged to her father and her stepmother Helen. The trail leads him to Jules Amthor - Moose works for him - someone well-known to the police who specializes in putting women in precarious situations and then blackmailing them. Helen Grayle appears to have been his latest victim. Not all is as it seems however.
With his eyes bandaged due to injury, Los Angeles based private investigator Philip Marlowe is under police interrogation as a murder suspect. Marlowe tells them the story as he knows - In quick succession, he is hired by two different clients for two potentially lucrative cases. The first client is hulking Moose Malloy, an ex-con who hires him to find his ex-fiance Velma Valento, of who he lost track while he was in prison for eight years. The second client is Lindsay Marriott, who hires him for a one night job, to accompany him to Laurel Canyon to act as the go-between to repurchase some jewels that were stolen from a friend. Marlowe later learns that friend is Helen Grayle, the young second wife of wealthy sixty-five year old Leuwen Grayle, and the jewels are a jade necklace worth approximately $100,000 that Mr. Grayle, a jade collector, gave to her as a gift. In meeting the Grayles, Marlowe also meets Mr. Grayle's daughter, Ann Grayle, who detests her stepmother. Ann goes as far as secretly advising Marlowe not to associate with Helen, and will pay him to do so. Marlowe also discovers that Marriott is associated with a self-described "quack", a psychic consultant named Jules Amthor, who is known to the police. The two cases start to intersect in ways Marlowe never expected. When one of the players is found murdered, Marlowe has to piece together who is the one manipulating the situation to his/her benefit to discover who committed what murder. The last piece in him being able to do so is how the jade necklace fits into the picture.
The private detective Philip Marlowe is hired by the violent and stupid Moose Malloy to seek out his former girlfriend Velma Valento. Moose spent eight years in prison and lost contact with her. Marlowe goes to the night-club where Velma worked but the owner died years ago; then he visits the widow that tells that she does not know Velma. However Marlowe finds a photo of Velma and the woman says that she is dead. On the next morning, Marlowe is visited in his office by a man called Lindsay Marriott and he offers $100 to Marlowe work as his bodyguard in an isolated area where he will pay an amount to retrieve the stolen jewels. However things go wrong and Marriott is killed and Marlowe is hit on the head and knocked out. Marlowe goes to the police station to report the murder; the detectives ask if he knows a man called Jules Amthor and to stay away from the man. Marlowe meets Ann Grayle in his office asking about the murder posing as a reporter. She brings him home and introduces his wealthy old father Leuwen Grayle and his young wife Helen Grayle to him. Marlowe learns that a rare and expensive jade necklace was stolen from Helen when she was dancing with Marriott and Leuwen hires him to retrieve the jewels. When Marlowe is leaving the house, he stumbles upon Amthor. Then Moose forces Marlowe to go to Amthor's house and Marlowe is drugged, trying to find where the necklace is. When Marlowe succeeds to escape, he starts to think to solve the puzzle. Who might have stolen the jade necklace? What happened with Verna Valento?
After a stint in prison, imposing giant Moose Malloy hires private dick Philip Marlowe to track down missing girlfriend Velma. After a series of dead-end leads, Marlowe takes a gig accompanying sophisticated patsy Marriott into the hills where they are ambushed as Marriott attempts to ransom stolen jewels. The family that owns the jewels, the Grayles, seem to be at odds with each other for very different and highly personal reasons. They separately approach Marlowe to investigate Marriott's murder, throwing more and more cash at Marlowe to resolve the killer jewel caper. Meanwhile, girlfriend crazy Moose won't let Marlowe forget about his missing beloved. He takes the sidetracked investigation into his own hands, subjecting Marlowe to a substance fueled ride that proves to be just what Marlowe needs to connect the dots and close the cases.
Marlowe is in a police station, a bandage over his eyes. He explains what happened in a flashback.Moose Malloy comes in to Marlowe's office. He's just got out of prison and wants Marlowe to find his ex-girlfriend, who he's not seen in eight years. Malloy takes him to a place called Florian's, where his ex used to work. They go into the bar. The bar goes quiet as they walk in. The boss comes over and warns them that he wants no trouble. Malloy walks over to a girl in the bar but the boss warns him not to bother the customers. The man throws the boss across the room. Marlowe tries to intervene, but Moose doesn't remember him. The take a couple of bottles from the bar and leave. Malloy tells Marlowe that they were to be married. Her name was Velma Valento.Marlowe traces the wife of the previous owner of Florian's. She appears to be very drunk. She gives him a file of clippings but tries to hide a picture of Valento. Marlowe takes it. Mrs. Florian tells him she's never heard of Moose Malloy and demands that he leave. He does, but then watches her through the window as she makes a phone call, apparently not as drunk as she seemed.Marlowe returns to his office to find Lindsay Marriott waiting in his office. He hires Marlowe to accompany him to a rendezvous to make a business transaction, exchanging a jade necklace for cash. Arriving at the spot, Marlowe gets out to look around. Gun drawn, he walks some distance into the bushes. Finding nothing but a deer, he returns to the car, where he is coldcocked by a blackjack.When he awakens, a woman asks if he is all right, then, apparently recognizing him, runs. Marriott has been killed and dumped in the back seat.Cut to a police station where Marlowe is being interrogated about the murder. They argue and then Marlowe is released, but tell Marlowe they think Jules Amthor is mixed up in this.This time, returning to his office, a woman is waiting. She tells him her name is Miss Allison, but he grabs her purse and finds she is actually Ann Grayle. She tries to storm out but he's locked the door. She tells him the jade belonged to her father.They go to visit her father in a palatial mansion. His wife, a stunning blonde, is also there. He explains that the necklace had been taken from his wife at gunpoint, and retires. Mrs. Gayle tells Marlowe that Marriot had been assigned to buy it back. As they talk, Amthor is shown in. They arrange an interview.Cut to Marlowe's home. Mrs. Grayle walks in behind a laundry boy and gives him a retainer. They go to a nightclub. Miss Grayle is there and talks to Marlowe privately. She offers him more money to make him go away. Moose is there too. He asks Marlowe to come and meet someone, and Miss Grayle disappears before he can make excuses. Moose takes him to a highrise and takes his gun. The person he is meeting turns out to be Amthor. He claims to be a psychic healer that the police are after. Marlowe accuses him of blackmailing women. Amthor thinks Marlowe has the necklace, which he wants. Moose causes a ruckus, wanting Marlowe to tell him where Velma is. They fight and Marlowe is kncked out and drugged, causing hallucinations.He wakes up on a cot. After shaking off the effects of the drug, he escapes, and confronts a doctor, who tells him he's been out for three days. Moose finds him and gets him a cab. Marlowe goes to see Ann. She asks him what happened, and he remembers that she was the girl at the rendezvous.The police come in and Marlowe gives them the story.Marlowe and Ann go back to the mansion and talk to her father. The police have been there, interested in his beach house. Mr. Grayle asks Marlowe to drop the case for money. Marlowe agrees, but tells Ann he's going to the beach house anyway.At the beach house, they find Mrs. Grayle. Ann, angry, leaves to tell her father. Marlowe accuses Mrs. Grayle of having Amthor shake him down for the necklace. She tells him Amthor is blackmailing her after she went to him for treatment. She was supposed to give him the jade, but it was stolen before she could give it to him. She thinks it was Marriot. She asks him to help her kill Amthor to stop him from blackmailing her further, and Marlowe agrees. They plan to lure Amthor to the beach house where Mrs. Gayle will shoot him.Marlowe goes to Amthor's place to set up the plot, but finds Amthor dead with his neck snapped, obviously by Moose. He returns to the office, where Moose finds him. Marlowe tells him the picture was a fake, but that he can take Moose to her. They agree to meet the next day.Marlowe takes him to the beach house and tells him to wait outside for a signal. He goes in to meet Mrs. Gayle, who still thinks the original plan is in place. She gives Marlowe the jade necklace, which she has had all along. She had told Marriot it had been stolen to throw them off the trail. Marlowe accuses her of killing Marriot, and tells her that Moose is waiting outside. She is actually Velma Valento. She had been supporting Marriott, Amthor, and Mrs. Florian with her blackmail money, but Moose's return had fouled the plan, and they were attempting to get rid of Marlowe before he could discover the plot.Mrs. Gayle pulls a gun on him. Ann and her father show up. Mrs. Gayle tells Mr. Gayle to take the gun. He does, but then shoots her. Moose hears the shot and comes upstairs, to see Velma's dead body. He attacks Mr. Gayle. Marlowe dives for Grayle's gun just as he fires, is blinded by the powder, and blacks out.Cut to the police station. Marlowe is wearing a bandage over his eyes. They explain that Gayle and Moose killed each other struggling for the gun. An officer leads him to a cab and he talks about Ann the whole way, without realizing that Ann was there all along. She gets in the cab with him and he realizes it's her. The end.
