When Joan Wilder is abducted while on a trip along the Nile, her boyfriend, Jack Colton, and pal Ralph rush to rescue her and retrieve a fabled jewel.
This is the sequel to "Romancing the Stone" where Jack and Joan have their yacht and easy life, but are gradually getting bored with each other and this way of life. Joan accepts an invitation to go to some middle eastern country as a guest of the sheik, but there she is abducted and finds her- self involved with the "jewel". Jack decides to rescue her with his new partner Ralph. They all go from one adventure to another... What is the story of this "jewel"?
After six long months of dreamlike sunsets, seductive cocktails, and endless travels around the globe on their yacht, Jack Colton and Joan Wilder are finally starting to get bored with their stagnant relationship and the easy life. However, life will soon get back in the fast lane, when a polite but insistent invitation by the sinister aspiring monarch, Omar, involves Joan in a new adventure in the Nile and the deserts of Anatolia, hot on the trail of yet another mythical gemstone. Is this elusive "Jewel of the Nile" the missing ingredient in Jack and Joan's love life?
Captain Jack Colton sails around on his ship, The Angelina, while his romance novelist girlfriend Joan Wilder attends book signings. Joan gets caught up with a seductive bad guy named Omar, and The Angelina explodes. Jack sets off to save Joan, with help from his new, and somewhat shady friend, Ralph. It's a classic romance novel in movie form.
In this sequel to 'Romancing the Stone' set six months later, while moored at a port in the South of France, Joan Wilder's (Kathleen Turner) and Jack Colton's (Michael Douglas) romance has grown stale. Joan, suffering writer's block, wants to return to New York, while Jack prefers aimlessly sailing the world on his boat, the Angelina. At a book signing engagement, Joan meets Omar (Spiros Focás), a charming Arab ruler who wants Joan to write his biography. Joan accepts and leaves with Omar over Jack's protests. Jack later runs into Ralph (Danny DeVito), the swindler from Jack and Joan's previous adventure in Colombia who demands Jack turn over the gem Jack and Joan found. Shortly after, an Arab, named Tarak (Paul David Magid), informs Jack about Omar's true intentions and claims that Omar has the "Jewel of the Nile"; and just as Tarak finishes his explanations, the Angelina mysteriously explodes. Ralph and Jack team up to find Joan and the fabled jewel.Joan soon discovers that Omar is a brutal dictator rather than the enlightened ruler he claimed will unite the Arab world. In the palace jail, Joan encounters Al-Julhara (Avner Eisenberg), a holy man who is the "Jewel of the Nile" and whom Omar fears. The pair escape and find Jack, and they flee into the desert in Omar's hi-jacked F-16 fighter aircraft. Ralph is captured by Tarak's rebel Sufi tribe who are sworn to protect the Jewel so he can fulfill his people's destiny.After encountering a Nubian mountain African tribe, Joan and Jack's romance is rekindled. Joan tells Jack that the jewel is Al-Julhara and not a gem stone. In Kadir, Omar intends to use a smoke-and-mirror-special effect to convince onlookers that he is the prophet who will unite the Arab world. Jack, Joan, and Al-Julhara arrive to expose Omar but are captured on the train leading to Kadir. Omar suspends Jack and Joan with ropes over a deep pit while Al-Julhara is in a stockade; Ralph, along with the Sufi tribe, arrives in time to rescue the three prisoners.As Omar takes center stage to address the Arab people, Jack and Joan disrupt the ceremony while the Sufi rebels battle Omar's guards. A fire breaks out, engulfing Omar's stage. Jack and Joan are separated, and Omar corners Joan atop the burning scaffolding. Jack knocks Omar over the side, killing him. Al-Julhara rises and safely walks through the flames, fulling the prophecy that he is the true spiritual leader.The following day, Jack and Joan are married by Al-Julhara. Ralph laments having gained nothing for his efforts, but Tarak acknowledges that he is a true Sufi friend and presents him with a jeweled dagger as Jack and Joan happily sail away down the Nile on their honeymoon.
