Kong falls from the twin towers and he appears to be alive. However, his heart is failing, so it's replaced with an artificial one. All is well until he senses that there's a female Kong somewhere out there and escapes wreaking havoc.
A giant ape King Kong, which was shot and fell off the World Trade Center tower, appears to be alive, but is in coma for 10 years and desperately needs a blood transfusion in order to have an artificial heart implanted. Suddenly, in the rainforest, another gigantic ape is found - this time a female. She is brought to the USA, and the heart is successfully implanted. But then King Kong, having sensed the female ape, breaks loose.
The movie starts where King Kong ended.Ten years after King Kong fell from the Twin Towers, we see him at the Atlanta University kept alive by doctors. Amy Flanklin (Linda Hamilton) is in charge of keeping King Kong alive. They build a heart in order to transplant it inside Kong, because his is finished. The problem is that they don't have enough plasma to do the operation. What they need is a miracle.In the jungles of Borneo, an adventurer Hank Mitchell (Brian Kerwin) happens to meet another giant ape. This one is female and she took a fancy to Mitchell. As he was being chased, the aboriginal of the area shoot spleeping darts at the ape, and Mitchell captures her. Somehow the Atlanta University got wind of the find and convince Mitchell to sell them the female. They can use here for the plasma and as a live specimen. Lady Kong is taken to the US and is kept in a nearby warehouse while they build her a facility. She somehow knows that King Kong is nearby and does eat. The doctors perform the operation to replace King Kongs heart and it is a success. Soon Kong wakes up and senses the female nearby. Mitchell convinces the University to move Lady Kong as quickly as possible because something is going to happen. . They agree but its too late.As they try to capture Lady Kong so they can transport her to her new facility, she doesn't go without being upset. That stirs up Kong to the point that he escapes. He arrives at the Warehouse and destroys the equipment used by the crew to subdue Lady Kong. HE takes her in his arms and they escape into the wilderness.Lt. Col. R.T. Nevitt (John Ashton) is given the task by the US Army to capture the apes. He prevents anyone from coming near the area so it makes it difficult for Dr. Franklin and MItchell to get near them. They however suceeds. Flanklin checks Kongs heart and its ine. The next morning, Flanklin and Mitchell notice that Kong is gone, leaving Lady Kong alone. A few minutes later, helicopters with gas are emptying their containers on Lady Kong. This makes her fall asleep. King Kong arrives and the army prevents him from getting close by bombing the area in front of him. The Army captures Lady Kong and take her away. King Kong is trapped on a mountain peek and jumps down into a river in order to escape. He hits his head on a large rock and everyone thinks he's dead.Col. Nevitt takes Lady Kong to an abandoned Missile Silo and prevents anyone from seeing the ape. After three months, Franklin manages to get a court order from the Pentagon and she manages to see the ape only once for a few minutes. Something is wrong, because the ape does not want to eat and she pines for her Kong.Mitchell comes back from Borneo with a deal for the University to buy a 10,000 acre piece of land for the kongs. Wehn he hears about how Lady Kong is treated, he gets upset and heads over to the Silo to get answers. He is quickly turned around.Meanwhile Kong survived in a swamp eating aligators. He suddenly hears the cry of Lady Kong miles away from him. Its too much for him and he decides to go after her. In his travel he encounters a small village and scares them. That information quickly reaches Col. Nevitt's ears and he proceeds to find Kong. The villagers proceed to go hunting after Kong and small group of them brings dynamite. They prepare an ambusgh and Kong eventually triggers the trap, The villagers have Kong trapped inside tons of boulders and they begin to torture him. Kong gets mad and kills them all. Now the Army has no choice but to kill Kong.Knowing that King Kong is on his way to save Lady Kong, the Army is prepared. The attack begins, but Kong manages to pass right through them and reaches the silo. Mitchell and Flanklin were about to release Lady Kong when they noticed she was pregnant. Kongs saves the female ape and they again escape. Duddenly, Lady Kong is in labour and falls on a barn. The army arrives and Kong has had enough. He attacks and the Army fires back. The shooting stops when Kong kills Col. AShton with one big knuckle punch. Hurt real bad, Kong reaches the barn just in time to see Lady Kong give birth to a son. Pleased that he has a son, Kong dies.Lady Kong is taken back to Borneo with her son.
