F. Scott Fitzgerald's novel is brought to life in this story of a movie producer slowly working himself to death.
Young film producer, Monroe Stahr, is a rising star in 1930's Hollywood due to his ability to get anything he envisions done even if it means breaking a few rules. The latest film he's working on stars two popular actors, Rodriguez and Didi, and everyone is sure it'll be a smashing hit when it's done. The times are changing however, since the first guilds and unions are being formed in Hollywood, but Stahr is still sticking to his old ways of doing things in spite of that. His main opponent becomes a union organizer, Brimmer, but Stahr finds ways to deal with him as well. However, in his hubris, Stahr crosses one red line too many when he falls for a young troubled engaged woman called Kathleen Moore and neglects Cecilia Brady, the young daughter of studio executive and Stahr's boss, Pat Brady. Pat becomes furious over this as well as Stahr's other misbehavings and makes it his mission to take Stahr down. Due to all the pressure, Stahr's health starts failing as well. The film is based on F. Scott Fitzgerald's last novel The Last Tycoon that was never finished. The character of Monroe Stahr is based on Irving Thalberg, the production chief at the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM) film studio during the late 1920's and 1930's. The character of Pat Brady is based on Louis B. Mayer himself, the legendary co-founder of MGM.
1930's Hollywood. Monroe Stahr, the production head at International World Films, is known within the business as the wonder boy for being able to present the truth and emotional core of the studio's films. He has immersed himself in his work ever since the death of movie star Mina Davis, with who he was intimately involved. His focus solely on work has resulted in his declining health. In addition to striving for perfection in the studio's movies at whatever cost, he has to babysit temperamental stars, deal with disgruntled directors and writers, the latter who in the process of not appreciating his heavy handed tactics are trying to unionize, and deal with the studio Board, chaired by his longtime associate Pat Brady, they who work solely to the bottom line of costs and revenues. While Pat's now late teen daughter Cecilia Brady, reaching her sexual awakening, chases after Monroe, who has never seen her as a sexual being, Monroe becomes infatuated with a young woman he sees off in the distance on the tour of the studio. He will learn she is Irish immigrant Kathleen Moore, his infatuation largely due to her resemblance to Mina. He will also learn that although she too is attracted to him, she leads a complex life which may not include him in her future. What happens in his pursuit of Kathleen will have an affect on his overall life.

