Frank Ripploh is a bit of a rascal: he's a bearded and shaggy-haired teacher, and he's gay with a very active sex life and an interest in making films. He keeps his personal life and teaching separate, but he sometimes corrects student papers in public toilets as he waits to score. He cruises constantly, and one evening, he meets Bernd. They become lovers. While Bernd is attentive and caring, Frank gets bored and continues his polymorphously perverse ways. For how long will Bernd and Frank tolerate each other's habits, and for how long can Frank keep his sexual orientation out of the classroom? Things come to a head during Berlin's annual Queen's Ball and the morning after.
West Berliner Frank tries to keep his professional and personal life separate. During the day, he is Herr Ripploh, a dedicated public school teacher, who does some tutoring on the side. Although he likes his students and his fellow teachers, he does only the mandatory functions required with them. At night and on the weekends, he is often known as Peggy to his friends, Peggy/Frank a gay man who is always on the prowl for anonymous sex often in public places. The one thing that Frank does do to blur his personal and professional time together is to mark his students' homework while he's sitting in public washroom toilet stalls waiting to meet men for sex. Things on the personal side of his life may change when he meets Bernd, a movie theater clerk. At first, Bernd is just the latest in a string of one nights stands. However, Bernd quickly moves into Frank's flat and the two talk of their future life together, Bernd dreaming of them living together on a farm. But Frank, despite loving Bernd, feels restless and continues his quest for anonymous gay sex. Bernd knows that Frank is still having sex with other men, doesn't much like it but can't stop Frank from doing it. Even a hospital stay, the result of his risky sexual behavior, doesn't stop Frank from cruising public washrooms. But fight after fight between the two, the latest following the annual Queen's Ball, makes Frank evaluate his life in all its components.

