The alumni of Commandant Lassard's Police Academy (1984) return to the school to train new recruits and prevent its closure.
When police funding is cut, the Governor announces he must close one of the academies. To make it fair, the two police academies must compete against each other to stay in operation. Mauser persuades two officers in Lassard's academy to better his odds, but things don't quite turn out as expected...
When police funding is cut, Governor Neilson announces that one of the city's two police academies will have to be closed down. To make it fair, Neilson announces a competition to determine which academy will stay opened. Commandant Eric Lassard calls back some of his former students to train the new batch of students, hoping to get the edge on the rival academy, which is run by Commandant Mauser. Lassard's new instructors, the former students he has brought back, include Carey Mahoney, Eugene Tackleberry, Moses Hightower, Debbie Callahan, Larvell Jones, Laverne Hooks, and Douglas Fackler. Among the new students at Lassard's academy are Cadet Nogata, Cadet Karen Adams, Cadet Bud Kirkland, Cadet Sarah, Cadet Hedges, former gang leader Zed, and Zed's roommate, Cadet Sweetchuck. In order to increase his own academy's chances of winning, Mauser persuades two of Lassard's officers, Kyle Blanks and Chad Copeland, to turn traitor and help Mauser. The competition becomes complicated when a local marina is robbed by a gang of thieves who are dressed as busboys.
The city has two police academies, one is under the eye of Commandant Lassard and the other is under Commandant Mauser. Now Mauser has learned that the State is considering closing one of the academies, and to protect himself, he approaches Blanks and Copeland and instructs them to make sure that Lassard's cadets all foul up. Lassard on the other hand calls his "favorite graduates", Mahoney, Hightower, Jones, Tackleberry, and Hooks, and along with their former instructor, Callahan, they try to train the cadets and hopefully save their academy.
From the beginning, they were a breed apart. They were raw, inept, blunderheaded civilians who signed up for the Police Academy. And they became raw, inept, blunderheaded cops. Then, the bumblers in blue took to the streets to confront a crime wave . . . and somehow refrained from waving back. Now the lovable lunkheads with the fun-track minds are at it again! Determined to save their alma mater from getting the ax during a state-wide budget slash are the gifted, goofy original Police Academy grads: Mahoney, Hightower, Tackleberry, Jones, Hooks and Callahan, all led by the befuddled but unbowed Cmdt. Lassard. Also in the arresting cast are several returnees from the school's second adventure, including meddling Cmdt. Mauser.
The movie begins in a large garage structure, where Captain Proctor (Lance Kinsey) and Commandant Mauser (Art Metrano) (from Police Academy 2) meet up with former Police Academy cadets, (now Sgts.) Chad Copeland (Scott Thomson) and Kyle Blankes (Brant van Hoffman) (from the first Police Academy movie). It seems one of the two Police Academy schools is getting the axe, and Mauser wants Copeland and Blankes to make sure that Lassard's one screws up.The next day, after the governor's speech in which he will appoint a committee to evaluate which of the two schools should remain open, Mauser starts getting an edge by kissing up to the governor (offering the committee an escort, showing governor pages of useful tactics, etc.). Nearby, the elderly and slow-witted Commandant Lassard (George Gaynes) gets an idea on how to win: along with now Sgt. Jones (Michael Winslow) and Lt. Callahan (Leslie Easterbrook), he calls back his former class of '84 alumni misfits; Sgt. Mahoney (Steve Guttenberg), Sgt. Hightower (Bubba Smith), and Sgt. Tackleberry (David Graf) to the acdemy to help train the new recruits. Among the new recruits are Sgt. Fackler's wife (Debralee Scott), the nerdish store owner Sweetchuck (Tim Kazurinsky) (from Police Academy 2), former street gang leader Zed (Bobcat Goldthwait) (also from Police Academy 2), Karen Adams (Shawn Weatherly), and Tackleberry's brother-in-law Bud Kirkland (Andrew Paris). Tomoko Nogata (Brian Tochi) is a slow-witted Japanese recruit of Mauser's academy, but decides to put him in with Lassard's academy instead.After a few weeks of recruiting, Nogata is lovestruck over Callahan, and Sweetchuck contemplates quitting after his roommate Zed drives him crazy (although Tackleberry talks him out of it). Copeland and Blankes make the recruits do stuff that would make the committee think they were hopeless. Mauser wants them out on the field soon, knowing the committee will be there. The recruits fail, and are teased by Mauser and Proctor. However, Mahoney gets back at them by taping Mauser's eyes closed while doing a taste test. Proctor succeeds in removing the tape, but the tape pulls off Mauser's eyebrows.Both Lassard and Mahoney give a pep talk to each of the cadets before training resumes. At the policeperson's ball, Mahoney meets up with his hooker friend from the first film and has her do a favor on Proctor after he insults Mahoney and Adams. Copeland accidentally spills punch on Mrs. Hurst, and Mauser tries to inferfere. Meanwhile, the hooker tricks Proctor into removing all his clothes and then locking him out of the hotel room (much to the dismay of onlookers). He goes out and steals a car and drives to the academy. The car is out of gas, however, and Proctor enters a building. However, the building he walks into is the gay dance club for men called the Blue Oyster Bar (briefly seen in the first two films).The next day, Mauser insults Lassard in front of the recruits by telling him that he is winning (after he pestered Hurst so much that Hurst made him believe he was winning), so Mahoney gets him back by giving a speech at the ball and then putting the microphone in a pitcher of water. When Mauser grabs it, it electrocutes him.On the final day of the cadet training/evaluation competition, one person from each school attends the governor's ball. (Proctor misunderstands and sends in two, one of whom portrayed by David James Elliott) Copeland and Blankes play with the computer system as cars are sent to wrong locations, but are caught by Hooks who punches them out cold. At the governor's party, a gang of thieves dressed as busboys kidnap Hedges and take the governor hostage. but the squad arrives in time to save the day and rescue the governor.Lassard's school stays open, and the epilogue shows Commandant Lassard making a speech on how the academy is grateful for the "many, many" recruits. The graduating class salutes to the camera before the movie ends.
