The ancient vampire Count Dracula arrives in England and begins to prey upon the virtuous young Mina.
After a harrowing ride through the Carpathian mountains in eastern Europe, Renfield enters castle Dracula to finalize the transferral of Carfax Abbey in London to Count Dracula, who is in actuality a vampire. Renfield is drugged by the eerily hypnotic count, and turned into one of his thralls, protecting him during his sea voyage to London. After sucking the blood and turning the young Lucy Weston into a vampire, Dracula turns his attention to her friend Mina Seward, daughter of Dr. Seward who then calls in a specialist, Dr. Van Helsing, to diagnose the sudden deterioration of Mina's health. Van Helsing, realizing that Dracula is indeed a vampire, tries to prepare Mina's fiance, John Harker, and Dr. Seward for what is to come and the measures that will have to be taken to prevent Mina from becoming one of the undead.
The real estate agent Remfield travels to Transilvania for a business meeting with Count Dracula, who is interested in Carfax Abbey in London. Remfield is converted in a servant of Dracula and prepares his master's ship travel to his new a property. While navigating, Dracula sucks the blood and kills all the crew of the vessel. Once in London, Dracula sucks the blood of Lucy Weston (Frances Dade) and she becomes an undead. He feels also a kind of passion for Mina Seward (Helen Chandler), the daughter of Dr. Jack Seward and fiancée of Jonathan Harker. Draculas sucks her blood, Mina has a weird behavior and health problem, and Dr. Seward calls a specialist, Prof. Abraham Van Helsing, to diagnose the mysterious problem with Mina. Although being a scientist, Van Helsing believes in supernatural, and tries to save Mina from becoming a vampire.
An estate agent, Renfield, travels to Transylvania to complete a real estate transaction with Count Dracula. Unbeknown to Renfield however - despite warnings of evil by some of the locals - Dracula is a vampire and the visitor is soon his unwilling servant. They travel by ship to England but by the time it makes port, an insane Renfield is the only living passenger. Count Dracula moves into Carfax Abbey and immediately sets out to possess the beautiful Mina, who lives next door. It's left Professor Van Helsing - who knows exactly what Dracula is - to stop the spread of his evil.
Renfield (Dwight Frye) is a solicitor traveling to Count Dracula's (Bela Lugosi) castle in Transylvania on a business matter. The people in the local village fear that vampires inhabit the castle and warn Renfield not to go there. Renfield refuses to stay at the inn and asks his carriage driver to take him to the Borgo Pass. Renfield is driven to the castle by Dracula's coach, with Dracula disguised as the driver. En route, Renfield sticks his head out the window to ask the driver to slow down, but sees the driver has disappeared; a bat leads the horses. Renfield enters the castle welcomed by the charming but eccentric Count, who unbeknownst to Renfield, is a vampire. They discuss Dracula's intention to lease Carfax Abbey in London, where he intends to travel the next day. Dracula hypnotizes Renfield into opening a window. Renfield faints as a bat appears and Dracula's three wives close in on him. Dracula waves them away, then attacks Renfield himself. Aboard the schooner Vesta, Renfield is a raving lunatic slave to Dracula, who hides in a coffin and feeds on the ship's crew. When the ship reaches England, Renfield is discovered to be the only living person. Renfield is sent to Dr. Seward's sanatorium adjoining Carfax Abbey..
The opening scene is on a quiet road surrounded by ominous mountains. A carriage with 6 people is going into the town near Count Dracula's castle. The driver drops everyone off and then talks to a townie about where Renfield (Dwight Frye), one of the passengers is going next. The townie pleads with him not to go, for that is the castle of Count Dracula and his Vampire wives.Despite the warnings, Renfield decides to go anyways. As he arrives, female Vampires are rising from their tombs in the castle as the evil Dracula watches. Then Renfield enters, though he is leery to. Of course after seeing some creepy creatures scurrying around the castle, he is greeted by the infamous Count, who bids him"welcome". Later, Renfield confirms that he kept his visit to Dracula's castle a secret, and then they discuss the sale of the castle which is what Renfield came for.They say good night and Renfield prepares to turn in. Three female vampires enter his room as he passes out from an encounter from the vampire bat (Dracula). In the next scene, Renfeild is shown as Dracula's ghoul that wakes him after sunset. Dracula is then shown on the very stormy ocean in a ship, on their way to London. After Dracula and his ghoul are on land, a newspaper describing the fate of the entire crew is displayed. It also stated the the only survivor was the now insane Renfeild who is under Dr's. supervision. Dracula waits until dark and then goes to the Opera and immediately introduces himself to Dr. Seward,His wife, their daughter Mina, and her escort John Harker. As they chat, Dracula tries to intrigue Mina, his next targeted victim. Later that night, the Vampire visits her while she is in bed. The next day, Renfeild is shown at the assylum screaming and raving. Then Vanhelsing is shown doing blood work on one of Dracula's dead victims. He tells Dr. Seward who is treating Renfield, and a few other men, that they are dealing with the undead. The two men meet with Renfeild to learn more about Dracula, and Renfeild asks to be sent far away. Then wolves start to howl in the distant air when there are no wolves in London. Renfeild goes mad after Vanhelsing reveals the truth about the howl. As he is carried away, Renfeild tells Vanhelsing that he knows too much to live any longer. Though no one believes Vanhelsing, they follow his commands that Renfeild be watched. Dracula stands out side of Renfield's cell and gives him some commands, telepathically.Then Dracula flies to Mina's bedroom and bites her on the neck. The next day, Harker, Dr. Seward, and Vanhelsing examine her bite marks. Then, The Count interrupts and confronts Vanhelsing, letting him know that he and other vampires know of this scientist's reputation.Dracula starts to talk to Mina and everyone suggests she go to bed and they stop the two of them from talking. Before Mina leaves, Dracula asks if he can check on her later. Then Vanhellsing opens a box and showed Dracula a mirror and Dracula swats the box away and looks at his new nemesis in shock to learn that Dracula's secret is now out. The Count apologizes and then leaves. He turns into a wolf and then is seen running across the yard, into the night. Then Renfeild comes in asking about Mina and warns them of Dracula's actions. Then as he talks about this evil force, Dracula comes to the window as a bat and Renfeild pleads to him for mercy. Suddenly, after Harker chases off the bat, a maid that sees Mina laying in the yard, screams. The 3 normal men run out to Mina's aid and the maid is left alone with Renfeild. His insane behavior causes her to faint. The next day Mina tells Vanhellsing about why she went out to the yard. Mina saw her friend Lucy, who was now a Vampire, wandering in the night looking for a victim. Knowing what she also is becoming, Mina tells Harker, her fiance. that she has changed and that they can not be together as a married couple. Harker accuses Vanhellsing of putting these thoughts in her head, and wants her to go away with him. Vanhellsing puts his foot down and prepares for Dracula to return for Mina tonight. They explain to Harker what Draclula is and convinces him to keep Mina there so they can all protect her. As he agrees, Renfeild appears again and warns them of his and Dracula's powers. Then Renfeild rants about his arrangement with Dracula, until the Count arrives.He confronts Vanhellsing and tells him that since he knows of Dracula's secret that he should leave England. Vanhellsing says he will stay and kill the Prince of Darkness. Then as Dracula tries to over power his enemy, Vanhellsing scares him off with a crucifix. Then Mina is shown in he r room with Harker . While the couple sits on the balcony, Vanhellsing prepares to hunt Dracula and find his liar. Meanwhile,the bat interrupts the 2 lovers and gets Mina to try to bite Harker. Vanhellsing stopped her with a crucifix. Then after she goes to sleep, Dracula comes to her room for her. Meanwhile Harker and Vanhellsing are searching the night for his liar. They suddenly see Renfeild who leads them right to where the Vampire sleeps. Then Dracula arrives with Mina and finds Renfeild. Thinking that he was betrayed, Dracula kills Renfeild and then takes Mina to his casket. By the time the two men find them, Dracula is asleep and Mina is wandering. Vanhellsing quickly pounds a piece of wood into the Counts heart, killing him and setting Mina free from the vampire's spell.
Thankyou, Blogmonstermike@ wordpress.com
