General Othello's marriage is destroyed when vengeful Ensign Iago convinces him that his new wife has been unfaithful.
Desdemona (Dame Maggie Smith) defies her father to marry the Moor of Venice, the mighty warrior, Othello (Sir Laurence Olivier). But Othello's old Ensign, Iago (Frank Finlay), doesn't like Othello, and is determined to bring about the downfall of Othello's new favorite, Cassio (Sir Derek Jacobi), and destroy Othello in the process, by casting aspersions on Othello's new bride.
Iago (Frank Finlay), Venetian Army officer and Ensign to the Moorish General, Othello (Sir Laurence Olivier), bitterly resents the appointment of Cassio (Sir Derek Jacobi) as Othello's Lieutenant. Roderigo (Robert Lang) and Iago maliciously bait Brabantio (Anthony Nicholls), an old Senator, with the news that his daughter Desdemona (Dame Maggie Smith) is betrothed to Othello. Before Council Chamber, Brabentio accused Othello of abducting his daughter. The Moor denies this, and Desdemona affirms loyalty to her husband. Othello is ordered to defend Cyprus, of which he is Governor, against the Turks. Iago assures Roderigo, who is secretly in love with Desdemona, that she will not love Othello for long. Iago brings Desdemona to Cyprus to celebrate Othello's victory against the Turks and incites Cassio and Montano (Edward Hardwicke) into a drunken brawl. Montano is seriously hurt and Iago beckons Othello, blaming Cassio, who is dismissed from duties. Iago then advises Cassio to seek Desdemona's assistance in regaining Othello's favor. Iago arranges Othello to find his wife in earnest conversation with Cassio, and subtly arouses the Moor's jealousy with creating a slanderous piece of evidence by placing Desdemona's handkerchief in the possession of Cassio.
The duplicitous Ensign Iago (Frank Finlay) secretly hates Othello (Sir Laurence Olivier), a Moor and the General of the Venetian Army. Othello is newly married to the chaste (Desdemona Dame Maggie Smith), but he believes Iago's lie that his Lieutenant, Cassio (Sir Derek Jacobi), has been cuckolding him, a lie that leads to tragedy.

