As a deadly virus which infects people who have loveless sex sweeps Paris, a lonely pariah attempts to steal a potent antidote, only to fall for the mistress of his partner-in-crime. Is the infectious young love the cure to the bad blood?
Marc (Michel Piccoli) recruits Alex (Denis Lavant), son of his former, now dead colleague. Alex is a card shark with a big dream to go out to the world and leave his own mark. His determination leads him to break up with his girl friend, Lise (Julie Deply). Alex initially refuses to help Marc and Hans for their "job" of stealing the culture of new drug. But Anna (Juliette Binoche)'s charm and beauty were irresistible. Alex joins the elders. Alex's dance to David Bowie's Modern Love illustrates unfolding emotions of young Alex moving into an adult (graying if not dying) world. The interplay among the generations, between genders, among social classes, memory and hopes, all played against black and white and occasional red back drop. Anna's cobalt blue robe punctuates the moment when Alex confesses his love for her.
Somewhere in a futuristic Paris, the lonely pariah, Alex, teams up with his late father's gang to steal a potent antidote to a seemingly incurable disease. Amid chaos and violence, as France is being swept by the lethal STBO--an AIDS-like virus which infects people who have sex without love--two antagonistic gangs are in search of the same life-saving serum. Now, rebellious Alex finds himself falling for Anna, the beautiful young mistress of his grizzled partner-in-crime, Marc. Is the infectious young love the cure to the bad blood?
In Paris in the near future. Aging thieves Marc and Hans owe money to a tough American woman who gives them two weeks to pay. They scheme to steal and sell a new serum for a disease that's killing lovers, but they need someone with quick steady hands. They recruit Alex, a disaffected youth who's breaking up with Lise, his 16-year-old girlfriend. In the few days before the theft, Alex becomes enchanted with Anna, Marc's young mistress. They talk, they play, they sing, but she's in love with Marc. Lise hasn't given up on Alex either, and she comes to Paris on the day of the theft. There are double crosses, a daring rescue, and, for Alex, a waiting plane. Will he make it?

