In New York City's Spanish Harlem, detectives Madigan and Bonaro are given 72 hours by their superior to capture a hoodlum wanted for homicide in Brooklyn.
Policemen Bonaro and Madigan lose their guns to fugitive Barney Benesch. As compensation, the two NYC detectives are given a weekend to bring Benesch to justice. While Bonaro and Madigan follow up on various leads, Police Commissioner Russell goes about his duties, including attending functions, meeting with aggrieved relatives, and counseling the spouses of fallen officers.
On a quiet Spring Friday morning in New York City Police Detectives Daniel Madigan (Richard Widmark) and Rocco Bonaro (Harry Guardino) attempt to bring in small-time hood Barney Benesch (Steve Ihnat) for questioning for the Brooklyn division. The crook gets the drop on them stealing their guns and escaping putting them in trouble with the police command including Police Commissioner Anthony X. Russell (Henry Fonda) who already holds the opinion that Detective Madigan is something of a loose cannon and skirts the rules. The detectives are given 72 hours to recapture Benesch who is now wanted for a murder. Additionally on this morning of graduation ceremonies at the Police Academy Commissioner Anthony X. Russell has just been given some taped telephone call evidence that his trusted friend Chief Inspector Charles Kane (James Whitmore) is involved with criminals on some sort of deal for favors . The Commissioner takes this in with the same stoicism that he does the issues of false arrest of a black man brought to him by the man's father Dr. Taylor (Raymond St. Jacques), respected minister in the local New York community. Domestically Madigan and Russell have women problems. Madigan's wife Julia Madigan (Inger Stevens) complains that her husband isn't available physically or emotionally, and is not ambitious like other husbands in terms of income and promotions and available time to spend with his wife. Madigan still continues to see ex-girlfriend Jonesy (Sheree North) a nightclub singer for comfort. Russell is having an affair with married socialite Tricia Bentley (Susan Clark) and both feel guilty about it.
Madigan and Rocco spend the weekend tracking down their man and with the help of small-time bookie, "Midget" Castiglione (Michael Dunn), and a part-time pimp Hughie. Madigan breaks some rules including roughing up an older female secretary by threatening to flip a desk on her to get her cooperation.
Russell, who is a hardliner, gets some advice about being more flexible from Tricia. He finds a compromise with his Chief to resolve his issue with the criminals over his son's financial difficulty with a loan shark, rather than firing him. Madigan and his wife attend a police social dinner ball and Madigan plans to leave early and gets into a fight with his wife. Madigan turns his wife over to a bachelor friend at the dance and his wife gets drunk and is almost taken home by her social partner substitute to get even with her husband. Meanwhile Benesch shoots two more policeman who attempt to arrest him on the street, with Madigan's stolen police revolver.. Hughie gets some information about two sisters who are shacked up with Benesch when one is sent out for booze and contacts Hughie. The police corner the crook in a rundown hotel with one of the women and there is a shootout. Madigan and Bonaro get the lead to enter the hotel room. They are in a rush and fore sake the body armor offered. This is all before the time of specialized teams for weapons and tactics. The backup officer uses a shotgun to remove the lock and the detectives, each armed with two handguns, go in with Madigan taking the lead. Benesch is killed, Madigan is shot and the women is rescued. Julia Madigan has harsh words for Russell and the police force and how they care about their police.
The movie ends with Chief Kane telling Russell he has taken action on his conflict of interest and asks what Russell is going to do about Dr. Taylor tomorrow and Russell says he doesn't know as that's Monday.
