A down on his luck coach travels to Africa where he spots the world's greatest athlete - a white Tarzan-type. The coach brings him back to the U.S. of A. to compete.
Sam Archer is the beleaguered head coach of Merrivale College's many hapless sports teams and individual sports athletes, their poor performance placing his job on the line. Taking a break in Zambia with his assistant Milo Jackson to get in touch with his African roots, Sam believes he sees the answer to all his professional problems in the form of Nanu, arguably the fastest, strongest, and most agile person who he has ever come across, Nanu who also has pinpoint accuracy in his aim. After the death of his missionary parents, Nanu was raised as a jungle boy by Gazenga, an African witch doctor. As Nanu is reluctant to leave his African home, Sam and Milo have to manipulate a way for Nanu to want to attend Merrivale. Gazenga may have his own thoughts of what he wants for his son. Eventually, Nanu does go to Merrivale with Sam and Milo, with the one condition that he bring his best friend, Harri, who he's known since he was a child. Beyond adjusting to western life, Nanu finds that his stay at Merrivale is not always a smooth or happy one as some constituents don't want to see Nanu compete for Merrivale and as Nanu discovers the deception that brought him to Merrivale in the first place. As Nanu may come to his own conclusions of what he himself wants to do which may take into account his tutor Jane, everything in his athletic life at Merrivale may come to a head as Coach Archer has entered him into every event at an upcoming NCAA track and field meet.
Coach Archer is has not won anything in any sport that his school has participated during his tenure. Now the head of the Alumni Association, who was one of the people who endorsed him for the job, feels like Archer is making him look bad. He then tells him that this coming season is the last on his contract and will be his "last" unless he turns things around. He and his assistant, Milo go to Africa for a little vacation. While there they discover a man named Nanu, who grew up in the jungle after his missionary parents died, and who is also by all aspects the greatest athlete in the world. And if Archer can get him back to the States, he can save his job. However, Nanu is happy where he is. So Archer tricks him into doing an act by jungle law obligates him to be with Archer. When they arrive Archer gets him into the school and gets him a tutor, Jane. The two of them fall for each other the moment they meet each other. This does not make Leopold, her former boyfriend, very happy, so he schemes to get rid of him.

