When a plane carrying the daughter of a millionaire crashes in an African jungle, two pilots set out to collect the reward. They discover that she has become the goddess of a primitive tribe. An insurgent witch doctor and fierce wild animals make escape from the jungle difficult for the trio.
Greta Venderhorn, a young girl, is the only survivor of a plane crash in the African jungle at the beginning of World War II, and she is rescued by a tribe of natives who proclaim her as their "White Goddess." Six years later, two ex-Army Air Corps pilots, Mike Patton and Bob Simpson, searching for the plane wreckage spot it, and land in an attempt to find the missing girl. It seems that Gloria's father's will stipulates that the person or persons that find his daughter, dead or alive, will receive a large reward. They find the village and Gloria, and learn that she has had all she wants of playing Miss White Goddess of 1948, so she, Mike and Bob plan to escape and head back for civilization. BUT...one of the two men discovers that there is nearby a valuable deposit of ore, and he decides that he wants the ore... and the reward... and Gloria all for himself. Plus, the tribe witch doctor, Oolonga, isn't all that happy that these two intruders are making off with the White Goddess and the tribe's ore.
The film begins at Portugee Joe's, a night club in which a cabaret singer called Laura Leighton (Helen Phillips) is performing a ballad. A man who chain-smokes in looking at her. He's Mike Patton (George Reeves). The singer moves amongst the customers and looks like she's paying particular attention to him.Bob Simpson (Ralph Byrd) tells about Greta Vanderhorn (Wanda McKay), whose millionaire father is paying a handsome ransom to anybody who can find her in the jungle where she's lost herself six years ago. At the beginning, Patton doesn't want to get involved, because McKay may have lost her life and they'll be paid no reward if she isn't alive, but they don't have anything better - or more profitable - to do, so Simpson finally convinces him.They travel to Africa by plane. There are images of wild animals. They shoot a native man, but the tribe warriors made them prisoners. When they are taken to the tribe's hamlets, they see Vanderhorn teaching a local girl Wanama (Armida) how to spell while she's being combed her hair. She tells the rescuers that they'll be judged for murder instead of being treated like gods as she is. Chief M'benga (Zack Williams) is the one who will decide. There is a drummer (Onest Conley) who calls silence and then Wanda McKay says that they'll be executed.The put them in a tent while they wait for the execution time. They start devising a plan to go away. Greta calls Mike and tells him of her wishes to travel to South Africa. On the plane, the pilot (Fred Coby) talks to Mrs Fitzhugh (Helena Grant) and Greta's friend Yvonne (Dolores Castle) that they are working to solve some technical problems. The plane ends crashing in the middle of the jungle. Vanderhorn is the only survivor. She screams when she sees a menacing lion... which doesn't even try to go after her (luckily, because she's stepping onto things and falling down all the time). The tribe warrior find her and instantly adore her as a goddess.In spite of not understanding her, the tribe warriors take Vanderhorn to their village. Wanama was sick with a fever, and Vanderhorn cured her, so that Oolonga (Smoki Whitfield), the village's witch doctor, won't try to fight her. Anyway, Vanderhorn will think of something so that the three Americans can run away. She calls Nugara (Rudy Robles), telling him to keep an eye on the prisoners but not hurting them.Mike wants to wait for Greta's escape plan, but Bob - whom is deeply mistrusted by her - realises that they don't have to actually produce an alive Greta to collect the reward. Bob tries to seduce Wanama, who knows her way around the jungle. She can sort of speak English suddenly.Wanama wants to speak to Greta alone. Finally, Mike leaves. Mike and Bob meet at the prison tent. They fight and wreck the furniture. Nugara calls the goddess. In the fight, they kill Nugara. The witch doctor will tell the chieftain. Now, Greta has to run away with the two men, but before that, she consoles and says goodbuy to Wanama. All warriors go after the three runaways.Greta sprains her ankle, so the men consider leaving her behind - Bob wants to leave her behind, but Mike won't -. She has to rest while a cougar is around. Mike and Greta behave like a couple and talk while Bob sleeps. Bob betrays them, so he is alone when he has to face a lion and shoots after falling down. Bob hides when Greta and Mike find the plane. Natives are approaching and one of them kills Bob. When Mike shoots that warrior, the rest panic and recede.Mike pilots the plane and Greta is happy to return to civilization. --- written by KrystelClaire
