Based on an Agatha Christie suspense novel; a newly-wed couple are threatened after building their dream home on cursed land.
Michael Rogers is a chauffeur with little money, but big dreams. Foremost of these is building his dream house on the perfect piece of land. Michael gets his chance when his new girlfriend, Ellie, turns out to be an extremely wealthy heiress. The two are wed and are soon living in a modern home on Gipsy's Acre. Their idyllic life shatters around them with a series of bizarre events and threats. Micheal comes under the disapproving eye of both Ellie's greedy family and her interfering best-friend Greta. On top of that, local legend says their property is cursed. What danger lurks for the young newlyweds, and is it a human plot or something supernatural?
Working class Londoner Michael Rogers has always enjoyed the aesthetically beautiful things in life, he often going to high end antique auctions, and bidding on items he likes, knowing full well he cannot really afford them if he was indeed the highest bidder. He also moves from job to job in his restlessness, more often than not being fired rather than moving on on his own volition. Despite his lot in life, he dreams of building and living in a grand house on a rural piece of private property in an area called Gypsy's Acre. It is on one of his trip to Gypsy's Acre that he spots *her* for the first time, she being Ellie Thomsen, the two who are immediately attracted to each other. It would be providence as the two get married, he finds out she is the sixth wealthiest heiress in the world, and she purchases the property at Gypsy's Acre to fulfill his fantasy of the house there, the technologically modern building, maximizing the views among other things, designed by his new friend, architect Santonix. But it is not a bump-free road to a happily ever after for Mr. and Mrs. Rogers: as her family does not approve of the marriage, her family who includes the family's longtime lawyer, "Uncle" Andrew Lippincott; as Ellie's best friend, a strong minded young woman named Greta, infiltrates their life; and as an elderly neighbor at Gypsy's Acre, Miss Townsend, warns Michael that building a house and living on that property will lead to nothing but a cursed life.

