A man believe to have murdered a woman, escapes from the insane asylum to find if he was the one to actually kill her using the scarf she was wearing.
John Barrington escapes from an asylum for the criminally-insane and finds refuge on the ranch of turkey-raiser Ezra Thompson. Barrington, who has suffered from amnesia, finds his memory returning slightly and he sets out on his mission of learning the truth about whether or not he really murdered his sweetheart and is actually insane. He goes to Los Angeles to visit his oldest-and-best friend, psychiatrist David Dunbar, who was a witness to Barrington's crime. Dunbar repeats his story to Barrington, convinces Barrington that he did commit the crime, and then betrays him to the police. However, Thompson, Connie Carter and others are not totally convinced of Barrington's guilt.
John Howard Barrington, formerly a lawyer, has just escaped from Alacanta, an institution in California for the criminally insane. He had been housed there for two years for killing his girlfriend Rose Marie, an incident which he does not remember. If he was not declared insane - which he was partly because of his memory loss - he would have been charged with murder and sent to death row. Since, those who were closest to him - his wealthy adoptive father, Cyrus Barrington, and his best friend, Dr. David Dunbar - have largely distanced themselves from him and thus his criminal activities. Because John's biological family is unknown, the authorities do not know if genetics has played a role in his insanity. John had no reason to ever doubt anything that the authorities have told him about the killing, that is until recently. Because he himself doesn't feel guilty, he has begun to wonder if that does mean that he really didn't kill Rose Marie. Thus, he decided to escape from Alacanta solely discover the truth, which if he truly is a murderer means that he will willingly return to face the judicial consequences. John stumbles onto the turkey farm owned by grizzled old Ezra Thompson, who eventually does believe that John is only not insane, but is innocent of murdering Rose Marie. As such, Ezra provides his farm as a refuge and base for John to do his investigative work. John's memory of what happened with Rose Marie is twigged for the first time when he meets a tough talking singing waitress named Connie Carter, who knows nothing about John beyond seeing something good in a man that helps her. While John continues to try and evade the authorities, he may try to figure out what is happened using what he saw in Connie. Connie, in turn, may have a difficult decision on what to do when she discovers that the authorities are after John, and that there is a lucrative $5,000 reward for his return.

