When her father decides to flee to England, young Sylvia Scarlett must become Sylvester Scarlett and protect her father every step of the way, with the questionable help of plenty others.
Escaping to England from a French embezzlement charge, widower Henry Scarlett is accompanied by daughter Sylvia who, to avoid detection, "disguises" herself as a boy, "Sylvester." They are joined by amiable con man Jimmy Monkley, then, after a brief career in crime, meet Maudie Tilt, a giddy, sexy Cockney housemaid who joins them in the new venture of entertaining at resort towns from a caravan. Through all this, amazingly no one recognizes that Sylvia is not a boy...until she meets handsome artist Michael Fane, and drama intrudes on the comedy.
Marseilles based seamstress Mme. Snow has just passed away. Her husband, Henry Scarlett, a bookkeeper for a lace factory, embezzled money from his employers, money which he lost gambling. To avoid arrest, he decides to travel to England smuggling a few pieces of lace with which he can start life anew. Although he initially decides not to take his daughter Sylvia with him, she convinces him to go along as she will disguise herself as a boy named Sylvester, the disguise as the authorities would not be looking for a man and his son. Along the way, they meet a con artist named Jimmy Monkley. Although their initial encounter does include a con, they ultimately decide to go into the grifting business together. When that doesn't pan out, they instead decide to use one of their fronts, as a traveling performance troupe of pierrots, for real, which will include one of Jimmy's friends, a simpleminded Cockney maid named Maudie Tilt. Complications ensue when Henry falls for Maudie, and Sylvia falls for an artist named Michael Fane, who they meet during one of their performances. Sylvia has to decide whether to come out as a girl not only to Michael, but to Jimmy and Maudie as well. The course to true love may be difficult for both Henry and Sylvia, the latter who has the further obstacle of a refined Russian woman named Lily Levetsky who seems to be the object of Michael's affections.

