A teenage girl sets out on a sexual odyssey of having affairs with various men including her mother's secret boyfriend.
Sixteen year old Marie stumbles upon her parents making love, which awakens her latent sexuality. She begins a torrid affair with her third cousin Philip. Her parents cluelessly pursue their own illicit affairs while their daughter delves deeper into her own sexual experimentation. When the school principal makes the Barkers aware that their daughter is cutting classes, they purchase a partial clue and try to help their daughter.
Marie Baker is a young and naive teenager who drifts through bordom of a meaningless existence of going to school, arriving home and listening to records. Taking the advice of a girlfriend, Marie goes on a date with a boy from school, hoping to expand her horizons. Marie comes home late from her date to find her parents violently having sex after hearing the noises coming from their bedroom.Marie relays the information to her cousin, Phillip, who becomes aroused by this candor talk, and as a result, the two of them begin a sexual relationship behind her parents backs. One day, Marie returns from another one of her adventures with Phillip and finds her mother in bed with a strange man. As the stranger is about to leave, Marie invites him into her bedroom and seduces him. Her mother in the next room hears the sounds of passion and is shocked to find the two of them in bed together.Meanwhile, Marie's father is revealed to be having an adultrous affair of his own with his secretary whom he keeps company with during lunch hours. When he arrives home, his wife tells him about Marie and her boyfriend, and the two of them confront the ever-increasing beligerient teenager. But undaunted by this intervention, Marie recklessly continues to have sexual relations with other men that she meets.But later, Marie finds out that she's pregnant and decides to get an abortion. But having become physically sick from the illegal proceeder, is when her mother finds her and takes her to a hospital for recovery. There, Marie attempts to seduce an orderly whom refuses her advances and she practically forces herself onto him and she has to be restrained. Her parents learn what happened form the hospital chief of staff and as a result, Marie is placed in an asylum for treatment for her nymphomania.
