An upper class drawing room. A gentleman breaks the curtain pole and goes in search of a replacement, but he stops into a pub first. He buys a very long pole, and causes havoc everywhere he passes, accumulating an ever-growing entourage chasing him, until he escapes them through a bit of movie magic, only to discover that the pole has already been replaced.
At the Edwards' home there is to be a house party, and unfortunately Mr. E. has an attack of gout which incapacitates him so as to throw the burden of the arrangements on the women folks. Everything is in readiness when the guests begin to arrive except the hanging of a pair of portieres, which Monsieur Du Pont, an ingratiating Frenchman, insists upon doing. In the attempt the chair slips and he falls, breaking the pole. He, of course, insists upon procuring a new pole, but Edwards tries to persuade him not to, but he says: "Oui! Oui! I bring you ze one grand pole, if I have to get ze North Pole." Away he goes, and is but a short distance when he meets a friend, who invites him to sip a couple of absinthe frappes, after which he is more intensely charged with the phlogistic determination to get that pole. Arriving at the store, a pole is selected, but not remembering the width of the door, he takes the whole length, 18 or 20 feet. Back he starts, Gee, Whiz! the limit! The absinthe vapors arising to his brain make him a bit wobbly, and the pole in his hands becomes an instrument of destruction. After a series of indescribable incidents he enlists the services of a cab, the driver of which is extremely boozy. Away goes this Pegasus, driven by a crapulous Eos, with a wild, vertiginous Frenchman as fare, holding the devastating pole across his lap with 5 feet protruding from each side, mowing down everything within its reach, lampposts, fruit stands, market stalls, carriages, etc., all fall, until at last the home of Edwards is reached, where in the meantime a pole has been placed in position and the Frenchman forgotten. He is a wreck as he enters with the pole, and no one pays the slightest attention to him, which makes him furious. "Sacrebleu! Zis is ze ingratitude!" And in a rage he bites the pole in two.

