A nerdy outcast secretly pays the most popular girl in school one thousand dollars to be his girlfriend.
Ronald Miller is tired of being a nerd, and makes a deal with one of the most popular girls in school to help him break into the "cool" clique. He offers her a thousand dollars to pretend to be his girlfriend for a month. It succeeds, but he soon learns that the price of popularity may be higher than he expected.
Ronald Miller runs in the geek crowd. Although his best friend Kenneth Wurman embraces their geek status, Ronald wants to be popular, especially on the eve of their senior year at high school, which he sees as the most pivotal period in their social lives. Although he wants to be friends with all the cool kids, he especially pines after head cheerleader Cindy Mancini. He and Cindy and many of the kids have known each other since they were children, when they were all friends, but high school changed the social circles in which they traveled. Ronald seizes upon what he sees as an opportunity when he sees Cindy in a financial bind (at least in her own mind). He offers her a proposition: he will get her out of that $1,000 bind - money he worked all summer for to buy a telescope - as "rent" for her services as a girlfriend for one month, so that he can infiltrate the "in" crowd at their school. Regardless of the facts that she doesn't think the ploy will work and finds the thought of hanging out with him abhorrent, she reluctantly agrees. Through the process, both Ronald and Cindy will truly evaluate their past lives and to where they thought they were going, that future for Cindy which included waiting for her football playing boyfriend Bobby, who is away at college.
To try and get out of his nerdy set, Ronald offers Cindy, cheerleader and school's most popular girl, a deal. She urgently needs $1,000 which he will let her have if she dates him for a month. Being desperate she grudgingly accepts, and soon starts to actually like him. But she finds his plan of becoming number one guy has worked and he has other fish to fry.
Ronald Miller has had a crush on the beautiful Cindy Mancini for years - who doesn't even know his name. Cindy's idea of a Saturday night includes parties while Ronald's is poker games. In addition, Cindy is dating the former football star turned college pro - who has been giving her the cold shoulder. Cindy finds herself in a desperate situation when she borrows her mother's $1000 suede dress, without permission, and ruins it. The only person who has the money to replace the dress, without her mother finding out, is Ronald. However, Ronald tells her that the only condition for him giving her the money is if she poses as his girlfriend for a month. As the month passes, she begins to show an interest in Ronald. But he is so consumed with popularity, he is blind to her feelings. In addition, he also begins to join in with his new "friends" in taunting his old friends. Can Ronald find his way before he loses Cindy and everyone he cares about?

