When his brother dies under mysterious circumstances in a car accident, London gangster Jack Carter travels to Newcastle to investigate.
A vicious London gangster, Jack Carter, travels to Newcastle for his brother's funeral. He begins to suspect that his brother's death was not an accident and sets out to follow a complex trail of lies, deceit, cover-ups and backhanders through Newcastle's underworld, leading, he hopes, to the man who ordered his brother killed. Because of his ruthlessness, Carter exhibits all the unstopability of the cyborg in The Terminator (1984), or Walker in Point Blank (1967), and he and the other characters in this movie are prone to sudden, brutal acts of violence.
Jack Carter (Sir Michael Caine), a vindictive and amoral London gangster, returns to his home town of Newcastle after his brother dies in a car accident. Carter, however, is convinced that he was murdered, and begins an investigation into Newcastle's criminal underworld. When Carter is ordered to leave town by the minions of a shadowy mob boss, his suspicious become confirmed, and he begins his brutal vengeance.
London mobster Jack Carter returns to his home turf in Newcastle to attend his brother Frank's funeral. His bosses in London aren't too keen on the trip fearing that Carter may cause trouble with local mobsters there. Carter doesn't believe for one minute that his brother died accidentally and is certain it was murder. He does his best to avoid the two London mobsters who've been sent to bring him back. Cyrill Kinnear points him in the direction of Cliff Brumby but Brumby claims that Kinnear is responsible for Frank's death but doesn't know why. It all falls into place when Carter recognizes a woman in a porn movie.
Jack Carter, an brutal and violent London gangster, returns to his hometown in Newcastle. When he arrives at his brother's house, he soon finds out that he's dead. The people who are friends of Carter speculated that his brother died in a car accident. But, Carter doesn't buy this story. Instead, he goes out of his way to avenge the person who is responsible for his brother's death. As Carter's investigation leads him to the underworld of Newcastle, he soon comes across secrets that he doesn't even knows, which are considered sometimes shocking, and comes across evidence including a porn movie.
Michael Caine is Jack Carter, a small-time hood working in London for the Fletcher brothers when word reaches him of his brothers death in Newcastle under suspicious circumstances, so Carter leaves London for his home city of Newcastle to arrange his brother's funeral. While preparing for the burial, he becomes obsessed with learning who murdered his sibling and why. Refusing to accept the police report of suicide, Carter seeks out his brother's friends and acquaintances, Carter tries to question them but finds a wall of stony silence from the local underworld. Operating on a hunch, he follows sleazy chauffeur Eric (Ian Hendry) to local crime lord Kinnear's (John Osbourne) home and is surprised to find himself more than welcome. Before he leaves, Carter is warned to return to London before he causes any trouble. He ignores the warning, and soon attempts are made on his life. After a narrow escape, he is rescued by Kinnear's girlfriend, Glenda (Geraldine Moffatt), and she takes him to her place. The pair make love, and, afterwards, while Glenda is out of the room, Carter discovers a porno film starring, among others, his brother's young daughter. Carter then sets out on a path of vengeance against those implicated in his brothers death and the film ensues towards its downcast ending.
