Straight shooting Lemonade Joe cleans up Stetson City, in this musical parody of early Westerns, after shooting the pants off villain Old Pistol. Joe's endorsement of Kolaloka (Crazy Cola) lemonade as the refresher that assures deadly aim, convinces the Arizona sin-town to abstain from alcohol. Based on the 1963 Czech stage production. But Trigger Whiskey maker Duke Badman's brother the devious gunslinger Hogofogo, comes to save his sibling's saloon from Joe's allies, father and daughter temperance revivalists, the Goodmans.
Trigger Whiskey Saloon is the main center of a social life in a Stetson City. Sexy dark-haired singer Tornado Lou is a star of the saloon. Its owner Doug Badman loves her, but she keeps to turn him down. After one of her songs there appears an unpleasant distraction. Colonel Ezra Goodman with his daughter Winnifred came in and they started to advertise the benefits of prohibition. Winnie pours out a Grimpo's glass of whiskey and the gunman goes wild. He sinks his teeth into her father's violin and then grabs the girl. In this moment a Lemonade Joe appears. He scares the gunman off, saves the girl and then asks for a glass of a Kola Loka (i.e. Gulp Cola) lemonade. Both Winnie and Lou fall in love with him immediately. Doug Badman has to admit that he has no lemonade in his store.
Ezra Goodman makes the best use of the new hero and starts to sell the Kola Loka lemonade. The public influenced by the Joe's mastery with gun moves gradually from Trigger Whiskey Saloon to Ezra's prohibition restaurant. Naive Winnie decided to make Joe her fiancee and presses in this direction on all occasions. His resistance is futile. Tornado Lou finds that she has no chances and her love turns to hate. When Joe leaves on business, all is set for a happy end. Then Horace Hogofogo comes. He is shocked by the state of the Trigger Whiskey Saloon and promises to help his brother Doug Badman in this mess. He goes to the prohibition saloon, shoots the sheriff right in public and then asks for a glass of whiskey. Ezra refuses and Horace with a wicked smile leaves the saloon. The guns start to return to Trigger Whiskey Saloon. When Joe comes back again he finds the Ezra's bar in ruins. He challenges Horace and wins. But he doesn't want to take his life, instead he asks for support in advertising the Kola Loka lemonade. Horace sprinkles alcohol in Joe's face and the hero loses consciousness. Horace escapes and plans revenge. He tricks and kidnaps Winnie and sets a trap in a near Death Valley. Grimpo and two other killers wait there for Joe. Tornado Lou comes there too, as she wants to see him dying. In a critical moment she finds that her love is still too strong. She kills the three bandits and sets Joe and Winnie free.
Winnie on her mother's grave opens her heart and reveals the rosy future plans. But on the cemetery there is Horace too. He is going to rape her right there on a sacred field. Tornado Lou, who came with her, tries to defend Winnie, so Horace kills the singer. Desperate Doug Badman kills Horace. When dying, they discover that Horace, Doug, Lou and even Joe are siblings. Joe first makes sure that Winnie is alive and in no case related to him. Then he revives all present by a few drops of a Kola Loka lemonade. The again united relatives decide to release a new alcoholic lemonade WHIS KOLA and use their talents to a joint family profit.
