A rebellious, hard-living factory worker juggles relationships with two women, one of whom is married to another man but pregnant with his child.
Arthur, one of Britain's angry young men of the 1960s, is a hardworking factory worker who slaves all week at his mindless job for his modest wages. Come Saturday night, he's off to the pub for a loud and rowdy beer session. With him is Brenda, his girlfriend of the moment. Married to a fellow worker, she is nonetheless captivated by his rugged good looks and his devil-may-care attitude. Soon a new love interest Doreen enters and a week later, Brenda announces she's pregnant. She tells Arthur she needs money for an abortion, and Arthur promises to pay for it. By this time, his relationship with Doreen has ripened and Brenda, hearing of it, confronts him. He denies everything, but it's obvious that their affair is all but over.
Early twenty-something Arthur Seaton was born into a working class family in Nottingham, England, and seems destined to remain in that working class life. He doesn't much like that life, from his dead end factory job to having to abide by those in authority. He doesn't much respect either his boss or his parents, into whose "dead from the neck up" lifestyle as he calls it he is determined not to fall. As someone tells him, he doesn't seem to know the difference between right and wrong, or at least he doesn't care. To dull the pain of his life, he spends his time boozing on Saturday nights, and having an affair with the more mature Brenda, a mother and wife married to his friend and co-worker, Jack. Arthur and Brenda are able to carry on since Jack works evenings. Arthur then falls into an innocent courtship with Doreen Gratton, which lends an air of respectability into his life. Doreen is slow to let Arthur into her life in a romantic sense. In juggling his time between Brenda and Doreen and having to deal with a few issues concerning his relationship with Brenda, Arthur may unwittingly find whether he is indeed headed toward that same life from which he is so trying to hide.
Arthur Seaton works in his dull job as a machinist all week and on the weekend he likes to go out and get drunk. He's been carrying on a love affair with the married Brenda, whose husband Jack - who works with Arthur - oblivious to what is going on. After he meets Doreen Gratton in the pub his interests towards Brenda begin to change. Brenda throws him for a loop when she tells him she's pregnant. She's terrified that her husband will find out and Arthur pays a price when he gets a severe beating. Meanwhile he is getting serious about Doreen and decides maybe it's time to settle down.

