As two couples are visiting Niagara Falls, tensions between one wife and her husband reach the level of murder.
George and Rose Loomis are honeymooning at a Niagara Falls motel. She plots with Ted Patrick to do him in, but all does not go smoothly. For one thing, after Loomis is reported missing Polly Cutler spies him at the motel but her husband Bud thinks she's imagining it. Marilyn sings "Kiss."
A honeymooning couple, Polly and Ray Cutler, check in at a holiday resort overlooking Niagara Falls. Their neighbours are George and Rose Loomis. He's much older than her and seems to be a bit unstable. She's stunningly beautiful and appears to be having an affair. Then George Loomis is found dead, drowned, and things start to get complicated.
Rose and George Loomis are vacationing in a bungalow at Niagara Falls. Their relationship is getting worse and worse. They met the Cuttlers, spending a late honeymoon in the next bungalow. By accident, Polly Cuttler discovers that Rose has a lover. But what she is not aware of is that Rose and her lover intend to attract George in the falls to murder him...
Married couple George and Rose Loomis are vacationing in Niagara Falls. George, a Korean War veteran, is slowly unraveling. He thinks he's going insane purely from his time in the war. What he doesn't know is that Rose, with her lover Patrick, is trying to drive him crazy ultimately in an attempt to murder him. Polly Cutler, in Niagara Falls with her husband Ray on their honeymoon, becomes the unfortunate bystander who gets caught up in the intrigue between the Loomises.
Polly and Ray Cutler finally get to go on their long delayed honeymoon - they've been married three years - and arrive in Niagara Falls to find that the Loomises - Rose and George - are still in what is supposed to be in their cabin. Rose Loomis is a sultry blond who catches the eye of every man around. Husband George is older and keeps to himself a great deal. The Cutlers take a different cabin but when they go off to visit the falls, Polly sees Rose passionately kissing another man. Rose and her lover are out to kill George and run off together, but things don't quite as planned and Polly soon finds herself kidnapped and in a boat racing to the edge of the Falls.
Ray and Polly Cutler are on a delayed honeymoon at Niagara Falls and find their reserved cabin occupied by George and Rose Loomis.The Loomis's have a troubled marriage as George is a jealous type.While touring the falls Polly sees Rose passionately kissing a man, Patrick. Following that the Cutlers witness George's rage.George does not know that Rose is planning his murder and lures him into a tunnel underneath the Falls. There Patrick has planned to kill him.Rose mistakenly concludes that George is dead but in fact, George has killed Patrick and thrown his body into the falls.The police believe that George is the victim and when the body is retrieved and the police bring Rose to identify George's body she collapses and is admitted to a hospital.After that George comes to kill Rose in revenge but finds Polly instead and wakes to see him before he runs away. Polly tells the police who go in search of George.Rose leaves the hospital intending to return to America but finds George waiting for her. George catches her and strangles her.The Cutlers go fishing with friends in a launch on a section of the Niagara River above the Falls. When the launch is moored to allow the party to go shopping, George steals the boat with Polly on board. The police are notified and set out in pursuit. The boat runs out of gas and drifts toward the Falls. George manages to place Polly on a rock before going over the Falls to his death. Polly is rescued by helicopter.
