A night of attempted seduction is recalled from the perspectives of the woman, the man, a lecherous doorman and a psychoanalyst.
While walking in the park with her dog in Castel Fusano, Tina flirts with Gianni, a playboy in a fancy sport car. They schedule a date for that evening, and she wears her most elegant and expensive dress. They go to a night club, where they meet some of Gianni's friends: Duccio, Sergio and Pino. Gianni tries to abuse her, but she manages to escape, returns home and tells her version of the facts to her mother, Sofia who is more worried about how she has torn the expensive and elegant dress than for her daughter. Gianni returns to the restaurant with some suspicious scratches on his forehead, he claims to have conquered the girl who had to leave first. The doorman of Gianni's palace tells a completely different version stating that the two entered at night bringing with them two friends named Giorgio and Esmeralda, finally even a psychoanalyst exposes his version of the facts. But the truth is revealed at the end.
While walking in the park with her dog, Tina Brandt is flirted with by the Gianni Prada, a playboy in a fancy sport car. They schedule a date for that evening, and Tina wears her most elegant and expensive dress. They go to a night club to dance and Tina returns home late. Her mother Sofia sees Tina sneaking in, her dress torn apart, and Tina tells her mother that Gianni tried to rape her. The next morning, Gianni tells a different story to his friend. Later, the doorman tells another version of the story. Last but not the least, the possible truth is disclosed.
John (Brett Halsey) is a young playboy who is driving his silver sports car though Rome when he catches sight of Tina (Daniela Giordano) on the street, so he begins to follow her. She acts disinterested, but he refuses to give up. After finally catching up to her in a nearby park, John asks her out on the date, and she finally agrees.Later that afternoon, John arrives at Tina's apartment to pick her up. He is greeted by her severe, old-fashioned mother (Valeria Sabel) and is warned not to keep Tina out too late. Though John seems disappointed in her assertion that "Tina's a good girl", he takes her out to a swinging nightclub where they have a great time dancing.At 2:00 a.m., Tina arrives back at her apartment and her mother, who waited up for her, is furious for staying out so late. Her anger escalates when she sees that Tina's dress, 'a Paris original', has been badly torn. Tina tells her mother that John attempted to rape her and then recalls the night's events: after leaving the nightclub, John took her back to his large, spacious apartment, where he kept her prisoner and tried to force himself on her. Tina is adamant that she rejected his advances, even going as far as to scratch his forehead in retaliation. She then explains that she managed to escape after locking the sex-mad swinger in his large, ultra-mod bathroom, and then made her escape. Having finished telling the story, Tina's mother wants to phone the police, but Tina stops her by saying: "they'll never believe me."Meanwhile at the nightclub, John arrives at the nearly deserted place for a nightcap where he is noticed by a few friends of his who note some deep scratches on his forehead. Having seen him with Tina earlier, the friends ask him jokes if he "did it" with the girl. John is offended by the suggestion and offers his version of the events. In John's version of the story, it was Tina who came onto HIM in the park, and it was her idea that they go out. John says that he could sense danger from the start after arriving at Tina's apartment and meeting her mother, both of whom vied for his affection. After this farcical incident, he and Tina went to the nightclub as planed. John took her back to his apartment where they engaged in a veritable string of sexual encounters. He finishes the story by explaining that the scratches on his forehead were the result of over-zealous lovemaking on Tina's part, and that she used up so much of his energy that he had to stop for a drink after taking her home.The following morning, the sleazy doorman (Dick Randall) at John's apartment building has his own version of the events of the previous night to share with his friend the milkman (Rainer Basedow). The doorman explains that John is really a homosexual who lures pretty girls to his apartment for the benefit of his lesbian friend Esmeralda (Pascale Petit). Thus, when John retuned from the nightclub with Tina, he phoned Esmeralda, and his gay lover, George (Michael Hinz), and asked them to come over. Once they arrived, John went off with George leaving Tina with Esmeralda, who drugged the girl's drink and tried to take advantage of her. When the doorman, spying on them from the building rooftop, left to tend to the front door of the building, he returned when Tina was waking up. She tried to escape, John attempted to restrain her and ended up having his forehead scratched. The milkman is skeptical to the doorman's claims, but the doorman responds that he saw the whole thing with his own eyes.At this point, a German-speaking psychologist (Calisto Calisti) interrupts the movie to offer the viewers the "true sequence of events" which he gathered from police reports and various other sources. The real explanation he claims is much more innocent: John and Tina were both struck by love at first sight when they first met in the park on that day. After a pleasant first date at the nightclub, they did return to John's apartment for a make-out session. By mutual consent, they decided to wait a while before consummating their romance. But John's efforts to take her home are thwarted when the front gate to his apartment building refuses to open. With the doorman nowhere to be found (he is actually on the building rooftop spying on another couple in the same manner he described), John tried to give Tina a boost over the gate, and she tore her dress by accident on the pike top of the iron gate, and accidentally scratched his forehead when she fell onto him. Knowing full well that nobody will believe such a crazy explanation, they both decided to make up their own stories to tell to whoever might be interested.Which of these four stories is the true one? You decide.
