Suresh Sinha, a famous director, discovers star potential in Shanti, a woman he stumbled into one rainy evening, and casts her as the lead in a film. In a twist of fate, Shanti becomes a superstar and Suresh faces a decline in his career.
A popular director recruits a new actress to work for his Movie. The popularity of the movie spills over to the already strained relationship between the Director and his in-law leading to ban in his access to his own daughter. Due to the emotional turmoils, the director falls from the height, while the actress who is now the queen of industry tries to bring him back into world.
Suresh Sinha, who comes from a poor background, makes it big in the Bombay-based Indian film industry as a Director especially for the movie "Zordar". He meets with Veena Varma, both are attracted to each other and get married. Soon a daughter named Pramila is born. Then Suresh meets with débutante Shanti and falls head over heels in love with her and begins to promote her career. Veena, on the other hand, dislikes the film industry and does not want it to influence Pramila, as a result disagreements arise between her and Suresh, and they decide to separate, with Pramila staying on with her dad. Then things take a turn for the worse when Veena's dad, Rai Bahadur B.P. Varma brings about a legal action against Suresh for custody of Pramila. The Court decides in Varma's favor and Pramila moves in with her mom and grandparents. This devastates and shatters Suresh completely, all the more when he finds out that Shanti has quit the movie industry. He loses focus, unable to concentrate on his career due to heavy alcohol drinking, which ends in his entire estate being auctioned to pay off his debts, and he becomes a homeless drunk. Shanti is compelled by a Court decision to return to acting and to comply with her contract, while Suresh tries for a comeback as an extra in a movie with lead actress being Shanti. The question remains will Suresh make a successful start as an actor, and will Shanti and he start a relationship?
A popular director (Guru Dutt) recruits a new actress (Waheeda Rehman) to work for his Movie. The popularity of the movie spills over to the already strained relationship between the Director and his in-law leading to ban in his access to his own daughter (Baby Naaz). Due to the emotional turmoils, the director falls from the height, while the actress who is now the queen of industry tries to bring him back into world.It tells the story of their interlinked destinies in backdrop of the traditional Indian Values. Love, infatuation, society, cinema, promises and emotional depth that different relation brings out.
