Lowbrow humor is the feature in this 'Porky's for girls'. The students of an elite international private school that teaches rich young women how to behave like proper ladies rebel against their strict, snobbish and brutish head teacher.
A group of female students (consisting of Cindy, a nice American reform school girl from lower class who's part of a pilot program set up to test if girls like her can fit in, Colette, a sheltered but curious sexually repressed nubile virginal German girl, Sonia, a horny and experienced sexually liberated seductress who loves sex anytime anywhere, Lulu Belle, a folksy Texan girl with a 'don't tread on me' attitude, Isabella, a tough Italian girl from a mob family, Pam, a friendly and rebellious leftist upper class English feminist, and Sarah and Hillary, two posh, snobbish and aristocratic mean girls from England) arrives at Von Pupsin Academy, a famous elite international private finishing school in Swiss Alps, where young girls from rich and aristocratic families are taught how to behave like proper ladies and find wealthy husbands. Although the school is owned by the elegant, classy, understanding and romantic Countess Von Pupsin, the head teacher is unfortunately the overweight, brutish, classist and misogynistic Fr채ulein Stinkenschmidt, who demands only three thing from the girls - self-discipline, proper etiquette and complete celibacy, believing that this is the best way for the girls to achieve the only goal all women have in life according to her, which is to find a rich husband and serve him. Fr채ulein also has a personal assistant, a sympathetic effeminate servant named Drago. During a field trip to a neighboring town, the girls meet a group of local boys, but Fr채ulein forbids them to go out with them. However, both the girls and the boys are horny enough to break all the rules and fight for their freedom against Fr채ulein and her allies, the corrupt local police and the school's mean girls. Since everything is fair in love and war, the girls turn to gross out pranks involving excrement, use a sex tape for blackmail, and even take part in a full blown battle involving an actual tank. Although the movie is set in Switzerland, it was filmed in Yugoslavia. Despite the fact that the movie is a sex comedy with plenty of sexual humor, titillation and sexual situations including a subplot about a girl and a boy losing their virginity, it does not actually feature any nudity.

