A young girl requests the help of a vampire hunter to kill the vampire who has bitten her, and thus prevent her from becoming a vampire herself.
It is the distant future, Supernatural creatures are controlling the small civilizations left on Earth. A beautiful young woman, Doris, has been bitten by Count Magnus Lee for trespassing in his domain while hunting for demons threatening her home. Fearing that her life will be controlled by the Count, Doris hires and offers herself to a man known only as "D", a vampire hunter with a dark past, to hunt down and destroy the Count, end his thirst, and save Doris from a life of eternal damnation.
The year is 12,090. Ten thousand years ago, there was a war between
humans and supernatural monsters, and the monsters won. Humans are now
dominated by vampires who keep werewolves and mutants to protect them.
Humans must now battle a variety of monsters that hide in the grass and
slink in the trees. While out hunting one night, human Doris trespasses
into the vampire domain of Count Magnus Lee. As payment for her crime, Lee
"kisses" her and discovers that her blood is the sweetest he's tasted in
ages. Lee decides to marry Doris. Lee's daughter Ramica cannot tolerate
the idea that her father, a descendant of the Ancient One (Count Dracula),
intends to pollute the House of Lee with human blood, and she vows to stop
the marriage.Doris has no desire to become a vampire and has hired a vampire
hunter. Known only as D, he is no ordinary vampire hunter. He's a dampiel
(dhampir), born of a vampire father and a human mother. As a dampiel, he
has special powers that make him stronger than mortal men. He wields a
mighty sword and his left palm has a face that speaks to him, much like a
human conscience. D himself doesn't say much, but he faithfully stays at
Doris's side wherever she goes. Still, Doris and her younger brother Dan
are scared. When they went into town to buy supplies, the mayor's son
Greco, who has the hots for Doris, told the whole town that Doris had been
bitten by a vampire. The town council tried to banish her to a
contamination camp (asylum), but D, along with Dr Felingo, stuck up for
her, and Doris was merely shunned.Tomorrow is the blood/sanguine moon (Moon of Women), a time when no
vampire would dare take the blood of a female, so D thinks that vampires
might come for Doris tonight. And so they do. Ramica and Count Lee's
henchman, the mutant Reiginsei, show up to check out this woman that has
so fascinated the Count. After driving them off, D attempts to see Count
Lee, but he becomes entrapped by three Snake Women of Midwitch, who
capture him and begin sucking out his life energy. Meanwhile, Count Lee
has sent Reiginsei to bring Doris to the castle to prepare for their
wedding. Fortunately, D is eventually able to escape from his captors and
rescue Doris.In order to help Reiginsei kill D, the Count gives him the Incense of
Time Trap, a candle which, when lit, will paralyze anyone with vampire
blood. Reiginsei then kidnaps Dan and, when D turns up to rescue him,
Reiginsei tries to light the candle. But it won't light. Instead of
Reiginsei besting D, D cuts off Reiginsei's hand and saves Dan. Meanwhile,
Dr Felingo has come to take Doris to a special place where she will be
safe from vampires. Along the way, however, Felingo admits to being a
vampire himself. When they run into Ramica, she kills Felingo. Just then,
Greco shows up with the real Incense of Time Trap and uses it to paralyze
Ramica. When Greco attempts to kill Ramica in her helpless condition,
Doris shields Ramica's body. Suddenly, D and Dan come walking up the road.
Dan fires a gun, which causes Greco and the Incense of Time Trap to fall
over a cliff. D releases Ramica unharmed, much to her surprise. Later, as
Doris comes out of the shower, she tries to convince D to run away with
her, but he refuses. When Doris throws her arms around him, D's fangs
erupt, but he fights the urge.When Reiginsei finds out that it was Greco who switched the Incense
of Time Trap with a fake, he finds Greco, kills him, and takes back the
candle. He then takes it to Doris's house and, when D comes out to check
the security wall, he uses it on D. While D is paralyzed, Reiginsei stabs
him in the heart, cuts off his hand, and tosses it in the grass.
Fortunately, it was D's talking hand. It crawls its way back to D,
re-attaches itself, and wakes D up. Meanwhile, Ramica is begging her
father to give up the idea of marrying this girl. Count Lee admits that he
just wants a little pleasure at times during his 10,000 year existence,
the same as he did with Ramica's mother. Yes, Ramica's mother was a human,
which makes Ramica a halfbreed and not the aristocrat she thought she was.
Reiginsei brings Doris back to the castle and, having completed his chore,
asks Lee to make him a vampire. Lee refuses, telling Reiginsei to wait
another 50 years.It is time for the wedding. Doris, entranced, is led by the Count to
the marriage chamber where all the guests are waiting. Dan sneaks into the
castle and tries to stop it, but Lee casts him aside. Not wanting to wait
another 50 years to become a vampire, Reiginsei uses the Incense of Time
Trap on Lee, but Lee is too powerful. Instead, he kills Reiginsei. Just as
the Count is about to bite Doris's neck, D shows up. Lee and D do battle
together, but D eventually stabs Lee through the heart with his sword.
Ramica, believing D to be the son of the Ancient One, decides that the
House of Lee is doomed and that she will go down with it, even though D
offers her a chance to live as a dampiel amongst humans. The castle is
destroyed and sent plummeting into a hole in the ground. With the fall of
the House of Lee, D's work is done and he rides away, while Doris and Dan
wave goodbye. [Original synopsis by bj_kuehl]
