Genius authors Emily and Charlotte Bronte fall in love with their curate as they seek to get their work published.
In Victorian England, literary siblings Emily and Charlotte Bronte vie for the affection of the Reverend Arthur Nichols. Along with their sister Anne, Emily and Charlotte also try to help their tormented brother Branwell, a gifted artist whose life is being destroyed by alcohol.
It's the mid-nineteenth century. Young adult siblings (in chronological order) Charlotte Brontë, Branwell Brontë, Emily Brontë and Anne Brontë live a simple life with their vicar father and Aunt Elizabeth in remote Aldwark, Yorkshire adjacent to the desolate moors. All three sisters are poets and aspiring novelists, while Branwell is an artist, he who is considered the one with the most promise. As such, Charlotte and Anne do whatever they can to ensure that Branwell makes it to the royal academy of art in London to demonstrate his genius to the world, while Emily believes that Branwell is not emotionally ready to leave home. Emily is correct as Branwell's drinking overtakes all else in his life. Of the two older sisters, Charlotte is the more ambitious one who cannot see what is happening around her with much clarity, she who believes she has to see the world to be able to write about it, while Emily is the sullen one, who turns her thoughts more inwardly, is able quietly to see things with keen observation, and takes inspiration from the moors. Charlotte and Emily's lives are deeply affected by their respective relationships with Reverend Arthur Nicholls, the vicarage's latest curate. In large part because of Nicholls, both Emily and Charlotte are able to get their novels "Wuthering Heights" and "Jane Eyre" published, both under male pseudonyms, supposed "brothers" Ellis Bell and Currer Bell. It isn't until Charlotte, who ends up reveling in London due to the success of her novel, meets fellow already famous author William Makepeace Thackeray, whose "Vanity Fair" was published by the same publisher, that she can get a better understanding of Emily, far greater an understanding than she was able to obtain in their years together as sisters.

