Marriage broker Mae Swasey, who somewhat cynically arranges her loser clients' affairs, meets model Kitty Bennett and can't resist meddling in her life, by disentangling her from a married man and fixing her up with a nice radiologist. Of course things go wrong...
Mae Swasey works as a notary, but her primary business is as a matchmaker, the notary sign on her office door to provide some anonymity to her matchmaking clients, some who would be embarrassed to use such a service. As her matchmaking clients are generally the types of people who would not be able to find a partner on their own, she often needs to act the counselor and advisor as well to reach her and her clients' ultimate goal of matrimony. She is providing a freebie to Matt Hornbeck, a radiologist who initially doesn't know what she does or that she is trying to set him up with one of her true clients. After finding out what she was doing and being burned by the experience, Matt decides he would rather be a confirmed bachelor. Meanwhile, by chance, Mae meets Kitty Bennett, a department store model who also doesn't know what Mae does for a living. Mae learns that Kitty has just found out her boyfriend is married. Being a good judge of human character in such situations doing what she does for a living, Mae knows that he will do or say anything to keep Kitty, she the type of girl who probably doesn't have the willpower to say no to him. So Mae takes it upon herself to help Kitty, both by getting rid of the married boyfriend, and setting her up with who she thinks would be Kitty's perfect match, namely confirmed bachelor Matt who may not fall for Mae's scheming the second time around despite the catch being beautiful Kitty. Kitty, too, may view a relationship with Matt differently if she knew she was being manipulated, especially by someone in Mae's profession. Through it all, Mae deep down realizes that she herself is missing out on love, she feeling that it may have passed her by based on her own romantic history.
In a genuine Cukor sleeper, Thelma Ritter is Mae Swasey, the marriage broker. Mae handles affairs of the heart for the "plain Janes" and balding clients, too awkward or shy to find love without a little helpful push. Mae knows all about loneliness, but she also knows that no one "scratching around to keep other people from getting lonely" is ever lonely, herself. When she meets Kit Bennett, a lovely young model young enough to be her daughter, Mae saves her from making the worst type of mistake. Then, Mae introduces Kit to Matt Hornbeck, a handsome x-ray technician... but Kit does not know what Mae does for a living. When Kit does find out, she is horrified. But as Kit soon learns, there is a little marriage broker in everyone... or at least, there should be.

