Three wealthy orphans attempt to defend their ownership of their family's property, but financial and romantic problems set in.
Fiona, Evelyn and Susanna are sisters. Their mother dies on the Lusitania, their father is killed in France, they must manage their Fifth Avenue mansion by themselves. Fiona marries Charles Barclay in order to get an inheritance and he begins a campaign to obtain the mansion to level it for real estate development. She vows that this will never happen.
It's been twenty-three years since the New York City based Gaylord sisters - Fiona, Evelyn and Susanna - were orphaned when Fiona, the oldest, was only eight, with first, their mother, having perished with the sinking of the Lusitania, and then their father killed in battle in France in WWI. Susanna, the innocent - she considering herself stupid - is in love with modern artist Gig Young, one obstacle in they furthering their relationship being that Susanna is already married, her regret four hours after the "I do's" and thus the marriage unconsummated has not led to her husband granting her an annulment. Middle sister Evelyn, now Lady Burton, is the impulsive, selfish one, who always gets what she wants, she now wanting Gig as her relationship with RAF pilot Lord Burton is a rebound one, he who she no longer loves despite liking the prestige that comes along with the title. Fiona is the strong, focused one, some who see her determination as being heartless. Even with Fiona being only eight at the time, their father, before he left for war, drilled into her the Gaylord traditions, including never to sell the property on which their house sits, it which now belongs to Fiona outright in being deeded to her from her grandmother. Evelyn has returned from England as the sisters are in court for the latest round in their father's still non-probated will, which has the three as the sole heirs. As a result, Fiona has had to scramble for money for the three of them to live over those years and to be able to pay their legal bills. Core to the issue is that a subsequent will was processed in France, the only difference between that will and the will he wrote prior to leaving for war being that ten percent has been set aside to a charity, a settlement house. While the sisters have long never quibbled about that ten percent, the current twist is that a man named Charles Barclay has taken over the charity, he, according to Fiona, who wants to keep this issue in the courts to drain the Gaylords' financial resources so that Fiona would have no choice but to sell the house, which he wants to buy to develop the property. While Susanna wants the matter settled so that she and Gig can get married before Evelyn gets her claws into him, Fiona will do anything to thwart Barclay's plans, there seemingly something bigger at play between the two in their animosity for each other.

