A letter is addressed to three wives from their "best friend" Addie Ross, announcing that she is running away with one of their husbands - but she does not say which one.
Lora May Hollingsway, who grew up next to the wrong side of the tracks, married her boss who thinks she is just a gold digger. Rita Phipps makes as much money writing radio scripts at night as her school teacher husband does. Deborah Bishop looked great in a Navy uniform in WWII but fears she'll never be dressed just right for the Country Club set. These three wives are boarding a boat filled with children going on a picnic when a messenger on a bicycle hands them a letter addressed to all three from Addie who has just left town with one of their husbands. They won't know which one until that night.
In a small town, three couples are close friends: the upper class Brad Bishop went to the war and returned married with the insecure country girl and Navy military Deborah Bishop; the university professor George Phipps is married with the writer of silly screenplays of radio soap operas Rita Phipps, who makes more money than him and financially supports their home; and the wealthy tradesman Porter Hollingsway is married with the smart Lora Mae Hollingsway. In common, further to their friendship, the women hate and the men love the elegant and high-class Addie Ross. While going to a picnic in riverboat with the local students, the three wives receive a letter of their "friend" Addie Ross informing that she is running off with one of their husbands. Along the day, each woman recalls events that might have put her marriage in danger, while anxiously waiting for the end of the day.
Deborah Bishop, Lora Mae Hollingsway and Rita Phipps are three friends who all receive letters from another friend, Addie Ross, telling them that she is about to leave town with one of their husbands. Deborah, Lora Mae and Rita have to find out which of their spouses, Brad, Porter and George respectively, have been unfaithful.
It's the first weekend in May, which means the first country club dinner and dance of the season is taking place this evening. Before attending the dance, friends Deborah Bishop, Rita Phipps and Lora Mae Hollingsway are acting as chaperon's at the children's annual picnic. The one of their "friends" who doesn't show up at the picnic is Addie Ross, who pervades their social set and their discussion when she isn't around. Just before embarking on the boat ride to the island where the picnic will be held, the three friends receive a joint letter from Addie, who states not only that she has left town for good, but that but she has run off with one of their husbands. None of the three women wants to seem concerned in making no immediate effort to discover if what Addie said is either true or if it her husband with who she has run off. During the course of the picnic, each woman also does not only reflect on the events of the morning which makes it very possible that it could be her husband, but the course of her less than perfect marriage. Deborah, who met her husband Brad Bishop when he was in the navy during the war, is the unsophisticated country girl outsider whose insecurities always make her feel like she is neither good enough for Brad or for his friends. Rita, married to English teacher George Phipps, has started working, writing for a radio program. In what she sees as the absence of George's ambition, he content in his teaching job and its accompanying low wages, she has focused on doing whatever to show her snobbish employer that she and George are upwardly mobile, George being sacrificed in the process. And Lora Mae, who grew up literally and figuratively on the wrong side of the tracks, is married to wealthy but rough around the edges and older store owner Porter Hollingsway. Their relationship has always been characterized by manipulation, mostly on Lora Mae's part, to get what each wants. Love may or may not be a part of their marriage as neither has said the word to the other. As afternoon turns into dusk and each woman goes home, she may find out her fate with regard to Addie's letter.
The elegant, accomplished Addie Ross has left town for good. Her parting gesture, delivered to her three "best" friends as they left for a day trip, was a letter informing the women that she had absconded with one of their husbands --- which husband, she doesn't say. So each of the three wives spends the day reminissing about the ups and (mostly) downs of her marriage -- wondering if hers is the husband who has flown the coop.

