The Crown Prince is to marry the Princess Brenda of Irania, but the Princess declines the arranged marriage. Relieved, Florizel heads for London, with the Colonel, where he seeks adventure and a good time. Talking with a stranger, he learns that there is a private club called the Suicide Club. Taking this to be a ruse or a trick, he joins in and sees a mysterious Lady that he has meet once before on his way to London. He will find that this club may not be a ruse and that the cold dark stare of this Lady might cost him dearly.
The Crown Prince Florizel of Corovia is more interested in frivolous activities, often with the opposite sex, adventure and extravagance than any real royal duties, even in these difficult times when anarchists are trying to overthrow the kingdom and turn it into a republic. In such threats, there have even been attempts on his life. Despite these difficulties, Florizel is not disappointed in learning that Princess Brenda of Irania has declined entering into an arranged marriage with him, she who he has not seen since they were children (his memories of her not pleasant ones), and the marriage which was supposed to strengthen both their kingdoms, in such royal duties, from these threats. With Colonel Geraldine, a long time servant of Corovia, in tow as chaperon to protect him and prevent any scandal from his regular type of activities, the King sends Florizel to London incognito (as Mr. Godall) for a month to contemplate his future as king while negotiations with Irania continue and are expected to be completed by the time of their return. Still focusing on his frivolous life despite the King's want, Florizel, in coming to her rescue, falls under the spell of a mysterious woman he meets on board the sailing to England. He ends up losing track of her upon arriving in London despite his want to get to know her better, but by happenstance runs into her - learning her name to be Miss Vandeleur - at a private club, his attendance there in that search for adventure seeing as to the club's rather unusual reason for being. As he learns Miss Vandeleur's reason for being in London, he may run into the unknown threat to his life in the process.

