A friendly visitor from outer space warns against conducting experiments with the Earth's magnetic field, that could mutate insects into giant monsters.
At a small, rural British lab, monomaniac Dr. Laird and his staff create ultra-intense magnetic fields. Inexplicably, the apparatus seems to be affecting distant objects, and to be drawing "extra power" from...somewhere. One night, after a "freak" storm, strange and deadly things start happening in Bryerly Woods, and a strange man from "a long way off" appears in the district...concerned about Laird's pulling down disaster from the skies.
In a small English village, Dr. Laird and his assistants Gil Graham and Michele Dupont are conducting experiments with magnetic fields. The results may have military applications as his equipment can rearrange molecules to make solid metal brittle or stiff metal pliable. Gil notices that the magnetic and affecting the village but Baird won't stop his tests. A mysterious stranger, known simply as Mr. Smith, assists them in solving several mysteries, including a series of attacks in a public park. Their greatest challenge is the sudden appearance of giant insects, bugs that have mutated as a result of the experiments.
The movie opens in a laboratory in Britain with narration, "Since the world began, even inventive man has constantly pushed forward into the unknown. One by one the frontiers of science have fallen before him: the science of speed, travel, radio. Now he stands on the threshold of a new age. A terrifying age." Titles and credits are shown over a star field background.Gil Graham (Forrest Tucker) is assisting Dr. Laird (Alec Mango) with an experiment. They fire up their machine. The computer operator, Singers (uncredited) gets too close to a piece of electrical equipment and is electrocuted, but later we are told he was not killed. Brigadier Cartwright (Wyndham Goldie) pays a visit to the Deputy Controller, Gerald Wilson (Geoffrey Chater), regarding Dr. Laird's experiments. Cartwright wants the project terminated, but Wilson argues that the project is pure research and may have military potential. The project involves strong magnetic fields and has shown some results with metallic alloys. Wilson hands Cartwright two pieces of metal, new aircraft alloys, and tells him to take them to Dr. Laird. Dr. Laird escorts Cartwright into the lab and introduces his Canadian colleague, Gil Graham. Cartwright tells Laird his new computer operator, a replacement for Singers, is a woman. This both surprises and annoys Dr. Laird and Gil. Laird shows Cartwright two pieces of metal, both copper, but one has the characteristics of spring steel. As Gil is exiting the lab he encounters Michele Dupont (Gaby Andre), their new computer operator, and she is nothing like he expected. He is surprised, and pleasantly so. Cartwright asks Gil about the molecular alteration of metal the machine has produced. He wants to know about the military application. Gil explains that their research may allow them to destroy enemy aircraft by altering the structure of the metal via magnetism. Cartwright gives Gil the metal sample. Laird is happy that Michele has grasped the concept of the machinery and has proposed a solution to a problem. They plan an experiment that evening. Laird and Cartwright head down to the lab. Cartwright was warned to leave his watch behind, as the strong magnetic field would damage it. The equipment is prepared. Laird places a sample of the aircraft alloy in the chamber and they start the magnetic field generator. Gil notices Cartwright's briefcase, hung on a hook on the lab wall, start to move. He responds instantly to shut down the power and move Michele just before the briefcase flies across the room striking a piece of equipment. A severe electrical storm causes damage in town and burns a hobo encamped in the nearby woods. Cartwright takes the blame, explaining he left his keys in his bag. He forgot about the other metal sample he was carrying. Dr. Laird takes the sample out of the chamber. He hands it to Cartwright. The metal has been altered, and crumbles in his hands.A couple in the woods see something in the sky followed by an explosion on the ground nearby. The next day Cartwright and Wilson meet in Wilson's office after a committee meeting. Cartwright carefully explains to Wilson that a second sample, that remained in his briefcase in the lab, suffered the same molecular transformation as the one bombarded in the chamber. A piece of antenna thirty feet away from the lab was also altered. He joyfully exclaims, "Action at a distance, the military's dream."Gil meets with Michele the next morning. He asks about an anomaly--the power was shut off, yet the circuits continued to operate. They decide to check the recording of the experiment. Laird is eavesdropping and sees Gil replace the notes back into the file drawer. Because of this new development, Wilson calls in a security officer, Jimmy Murray (Hugh Latimer). The project will get a new and tighter level of security and the goal of the project is to develop the force to be directional. Unfortunately they are all unaware of the consequences of the experiment, and Dr. Laird's increasing madness and paranoia.A young girl is wandering around the woods near the village looking for bugs. Her name is Jane Hale (Susan Redway) and she finds and helps a gentleman named Smith (Martin Benson) find his way to Dr. Laird's house. Gil, still alarmed by the anomaly, explains to Wilson that the machine continued to operate after the power was cut. He is also concerned that the machine is generating a field much larger than the power used. When Gil goes to retrieve the notes on the experiment he finds them missing. The new school teacher, Helen Forsyth (Patricia Sinclair) arrives at the bus stop. She reads the headlines in the local newspaper. It states, "Has Britain Been Invaded: More Flying Saucer Reports." The hobo who got burned in the woods attacks her, but Jimmy Murray comes along in his car just in time to save her. He takes her to the local police station to report the crime. While Helen is giving her statement, Jimmy talks to Inspector Burns (Richard Warner). Burns asks Jimmy if Dr. Laird is using any radioactive materials, and is told no. He collects Helen and they drive to the pub where Jimmy was supposed to meet with Gil, Michele and Wilson. Gil and Michele are developing a romance, but Wilson is still in the picture. Smith walks into the pub and orders a drink, but is unimpressed with the taste of the libation. Jimmy finally arrives and tells of the maniac in the woods. A woman is attacked and killed by the hobo with the burn on his face. There is a band playing upstairs and feedback from the microphone and speakers leads Gil to conclude the same phenomena is what is responsible for the problem with their experiment. Gil is in a hurry to return to the lab to talk to Dr. Laird about his theory. Laird dismisses Gil's concern, telling him he formulated the same theory a week before. He tells Gil, "We've accidently stumbled upon the secret of producing an enormously more powerful magnetic field then we had ever hoped for. We've saved ourselves years of work, and you want to throw those years away?" Gil cautions his boss about any further experiments until they fully understand the consequences.A man finds his girlfriend, Gillian Betts (an uncredited Catherine Lancaster) dead in the woods. He discovers another body as he flees. A giant insect attacks and kills him. At the pub, Michele explains to Wilson that she is in love with Gil. The police arrive at the pub and report that Gillian Betts was found dead and a maniac is in the nearby woods. Wilson and Michele offer to take Smith with them to the lab. Smith volunteers he knows something of the work at the lab. He asks to meet with them the next day. Jimmy, the security officer, is concerned about the security at the lab and wants to meet with Gil and Michele before they meet with Smith.Jimmy drives back into the village and sees Jane and Helen. Helen is lodging at the Hale home, so Jane offers to escort her to the school. Helen wants to prepare her classroom for the start of the new school year. Smith meets with Gil and Michele at the pub. He expresses interest in magnetic field research. He volunteers he knows that the recent experiment caused atmospheric disturbances. Gil notes that he is well informed. Smith warns Gil of the danger of disturbing the Earth's magnetic field and the dangers of cosmic rays. He further explains that the radiation exposure, while small and localized, could have profound effects on humans and insects. For people, madness and murder, and for insects, abnormalities in size.Jane is out in the woods searching for bugs. She finds a giant insect egg and carries it back to the school looking for Helen. She ultimately takes it home with her. The woods are teeming with large insects of all types. At the pub, Gil suggests that Smith accompany him to the authorities to report on the dangers. Smith refuses, and wishes Gil and Michele success in their efforts and leaves the pub. Michele walks back to Dr. Laird's house. Along the way she encounters Jane's mother, Mrs. Hale (Hilda Fennemore) holding a large egg shaped object. Michele advises her to boil the egg to destroy it. Mrs. Hale tells her about Helen Forsyth being alone at the school.At the local police station, Burns meets with Jimmy, Gil and Cartwright. It is agreed that Dr. Laird will not be allowed to conduct any further experiments. A report of a man killed and drained of blood confirms Smith's warning of insects being affected by cosmic rays. Cartwright orders a military action in the woods. At the village school, Helen finishes up and prepares to walk back to the Hale home. Giant insects menace her as she attempts to leave. She is trapped in her classroom. Jimmy learns of her predicament and drives to her rescue. Michele also walks towards the school, but Helen warns her away as she approaches. Michele gets snared in a giant spider web. The insects start to push their way into the classroom when the military arrives and begins firing. Helen is saved and tells Jimmy that Michele is in the woods. Gil and Smith rescue her just before a spider attacks. Smith dispatches it with a device he has in his pocket. They free her from the web. The Army unit combs the woods killing the insects, but one soldier is attacked and killed leaving a portion of his face gnawed off.Dr. Laird, now completely mad, argues with Wilson. He pulls a gun on Wilson and threatens him with it. As the Army completes their mission in the woods, Wilson struggles walking upstairs to a telephone. Laird locks himself in his lab and begins another experiment. Smith and Gil explain to Jimmy that Smith is the man from Planet X. Wilson phones Cartwright and explains that Laird has gone mad, shot him, and needs he needs help. Smith further explains his mission and that the magnetic experiments caused one of their spacecraft to crash. Smith, Gil, Michele, Jimmy, and Cartwright go to the lab. They ask Smith to help. He is reluctant to get personally involved, but finally agrees. He waits for Laird to fire up the machine. He summons his spacecraft and positions it over the lab. The lab is destroyed by a ray from the craft. Smith bids Gil and Michele goodbye and walks back to his ship. We close with a shot of the evening skyline and Smith's craft, now just an oval of light, ascending into the sky.
