When an archeologist uncovers a strange skull in foreign land, the residents of a nearby town begin to disappear, leading to further unexplainable occurrences.
Scottish archaeologist Angus Flint discovers an odd skull amid the ruins of a convent that he is excavating. Shortly thereafter, Lady Sylvia Marsh returns to Temple House, a nearby mansion, far earlier than expected. At a party in the village, Angus meets Lord James D'Ampton, who has just inherited his family's land right next to Temple House. Angus learns of the D'Ampton Worm, a huge dragon-snake that an earlier D'Ampton killed by cutting it in half. (There's a pretty catchy rock-folk song that tells the D'Ampton Worm legend.) As people begin disappearing and acting strangely over the next few days, the skull is stolen from Angus's room, and the watch of a missing person is found in a cavern that was the legendary home of the D'Ampton worm. Angus and James discover that there was an ancient cult that worshiped the worm as a god, and they theorize that the creature somehow survived its destruction, but it was trapped inside the cavern. The remainder of the movie shows Angus, James, and Mary Trent attempting to stop Lady Marsh from freeing the creature....
Angus Flint [Peter Calfoldi] is an archeologist come to dig at the Bed &amp; Breakfast inn run by the Trent sisters, Mary [Sammi Davis] and Eve [Catherine Oxenberg. Flint discovers some Roman coins and a strange skull, and he learns the local legend of how the D'Ampton family slew the white "worm", actually a snake or dragon. Legend also has it that the lair of the white worm is in Stonerigg Cavern, where the watch of the Trent sisters' father shows up a year after both he and wife disappeared near the Temple Mansion. When Lady Sylvia Marsh [Amanda Donohue] moves into the Mansion, people begin to disappear. Agnus, Mary, Eve, and their friend Lord James d'Ampton [Hugh Grant] search the canyon; Sylvia abducts Eve and prepares to sacrifice her to the worm, whom she calls the God Dionin. Angus and Mary save Eve and sacrifice Lady Sylvia instead. Unfortunately, Angus was bitten by Sylvia and the antidote he took turns out to be for arthritis.
