A Martian princess and a doctor replace the women on Mars, destroyed by atomic war, by raiding Puerto Rico while a shot down android terrorizes all.
When an atomic war on Mars destroys the planet's women, it's up to Martian Princess Marcuzan and her right-hand man Dr. Nadir to travel to earth and kidnap women for new breeding stock. Landing in Puerto Rico, they shoot down a NASA space capsule manned by an android. With his electronic brain damaged, the android terrorizes the island while the Martians raid beaches and pool parties.
A group of aliens from another planet that has been ravaged by nuclear war lead by their ruler Princess Marcuzan and her aid Dr. Nadir destroy several space probes thinking they are missiles sent to destroy them. The next rocket they destroy contains a very human looking android named Frank Saunders and designed by Dr. Adam Steele heading for Mars. Frank's damaged capsule winds up landing in Puerto Rico, but he is followed by the forces of Princess Marcuzan and is severely damaged by them causing him to go on a murderous rampage throughout the island. Steele and his assistant/girlfriend Karen Grant then head for the island to try to repair their creation, but as they arrive on the island, Princess Marcuzan and Nadir launch their main plan, to kidnap as many Earth women as they can so that they can mate with the males of their planet to help re-populate it. Eventually Karen is captured and it is up to Adam and Frank to help save her and the other women who have been kidnapped.
In outer space, a Martian spacecraft commanded by Princess Marcuzan and her assistant Dr. Nadir is traveling to Earth to abduct women to breed a new race, since an atomic war has annihilated Martian women. Meanwhile in NASA, Dr. Adam Steele, his assistant Karen Grant and General Bowers are in a press conference presenting the astronaut Colonel Frank Saunders, who will participate of an extended space travel on the next morning. However they do not disclose to the press that Colonel Saunders is an android developed by the scientists. The Martian spacecraft lands on San Juan, in Porto Rico and when they see Saunders's capsule on the air, they believe it is an attack and they shoot the Earth ship down. The android is damaged and wanders on the island scaring people and behaving like Frankenstein. Dr. Steele and Karen head to Porto Rico to rescue the android, while the Martians abduct young women to take them to Mars.
After a nuclear war destroys the Martian atmosphere, Princess Marcuzan leads a raiding party in search of good breeding stock to replenish the population.During their landing Dr. Nadir, the Martian commander shoots down a NASA space capsule piloted by an android, Capt. Frank (Frankenstein) Saunders. Then the Martians badly damage him with a ray-gun.While the Martians crash swinging pool parties and kidnap bikini-clad girls off the beach, the terribly deformed Frank terrorizes the locals and kills in self-defense. Meanwhile Frank's creator, Dr. Adam Steele and his assistant attempt find and save Frank.Ultimately it is Frank who saves them by sacrificing himself.If you enjoy the cheesy, drive-in horror movies from the 1960s, youll appreciate this one. Skip Gregory skip@redmanmovies.com
