A bored insurance salesman quits his job to go into politics. He first starts preaching about how man is greater than he thinks and that man can live forever. He ends up forming his own political party, "The Eternal Man" party. He begins to be referred to as "God". Then he starts having doubts about the eternalness of man.
Clarence Hilliard starts the film as a married family man, living the insignificant life of an insurance salesman. He lives with his wife Edna and daughter Betty. He gets fired for disregarding company policy, but explains to his wife about having ambitions for a political career. He also explains to his best friend Alonzo about having further ambitions to seek immortality for himself and mankind, and that he wants to become God.At first uncertain how to achieve his ambitions, Hilliard notices an ecstatic crowd at a rockabilly concert. He learns to play the guitar, launches a career as a rockabilly musician, and soon starts his own religious cult. His initial followers are his music fans. He takes the stage name "God Hilliard" and names his cult as the Eternal Man's Party. Under his instructions, his cult accepts members from minorities and has a non-discrimination policy. At least one of his followers warns the new cult leader against behaving as a dictator.As Alonzo now serves as Hilliard's publicity agent, Hilliard seeks funding for his cult. He uses his good looks to seduce elderly widows, and to have them entrust their life savings to the cult. He has a bit of trouble in controlling his followers, and takes no part in a riot caused by his followers. A former follower whose family has disowned him approaches Hilliard to seek help. Hilliard simply hands a gun to the ex-follower and instructs him to commit suicide.While his fame rises, Hilliard increasingly alienates his wife and daughter with his domineering attitude, and his own mother with his claims to divinity which she views as sacrilege. Hilliard establishes an actual political party and seeks nomination for President of the United States in an upcoming election. During his campaigns, Hilliard seduces (and has sex with) several adult women and a 14-year-old girl. His confidence in his quest for immortality is undermined when he learns about the sudden death of his mother. Reminding him that humans are mortal.As his political campaign continues, Hilliard no longer spends any time with his wife. He is alarmed when his political enemies brand him an atheist, and use the accusation to undermine his appeal to the public. He assigns Alonzo and his cultists to convince the public about his religious faith, but their public statements make clear that the only deity which this cult follows is Hilliard himself.Hilliard has forbidden his family from ever attending church, and this causes an argument with them. Hilliard slaps his daughter for her supposed defiance, and this results in separation from Edna and his few surviving relatives abandoning him. His followers find Hilliard crying on his desk. Hilliard next challenges the Christian God to a supposed duel, and steals sacramental bread from a church to test whether it bleeds. It is made clear that something is wrong with Hilliard and that he will never gain his ultimate goal.
