A tough young man, who helps to kick poor people out of their houses, falls in love with a girl. She lives with her father in the building about to be demolished.
In the 50's, in a poor community in Mexico, the landlord Andrés Cabrera wants to evict his tenants to demolish the buildings and sell the land by a large amount. However, the leader of the community Carmelo González resists to his attempts. Andrés hires the strong slaughterhouse worker Pedro El Bruto to intimidate the dwellers, and his wife Pamola sexually harasses Pedro. Pedro goes to the community in the night and he hits the weak Carmelo that has a bleed and dies. When Pedro meets Carmelo's daughter Meche, he falls in love with her and she moves to his house. But the jealous Paloma does not want to give up on Pedro.
The Brute is a slaughterhouse worker who more than makes up in muscle what he lacks in brain power. He's hired by a landlord to intimidate his unwanted tenants, but ends up seducing the daughter of one of them, much to the annoyance of the landlord's wife, with whom he's also having an affair...
An evil old man, Andrés, is the owner of an old building, where very poor people live. Mr. Andrés wants to demolish the building, and gives the people a few hours to evacuate it. But they will confront the old man, saying that they won't leave their homes. Andrés will look for help and he finds it in Pedro, a tough, strong and rude man, but not quite clever, who will be hired by Andrés in order to bullying the people in the building and make them leave. Meanwhile, Pedro will work in a butcher's shop, where also works Paloma, Andres's wife, an attractive woman who starts to feel attracted to Pedro. One night, Pedro is making a tour by the building, threatening people, and he will fight with a man who dares to face up with him. But the man is killed accidentally by Pedro, who escapes from the place and hides with Paloma, now his lover. Meche, the murdered man's daughter, is a charming and pretty girl, who will help Pedro to scape from the angry neighbors. Pedro falls in love with Meche, and he offers his home to her. Meche starts to have feelings about the naive but "brutal" man, without knowing that he's the murderer of her father.

