A teenager with a massive facial skull deformity and biker gang mother attempt to live as normal a life as possible under the circumstances.
Rusty Dennis (Cher) is the mother of Rocky (Eric Stoltz), a seriously deformed, but extremely intelligent and emotionally warm teenager. Rusty is a no-nonsense mother whose wild lifestyle is often at odds with her tenderness and protectiveness towards Rocky. She is determined that Rocky be given the same chances and happiness that everyone else takes for granted.
This heartwarming and inspirational movie is based on the real-life story of Rocky Dennis (Eric Stoltz), a terribly disfigured, but highly sensitive and intelligent teenager. Motivated by his loving mother, Rusty (Cher), and her boyfriend, Gar (Sam Elliott), Rocky ultimately overcomes pain, loneliness, and prejudice to become a role model to his classmates and teachers alike.
Rocky Dennis (Eric Stoltz) is an intelligent, outgoing, and humorous teenager who suffers from a facial deformity called "lionitis" and has now outlived his life expectancy. While his mother, Rusty (Cher), struggles to fight for his acceptance in the public school system, he proves himself to be a highly accomplished student. Though Rocky endures ridicule for his appearance, he finds love and respect from his mother's biker gang family, and even experiences his first love (Laura Dern).
As son of a freewheeling biker mom,Rocky Dennis(Eric Stolz),is accepted without question by his mother's boyfriend's and extended motorcycle family but treated with fear,pity,awkwardness,and teasing by those unaware of his humanity,humor,and intelligence.Rocky's mother,Rusty Dennis,is determined to give Rocky a normal life.It is the end of the summer of 1979 in Azusa, a lower-middle class section of Los Angeles. With Bob Seeger's "Kathmandu" on the soundtrack the actions pans into the bedroom of Rocky DennisNear the end of the film,Rocky faces the pain of seperation from his girlfriend,the collapse of his dream motorcycle trip to Europe with his best friend,Ben,while fighting fierce headaches.He quietly withdrawls to his room,and Rocky quietly dies peacefully in his sleep.
