Frederick sees a photograph of a ruined seaside castle, which triggers a strange childhood memory. He then goes on a strange quest, aided by four female vampires, to find the castle and the beautiful woman who lives there.
Pierre is haunted by a persistent dream in which he spends the night with a beautiful women in a white gown who lives in an ancient mansion, though she invariably awakes with no memory of him. He is convinced that his dream has some basis in his past, but his mother scoffs at the notion. One day, he sees a photograph in a perfume advertisement that looks just like the mansion he's seen in his dreams, and arranges to meet the woman who took the pictures at a movie theater. While he waits for her, he encounters the mysterious woman in white, and as he follows her, he discovers a strange coven of the living dead -- a band of beautiful women who need to drink human blood to survive.
Ever since his father died, Frederic [Jean-Loup Philippe] has been unable to remember
anything about his childhood, even though his mother has told him all
about it. One night, while at a party, Frederic notices a photograph of
some castle ruins near a beach. They look familiar to him, and he recalls
an incident that happened 20 years ago, when he was 12. He was lost. It
was getting dark, and he went to the castle where he was invited in by a
young girl [Annie Briand] dressed all in white. He spent the night there and became
infatuated with her. To thank her for her kindness, Frederic placed a toy
on her steps before he left to go home.When Frederic tells his mother [Natalie Perrey] about the memory, she denies that it
ever happened, so Frederic pays a visit to the photographer to find out
where the photo was taken. The photographer tells him that she's been paid
not to reveal the location but later relents and tells him to meet her at
midnight at the aquarium and she will tell him then. To kill time,
Frederic goes to the cinema. As he watches the movie, he notices the girl
in white standing in the doorway. He follows her outside. She leads him
into a cemetery and down into a crypt where he finds four coffins. He
opens one of the coffins to find several bats inside.Unknowingly, Frederic has released four vampiresses. Frederic runs
outside where he meets a woman who claims to be the girl he met 20 years
ago in the ruins, even though she looks nothing like her. She leads him to
a room in an old abandoned building. When he asks her to identify the toy
that he left with her 20 years ago, she cannot, confirming Frederic's
suspicion that she is working for the same people that paid the
photographer to keep quiet. For some reason, they do not want him to find
the girl. Suddenly, the woman bolts from the room, locking the door behind
her. While the girl in white watches, two of the vampiresses unlock the
door and release Frederic.It is now midnight, and Frederic goes to the aquarium where he finds
that the photographer has been murdered. A man with a briefcase walks
past, and Frederic follows him into the Metro. When the man pulls a gun on
him, Frederic kicks the gun from his hand, pulls the cord to stop the
train, and runs away. The man follows, cornering Frederic on a balcony.
Meanwhile, the two vampires throw a switch that turns on myriad fountains,
which afford Frederic with cover, and he is able to escape.Frederic tells his mother about seeing the girl in white. She tries
to convince him that he is mad and, while Frederic is changing clothes,
she calls the hospital. When Frederic leaves the house, he is immediately
captured by two ambulance drivers and taken to the hospital where he is
placed in a straitjacket and told that he is going to receive electroshock
therapy. While pacing in his room, Frederic sees the girl in white. He
begs her to speak to him if she truly exists, and she mouths the words "Je
t'aime". Then she disappears. Two nurses come to take Frederic to the
psychiatrist, but they turn out to be the two vampires. Instead, they
attack the psychiatrist, untie the straitjacket, and allow Frederick to
escape.While running down the street, Frederic sees a blind man selling
postcards of the ruins, so he buys one and learns that it is called
Sauveterre Castle. Certain that the girl in white is calling for his help,
Frederic catches the train to Sauveterre. It is just as he remembers it.
He even finds the toy that he left lying on the castle steps. He walks
through the castle looking for the girl. Eventually, he comes upon a room
where he finds books, dolls, toys, candles, a coffin, and a picture album
with his picture in it. Just as Frederic attempts to open the coffin, his
mother appears.She tells him the story of the girl in white. Her name is Jennifer,
and she's a vampire. Jennifer was imprisoned in Sauveterre Castle when she
was 16 in order to prevent the vampire curse from spreading. It was
Jennifer who killed Frederic's father. The corpses of the four vampires
freed by Frederic were moved to the abandoned vault in Paris. While three
men track down and stake the four vampires and build a bonfire to burn
their bodies, Frederic's mother sends him back into the castle with orders
to kill Jennifer and bring her head. But Frederic cannot do it and,
instead, brings the head of a statue which he tosses into the bonfire.After everyone leaves, Frederic returns to the castle and awakens
Jennifer. She tells him how she learned to project her sight and then her
spirit while she lay in her coffin waiting for Frederic to come. He allows
her to turn him into a vampire, and they both get into her coffin and let
the tide carry them out to sea. [Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.]
