At the dawn of World War III, a man searches for a way to restore peace to the world and finds he must give something in return.
Alexander, a journalist and former actor and philosopher, tells his little son how worried he is about the lack of spirituality of modern mankind. In the night of his birthday, the third world war breaks out. In his despair Alexander turns himself in a prayer to God, offering him everything to have the war not happen at all.
It is Alexander's birthday, and his family have gathered at his remote cottage to celebrate. The celebrations are marred, however, first by conventional family intrigue, then by the terrifying news that the low-flying jet planes signalled the start of a nuclear war between the superpowers. As the family attempts to cope, Alexander is troubled by extraordinary dreams, and then informed by the unfathomable philosopher-postman, Otto, that he has the power to redeem the world, including his dear young son, if only he will visit the solitary Maria, who Otto insists is a witch.
Alexander is an aging actor and writer who has taken retirement from acting and writing. He is shown to be playfully talking to a little boy he calls as the "Little Man" to whom he describes how his mother and he met. In Alexander's birthday,his family gathers at his cottage in the pastoral lands when the terrifying news that the low-flying jet planes signalled the start of a nuclear war between the superpowers. Alexander's dreams and the real world are somehow shown to have merged into some dreamy scenes which are hauntingly long and uncoordinated. As the family attempts to cope, Alexander vows to God in his dreams that he would "sacrifice" everything he loves in order to save this world from the catastrophe caused by nuclear weapons. He is met by the queer post-man Otto in his dreams who tells him to seek help of Maria who is supposed to be a witch with powers and only whose love can bring in peace. At the end it appears like Alexander has woken up from his dream and does distinctly similar things he happened to witness in his dreams. He puts his house on fire and watches it from a distance when his family arrives and puts him into a van that indicates him to be mentally ill and been taken to an asylum. He runs to Maria, the maid for help. At the end "Little Man" is shown to water the dead tree he and Alexander had planted looking up to it waiting for it to bloom someday, while Maria cycles and reaches to see the van once again carrying Alexander, indicating "Little Man" might as well be the child born out of love between Maria and Alexander, not being able to ever confess it to the world might be the guilt that made Alexander "Sacrifice" everything.
