A rich businessman and a young woman are attracted to each other, but he only wants an affair while she wants to save herself for marriage.
Cathy Timberlake is an old fashioned country girl who meets the man of her dreams, Philip Shayne, after his Rolls Royce splashes her with mud on her way to a job interview. Philip is a romantic businessman who is taken by Cathy's honest heart. There's one problem, he's not interested in marriage while Cathy has never thought of anything else.
On a rainy day, currently unemployed working girl Cathy Timberlake is furious when a passing limousine, driving through a puddle, splashes her resulting in her dress and raincoat to get all muddy. She is even more furious when the limousine fails to stop, even though she knows the limo's passenger saw her get splashed. She changes her tune when she later meets that passenger, dashing and wealthy businessman Philip Shayne. Cathy is immediately attracted to him and he to her. However, ladies' man Philip is much more experienced than her, and she is unprepared for his lavish and elaborate proposal - that she accompany him immediately to Bermuda, Paris and Monte Carlo - and its connotation that it hold no strings. Cathy turns to her streetwise roommate, Connie Emerson, for advice. As Philip and Cathy's whirlwind relationship progresses, Cathy's hesitance to go all the way for what Philip wants always seems to lead to frustration for Philip. Despite Philip and Cathy not seeming to make a full connection with each other due to Cathy's actions, Roger, Philip's business associate, believes Cathy is just what Philip needs in his life as Philip has always had the luxury of never having had to work to get a woman. Although Cathy really does want to be with Philip and as Philip really wants to be with Cathy, will they be able to get over these initial obstacles?
While going to receive her unemployment paycheck and to a job interview later, the coat of the naive Cathy Timberlake is splashed with mud by the Rolls Royce of the millionaire businessman Philip Shayne. He sees her going to have lunch from his office and sends his financial advisor Roger to give some money to Cathy to compensate her loss. Cathy feels offended with the offer and she goes to Philip's office with the intention of throwing the money on his face. However, when she sees the handsome Philip, she immediately falls in love with him. They date and Cathy expects that Philip proposes to marry her, but he does not have this intention.

