A group of vaudevillians struggling to compete with talkies hits the road hoping for a comeback. Frustrated to be left behind, all of their kids put on a show themselves to raise money for the families and to prove they've got talent, too.
Mickey Moran, a talented singer and musician, is son of a veteran from show business. Mickey has a partner, Patsy Barton, a pretty girl and also a very talented singer. One day, a big opportunity arrives for Mickey, a big contract to set up his own show. However, things don't go well, and in order to avoid being sent to a work farm, he'll improvise a show in the country, despite the awful weather conditions. Patsy's in love with Mickey, he loves her, too, but for him the show must go on, and his big dream maybe will come true: to formally stage his play in a big scenario, with a huge production.
Mickey Moran was born in 1921 to Joe and Florrie Moran, popular and well known vaudevillians. Mickey, now in his late teens, is living in an era when vaudeville is dead as an entertainment genre. Joe and Florrie and their former vaudeville colleagues hope that their children will take up a more practical career. With vaudeville blood in their veins, Mickey and his singer girlfriend Patsy Barton - also an offspring of a vaudevillian, Lillian Barton - still dream of a career in show business. When Joe and Florrie and their former vaudeville colleagues decide to resurrect their careers by financing a traveling vaudeville show of their own, their children want in. But the parents feel that the kids' style of entertainment doesn't fit in with the old vaudeville acts. So Mickey decides to write and produce his own show featuring Patsy, himself and their friends. Standing in his way is local busybody Martha Steele, who wants the kids to return to school rather than waste their life on an unpractical career like show business. And Mickey and Patsy's collective dream may not come to pass because of Rosalie Essex, a former child movie star known as Baby Rosalie who is trying to mount a comeback of her own. She is willing to finance Mickey's project for the lead role - Patsy's role. Patsy feels that Rosalie is not only moving in on her professional big break, but also her role as Mickey's girlfriend.

