A hard but mediocre cop is assigned to escort a prostitute into custody from Las Vegas to Phoenix, so that she can testify in a mob trial. But a lot of people are literally betting that they won't make it into town alive.
In Phoenix, Arizona, alcoholic and mediocre Detective Ben Shockley (Clint Eastwood) is assigned by Chief Commissary Blakelock (William Prince) to bring witness Gus Mally (Sondra Locke) from Las Vegas, Nevada for a minor trial. Shockley travels to Las Vegas and finds that Gus Mally is an aggressive and intelligent prostitute with a college degree and she tells him that the odds are against her showing up in court. Shockley learns that she will actually testify against a powerful mobster, and the mafia is chasing them, trying to kill them both. He calls Blakelock and requests a Police escort from Phoenix to protect them. But soon, he discovers that someone is betraying him in the Police Department. Now, Shockley and Malley hijack a bus and Shockley welds thick steel plates and transforms the cabin in an armored bus trying to reach the Forum. But they will need to drive through a gauntlet of Police Officers armed with heavy weapons.
Phoenix, Arizona cop Ben Shockley (Clint Eastwood) is well on his way to becoming a derelict when he is assigned to transport a witness named Gus Mally (Sondra Locke) from Las Vegas, Nevada. Mally turns out to be a belligerent prostitute with mob ties and incriminating information regarding a high-placed figure. Shockley's suspicions are aroused and the betting line against Mally testifying begins to climb when the transport vehicle is bombed and Mally's house is literally shot to pieces. The pair must face the truth about those they trust, as well as their own inner strengths, as they fight their way to Phoenix, finally using an armored bus to run a gauntlet of hundreds of police armed with high-powered weaponry.
Ben Shockley (Clint Eastwood) is a Phoenix, Arizona cop assigned to go to Las Vegas, Nevada, so that he can escort a prostitute named Gus Mally (Sondra Locke), who is supposed to testify in a mob trial. Shockley assumes he got the assignment because he can get the job done. But his bosses have been bought off, and the only reason he was chosen was because he is expendable and unreliable. In addition, Mally doesn't want to go with him because she knows that going along is the equivalent of signing her own death warrant. Odds of their safe arrival are not good, and there is even a line in Las Vegas on whether they will make it alive. Everyone's out to get them. Traps are everywhere. So Shockley and Gus are forced to rely on instinct and ingenuity if they are going to make it to Phoenix alive.

