This kicks off with the murder of one Adolf Schwartz (who bears a striking resemblance to another famous Adolf) by placing a ravenous piranha fish in his bathtub. Who did it? No-one knows or cares, as they're too busy being distracted by busty Margo Winchester, who hitch-hikes into# town and gets involved with all the local men. It all ends with a series of complicated plot twists that reveal that just about everyone is really someone else. And if it gets too confusing, Russ Meyer helpfully arranges for a one- woman nude Greek chorus to pop up at intervals to explain what's going on.
A man named Adolf Schwartz (Edward Schaaf), who happens to be Adolf Hitler in hiding, is living in a Bavarian-style castle in northern California. After an orgy in the dungeon with several women of different ethnicity and a man, named Paul (Robert McLane), he is murdered when someone places a ravenous piranha fish in his bathtub. Who did it?A woman named Margo Winchester (Raven De La Croix) appears in the nearby town Miranda and is spotted by local Sheriff Homer Johnson (Monte Bane). He tries to make advances but Margo doesn't respond. After that she is picked up by Leonard Box (Larry Dean). An argument breaks out with the result that Leonard subdues and rapes the unconscious Margo, after that she accidentally kills him. This is witnessed by Homer, but he covers up the incident because Box's wealthy father would put Margo in jail forever and of course he is horny for the busty woman. So Margo and Homer wind up sleeping together, starting some kind of relationship, but a mutually unfaithful one as it can be seen later.Homer helps Margo get a job at the local diner, Alice's. It is owned by Alice (Janet Wood) who is married to Paul, who was sexually servicing Schwartz. Alice also likes women, depicted earlier in the movie. Paul is similarly unfaithful, he was interested in Limehouse (Su Ling), an Asian woman that participated in Schwartz's orgy and after Margo finishes work and goes for a swim at the Salmon Creek, he comes after her. While Margo undresses besides the stream, Paul does the same before approaching her and they have sex.Meanwhile, Homer, who had stopped a woman earlier for a traffic violation and let her go after a blow-job, is in bed with an Native American woman named Pocohontas and shoves her out of the house when he hears Margo's van approaching, after she and Paul finished their date. Still nude she enters the house, seemingly ready for a second round with Homer who's under the shower to clean himself up. Scalding himself with hot water by accident. Margo comments on his red penis that he must have made it with an Indian!Note: Kitten Natividad plays the "Greek Chorus", who appears nude between scenes throughout the film to provide narration, plot details, and updates.Margo performs a strip show at a bar which triggers the reaction of the lumberjack Rafe who rapes her. The other guests join in and flee when Homer arrives, both men end up killing each other!It is revealed that Alice committed the murder because she was jealous about Schwartz, who was also her father, sleeping with her husband, and that Margo is an undercover cop to investigate the crime.
