The adoptive father of a young woman is horrified to learn she plans to marry the son of the man who accidentally killed her aunt years before.
John has led a solitary life for thirty years since the death of Moonyeen Clare. But now Owens, a close friend, insists that he care for his niece, Kathleen, orphaned when her parents were lost at sea. Kathleen is five, but the years pass and now she is a young woman who is the image of Moonyeen. Willy wants Kathleen for his wife, but Sparks fly when she meets Kenneth Wayne one dark and stormy night. John is horrified for it was Wayne's father who shot Moonyeen dead on her wedding day and John has never found him or forgiven the family. When Ken goes off to war, John forbids any marriage and Ken agrees, while Kathleen does not. When Ken returns four years later when the war is over, he is crippled. He conceals his condition and makes plans to leave for America.
1915. Elderly Sir John Carteret believed his life had long been over following the death of his one true love, Moonyean Clare, when they were standing at the altar in 1868, that is until Moonyean's niece, Kathleen, the daughter of Moonyean's sister, entered his life. Sir John assumed custody of Kathleen when she was approaching five years old following the death of her own parents. Kathleen, now a young woman in the spitting image of her long deceased aunt who she never knew, is the apple of Sir John's eye. Being courted by stiff Willie Ainley, Kathleen instead falls in love with American Kenneth Wayne, who is in Britain en route to France to fight in the war. Sir John does not support Kathleen and Kenneth's love and want to get married as Kenneth's father, Jeremy Wayne, who Kenneth never really knew as his father died when Kenneth was a child, was the direct cause of Moonyean's death. As much as she wants to abide by her uncle's wishes, Kathleen cannot deny her continued love for Kenneth. Beyond these circumstances, what happens between Kathleen and Kenneth is affected by the war. The question becomes what factor eternal love plays, especially in what happens in this human world as opposed to the after-world.

