Monsieur Hulot visits the technology-driven world of his sister, brother-in-law, and nephew, but he can't quite fit into the surroundings.
Monsieur Hulot's brother-in-law is the manager of a factory where plastics are manufactured. His nephew grows up in a house where everything is fully automated and the boy is raised in a similar fashion. To take away the influence of the uncle on his son, his brother-in-law gets Hulot a job in his factory.
The hopeless Monsieur Hulot once again finds himself affecting people's lives without realizing what he has done. Hulot has taken his young nephew under his wing allowing him to play with other children. The boy's parents live in a ultra-modern house where the boy's overly pretentious mother will barely let him breathe. Concerned that he may be a bad influence on the boy, Hulot's sister and brother-in-law devise a plan to keep him occupied. Their attempt to introduce him to other people at their garden party doesn't work out as planned - with hilarious results for everyone concerned.
It's all about appearance for the highly regimented Arpels. They live in an ultra modern house, equipped with all the latest automated conveniences. They've decorated the property in a minimalist theme. And the fish fountain in the yard has to be turned on before anyone of importance is allowed on the property. The house is not very child friendly. Hence, their son, Gerard, prefers to spend time with his uncle, M. Hulot, who lives a more lackadaisical lifestyle in a smallish flat in an old building in a older established neighborhood. M. Arpel in particular doesn't like the influence his brother-in-law has on his son. The Arpels try to make M. Hulot more of a person in their own mold. M. Arpel gets his brother-in-law a job at his factory, and Mme. Arpel hosts a garden party, hoping to match her brother with her equally style conscious neighbor. As both the work and social situation are contrary to M. Hulot's general bumbling nature, neither turns out quite the way the Arpels plan. But M. Hulot may have more of a positive effect on the Arpels than they realize.

