A historical New Orleans hotel struggles to financially survive while the dramas of its various guests unfold.
This is the story of the clock-like movements of a giant, big city New Orleans hotel. The ambitious yet loyal manager, wrestles with the round-the-clock drama of its guests. A brazen sneak thief, who nightly relieves the guests of their property, is chased though the underground passages of the hotel. The big business power play for control and the thrilling crash of an elevator add to the excitement.
In 1967 New Orleans, the St. Gregory hotel stands as the standard of luxury and hospitality. It's been losing money for a very long time and the owner, Warren Trent, has been unable to renew the mortgage. His young and efficient general manager Peter McDermott thinks he can arrange a loan from a union, but it will mean giving the union a foothold in the local hospitality industry. Another alternative would be to sell out to Curtis O'Keefe owner of a major hotel chain who would very much like to add the St. Gregory to his portfolio but would destroy its character in the process. Among the guests in the hotel are the Duke and Duchess of Lanbourne. He is on the short list to be named British ambassador to Washington, but has struck a child with his car. Another guest is Keycase Milne, who is in the hotel to ply his trade - he's a thief.
The St. Gregory is a grand, old fashioned five-star New Orleans hotel owned by Warren Trent, whose family built it eighty-five years earlier. In this day and age, it is seen as a throwback to olden times, for all its good and bad. The hotel's General Manager, Pete McDermott, who worked his way up the ranks, has tried to reverse its recent sagging fortunes by changing certain aspects where it counts - such as ending its official unofficial segregation policy - while resisting many of the modern yet impersonal conveniences. Regardless, the hotel is in trouble financially, and requires a major influx of capital to keep it afloat. Those problems are known in professional circles, and despite the hotel not being officially for sale, Trent has had an offer from a real estate developer, who wants to tear it down. He also expects an offer from Curtis O'Keefe, a chain hotelier whose hotels run figuratively and literally like machines, and who has come to stay at the hotel with this expected offer. O'Keefe has his own ulterior motives for wanting the hotel beyond expanding his empire. O'Keefe's travel companion is a beautiful Parisienne named Jeanne Rochefort, who doesn't much like O'Keefe but likes what he can provide her. She becomes an unwitting pawn in O'Keefe's bid for the hotel. McDermott is hoping that a deal with a hotel union - the needed capital in exchange for the hotel employees becoming unionized - is what saves the hotel in much its current form. While working through these financial offers, McDermott also has to deal with some day-to-day operational aspects of the hotel, including: a rash of robberies, which hotel authorities believe is being conducted by a known thief named Keycase Milne, whose M.O. is to use errant hotel keys to break into hotel rooms; a constantly missing hotel detective named Dupere; the supposed theft of the Jaguar owned by hotel guests Geoff and Caroline, the Duke and Duchess of Lanbourne, who know more about the theft than they try to let on; the reservation of Dr. and Mrs. Elmo Adams, who didn't mention that they were black when they made the reservation; and an aging elevator, which may play into the fortunes of the hotel more than McDermott realizes.

