A college student, who wants to join the army and serve his country, becomes a criminal due to unforeseen circumstances.
From a very early age Mahesh Deshmukh has dreams of serving his country; his encouragement and dreams multiplies when his parents are killed by a gang of robbers who plan to loot the bank they are employed in. He then joins the Indian armed forces whereby he excel in the services he honestly provide to his country. During his college days he gets to meet his fellow collegian, Mohini who wholeheartedly love him and after placing a bet with his friends over her he then began to love her whereby he manages to convince her of his love. Mohini's father Shyamlal is an alcoholic and wants her to dance and take up prostitution as her profession so that she can be able to provide money for his daily share of alcohol. This does not anger well with Mahesh who decides to put a stop to this only to find himself at loggerheads with Shyamlal who takes the help of a gangster, Lotiya Pathan to frame Mahesh, gets him arrested, charged and outcast by law from the city of Bombay for a period of a year. This then transform the simple-minded lad who has dreams for his country into the city's most dreaded gangster, Munna whose only motive in life is revenge.
Munna a criminal who is asked to stay away from the city limits of Bombay comes to know from his sister that his love Mohini has been kidnapped by his rival gangster Lotya Pathan.Munna enters the city much before the time and plans to attack Lotya Pathan's den with Baban and his other friends and free Mohini.Mohini was kidnapped while doing a stage the incident cost loss of many lives.Inspector Gagan Singh is assigned to investigate the case.Gagan Singh also finds that Munna has entered city limits much before time and is shocked to know that Munna is indeed Mahesh Deshmukh a youngster who once was willing to die for his country.Gagan Singh traces Munna and asks him to surrender but is more eager to know what made Mahesh Deshmukh turn into criminal Munna.
Mahesh Deshmukh (Anil Kapoor) has joined the nation's armed forces as that he can honestly and patriotically serve the country. During his college days he has a run-in with fellow-collegian Mohini (Madhuri Dixit). A bet between his friends and himself ends up with him falling in love with Mohini, who subsequently realizes that he indeed has fallen in love with her, and she too reciprocates. Mohini's dad (Anupam Kher) is an alcoholic and wishes that Mohini takes up dancing and prostitution so that he can get his daily dose of alchol. Mohini attempts to take refuge with Mahesh, however, cirumstances tangle Mahesh to such an extent that he is arrested, charged, and sentenced to stay away from Bombay city limits. When Mahesh returns, it is no longer the honest, and patriotic Mahesh, but a gangster named Munna, who has many old scores to settle.

