In the near future with a intergalactic vampire plague threatening earth, an expedition is sent to a distant galaxy in hopes of discovering the plague's source. Landing on a mysterious planet they discover that Spectrum radiation has turned the atmosphere into a one-color tint. Exploring further, the group discovers living dinosaurs, a race of vampire cavemen, and other strange creatures.
Prologue: Infected vampire blood was carried to earth
millions of years ago by the Tubaton, vampire men from a distant galaxy.Dr Rynning [John Carradine], an aging scientist, is leading a space expedition into
Spectrum, an unknown solar system that he discovered. Along the way, the
XB-13 runs into a meteor storm and loses contact with ground controllers,
Dr Manning [Robert Dix] and his assistant Valerie [Vicki Volante]. Fortunately, neither Dr Rynning or
any of the crew, which includes Comnander Steve Bryce [Bruce Powers], Captain Bob Scott [Fred Meyers],
Willy [Joey Benson], and Linda [Britt Semand], are hurt, but the XB-13 is forced to make an emergency
landing on an unknown planet in order to make repairs. Fortunately, the
planet on which they land has an atmosphere exactly like earth, with the
exception of some chromatic radiation that makes it change colors.While Dr Rynning waits in the spaceship (he has a heart condition
that could cause him to experience a coronary attack in the new
atmosphere), the rest of the crew goes exploring. The planet seems to be
inhabited solely by prehistoric creatures until they happen upon two
groups of cavemen who appear to be fighting each other. Suddenly, a girl
wearing a white skin (that looks amazing like a prehistoric bathing suit)
runs past them, screaming as she is chased by three of the cavemen. Willy
tackles her and, while the girl is knocked out, Linda implants a
"communicator" in her brain so that she can understand and speak English.
When she comes to, she identifies herself as Malian [Jennifer Bishop] and tells them the
story of her people, the peace-loving Tagani, who are hunted by the
blood-thirsty Tubatons. At this very moment, the Tagani are engaged in a
fierce battle with the Tubaton, from whom Malian was running.Meanwhile, Manning and Valerie are having sex. Attached to their
heads are electrodes that lead to a machine with a lot of multicolored
tubular lights, a machine that supposedly give the best sex ever.
Unfortunately, Manning is too worried about the XB-13 and promises to
return a bit later and, this time, turn the machine up to the highest
setting.Malian mentions how some of the Taganis are trying to get to the cave
where they can get the "firewater" needed to keep their protective fires
going. Cmdr Steve thinks that "firewater" might refer to petroleum, which
Rynning says can be distilled for rocket coolant, so Malian leads them to
the cave where they fill two canisters that Cpt Bob has brought from the
spaceship. Steve and Linda then carry the oil back to the ship, while
Willy and Bob attempt to return Malian to the Tagani. However, Malian
doesn't want to go back to the Tagani without Willy. As Willy and Malian
are saying goodbye to each other, Bob is attacked and killed by a Tubaton.
Willy and Malian try to make it back to the ship, but Willy suddenly
passes out.Rynning orders Steve and Linda to immediately return to the
ship. It's a matter of life or death. Steve sends Linda on but goes back
to find Bob and Willy. Along the way, he meets with Malian who leads him
to dead Bob and passed out Willy. Steve carries Willy back to the ship,
where Rynning informs them that their blood tests reveal that the white
corpuscles are devouring the red corpuscles due to a deadly virus in the
planet's radiation-polluted air. All the people on the planet are doomed.
Fortunately, the virus can't survive in the clean air of the earth, but it
is necessary to immediately leave the doomed planet."This was a highly civilized and brilliant society at one time. It
wasn't enough for them. Not only did they have to acknowledge having such
weapons...they had to use them. I have no doubt we'll be equally brilliant
one day." --Dr Rynning
