A day in the life of an unfaithful married couple and their steadily deteriorating relationship.
In Milan, after visiting dear friend Tommaso Garani that is terminal in a hospital, the writer Giovanni Pontano goes to a party for the release of his last book, and his wife Lidia Pontano visits the place where she lived many years ago. In the night, they go to a night-club, and later to a party in the mansion of the tycoon Mr. Gherardini. Along the night, Giovanni flirts with Valentina Gherardini, the daughter of the host, and then he receives a proposal to work for him in the area of communication and write the history of his company. Meanwhile, Lidia flirts with the playboy Roberto.
Giovanni and Lidia have been married for several years now and their marriage has become a functional arrangement, not only devoid of love but of any emotion whatsoever; they go through the motions but barely care anymore. After visiting a dying friend, their time together is filled with long silences. Lidia visits a neighborhood where they once lived but little has changed there. At a party that evening, they spend the evening with others, he with a beautiful woman and she with a playboy. The party goes on all night and by the next morning, Giovanni and Lidia begin try to work out their difficulties.
Unable to come to terms with her friend Tommaso's irrefutable condition, the shocked Lidia exits the hospital's room to burst into tears, leaving her prestigious novelist husband, Giovanni, alone with the patient. Later on, the couple will attend an elegant cocktail party at an opulent villa in Milan to celebrate Giovanni's new book publication--but Lidia still in shock from her previous harrowing experience--she will wander off the city's empty streets, all the way up to their old neighbourhood. Through the course of a single day, the emotional detachment, the indifference and the frustrating inability to make contact, will inevitably lead to the harsh and bitter truth: all love is lost between Lidia and Giovanni, and with it, any remaining hope of reunion.
Milan-based Giovanni and Lidia Pontano are solely going through the motions of being husband and wife. They have not explicitly stated their dissatisfaction with the marriage to each other beyond the odd snide comment, nor have they mentioned anything to friends or colleagues. However, there has been infidelity, if not in actuality then at least in intent. They still spend much of their time together out of habit, mostly out of their apartment to add some third party aspect to their lives. A twenty-four hour period in their lives is presented. An early outing they have together this day is one that they both have some vested interested in beyond the sadness of the reason, namely to visit their terminally ill friend Tommaso Garani in the hospital, Tommaso a writer like Giovanni. But a couple of Giovanni and Lidia's other joint outings are business ones, specifically to promote Giovanni's just published novel, which is just the latest in a successful career. Although several incidents this day will highlight the divide they are facing emotionally, it is the events of an evening garden party at the home of wealthy businessman Sig. Gherardini that may prove to be the most illuminating in showing Giovanni and Lidia's marriage for what it is in its current state.
Giovanni, a successful writer, and his wife Lidia visit their friend Tommaso who is dying in hospital. After their visit Giovanni goes to a promotion party for his new book, Lidia visits their old living area of Milano. They meet back at home and decide to visit the party of a billionaire, who wants Giovanni to write a book about the history of his company. Both have flirts, and they both notice this fact as events take them into the morning.

