As fog delays departure for a group of travellers bound for New York City, they wait at the lounge of London's Heathrow airport, with each passenger at a moment of crisis in his or her life.
Awaiting London's Heathrow Airport for a flight to New York City, Frances Andros (Dame Elizabeth Taylor), seen off by her tycoon husband, Paul Andros (Richard Burton), plans to leave her spouse for the arms of an aging international playboy, Marc Champselle (Louis Jourdan). Les Mangrum (Rod Taylor), a self-made Australian businessman travelling with his loyal secretary, Miss Mead (Dame Maggie Smith), must be in New York City the following day to arrange the loan that will help him repel a hostile takeover of his tractor company. Max Buda (Orson Welles), a movie mogul travelling with starlet Gloria Gritti (Elsa Martinelli), must get out of England immediately or face ruinous British income tax. The Duchess of Brighton (Dame Margaret Rutherford) has taken a job as a hostess at an American holiday resort, thinking she will be able to keep her family estate on her new income. Fog descends and blurs the future for them all, forced now to wait in the airport hotel for morning and fair weather.
When London's Heathrow Airport is fogged in, several travellers on the postponed flight to New York City find themselves affected in one way or another. Frances Andros (Dame Elizabeth Taylor) is running away from her husband Paul (Richard Burton), a rich industrialist. She is unhappy in her marriage and feels that her husband no longer appreciates her. She is accompanied by her new love, Marc Champselle (Louis Jourdan), a suave gigolo who genuinely loves her as well. She's left a note for her husband at home and the delay allows him to get wind of her plans and return to the airport to confront her. For businessman Les Mangrum (Rod Taylor), he's going to New York City to stave off the take over of his company. It's essential that he attend the board meeting later that day, but a check he's written may be his downfall. His secretary, Miss Mead (Dame Maggie Smith), finds a solution when she comes across Paul Andros in the hotel lobby. For movie producer Max Buda (Orson Welles), getting out of England has to do with money. If he isn't out of the country by midnight, he will owe the British taxman a hefty sum. For The Duchess of Brighton (Dame Margaret Rutherford), travelling to the U.S. is all about earning money to save her manor house and property. She's never flown before, but the chance meeting with Max Buda provides her with a solution to her problems.
Mr. Sanders, the customer service representative for British Overseas Airways' Heathrow VIP passengers, has among his list of customers for today: Frances Andros, the socialite wife of wealthy industrialist Paul Andros, she who is flying to New York before catching a connecting flight the following day to Jamaica for a solo holiday; Les Mangrum, owner of his own tractor company, who is doing some last minute business at the airport with his faithful secretary, Miss Mead, before he goes to New York on that same flight for a meeting regarding financing for the company; movie producer/director Max Buda, who has just finished shooting a movie in England, and his latest companion, Italian starlet Gloria Gritti - their relationship despite Max having no intention of ever putting her in one of his movies - who are flying to Hollywood; and the Duchess of Brighton, a doddering and now penniless old woman who will be flying to Miami in economy - her first ever flight - as she has taken a job there to earn money to prevent foreclosure of the mortgage on her family estate. All their flight plans are placed in jeopardy when an unexpected fog rolls in over the airport grounding all flights. With the exception of the Duchess who has been trying to calm her nerves regarding the flight in any way she can and who would not go to the US if not for the need for money, the other VIP passengers face possible negative consequences because of the delay. Frances, in reality, was leaving Paul for good, running off with career and now purportedly reformed gigolo and gambler Marc Champselle, who was booked on that same flight. Frances and Marc's plans were to stay in New York. They have to leave Heathrow before Paul gets the letter Frances left for him at their house informing him of her intentions, which includes the end of their marriage in reality even if he does not grant her a divorce. Les has to get to that New York meeting as that financing was to prevent a hostile takeover of his company. In the process, he wrote a check for £153,750 to purchase company shares, money which he does not yet have and was counting on as an outcome of that New York meeting, the check which could land him in jail for fraud in addition to losing his company. Miss Mead, who is secretly in love with her boss, stayed at the airport to ensure his flight left, she now who will do anything to help him and the company. And Max, a British citizen who has been living in Switzerland for tax reasons, has to leave the country before midnight or be hit with a $1 million tax bill from the British government.

