A spaceship crewman plots a mutiny against the stern leader taking a group of people to settle on a new planet from Earth.
In the year 2015, a spaceship, the IC-1, travels through outer space looking for a suitable planet to settle on. The commander, Captain Ralston, is stern and brutal in which one cadet, Steven, plots a revolt to turn the leadership of the command over to him.
The opening narrative is given by a man in a high ranking military uniform. He tells us the film is set 50 years into the future, when an overcrowded Earth will begin looking for other Earths. Flights will be made taking 25 to 50 years. This film is the story of one such flight IC 1 (Interstellar Colony ship One) It is a Noahs Ark of space, 8 couples with their children will travel to Earth 2 well beyond our Solar System
We are then introduced to the couples who make up the crew. First is the Captain, Mead Ralston, (Bill Williams) his wife and educator Jan Ralston (Norma West) The medical team are doctors Steven Thomas (John Cairney) and his wife Helen Thomas (Linda Marlowe) Aside from the health of the crew, the doctors are involved in an experiment in suspended animation. Two men and two women to be revived when they reach Earth 2The next couple is engineer John Saunders (Jeremy Longhurst) and his wife biologist Kate Saunders (Kathleen Breck) The crews computer experts are Karl Walcott (Donald Churchill) and his wife Joyce Walcott (Margo McLennan) The final member of the crew is the most unusual. A synthetic man called Doctor Garth (John Lee) is the operations commander. His body replicates every action of a normal human body.The film begins on the first anniversary of the ship's departure from Earth. Captain Ralston is speaking to reporters back home as news of the flight is released. It is a joint mission of Great Britain, Canada and the United States. All seems to be going well, the crew's morale is high and the children are growing normally.Ralston reports the ship is operating better than expected. Garth interrupts the interview to ask if he can speak to Captain Ralston explains that is against regulations, Garth acts with a little annoyance at the reply.After the contact is broken, Ralston speaks to his wife (much younger than he) about their inability to conceive children. She assures him no one, especially her, is concerned about the issue. She argues they have only been married a year, there is plenty of time to have children. Ralston still seems disgusted and is convinced the whole world thinks he is a failureIn another part of the ship, plans are being made for a surprise party to celebrate the first year in space. Someone asks if the Captain is aware of the event, the answer is no, that]s the surprise. A number of the crew seem nervous about the plans and beg offIn another area of the ship, Kate is teaching the children. Their lessons over, she puts them to bed in a communal bedroom. The children choose a story to end their day. Ho Ho The Holographic Clown (Max Kirby) begins to entertain the children as Kate slips away to the party.John Saunders plays the clown as he serves the crew water and a small pill mimicking the flavor of various alcoholic drinks. Ralston joins the party and immediately breaks it up, declaring that the ship could have been in danger while everyone was having a good time. Dr Thomas and his wife plead with the captain to allow the crew some recreation time. He responds by ordering all the capsules brought to his cabin so he can keep control of them.Steven Thomas goes to the control room to check Dr Garth. He is happy in a melancholy way. Saunders asked Garth if he knows of any plans given to Ralston for the coming year. Dr Garth admits he could not answer even if he wanted to.The Thomases are checking on the crew in suspended animation when Helen suddenly feels faint. Her husband asked what the results of the last tests were and she admits she never took the exam. Steven decides he needs to get that rectified immediatelyThe Saunders talk over the events of the night and Ralston's behavior. Kate is disgruntled and tries to goad her husband into a fight. The next morning during breakfast tension is running very high; the bland algae diet is getting one everyone's nerves. Kate defends herself, saying she has very limited resources with which to work. Saunders brings up the question of what is to happen during the second year regarding children. Ralston becomes defensive and tells the crew he will tell them what concerns them.Ralston sends Helen to find Steve, he wants a meeting. In the lab Steve is going over Helen's results and it is not good news. It appears Helen has a pancreatic infection, and the prognosis is not good. As a doctor she understands the seriousness of the situation.Steven believes the only way to save Helen is to return to Earth, she argues Ralston will never agree to the return. Steven approaches the crew explains the situation. Ralston immediately rejects the option, claiming he has no choice.Steven reports back to Helen that Ralston reacted exactly how she expected. He wants to force Ralston to turn around but Helen argues otherwise. The future of their son is at stake. She wants the chance for the boy to have a new future.Steven arranges a grievance committee to see how much support he may have among the balance of the crew. Jan puts together a lesson plan for the children, of which her husband disapproves. She is concerned her husband is spying on her and reviewing all the information being taught to the kids. In particular, she is bothered by the style of government and organization, called RULE, introduced. Mead admits he is a member of the organization and has been before the couple married.Mrs. Ralston criticizes her husband for having changed. She says the rest of the crew has also seen the change and dislikes itSteven and Helen talk about the future; at best she has three years. Steven still wants to return but Helen argues against it. Better to have three good years than to be stuck on an overcrowded, over-controlled Earth. She does tell him she wants to have a little sister for her son. She does not want to ask Ralston, simply do it and let him deal with the future.Ralston contacts the couple, admonishes Steven for not being at his post, then requests a meeting with Helen. At the meeting Ralston speaks of the regrets he has for Helen. He then warns Helen that Steven needs to tone down his attitude and questions Steven has about the Captain. She then asks the Ralston for permission to have a second child. Ralston tells her it is not his choice, the mission profile does not allow her a second child and he is going to stand by that. Steven speaks with Saunders about the growing friction with Ralston. Saunders explains he is very frustrated with the situation and wants to do something.Later, Steven goes to get Helen for dinner. She is dead in bed, leaving a suicide note explaining that Ralston refusing to allow a child was more than she can take. Steven finds Ralston and challenges him over his behavior and knocks him out. With the help of Saunders, they take him to his cabin and lock him inside. Effectively they have staged a mutiny. Finally Saunders shows Stevens the special key to set off a self destruct sequence to destroy the ship.Later, Ralston discusses the situation with his wife, according to the regulations he only has one course of action, to execute Thomas.In their cabin, the Saunders discusses the situation. John speaks to his wife about his involvement in putting Ralston in restraints, he does not feel like a hero, and is worried that he cannot justify his actions. Trying to stay practical, his wife discusses what will happen regarding the funeral. John tells her the regulations say she will be buried in space.Saunders leads the funeral service in the absence of the captain. Everyone is deeply distressed as Helen's body is ejected from the ship. Later the Saunders and Thomas call a meeting to elect a new captain. Steven Thomas is the only nomination.He expresses regret over what occurred on the ship, and really does not want the nomination unless the crew gives him their full support, and continues to do their jobs as before. All agree with the exception of Karl, who still supports the captain, but realizes he is in the minority.On Earth we see Captain Burnett dictating a memo to the RULE council. He advises the council that he has lost contact with the spacecraft, and if contact is not re-established within 2 days the ship will be presumed lost.
Steven talks to Garth about the situation. Should he tell them about the coup or press on in total silence. Steven tells Garth that he's explained the orders for year two, and the crew is allowed to try and have children.Later, Saunders confides in Steve that Kate is pregnant. Joyce interrupts the news to tell Steven she and Karl have had another argument. Steven thinks the source of her problems are caused by the continuing situation with the Captain, Joyce tells him she's never really loved Karl and the problems date long before the mission beganSteven finds Jan and asks for her help about what to do with the captain. He asks Jan to try and talk to the captain to see if some resolution can be found. Jan warns Steven that if the captain get out he is going to kill Steven because the captain believes Steven's actions were mutiny. Steven assures her everything will be fine
Karl finds the keys to unlock the room the captain is in and releases him before he can correct the situation. Ralston jumps him from behind and knocks him out, retaking command of the ship. The captain tells the crew they will be locked in their rooms until further notice.He then tells Steven about his execution. Before he does, he orders Thomas to awaken Dr Griffiths so that there is a medical person after Thomas is executed.Jan Ralston talks to Garth about the location of weapons on-board. Garth tells her they are stored with the rest of the survival gear needed once the ship reaches Earth 2. He cautions the weapons are inaccessible until the ship lands.Thomas approaches Ralston again pleading not to awaken Griffiths, Steven argues conditions are too unstable and he can't guarantee the results. Ralston warns Thomas, any treachery will cause him to set off the self destruct system on the shipSteven goes to his quarters and finds Kate. She asks Steven pointedly does he think the captain is insane. Steven doesn't thinks so, he believes Ralston is simply suffering the pressure of command. Steven begins to process of waking Dr Griffiths, it will take at least 18 hours to warm him enough to begin revival.Karl speaks to Thomas and apologizes for siding with the Captain, he did not think Ralston would go through with his plan to execute Steven after he got free. Steven dismisses the apology and tells Karl he is not his consciousBack in the medical area, Dr Griffiths (Tony Doonan) breaks free of his container. He seems disorientated and unsure of his surroundings. He leaves the medical bay and begins exploring the ship. He comes across Kate asleep in the nursery and knocks her out. Ralston thinks he hears something and goes to investigate. Ralston finds Griffiths. In his confused state, Griffiths kills him immediately.Karl discovers what has happened and slugs Griffiths, knocking him out. Thomas arrives on the scene and checks to see if the captain may still be alive. Karl and Steven take Griffith back to the medical bay but he dies.Steven explains it was the temperature differential that caused Griffith to fall apart from the inside.At the funeral for the two men, Steven and Kate quietly hold hands during the service, the inference being they may be starting a relationship
