Brian Hawke of the Royal Navy versus the pirates of Madagascar.
In 1700, the pirates of Madagascar menace the India trade; British officer Brian Hawke has himself cashiered, flogged, and set adrift to infiltrate the pirate "republic." There, Hawke meets lovely Spitfire Stevens, a pirate captain in her own right, and the sparks begin to fly; but wooing a pirate poses unique problems. Especially after he rescues adoring young Princess Patma from a captured ship. Meanwhile, Hawke's secret mission proceeds to an action-packed climax.
In 1700 a British naval officer, Lt. Brian Hawke, goes undercover to infiltrate Madagascar-based pirates who have been attacking ships on the route to India. There is an instant attraction between Hawke and pirate Captain Prudence "Spitfire" Stevens, an independent woman who is any man's equal. Jealousies arise when Hawke, aboard Captain Roc Brasiliano's ship, rescues the pretty Princess Patma, daughter of the Moghul Emperor. Having obtained the information he set out for - the gun placements for the pirates' hideaway - he spikes the guns and signals the British fleet. The Princess is Brasiliano's prisoner however and there is one final confrontation before Hawke can save her and make his escape.
A good-natured Technicolor romp with beautiful people in gorgeous costumes.Brian Hawke (Errol Flynn) is a British navy officer who pretends to be a deserter in order to penetrate a well-defended pirate stronghold on Madagascar. Flynn is after a map of the harbor fortifications so that it can be successfully taken by the British navy.Once inside the port, Flynn meets the pirate captains, including ‘Spitfire’ (Prudence) Stevens (Maureen O’Hara) and Roc Brasiliano (Anthony Quinn). Quinn is after O’Hara, who has the map, but she swoons over Flynn.Flynn and Quinn capture and burn a ship carrying Princess Patma (Alice Kelley), daughter of the Great Mogul, and her governess, Molvina MacGregor (Mildred Natwick). Flynn saves the Princess from the burning ship and she falls for him, too.
