A failed business deal forces James Nevill to blackmail his weak-willed friend into murdering him so that his wife can collect his insurance, but circumstances suddenly change.
In London, the businessman James Nevill is the president of Amalgamated Industries and adores his wife Andrea. When he is betrayed by his uncle Cyrus McGowan in a risky business that will bankrupt the company, he decides to force his former friend Paul Kirby to kill him so that Andrea receives a life insurance policy to have a good life. However Kirby refuses and devastated with the proposal, he drinks too much disclosing the request in public in his girlfriend's bar. Out of the blue, James' uncle changes his position and the business succeeds. James tries to find Kirby to call off their arrangement but does not locate him. After three attempts of murder, James suspects that Kirby is not who is trying to kill him.
A man hires a hitman to kill him so his wife can collect on his life insurance. He changes his mind, but he must get to the killer and tell him so before the killer gets to him first.
Another in a long-line of a series of Anglo-American films for Lippert release all defined by a none-in-too-much demand American actor heading an all-British cast. Dane Clark gets the assignment in this one and plays a businessman who fails to consummate a deal in which he thinks will ruin too many people. In order to provide for his wife, whom he adores, he hires his best friend to kill him so his wife can collect on his life insurance. Most men would just buy her some flowers and candy and tell her to go get a job. But...and it's a big but...the business deal comes through and then he has to scurry around to call off the kill-me deal. A second big but comes when, after several attempts are made on his life, he begins to realize they are not because of the deal he made with his friend. No way to write a "spoiler" on this film because anyone who has read this far knows they've seen this one before. Several times.

