When Frank Johnson becomes an eyewitness to a murder, he's pursued around scenic San Francisco by his wife, the police, and the murderer.
Frank Johnson (Ross Elliott), sole witness to a gangland murder, goes into hiding and is trailed by Police Inspector Ferris (Robert Keith), on the theory that Frank is trying to escape from possible retaliation. Frank's wife, Eleanor (Ann Sheridan), suspects he is actually running away from their unsuccessful marriage. Aided by a newspaperman, Danny Leggett (Dennis O'Keefe), Eleanor sets out to locate her husband. The killer is also looking for him, and keeps close tabs on Eleanor.
In San Francisco, Frank Johnson witnesses a murder while walking with his dog. Inspector Ferris is in charge of the investigation and offers protection to Johnson to identify the killer and testify in court. Johnson flees from the police and Ferris brings his wife Eleanor Johnson to help him to find Johnson and convince him to testify in court. However, he finds that they have an unhappy marriage and Eleanor does not want to help him. Meanwhile the journalist Dan "Danny Boy" Legget offers a large amount for an exclusive interview with Johnson for his tabloid. While seeking Johnson out with Legget, Eleanor rekindles her love for her husband. What she does not know is that Danny Boy is the killer Johnson is trying to escape.
Average Man Frank Johnson (Ross Elliot), out walking his dog one night witnesses a shooting murder in San Francisco. Upon seeing the witness the killer shoots at Elliot but misses. The Police arrive and inform Elliot that the killing was connected to underworld corruption and now the killer is aware of him and will be gunning for him. Elliot takes a powder instead of allowing the Police to put him protective custody. When the cops track down his wife Eleanor Johnson (Ann Sheridan) she is less than moved by this turn of events, and Chief Detective Inspector Ferris (Robert Keith) questions her about their relationship discovering that their marriage was only in name, and that the fire had long died from their relationship. However Eleanor is loyal. When Frank calls home she alerts him to the Police presence resulting in the cops parking on her doorstep until they can locate Frank. When ace reporter Danny Leggett (Dennis O'Keefe) shows up and offers Eleanor a large sum of cash for an exclusive story and an interview with Frank, she reasons that they can use the money and agrees to take him along as she tracks Frank down. When later visiting their family doctor Eleanor learns that Elliot is suffering from a possibly fatal heart ailment that he needs consistent medication for, she is moved to an emotional place because of their earlier days together. She also realizes that she and reporter Danny Leggett may be developing some special emotional bonds as they search together for her husband. But Danny has alternative motives for searching out Frank and this comes later when they finally locate the errant husband by deciphering a love letter he sends to Eleanor. The Police discover Dannys agenda and seem useless except to enter at the last moment when most of the damage is done.
