A young girl is on top of the world until a tragic accident dashes her hopes and dreams of becoming a world-class figure skater. Only with the help of those who love her can she prove to the world -- and herself -- that she still has the potential to realize her dreams.
Alexis Winston (Lynn-Holly Johnson) is a young girl who dreams of becoming a champion figure skater. One night, while practicing, Alexis suffers a terrible accident that takes her sight and threatens to destroy her dreams. In the midst of feeling sorry for herself she falls in love with a handsome young man named Nick (Robbie Benson) who (with help from her family) helps her to realize that she can still fulfill her dreams.
Sixteen year old Lexie Winston, from the small town of Waverley, Iowa, is a gifted figure skater who does it because she loves it. She is coached locally by her friend Beulah Smith, the proprietress of the local run down bowling alley combination ice rink. Beulah was a regional champion in her own figure skating days twenty years ago, she who realizes that she can only teach Lexie so much compared to world class coaches. Believing Lexie has what it takes, Beulah tries to convince Lexie's widowed father, Marcus Winston, to allow Lexie to skate competitively for the first time at the Upper Great Lakes regionals. Marcus, who has always resisted getting Lexie into competitive skating because of the pressures and what he considers the unrealistic expectations, reluctantly agrees. At the regionals, Lexie catches the eye of world class coach Deborah Machland, who wants to train Lexie and believes Lexie can win at the Olympics in three years despite her lack of formal training up to this point and Lexie's advanced age. Lexie also catches the eye of Brian Dockett, a sports reporter, who is not only doing an extended piece on her expected speedy trajectory to the top of the figure skating world but who has a romantic interest in her. As Lexie gets thrown into the cutthroat world of competitive skating, which includes narrow minded judges who have a preconceived notion of who should win, intimidation tactics by and against other skaters, and coaches who have a win at all cost mentality, she also gets caught up in the fame and adulation. Her long time boyfriend, Nick Peterson, who is going through his own crisis of identity, feels like he is losing her, both figuratively and literally, to this new world. But when her figure skating life is in jeopardy, Lexie has to muster up the courage to decide what to do regardless of the obstacles. In the process, she finds out who her true supports in life are.
Lexie is a talented but untrained skater from a small town in Iowa. A prominent coach sees her skate in a regional competition and wants to train her. Lexie's father is convinced to let her go off with the coach to an important competition in the city. There Lexie is exposed to a different world. She becomes a sensation in the skating community and falls for a tv sportscaster. One evening while showing off, Lexus suffers a tragic fall and loses her sight. Abandoned by all her fairweather friends, Lexie goes home to rebuild her life. Bitter and angry, she refuses to leave her room at first. Gradually, her dad, devoted boyfriend and formal coach coax her to skate again.

