A 16th century prince falls in love with a court dancer and battles with his emperor father.
Set in the 16th century AD, the movie brings to life the tale of the doomed love affair between the Mughal Crown Prince Saleem and the beautiful, ill-fated court dancer, whose fervor and intensity perpetrates a war between the prince and his father the great Mughal Emperor Akbar, and threatens to bring an empire to its knees.
Badshah Akbar was the supreme ruler of Hindustan and ruled this country fairly and justly. He wanted the Hindus and Muslims to live as a big family; encourages all religious groups to live in harmony together; and even undertakes a barefoot journey to the temple of Ambe Maa and installs a gold umbrella over Ambe Maa. He married a Hindu Rajput Yodhabai, and together they sire a son who they name Saleem. Born in a very tolerant and acceptable atmosphere, Saleem also witnesses war and perhaps this does have an affect on his mind. He then falls in love with a lowly courtesan, Anarkali. When his parents want him to get married to a woman of their choice, he refuses and wants to marry Anarkali. This angers the tolerant Akbar, who could never visualize his son marrying a mere dancing girl. He has Anarkali imprisoned, but Saleem arranges her escape and incites a open revolt against Akbar. Enraged, Akbar declares Saleem a traitor and sends his armies to crush him. Saleem is defeated and brought in chains to be sentenced by his father, but Anarkali managed to elude his armies. Akbar wants to trade Saleem's life with that of Anarkali, but Saleem will not let anyone know where Anarkali is, and is therefore sentenced to die. Watch the climax, to the tunes of "Zindabad...Zindabad...." of this blockbuster as Saleem is tied to a tower and a huge cannon is aimed at him to blow him to bits in front of everyone present.
The land of the sacred Ganga and the towering Himalayas has given the world some personalities whose ideals were resplendently as pure as the water of the Ganga and whose aims were lofty as the Himalayas. Four hundred and sixty two years ago, a man named Jalaluddin Mohammed Akbar was born in this land of the Hindustan. History has recorded that this Mughal Emperor sprinkled the dust of the motherland with his blood. 'Mughal-E-Azam' is a page from the golden history of the land of Akbar. Jalaluddin Mohammed Akbar was a lover of Hindustan. And his son Nuruddin Mohammad Salim loved a frightened little palace main, Anarkali. In this tussle, the destiny of Hindustan trembled, and the future of the country was imperiled. On one side was an emperor's responsibility towards an ever-growing empire, his plans, his problems and his political complications. On the other side were perfumed silken tresses kissing the broad shoulders of a prince in love.

