Story of a feud that has gone on between two Irish families for more than 50 years.
Much to the consternation of the local townsfolk, the very rich Copper John Brodrick begins to develop a copper mine on Hungry Hill. He imports Cornish workers hoping to eventually entice the locals into working for him. His son, known as Greyhound John, isn't so sure anything will endear them to the locals. The opposition to the Brodricks is lead by the Donovan family and he gives them fair warning to stay off the property. When one of the protesters is killed while trying to help himself to some of the copper, the townspeople attack the facilities resulting in a great many more deaths - including one of Brodrick's sons, Henry - when the gunpowder store explodes. It marks the true beginning of a feud that will last for decades. Brodrick rebuilds his facilities and Greyhound John returns from London where he is studying the law after his sister tells him Fanny Rosa has also returned. A cave-in at the mine kills another member of the Donovan family but the younger John contracts typhoid and dies. Copper John lives on hoping his grandson Johnny will take over but he joins the army. When he finally inherits the estate, he has his own troubles to deal with.
The interrelationships between three generations within the lineage of the wealthy "John Brodricks" - Copper John, his son Greyhound John, and Greyhound John's son Wild Johnnie - in the mid to late nineteenth century Ireland are presented. Their stories are centered on the copper mine Copper John develops on Hungry Hill, and the feud between the Brodricks and the townsfolk, but especially the Donovans, who, having claimed Hungry Hill as their own for centuries before the Brodricks displaced them two hundred years ago when they moved into the area, have always wanted it maintained in its pristine natural condition while Copper John sees the mine as progress in addition to increasing his own and his family's wealth. Unlike his brother Henry who ends up being the favored son because of the issue, Greyhound John has no interest in or aptitude in any aspect of the mine, which places him at odds with his father. A similar animosity develops between Copper John and Wild Johnnie, the former who has never trusted the latter - that mistrust initially unfounded - which has profoundly affected Wild Johnnie's development, he who is only waiting for his grandfather to die to inherit his fortune. Present for most of these proceedings is Fanny Rosa, Greyhound John's tempestuous wife and Wild Johnnie's mother who primarily wants to see peace exist not only within the family but in the community.

