The normally friendly village of Lymston is plagued by vile anonymous letters. When a mother of three takes her own life, following such a letter, Ms. Marple is not at all convinced things are as they seem.
Her old friend Maude Calthrop, wife of the village vicar, summons Miss Marple when several of the local residents receive a poison pen letter. All of the recipients thus far are men and all are accused of some act of moral turpitude. When the local solicitor's wife, Angela Symington, is found dead with a poison pen letter at her side, the coroner rules that she took her own life. Not surprisingly, Jane Marple disagrees and is convinced it was murder. When a second villager is killed, it appears Miss Marple is correct. She also deduces the real purpose of the letters.
Squadron Leader Gerry Burton and his sister Joanna move to Lymston to recover after he is injured in a plane crash. They soon make friends with the people there, including Reverend Guy Dane-Calthrop and his wife, the Symmington family, and the Welsh Dr. Griffith and his sister Eryl. But Jerry soon receives an anonymous letter full of filthy accusations, and discovers other innocents in the village have suffered the same. Mrs. Dane-Calthrop calls her old friend Ms. Marple in to investigate before things get worse. Unfortunately, Mrs. Symmington commits suicide after receiving one of the poisonous letters. But she and others, including Gerry and Mrs. Symmington's daughter Megan, suspect things are not all they seem to be.
Squadron Leader Gerry Burton is sent to a tranquil country village to recover from the effects of a plane crash and be nursed back to health by his beautiful sister Joanna. As they are new to the community, they are shocked to receive an anonymous, sexually explicit poison pen letter. They later find that other village gentry have been victimized by the same crank writer, and the vicar's wife sends for her friend Miss Marple in hopes of exposing the perpetrator. When a solicitor's wife apparently takes poison after receiving a particularly vicious message, Miss Marple suspects that the letters are a smokescreen for something more ominous. When a house maid is found bludgeoned to death, she knows she is right.

