Terrorists take over a plutonium bomb and threaten to detonate it in a Saudi Arabian oil field. A special anti-terrorist unit is sent in to stop them.
The Russians steal a nuclear device and are stating that unless the Israelis pull out from the West bank, they will detonate it, which they have planted in an oil field and if it should go off; 50% of the World's oil will be contaminated. And the Israelis are unwilling to cooperate and the Americans knowing that they can't allow this are making preparations to force the Israelis off the West bank. The President then calls the Director of the CIA to do something about this. The Director assigns the agent who works outside the official channels codenamed the Soldier. He starts by trying to see if the Russians are indeed behind it but the Russians have him marked for termination. When he tries to contact the Director, the Russians placed a bomb in his office that leaves the soldier with no one but his team and the Israelis to help him.
Ken Wahl plays a CIA agent who's given a broad charter to complete the missions to which he's assigned. He's known only by his codename - The Soldier. A small group of renegade KGB agents hijack a shipment of nuclear fuel in the US. Transporting the shipment through Canada, they take it overseas to create a dirty bomb. The bomb is placed in an ordinary-looking oil barrel in a location only the renegade agents know about - somewhere in the Saudi oil fields. They threaten to detonate the bomb unless Israel removes its settlements from the West Bank.Israel is reluctant to do so ... convinced that they could survive the incident by becoming more agricultural. Still, they know the incident would contaminate the oil fields for many years and collapse Western economies.The US, however, is determined to "force" the Israelis off the West Bank unless the CIA can provide them with an alternative. The CIA director, later killed by one of the renegade KGB agents, assigns that job to The Soldier and his elite team of CIA operatives.Heading to West Germany, The Soldier attempts to find out whether this is a bonafide KGB operation or just the work of KGB renegades. And, he discovers the latter is true with the help of Israeli agents - in particular, a female agent with whom he has a romantic interest. Meanwhile, The Soldier's elite team takes over a missile silo complex in Smith Center, Kansas. Their purpose is to give The Soldier a bargaining chip to use with the renegade KGB agents - that if they detonate the dirty bomb, he'll order his operatives to launch missiles from the silo complex and "take out" Moscow.The Soldier and the lady Israeli agent then car-jump the Berlin Wall to confront the leader of the renegade KGB agents in East Berlin - making him aware of the potential consequences if they don't defuse the dirty bomb. Knowing that The Soldier isn't bluffing, the renegade leader orders the bomb defused before the US is forced to mount their attack on the West Bank. Afterward, The Soldier's operatives relinquish control of the silo complex.
