It starts in 1844 in Maryland, where Robert Taylor, plantation owner with slaves, is forced by debts to sell his estate and his people. Then he leaves for Cumberland, looking for a job (first time in his life), and ends up working for a stagecoach line run by Wallace Beery and owned by Florence Rice. Before love and friendship can triumph, Taylor will have to commit to the cause of African-Americans in search of freedom.
1844 Maryland. Aristocrat Blake Cantrell, who has never worked a day in his life, is forced to sell all his assets, including his manor in Baltimore County and slaves (even if he was tempted to set them free in they being more like family to him), to pay off debts accrued from his carefree aristocrat's lifestyle and a downturn in the economy, he ending up with next to nothing in needing to start life anew. For personal reasons and despite having no real ambition to work, he decides to head to the frontier town of Cumberland where he has the prospect for a job working for the Baltimore and Ohio, the steam railway which is a burgeoning business albeit one which is still having reliability problems, making it difficult to compete with the old fashioned stagecoach. Having no work experience, he instead enters unwantedly into the employee of B and O's competitor, the Bullet Stagecoach Line as a manual laborer under the supervision of its gruff manager, Captain Boss Starkey, the two men who don't much like each other. B and O has tried so far unsuccessfully to obtain Bullet's assigned right-of-way to be able to lay their next set of track. In this work, Cantrell stumbles onto the fact that elements within Bullet are using the coaches as a means of slave running. What Cantrell decides to do with this information may place him at further odds with Starkey, but also with Bullet's co-owner, Boston socialite Susan Griffith, she the reason he came to Cumberland in the first place as he is in love with her.
This western starring Beery and Taylor as rivals is one crackling western It involves the kidnapping and reselling of free slaves. Set in 1812 in the North, and a town of abolitionists, the crime needs to be solved. Beery must solve the crime. Taylor, a sympathetic Southerner has his reasons too. Together they bicker, fight but join forces to save the slaves and bring justice to the criminals.

