Chitra, her husband, Shekar, and two children, Arjun and Anu live in a rural area in India. When Chitra is expecting her third child, she is taken on a stormy night to a hospital where she is informed that her child, a girl, has been stillborn. Shortly thereafter the family re-locates to a flat in the city where Shekar works as an Architect at a construction site. Two years later, Chitra starts suspecting Shekar of having an extra-marital affair. When confronted, Shekar is at first elusive, then finally admits that Chitra did give birth to a brain-damaged child, who he left at the care of the hospital. Chitra brings the child home, much to the chagrin of Arjun and Anu, and other neighborhood kids. To make matters more complicated, Shekar witnesses the murder of a Police Inspector, and comes forward to testify, knowing fully well that the killer as well as the Police Department would like to close this file as a suicide. Watch what happens when things snow-ball out of control as Shekar faces off with his neighbors, who want him evicted because of Anjali, and the killer - who wants him to withdraw his testimony.
A married couple and their two children live together in South India. The family soon decide to have another child, however when born, it appears the child suffers from a terminal disease. The ailment is brought to the attention of the husband (Raghuvaran) at the local hospital, and together, the hospital authorities and the husband collude to keep the child's disease a secret from the mother (Revathi). They let the family believe the child is dead. When the truth eventually transpires, the child is brought back to the household. Colony representatives co-mingle to advocate the expulsion of the mentally-affected child from the neighborhood as it is affecting other children. The film explores why the husband did what he did, how the family, including the two other children come to accept the child into their lives, how she is cared for, and whether they finally are ready to let her go.
With deep social significance, this extraordinary tale highlights the need for awareness and sensitisation in our society towards those with special challenges. This movie also highlights the struggles and trauma faced by the families of the mentally challenged, through the life of Anjali (Shyamali) a mentally challenged girl who, after her father (Raghuvaran) sends her away for a few years, is brought home to live with her parents and two healthy siblings. The movie chronicles the love given and received by the little girl, the relationships she establishes with every member of the family through her special interactions with them, and the family's struggle to come to terms with the social consequences of Anjali's presence in their family. The family is helped by a mysterious stranger (Prabhu) who appoints himself their guardian angel, but will the family be able to bear the taunts and stigma of society? What will happen to Anjali and how will her family deal with her presence in their lives?

