An aging group of outlaws look for one last big score as the "traditional" American West is disappearing around them.
It's 1913, and the "traditional" American West is dying. Amongst the inhabitants of this dying era are a gang known as "the wild bunch." After a failed railroad office robbery, the gang heads to Mexico to do one last job. Seeing their times and lives drifting away in the 20th century, the gang takes the job and ends up in a brutally violent last stand against their enemies deemed to be corrupt, in a small Mexican town ruled by a ruthless general.
It's 1913 and the old West, facing the march of progress is rapidly changing. A gang of aging outlaws led by Pike Bishop, who are one steal from retirement, ride into the town of Starbuck Texas dressed as Union soldiers, to rob a local railway office where a posse of bounty-hunting gunmen await. On the other side of the line, Pat Harrigan wants Pike and his men dead to make his railroad safe. Deke Thornton wants to capture Pike, his "get-out-of-jail-free card", and the gang of bounty-hunters want the reward money on the "Bunch's" heads. No one is innocent in this unflinching tale of desperation against changing times.
In the waning days of the wild Old West and on the eve of World War I--after a botched attempt to rob a railroad office in broad daylight--the ageing outlaw, Pike Bishop, and his renegade gang of five equally dangerous criminals head to Mexico. With Bishop's former friend, Deke Thornton, and his posse of mercenaries hot on their trail, Pike and his men decide to do one daring last job: hijack a U.S. ammunition train to supply the megalomaniac General Mapache's revolutionary army. However, before long, this uneasy alliance will pave the way for a suicidal showdown, as loyalties are put to the test. Is there a future for Pike's Wild Bunch?
A few months before World War I, an aging band of outlaws led by Pike Bishop rob a Texas railroad office intent on using the money to retire. When the robbery goes wrong, the gang is forced to flee to Mexico with Pike's reformed ex-partner, Deke Thornton, in hot pursuit. With nothing to show for the failed robbery, Pike's gang agrees to steal a shipment of guns for General Mapache to restore their fortunes. With Thornton closing in, and their association with the evil Juerta trying their conscience, Pike and his gang prepare for their lawless past to catch up with them.
After a botched robbery attempt in Texas, Pike Bishop and his gang head south across the Rio Grande and into Mexico. They are being pursued by Deke Thornton and his men, made up of bounty hunters. They had been hired by the railroad to stop Bishop and his gang from robbing the rail depot and now have 30 days to track them down and kill them. Bishop and his men plan to spend only a short time in Mexico and then cross back into Texas to continue plying their trade. Their stay is lengthened however when they meet a violent Mexican general who wants them to rob a U.S. train carrying arms. They do so, but it leads to a violent and bloody final confrontation.
The movie takes place in 1913, during the height of the Mexican Revolution. In the fictional south Texas town of Starbuck, the "Wild Bunch" - led by Pike Bishop (William Holden), and also including Dutch Engstrom (Ernest Borgnine), Lyle and Tector Gorch (Warren Oates and Ben Johnson), Angel (Jaime Sanchez), Buck (Rayford Barnes), and Clarence 'Crazy' Lee (Bo Hopkins), among others - enters the town, with half of them dressed as United States cavalry soldiers. They ride past a group of children who are torturing a pair of scorpions by putting them on a hill of red ants (this image was suggested by Emilio Fernandez; he said that he and his friends had done similar things as children), a very symbolic image which symbolizes the events of the film. The gang breaks into the railroad office and holds it up, but on the roof of the San Rafael hotel across the street is a ragtag posse of bounty hunters, led by Patrick Harrigan (Albert Dekker), a railroad detective, and Deke Thornton (Robert Ryan), a former member of the gang being ambushed, along with scruffy bounty hunters Coffer (Strother Martin), T.C. (L.Q. Jones), Huey (Paul Harper), and Jess (stuntman Bill Hart).The gang's escape is interrupted by the local temperance union, which is holding a parade in the town, led by Reverend Wainscoat (Dub Taylor), playing "Shall We Gather At The River?" (a hymn used as a funeral song in innumerable John Ford Westerns, used here for ironic effect). Various members of the gang, inside and outside of the railroad office, spot the bounty hunters and Pike uses a railroad office worker as a decoy, throwing him out of the railroad office to draw the fire of the bounty hunters, allowing for the gang's escape.A vicious, confusing gunfight occurs, with gang members, bounty hunters, and civilians caught in the crossfire, resulting in numerous deaths. Only six members of the gang escape - Pike, Dutch, the Gorches, Angel, and Buck, who has been shot in the face and blinded - and the rest of the gang is killed. Crazy Lee is left behind to hold the railroad office patrons as hostages; when Harrigan and Thornton's gang descend from the roof of the hotel to scavenge from the various dead bodies, he is ultimately killed by Harrigan. Outside of town, Pike mercifully kills Buck, who is unable to continue riding due to his injuries.The surviving gang members arrive at a small Mexican town, where another gang member, the old Freddie Sykes (Edmond O'Brien), is waiting with horses and saddles. In this scene, they realize that the robbery was a set-up by the railroad - all of their earnings have been nothing but bags of steel washers. The excitable Gorches very nearly turn on Angel and Sykes, but they are held in check by Pike and Dutch. Later in the film, Sykes reveals to Pike that Crazy Lee - who had been deliberately left behind by Pike - was his grandson.We also learn as the film progresses that Thornton has been given his parole in exchange for his tracking down his old colleague Pike. Though Thornton continually disparages his posse as "gutter trash", he reluctantly continues his pursuit of the gang. Pike reveals through flashback (most of which were cut by the studio in the original version) how he abandoned Thornton to the railroad detectives, and also how he developed his painful leg wound (he had an affair with a Mexican woman (Aurora Clavell) and was shot by her husband), an injury that plagues him the rest of his life.Pike and his men return to Angel's village and remain there for a day and night. Pike learns from the village elder, Don Jose (Chano Urueta) that the village has been attacked by General Mapache (Emilio Fernandez), a Mexican general working for the government of General Huerta. Angel's father was hanged, and his girlfriend was taken by Mapache for his own. Though he tells Pike that he will not avenge his father, Angel remains obsessed with getting his vengeance on Mapache.The gang then heads to the small town of Agua Verde, Mapache's headquarters, to trade their horses. When they visit the General, Angel sees Teresa, his girlfriend, presenting a pony to Mapache. Angel shoots her in the arms of Mapache, nearly leading to a tense confrontation between the Mexicans and the gang, but Pike and Dutch defuse it. They are later hired by Mapache and his German military advisers to steal a US arms shipment for him, which they agree to for a price of ten thousand dollars - but Angel insists that they allow him to take a case of rifles to his village to protect them from Mapache. Pike and Dutch agree.The Bunch holds up the train, but Thornton and his posse are also on board. They pursue the Bunch to a bridge over the Rio Grande, with a squad of inept cavalrymen right behind them. After a confusing three-way shootout, the Bunch recrosses the border into Mexico. Thornton and his men are blown into the river when dynamite wired to the bridge by the Bunch explodes, and the gang makes their escape. After getting themselves back together, Thornton and his men pursue the gang into Mexico.Out on the trail toward Agua Verde, the Bunch find a Browning M1917 machine gun among the cache they stole. They are later met by a small group of Pancho Villa's men, friends of Angel. Angel's Mexican comrades silently sneak up on the Bunch after dark and hold them hostage for a few minutes until Angel can square things. Pike and Dutch seem quite impressed with the ability of the revolutionaries to get the drop on them, however the Gorches are angry that they'd been made to look like fools. The Mexicans leave as silently as they arrived.While waiting for word of the Bunch's robbery at a telegraph station, Mapache and his entourage are attacked by forces led by Pancho Villa and routed. Mapache sends one of his subordinates, Captain Herrera (Alfonso Arau), to meet the Bunch in a wide ravine with a large group of soldiers, but the confrontation nearly turns violent after a nervous Mexican soldier fires at the wagon holding the weapons. The Bunch has wired the wagon with dynamite, and Pike lights the fuse until Herrera defuses the situation by executing the soldier who has fired on the gang. When it seems like Herrera's men may open fire en masse, the Bunch reveals that they've assembled and loaded the M1917. Herrera realizes they're outgunned and retreats.The Bunch then hides their weapons haul - the fifteen cases of rifles, plus the M1917 - and gives it in installments to Mapache in exchange for their money. Unfortunately, when Angel and Dutch arrive in town, Mapache reveals that he has been tipped off by Teresa's father of Angel's perfidy -- for killing his daughter, the father revealed to Mapache that one of the cases of rifles was given to the rebels by Angel. Angel is captured by Mapache's men, and Dutch simply rides off, unable to rescue his comrade.The gang regroups at a canyon outside of town, waiting for Sykes to return with their pack horses, and they argue over what to do. Then they watch as Sykes is ambushed and seriously wounded by Thornton's posse. Pike decides to abandon his old friend, who is being pursued hotly by Thornton's men, and return to Agua Verde to retrieve Angel. Mapache refuses to turn over Angel, who has been badly tortured, and invites the gang to spend the night in town whoring and drinking.The next morning, Pike decides to make a final stand while looking over his last bottle of whiskey and the woman he'd spent the night with. The four gang members load up shotguns, rifles, and semi-automatic sidearms and march through Agua Verde to Mapache's headquarters. After demanding Angel's release again, a drunken Mapache at first appears ready to turn Angel over but slits his throat, and he is subsequently gunned down by Pike and Dutch. After a tense moment, the drunken Mexican soldiers under Mapache react, unsure of what to do. After a few more seconds, Dutch looks at Pike and laughs, actually thinking that they might get away with killing Mapache over it being a justifiable killing. However, Pike is not amused. Apparently, he has already decided to die there. Pike takes deliberate aim at Captain Mohr, Mapache's adviser, and shoots him dead.Mohr's shooting prompts a vicious, bloody gunfight (referred to as the "Battle of the Bloody Porch" by the film's crew), as the Bunch shoots their way through Mapache's officers and seizes the machine gun. They inflict scores of casualties on the Mexican solders but finally fall due to the sheer numbers of their foe. Lyle and Tector are shot repeatedly as they try to man the machine gun; after being shot in the back by a Mexican prostitute (whom he kills afterwords) Pike is finally killed by a Mexican boy wielding a rifle and other soldiers in a hail of bullets while manning the machine gun; Dutch is gunned down rushing to his side.After the battle, with Mapache's army nearly wiped out, Thornton and his surviving men ride into town and begin looting the dead bodies of the Mexican soldiers and their prey, while Thornton looks at his fallen colleagues in pity, taking Pike's unused revolver. Thornton declines to join the bounty hunters as they return to the United States, remaining at Agua Verde; they are ambushed and killed somewhere down the trail.In the final scene, Sykes, Don Jose, and a large group of Villa rebels later arrive at the town, and Thornton decides to join them.
