Alison Kirbe of London, receives a telegram from Texas, that she has inherited a livestock ranch. It is plastered throughout the London newspapers that Alison has become a rich heiress, and is sailing to the United Slates alone to claim her inheritance. Or so she thinks. Three men, Terence Keath, Jeremy Tayler, and Jeremy's lawyer, Matthew Kinston take an interest in Alison, after reading about her in the papers. They all board the ship hoping to become involved with her, but, all for different reasons. Terence, is a gambler and wants to marry a rich women to pay his debts. Jeremy, a multi-millionaire wants a wife, and Matthew wants to protect Jeremy's fortune, for he belives Alison is actually running a scam. All aboard!
Alison Kirbe, a working class London lass, comes into a windfall when Hank, an aging soldier she met when he was stationed in England during the war, the two who became pen pals, bequeaths to her his property, Thirty Mile Ranch in Texas, following his death. This story hits the local London papers mentioning her as an heiress. She plans to go to Texas to claim her inheritance, taking a steamship to New York, and traveling by land from there. Alison ends up being romanced by three men she meets on board the ship. One is playboy Jeremy Taylor, who is prone to lavishing his wealth on the woman who is on his arm at the time. Two is Matt Kinston, Jeremy's lawyer who is on board to ensure Jeremy doesn't meet anyone on board on who to squander his wealth. Matt only romances Alison to ensure that Jeremy doesn't. Matt believes that Alison is a fraud in that she is making up the story of inheriting all this money. And three is Terry Keath. Alison is unaware that Terry is a fortune hunter, who read about her in the newspaper. Terry is in a financial bind as he owes money he doesn't have. In romancing Alison, Terry knows he has to spend money to make even more money by getting Alison to marry him, and decides to bankroll whatever Alison may want to buy en route until she reaches Texas. For Terry to be able to do so, he needs to convince his backer, New York gangster and casino owner Lucky Reilly that Alison is a good if not sure bet. Alison has to decide what to do with these three men vying for her affections. Things change when a certain truth comes to light. Based on that truth, Alison sets in motion a plan to help one out of a bind, while she and each of the three men have to come to some realizations about how they truly feel about the other.
A pretty English girl, Alison Kirbe, is en route by ship to American to claim a 50,000-acre ranch in Texas willed to her by a friends. On board, she meets Terence Terry" Keith, looking for a rich girl to pay off his gambling debts, and his 'man' Vincent Maran, who has been assigned by gambler "Lucky" Reilly to stay with Terry in the event he happens to find some money. Terry begins his courtship campaign but has a setback when Alison meets attorney Matthew Kinston, ans his rich, playboy client, Jeremy Taylor, who Matthew is trying to shield from any gold-digger who may be cruising about. Matthew's faith in Alison is shaken when he recognizes Vincent as a crook, and Vincent tells him that Alison and Terry are hatching a plot that is intended to lighten Jeremy's fortune somewhat severely. This, for those who couldn't keep up while watching the film, a ploy by Vincent to make sure Jeremy doesn't do anything that might put a crimp in his plans to relieve Alison of her money. Other complications follow.

