Witek runs after a train. Three variations follow on how such a seemingly banal incident could influence the rest of Witek's life.
In 1981 in the troubled Poland, when the father of the medical student Wietold Dlugosz dies, he asks one year leave to the dean of the university to rethink his vocation to medicine. He decides to travel to Warsaw, but while running after the train in the station, three possible events happen. In the first possibility, Witek reaches the train, meets his former sweetheart Czuszka that belongs to an Anti-Communist underground movement and joins the Party after saving hostages of protesters in a building. In the second possibility, Witek is caught by a guard in the station while running to catch the train and reacts, being sent to the court and sentenced to thirty days of community work. He joins the group of students that are against the system, publishing papers in an underground press. While his comrades are arrested by the government agents, Witek is having a love affair with the sister of a childhood friend and escapes from prison; however, his former companions believe he is a traitor. On the third possibility, Witek does not reach the train and decides to return to the university and conclude the medicine course. He marries his girlfriend Olga and they graduate in the medical school. They become successful doctors and Witek accepts to travel to Paris to present the lecture of the dean, who was disgraced with the Party when his son was arrested in a movement against the government. The three serendipities do not bring happiness to Witek.
A young man in Communist-era Poland (circa 1980) is shown having three fates, all dependent on what happens when he tries to catch a train pulling out of a station. In the first scenario he makes it to the train and goes to the city, where he becomes involved with a young woman, while at the same time working with government officials who are sympathetic to an underground movement. The second scenario shows him missing the train and due to an altercation with the police, he is put on a work detail. He meets some of the underground again in this story, but with different results--he meets an old friend and his friend's sister, he meets a priest and gets baptized, and then almost consumates an affair with the sister, but she halts it when she finds out he's made a profession of Christian faith (she is Jewish). He also helps with an underground press. The third scenario he misses the train but does not get involved with the underground, the government, or the Church. Instead, he meets a young woman from his medical class, gets her pregnant, then marries her and becomes a doctor. A professor from the medical school asks him to fill in for him as a lecturer in Libya. The young man agrees to go, though his wife has some hesitation about him going (she is pregnant again). As the plane rises from the runway, it suddenly explodes, and the movie ends. We do not know why it has exploded, or who has done it, if anyone.
