An ex-con trying to go straight is framed for a million dollar armored car robbery and must go to Mexico in order to unmask the real culprits.
A down-on-his-luck ex-G.I. finds himself framed for an armored car robbery. When he's finally released for lack of evidence, after having been worked-over by the police, he sets out to discover who set him up, and why. The trail leads him into Mexico and a web of hired thugs and a corrupt cop.
In Kansas City, Missouri, the criminals Peter Harris, Boyd Kane, and Tony Romano are individually hired by a stranger that plots the robbery of an armored car after receiving the money from a bank in the next door of a flower shop. However, each one of them wears masks, and does not know the identities of the others; therefore they can not recognize each other. They succeed in the heist of 1.2 million dollars and escape in a van of the Western Florists, and the mentor of the robbery gives tickets to them to travel abroad, promising to share the money later. Meanwhile, the decorated soldier and ex-con driver of the Western Florists van Joe Rolfe that is delivering flowers in the shop is framed. He is accused of participating of the heist, arrested and worked-over by the police, loses his job, and when the police recognizes the mistake, he is released. Unemployed, he discovers that Peter Harris went to Tijuana, and he decides to chase the criminal and request one fifth of the amount.
Joe Rolfe (John Payne) is an every-day Joe delivering flowers to the local businesses in Kansas City. When disgruntled cop Timothy Foster (Preston S. Foster) cases a local payroll delivery van for a holdup he takes into account the schedule of Rolfe and his deliveries as he plans his getaway. Foster contacts three crooks to help with the crime while keeping his own identity secret he blackmails them with past crimes and a guarantee of a $300 thousand-dollar payout for each. Pulling in Peter Harris (Jack Elam), Boyd Kane (Neville Brand), and Tony Romano (Lee Van Cleef), Foster pulls off a robbery of a bank next to one of Rolfe's deliveries and then by using a duplicate flower van points the police to Rolfe who is arrested and brutally interrogated by the police. Eventually cleared Rolfe is determined to clear his name and sets out to find the crew that set him up. He tracks Harris to a gambling joint in Mexico and takes on his identity and travels to a resort town in Tijuana to confront the rest of the crooks. Once there he meets Foster's daughter Helen (Coleen Gray) who has come to surprise her father. Rolfe and Helen develop an immediate attraction for each other and Foster attempts to keep them apart, as he plans to frame Rolfe for the bank job. As the time for splitting up the money draws near Kane and Tony discover Rolfe's true identity and a dangerous confrontation with Foster appears inevitable.
