Julius Caesar flees Rome because of a conspirary against him and is given refuge the king of Bithnyia. He finds a woman there and while he escorts her to Rhodes their ship is attacked. Caught by the pirates he asks for help to get back to Rome.
In the year 75 BC, a young 25 year old Julius Caesar is forced to flee for his life Rome because of his wife Cornelia's ties to the Dictator, Sulla's enemies. He escapes on a raft with his doctor friend, Publius and his faithful servant, Frontone. They are given sanctuary by the King of Bithynia, but are captured by pirates when they sail on one of the king's boats for Mileto with Quintilia, who's father is the govenor. The pirate leader asks for a 20 talent ransom for Caesar's release but he is insulted by that because he thinks that is to low and says he will pay 50 gold talents for his, and his friends release. His friend Publius goes back to Rome to get the money with Hamar's sidekick Akim, but on their return they are robbed by Edom. The govenor of Mileto.
It is 75BC and Rome is in turmoil. Killers are on the loose. The dictator Sulla is having all the Roman Senators who refuse to support him murdered and Julius Caesar must flee Rome. He and his friend Publius, and his servant Frontone escape by sea on a raft and are picked up by a boat and taken to Bithynia. There King Nicomedes gives Ceasar sanctuary. Caesar requests a ship to go to Mileto because he wants to see Valerio Torquato, the Govenor of Mileto. Caesar is asked to escort Quintilia, Caesar's cousin to Mileto and also take the slave, Claudia. What Caesar doesn't realise is that Claudia is the intended bride of Hamar, the pirate leader. Caesar's ship is attacked by pirates and Caesar and his companions are taken prisoner. They are taken to Formacusa, the island stronghold of Hamar. There Caesar is held for ransom. Publius is sent back to Rome to collect Caesar's ransom money on a ship with Akim, Hamar's lieutenant but on the return voyage the ship is attacked by Edom, the ally of Nicomedes and the gold taken. Hamar is furious and vows revenge. Meanwhile Claudia helps Caesar and his companions escape and they reach the boat of Govenor Valerio Torquato. Caesar tells the govenor where the pirate stronghold is. Three boats of Roman soldiers attack the island stronghold and battle ensues. Hamar decides to kill Claudia because of what she did and Caesar tries to save her, but she dies in his arms. Hamar fights Caesar in the final battle but he is killed by Caersar who returns back to Rome to be with his beloved, Cornelia.

