A burglar betraying other criminals, prepares for a big heist with a trusted friend that might be as untrustworthy as he.
Burglar Maurice Faugel has just finished his sentence. He murders Gilbert Vanovre, a receiver, and steals the loot of a break-in. He is also preparing a house-breaking, and his friend Silien brings him the needed equipment. But Silien is a police informer ... A movie whose "all characters are two-faced, all characters are false", according to director Jean-Pierre Melville.
Maurice Faugel has just been released from prison when he kills his friend Gilbert Varnove. Maurice then attempts to commit a robbery. The police appear and he tries to run but the police shoot at him and he is wounded. He looses consciousness and awakes in his friend Jean's apartment. He believes that his friend Silien told the police about his plans because Silien is rumoured to be a police informant. Silien is questioned by the police about the murder of Gilbert and the robbery before the police collect Maurice from a bar where he is reading a newspaper report about his girlfriend, Therese's death. Therese has been found in her car at the bottom of a quarry. Silien is released and goes to meet his ex-girlfriend Fabienne. With Fabienne's help, Silien frames someone else for the murder and robbery, leaving Maurice in the clear. Maurice is released from prison and discovers that it was Therese who told the police about the robbery and Silien and Jean who killed her. Maurice reveals that he killed Gilbert because Gilbert killed his girlfriend Arlette four years ago to keep her quiet. Silien returns home but once Silien has left, Maurice remembers that he hired a man to kill Silien because he thought he had betrayed him and chases after him.
Tight twisting story of cross and double-cross that comes out badly for everyone. Gangster Maurice Faugel (Serge Reggiani), recently released after 4 years in prison, takes a long walk to meet his friend and fence Gilbert Varnove (René Lefèvre), who offers him a job and also offers money if Maurice feels too uncomfortable with this job. Maurice asks to borrow a gun where upon he shoots Gilbert and takes a large amount of cash, jewels, and the gun. When Maurice hears a car arrive and jewel thief Nuttheccio (Michel Piccoli) at the door, he jumps out a window and buries his loot beneath a lamp post on a deserted road. Later back at his apartment where he is living with his lover Therese (Monique Hennessy), Maurice meets with Silien (Jean-Paul Belmondo) and Gilbert (René Lefèvre) two gangsters who are helping him prepare for a small burglary. Maurice has had Therese case the house he is going to rob and she alerts Maurice to the rumor that Silien is a Police informant, something to which Maurice claims he will give Silien the benefit of the doubt until he has absolute evidence. On the night of the burglary as Maurice and safe cracker Remy (Philippe Nahon) go to the job, Silien returns to Maurice's apartment and tortures Therese for the address to the location of the crime. When the police arrive Maurice and his partner try to escape, killing inspector Salignari (Daniel Crohem) after Remy has been shot and just before Maurice passes out from a gun shot to the shoulder. Maurice wakes up after being tended to by a doctor and determines to get even with Silien whom he believes has ratted him out, but before he leaves, he gives the information about the loot and hidden gun to Anita to hand over to his friend Jean (Philippe March). Then before he finds Silien while Maurice is reading a newspaper report about his girlfriend, Therese's death. he is apprehended by police Superintendent Clain (Jean Desailly) who holds Maurice for killing the policeman. Meanwhile Silien who is determined to retire, has learned that his friend inspector Salignari is dead and now is coerced into working with Superintendent Clain. After Silien is questioned by the police about the murder of Gilbert and the robbery, he helps Clain find Maurice. While in jail, Maurice arranges for another prisoner to kill Silien, still believing that Silien had been the informant. but is determined to help his friend Maurice and find out who the real informant is.. Silien is released and goes to meet his ex-girlfriend Fabienne. With Fabienne's help, Silien frames Nuttheccio (Michel Piccoli) for the murder and robbery of Varnove, leaving Maurice in the clear. Maurice is released from prison and learns from Silien, backed by Jean that it was Therese who told the police about the robbery and that Silien and Jean killed her. Maurice reveals that he killed Gilbert because Gilbert killed his girlfriend Arlette four years ago to keep her quiet. Silien returns home but once Silien has left, Maurice remembers that he hired a man to kill Silien because he thought he had betrayed him and chases after him. That does not goo well, as Maurice arrives at Silien's home before Silien and is shot. Then when Silien arrives, the dying Maurice warns him, so he shoots the hit man, but in turn Silien is shot in the back. leaving all three men to die in Silien's house.
