Holed up in a decrepit Athenian mansion, a quartet of handsome pariahs wait for something to happen in their lives. As the state tightens the noose on them, the shotguns have the final say. Is this the sad swan song of the sweet bunch?
The diary of the life and death of a group of "amoral" young people, who have reached the point of no return and seek something to believe in and to die for. Their behavior brings them to the attention of the State. A discreet surveillance begins. A vigilante group monitors their house, headed by a nameless blonde man.
Holed up in a decrepit mansion somewhere in the faceless Athenian metropolis, the elegant thief and one-off pornstar, Argiris; his professional shoplifter friend, Marina, and their shady black-clad companion, Sofia, wait for something to happen in their unconventional and dead-end lives. As another handsome pariah--the freshly released from prison, Andreas--and the lonely adult film star, Rosa, join the band of outcasts, an elite task force of undercover cops led by a mysterious blonde man in black start watching their every move. More and more, the invisible but ever-present state tightens the noose on the young quartet of criminals. Now, in a desperate attempt at redemption, the shotguns have the final say. Is this the mournful swan song of the cornered sweet bunch?
The diary of the life and death of a group of "amoral" young people, who have reached the point of no return and seek something to believe in and to die for. Their behavior brings them to the attention of the State. A discreet surveillance begins. A vigilante group monitors their house. Its headed by a nameless blonde man, who waits... The film is a study of the new face of world fascism. It is a story of joy and of tender love.
A melody of death, a rapture of colors... sweet violence and dreams. It's the story of four friends, who might be your neighbors, that consciously chose to die behind their stolen shotguns, while flinging their sarcastic smiles at your face.
