A man who has been having visions of an impending danger begins an affair with a woman who may lead him to his doom.
The morbid Catholic writer Gerard Reve who is bisexual, alcoholic and has frequent visions of death is invited to give a lecture in the literature club of Vlissingen. While in the railway station in Amsterdam, he feels attracted to a handsome man who embarks on another train. Gerard is introduced to the treasurer of the club and beautician Christine Halsslag, a wealthy widow who owns the Spider beauty shop, and they engage in a one night stand. On the next morning, Gerard sees the picture of Christine's boyfriend Herman and recognizes him as the man he saw in the train station. He urges her to bring Herman to her house to spend a couple of days together, but with the secret intention of seducing the man. Christine travels to Köln to bring her boyfriend and Gerard stays alone in her house. He drinks whiskey and snoops through her safe, finding three film reels with names of men; he decides to watch the footage and discovers that Christine had married each; all of whom died in tragic accidents. Later Gerard believes Christine is a Black Widow and questions whether Herman or he will be her doomed fourth husband.
An alcoholic writer begins having visions apparently warning him of impending danger. After he delivers a lecture, he begins an affair with a woman from the audience. The visions intensify, however, and begin to threaten his relationship with the woman, since it may be her the visions are warning against.
In a man's bedroom, a large spider catches flies from her web affixed to a crucifix. The man is Reve, a novelist, Catholic, often soused, gay. That day, he travels from Amsterdam to Vlissingen to speak; his stories, he says, "lie the truth." A listener, Christine, a seductive beautician, invites him to stay the night. Next day, he sees a photo of her boyfriend, a buff plumber from Köln. He convinces her to bring Herman to town and sets out to seduce him. Gradually, aided by visions and nightmares, he's sure Christine's a murderous witch who's killed three husbands; he or Herman will be the fourth man. Is he mad or prescient? Is she like a spider? Only the hairdresser knows for sure.

