A group of college-age buddies struggle with their imminent passage into adulthood in 1959 Baltimore.
Early twenty-something Baltimoreans Eddie, Shrevie, Boogie, Billy, Fenwick and Modell have been friends since they were kids, where the center of their lives has been and still is the Fells Point Diner. It's the last week of 1959. Baltimore Colts fanatic Eddie is scheduled to get married to Elyse on New Year's Eve, but may call off the wedding if Elyse doesn't pass his Colts quiz which he will hold two days before the scheduled wedding. Inexperienced Eddie turns to the only other married one among the bunch, electronics salesman and music aficionado Shrevie, for advice, he who may not be the best person from who to ask advice on marriage since he doesn't yet realize that he probably got married to his wife Beth for the wrong reasons. Indeed, Beth, who has lost her sense of identity, is unhappy in their marriage, and contemplates having an affair with someone who provides what she believes is a sympathetic shoulder. Hairdresser and law school student Boogie is the player of the bunch, he who has some major financial problems because of his quest for the fast buck. Generally straight laced Billy, Eddie's best man who has been away getting his MBA, has come back to Baltimore a few days early to clarify his relationship with his girlfriend, Barb. Smart-aleck Fen is a college drop out who lives off his trust fund. He doesn't much like his family but likes what their money can afford him. And insecure Modell is afraid to ask for anything directly. As 1960 approaches, they collectively deal with how to be truly adults.
In 1959 Baltimore, five steadfast friends continue to meet at an all-night diner, something they've been doing since they were in high school. As they get older, life begins to change for them. Shrevie is the first to get married, but soon realizes that he has absolutely nothing in common with his wife Beth and they have nothing to talk about. Eddie is engaged but will only marry his fiancée if she passes a 140 question test on his beloved Baltimore Colts. Billy is completing his Master's degree and comes home early to be with Barbara, who he learns is pregnant. She won't marry him however. Boogie's main interests in life are women and gambling - but he owes an impatient bookie $2000. Tim is wasting his life away living off his trust fund and is drunk most of the time. Somehow they work through all of their problems.
Set in 1959, Diner shows how five young men resist their adulthood and seek refuge in their beloved Diner. The mundane, childish, and titillating details of their lives are shared. But the golden moments pass, and the men shoulder their responsibilities, leaving the Diner behind.

