A pesky yellow cat becomes the bane of Mr. Johnson's life as it constantly outsmarts his increasingly desperate attempts to get rid of it.
Animated illustration of the folksong, "The Cat Came Back," sung by a quartet. Old Mr. Johnson, at 80-plus years, sits in his bed sit playing his tuba when someone leaves a small yellow cat on his doorstep. The cat is destructive, so Old Mr. Johnson puts it back on the doorstep. The cat comes back through the mail slot. Then Johnson tries the woods, the sea, a helium balloon, and a scenic railway. Each time, Old Mr. Johnson takes the brunt of the adventure and the cat returns more destructive than before. Finally it's time for dynamite. Nine lives anyone? Mee-ouch.
Mr. Johnson is initially perturbed by the doorbell ringing interruption to his sousaphone playing, until he sees that the doorbell is an anonymous person leaving him a yellow cat wearing a bow tie. He is enamored with the cat until the cat starts to wreak havoc in his home. Mr. Johnson does whatever he can to get rid of the cat, often devising ingenious ways to do so (which often cause him some grief in the process), but time after time, the cat seems to make its way back to his house causing more and more damage. At his wits end, he decides to try a different tact, which although has a different result than he anticipated, does reach the end goal of not having to deal with the cat anymore. Or so he believes.
Old Mr. Johnson is busy practicing his Tuba, when an incessant knocking is heard at his door. Unable to concentrate, he angrily flings the door open, only to find a little yellow cat in a purple bassinet on his doorstep. Intrigued by the cute cat, Mr. Johnson brings him inside. Finding an old baby rattle of his, Mr. Johnson gives it to the cat to play with, but with one swipe of it's paw, the heirloom shatters. Angered by this, Mr. Johnson takes the cat outside, figuring it'll wander off.However, no sooner has he turned his back, then the cat scampers through the mail slot, and begins to slowly wreak his house. This time, Mr. Johnson takes the cat to a nearby forest, and tries to abandon the cat. In the process, Mr. Johnson ends up lost himself, and in finally getting back to the house, finds that the cat has come back, and is continuing to wreck his abode.Mr. Johnson then takes a fish on the wall, and uses it to lure the cat into a bag. Heading out for the nearest body of water, Mr. Johnson intends to drown the cat. However, a mishap with the ship's anchor sends him over the side. Once he returns to his home, he finds the cat has come back, and still is making a shambles of things.Next, placing the cat into a bicycle, Mr. Johnson peddles to the site of a hot-air balloon, hoping to send the cat aloft and out of his life. However, he ends up being sent aloft, and the balloon slowly leaks air, sending him on a spiraling journey. When he returns home again, he finds the cat has once again found it's way back!Now slowly losing his sanity, Mr. Johnson places the cat on a handcar, and speedily heads along the rails for the highest point of the nearest mountain range. However, a mishap with a cow on the tracks causes him to plummet off the top of a high precipice, and into an open mine shaft. Lighting a match, Mr. Johnson finds the mine shaft filled with dozens of rats. Mr. Johnson runs for his life and makes it back to his home, only to find it completely destroyed inside, as the cat has come back yet again to continue it's rampage.At the end of his rope, Mr. Johnson grabs numerous sticks of dynamite, hoping to blow the cat to kingdom come. However, he ends up blowing himself up, as well as his house. As his dead body flies into the air, Mr. Johnson appears in the form of an angel, and then returns to Earth, to mock the cat (who is still intact). As Mr. Johnson laughs at this, his dead body falls to Earth, crushing the cat. As he looks on, his eyes widen in horror, as the cat comes back...in 9 angelic forms! (Cats have 9 lives after all).Finally snapping, Mr. Johnson screams, flying off to heaven with the 9 cats following behind him.
