A young artist, searching for his vocation, makes a mannequin so perfect he falls in love with it. Finding the mannequin in a store window, he gets a job there and his creation comes to life.
Down-on-his-luck artist Jonathan Switcher bounces from one dead-end job to another, never managing to hold onto any of them. But everything changes when he builds a mannequin, which he falls in love with. It is the first thing he has made that makes him feel like a real artist. Much to his surprise, Jonathan discovers the mannequin prominently displayed in the window of Prince and Company department store. When he saves the life of an old lady who happens to be the owner of that store, he is rewarded by getting a job at the store as a stock boy. The mannequin later comes to life as Ema "Emmy" Hesire, an ancient Egyptian princess living in the year 2514 BC. Gorgeous and vivacious, this femme fatale helps Jonathan turn his career around, inspiring him to become the best window dresser in town. But Emmy soon discovers that the real world is not very dear, when they run into competitors who want to bring them out of business - for good.
In Ancient Egypt, the young princess Ema "Emmy" Hesire is a woman ahead of her time. When her mother attempts to force her to marry a manure dealer, she wishes to go to the future and vanishes. In present-day Philadelphia, Jonathan Switcher is an idealistic young artist that builds a mannequin. However, he is inefficient and cannot keep his jobs and his ambitious girlfriend Roxie Shield leaves him. But Jonathan discovers his mannequin prominently displayed in the window of Prince and Company department store. On the next morning, he saves the life of Mrs. Claire Timkin, who owns Prince and Company, and she asks the corrupt manager Mr. Richards to give Jonathan the position in the stock. Prince and Company is near bankruptcy and Illustra Company intends to but it, using Richards to sabotage the department store. Emmy comes back to life only for Jonathan and they arrange wonderful window displays. Jonathan is promoted to window dresser, working with the flamboyant Hollywood Montrose that becomes his friend. Jonathan soon becomes a successful designer, leveraging Prince and Company and is promoted to vice president. But Illustra's general manager, Roxie and Richards want to force Jonathan to work for Illustra and kidnap Emmy.
The film begins in Ancient Egypt, with the young princess Ema 'Emmy' Hesire (Kim Cattrall) hiding from her mother (Phyllis Newman) in a pyramid. Emmy is against her arranged marriage, and prays to the gods to be united with her true love in the future. Strangely enough, Emmy vanishes before her mother's eyes, and ends up travelling through history, meeting famous persons of different ages, including Christopher Columbus, on her search for true love.In present-day Philadelphia, Jonathan Switcher (Andrew McCarthy) is a young artist working in a mannequin factory. Jonathan takes his time perfecting the mannequin he is currently working on, which angers his boss who claims he needs to be working more on quantity than quality. Jonathan protests, but is fired. Unknown to Jonathan, Emmy has come to possess the mannequin he has just created. Jonathan attempts to find other jobs, but his artistic passion gets him fired from almost every single one. One evening after his motorcycle breaks down in the rain, Jonathan passes by some department store windows belonging to Prince &amp; Company, and is surprised to see his mannequin in the store window.The next morning, Jonathan returns to the store, and ends up saving the life of its owner, Mrs. Claire Timkin (Estelle Getty), from certain doom. In return for this heroic deed, Claire offers to find Jonathan a position in the department store. Jonathan is soon paired up with the flamboyant Hollywood Montrose (Meshach Taylor), the store's chief window dresser. Jonathan eventually finds the mannequin he created, and is surprised when it comes to life when he is alone. Emmy then explains herself to Jonathan, who is unsure if he is dreaming or has gone insane. The next morning, Jonathan wakes up in a newly-created window display advertising tennis equipment and sports wear, unsure if he dreamed all this or not.The newly-created window display begins to attract attention, bringing shoppers back to Prince &amp; Company. The landmark store has been losing shoppers to a newer and trendier department store named Illustra. Secretly, Prince &amp; Company manager Mr. Richards (James Spader) is being paid to convince Claire to sell her store to Illustra. However, after the recent floor traffic seen due to Jonathan's window display, Claire feels that Jonathan could be the key to saving her store. Ignoring Mr. Richards, the board members promote Jonathan to visual merchandising.Over the next several weeks, Jonathan and Emmy continue their secret romance, and keep improving the creativity of the store's window displays. The window designs are bringing a tremendous number of customers and profits for the store. Jonathan soon receives a call from his former girlfriend, Roxie Shield (Carole Davis), who just happens to work for Illustra. Jonathan meets her for lunch at a French restaurant, where Roxie says that Illustra wants him to be their chief window dresser. Jonathan explains to Roxie that he can't do this, considering that he likes working at Prince &amp; Company, as well as working with a very beautiful woman there.Jonathan's words enrage Roxie, causing her and another co-worker to sneak into Prince &amp; Company after hours to take pictures of Jonathan and his supposed girlfriend. However, they are shocked when they see what appears to be Jonathan getting intimate with a mannequin (Emmy only comes to life or can be seen alive only when Jonathan is alone). Jonathan's window designs continue to be the talk of the town, and business continues to come back to Prince &amp; Company, leaving the chief executive of Illustra seething. Claire has been very impressed with Jonathan's work, and soon after makes him a vice president in the department store, after she fires Mr. Richards.Meanwhile, Jonathan chooses to celebrate that evening by taking Emmy out for a ride on his motorcycle. However, before he can leave, he is accosted by Roxie again, who claims he needs to seek help, going around with a mannequin on his motorcycle, and begs him again to come to work at Illustra. Jonathan denies again, claiming that he has people at Prince &amp; Company who care about him, and someone who makes him feel special. As he rides away, Roxie shouts after him that he will be sorry and is making a serious mistake. Mr. Richards and former security guard Captain Felix Maxwell (G.W. Bailey) realize that Jonathan has a fixation on one of the mannequins and plans to steal Emmy.Later that evening, Jonathan and Emmy enjoy their time alone in the store, before Emmy leaves his side to take her place in a store window. However, Mr. Richards and Felix have come to steal Emmy, only they are not sure which mannequin is her. Desperate, they simply steal every female mannequin from the store. Jonathan wakes up the next morning in the store and is informed of this plan by Hollywood. Jonathan immediately suspects Illustra is behind this, and drives over there with Hollywood. Obviously, stealing Emmy was an attempt to blackmail Jonathan, but all he wants to know is where Emmy is. Roxie storms out, swearing he will never see her again, with Jonathan giving chase.The chase takes Jonathan to a backroom where a massive shredder is incinerating several female mannequins, and Emmy is slowly moving along the conveyor belt to her doom. Just as she is about to fall in, Jonathan grabs her, and through a miracle, Emmy comes to life, grabbing his arm, as he pulls her out. Emmy is now free from her ancient curse. In the aftermath, Claire comes to Illustra, and explains that she has videotape of Illustra's employees scheming to take over the company, as well as footage of them sneaking into the store after hours. Illustra's chief executive fires Roxie as he, Mr. Richards and Felix are arrested and hauled away for their greedy actions.The film then ends with Jonathan and Emmy being married in the store window of Prince &amp; Company, with Claire as the bridesmaid and Hollywood as the best man, as well as numerous pedestrians outside the window watching them exchange vows.
