A lawman from Bannock arrives in Sabbath to arrest all the cattlemen whose wild celebration the year before resulted in the accidental death of an old man.
While passing through the town of Bannock, a bunch of drunken, trail-weary cattlemen go overboard with their celebrating and accidentally kill an old man with a stray shot. They return home to Sabbath unaware of his death. Bannock lawman Jered Maddox later arrives there to arrest everyone involved on a charge of murder. Sabbath is run by land baron Vince Bronson, a benevolent despot, who, upon hearing of the death, offers restitution for the incident. Maddox, however, will not compromise even though small ranchers like Vern Adams are not in a position to desert their responsibilities for a long and protracted trial. Sabbath's marshal, Cotton Ryan, is an aging lawman whose tough reputation rests on a single incident that occurred years before. Ryan admits to being only a shadow of what he once was and incapable of stopping Maddox. Maddox confides to Ryan that Bannock's judicial system is weak and corrupt, and while he's doubtful that anyone he brings back will suffer more than the price of a bribe, he will not be deterred from the unrelenting pursuit of his duty. Initially Bronson appears willing to make concessions, but when his oldest friend Harvey Stenbaugh is killed after deliberately picking a fight with Maddox, Bronson digs in his heels with the rest of the town to resist the relentless lawman.
In the dusty town of Bannock, a stray bullet fired by the gun-toting gang of cattle mogul Vincent Bronson's drunken ranch hands results in the inadvertent murder of an innocent elderly bystander. As the culprits return to Bronson's farm in Sabbath, Bannock's fearless and unyielding law-man, Marshal Jered Maddox, rides into town to bring the killers back to stand trial, even though their powerful employer is willing to compensate for this unfortunate loss. The law is the law, and Maddox is bent on arresting them all. Who can escape the merciless Widow-maker?

