One of six travellers who catch the bus from Casablanca airport to Marrakesh is carrying $2 million to pay a local operator to fix United Nations votes. But which one?
The scene is in the ancient North African city of Marrakesh, Morocco, where hired assassin Jonquil (Klaus Kinski), is plying his trade by murdering Phillippe (Keith Peacock). hiding the body and them going to the airport terminal and carefully photographing each of the debarking passengers as they board the bus for the city. Jonquil works for an evil and wealthy Briton, Mr. Casimir (Herbert Lom), who is trying to engineer a two-million dollar deal which would shift a crucial United Nations vote in favor of Red China. The key to the deal is to make contact with an unknown courier due to arrive in Marrakesh carrying the cash and who will in turn receive top-secret documents from Casimir. He knows one of the new arrivals is the Red China emissary, while the others might unclad one or more counter-espionage agents trying to halt, all of which bedevils Casimir greatly. Suspicion centers upon oil representative Andrew Jessel (Tony Randall), beautiful journalist Kyra Stanovy (Senta Berger), plumbing salesman Arthur Fairbrother (Wilfrid Hyde-White) and travel agency executive George Lillywhite (John Le Mesurier), with Casimir's shapely mistress Samia Voss (Magaret Lee), trying to help Jonquil spot the courier. Meanwhile, Jessel and Kyra become involved in a mix-up of rooms at the hotel and, when he discovers the body of Phillipe in her closet, agrees to help her dispose of the corpse. In a series of chases , it develops that Casimir knows Kyra from Paris and is trying to frame her for the murder of Phillippe, although he suspects her, then Jessel and the others as the mysterious Chine emissary who has chosen to delay the delivery of the money. Jessel then becomes Casimir's prime suspect when he goes to protest the attempted frame-up of Kyra and then becomes Johnquil's murder target when Jessel inadvertently takes a briefcase containing the valuable spy documents. The climactic chase of Jessel and Kyra takes them through the streets and bazaars of Marrakesh into the mountains of Morocco where they are saved from the airborne Jonquil and other Casiir henchmen by a mysterious English-educated Aran chieftain El Caid (Terry-Thomas). Whe El Caid hears their story, he goes to their aid and works with Jessel and Krya to bait a Tao for Casimir and the as-yet-unknown Chinese courier. In the end, Jessel is unmasked as a hotel- corporation advance-man seeking a site for a new resort. Kyra is revealed as an American CIA agent, Lillywhite as an English tax-agent...and Fairbrother as the Chinese courier who is captured with Casimir, after the death of Jonquil, to foil the plot to fix the United Nations vote.
