Stan and Ollie try to hide their pet dog Laughing Gravy from their exasperated, mean tempered landlord, who has a "No Pets" policy.
Stanley and Oliver try unsuccessfully to keep their pet dog, "Laughing Gravy" hidden from their grumpy landlord, who throws the pooch out into the snow. The rescue and further attempts to hide the dog result in mayhem, which is interrupted by the arrival of a registered letter informing Stanley that he's inherited a fortune from his rich uncle. There's one catch, though: he has to renounce his friendship with Oliver, who the uncle characterizes as a "nitwit."
It's in 1931 that we find this enduring duo shacked up in lodgings, one very dark cold winter, and of course with their tiny pet dog Laughing Gravy, who has been sneaked into said bed-sit. It's in this predicament that poor old Laughing Gravy is finally found out by the mean spirited Landlord, with the assistance of the bungling and inept pair in the room above, of course. So begins the absurd battle to retrieve this poor unfortunate mutt from the grasps of the freezing, howling winds and heavily snow ridden night. This is typical Laurel and Hardy starting out with good behaviour that very quickly turns to fanciful farce, with the ever blundering pair digging that inevitable hole so far deep that only sheer stealth and luck could bring them back over the edge and back to normality. Laughing Gravy is a wonderful insight into! The world of this dynamic comedy duet, their antics and slapstick timing, and our joyful laughter at their own hilarious expense. What about poor Laughing Gravy? He, like the rest of us has never stopped laughing since their first comical outing. Enjoy.
As a howling blizzard hammers the city on a dark and freezing winter night, the compassionate tenants, Stan and Ollie, try to sneak into their small room the shaggy little mutt, Laughing Gravy, under their ill-tempered landlord's nose. Of course, knowing that in a house with a "no pets" policy this dangerous act of kindness can easily have them kicked out of the door, the boys try their best to keep their innocent secret safe; however, this is easier said than done. Can Stan and Ollie keep the noise down to save themselves from a terrible night-time ordeal?

