Sherlock Holmes and Dr Watson investigate the legend of a supernatural hound, a beast that may be stalking a young heir on the fog-shrouded moorland that makes up his estate.
On his uncle's death Sir Henry Baskerville returns from abroad and opens up the ancestral hall on the desolate moors of Devonshire. Holmes uncovers a plot to have Sir Henry murdered by a terrible trained hound.
Sherlock Holmes is approached by Dr. Mortimer to assist in protecting the life of his best friend's nephew who is that very day returning to England from Canada. Mortimer's friend, Sir Charles Baskerville, recently died and, although the coroner ruled it to be a natural death, the Doctor knows he was being chased by a legendary dog, the Hound of the Baskervilles, that has plagued the Baskerville family for years. Sir Henry Baskerville is Sir Charles' heir and Mortimer is convinced that he will not last long living on the moors at Baskerville Hall. Already Sir Henry is facing odd happenings when a single boot is stolen at his hotel. Holmes dispatches his good friend Dr. Watson to accompany the young man to the family estate while he attends to other matters in London. Once there, Sir Henry meets the lovely Beryl Stapleton and her brother, John. The servants are acting strangely and, when Watson catches one of them signaling to someone on the moor, he thinks he knows who might be involved. Holmes, who has been masquerading as a tramp, has his own ideas, however, and the solution to the mystery lies in the Baskerville family history.
The first of two of the Twentieth Century-Fox Rathbone/Bruce Sherlock Holmes movies opens with the 20th Century Fox logo and theme, followed by title and credits shown over a panning shot of the moors. That transitions to a note, "1889 In all England there is no district more dismal than that vast expanse of primitive wasteland, the moors of Dartmoor in Devonshire." We see Baskerville Hall, it is late evening and a man runs through the countryside back to the house. A hound bays, and Sir Charles (Ian MacLaren) running, clutches his chest and falls to the ground. A convict (Nigel De Brulier) witnesses the poor man's demise and decides to rob the body of its valuables but is scared away by a man calling out. Mrs. Barryman (Eily Malyon) opens the door, sees her master dead and screams. At the coroner's inquest, Barryman (John Carradine) provides testimony about finding his boss. He relays that he sought the assistance of Dr. Mortimer (Lionel Atwill) who was having dinner with the Stapletons. John Stapleton (Morton Lowry) and his sister, Beryl (Wendy Barrie) are also present at the inquest. The coroner (Lionel Pape) asks Dr. James Mortimer the cause of death. Mortimer replies, "Heart failure, sir." Before he can expand on his answer of what might be bothering Sir Charles, his wife, Jennifer (Beryl Mercer) signals to her husband not to answer. Mr. Frankland (Barlowe Borland) insists that Sir Charles was murdered. Since Dr. Mortimer is emphatic it was heart failure, the coroner's verdict is death by natural causes. Frankland is not satisfied. He stands and yells, "Call it what you like. Sir Charles was murdered. There's more than one person in this room, knows I speak the truth."In London, at 221B Baker Street, Dr. Watson (Nigel Bruce) reads a newspaper. He spots an article, "Sir Henry Baskerville arriving from Canada, Young Heir will assume title and estates, Death of the Late Sir Charles Baskerville still a mystery." Watson asks Holmes (Basil Rathbone) why he wants all the clippings about the Baskervilles. Holmes reveals to his friend, "I have an idea, Watson, that that young Sir Henry isn't destined for a very long existence in this world." He prophesizes that Sir Henry will be murdered. Mrs. Hudson (Mary Gordon) enters the room carrying a walking stick and tells of a gentleman caller earlier who left it. Holmes asks Watson if he knows of a Dr. Mortimer, the name on the stick. Holmes tests Watson's ability to reconstruct the owner of the stick, which Watson gets wrong on just about every point. Dr. Mortimer comes back for his stick as Holmes predicts. Dr. Mortimer asks Holmes to help his friend, Sir Henry. Mortimer relates the story of the Baskervilles and their meeting with violent and sudden deaths. Mortimer admits to withholding certain facts from the coroner--namely footprints near the body of a gigantic hound. Dr. Mortimer is an executor of the estate. He reveals an old document and shares it with the detective. "Legend of the Hound of the Baskervilles."Dr. Mortimer tells of the story of Sir Hugo in 1650. He kidnapped a woman and kept her prisoner in his house. Sir Hugo (Ralph Forbes), drunk, goes up to his room to show his friends the woman, but she is gone. Angry and humiliated, Sir Hugo ventures off on his horse to track down the wench. They find the girl's dead body. A large hound attacks Sir Hugo and kills him. The curse is born. Holmes only reply is, "Interesting, very interesting." Holmes suggests bringing Sir Henry to Baker Street when he arrives the next day.A ship arrives and Sir Henry Baskerville (Richard Greene) thanks the officers and crew. Dr. Mortimer greets Sir Henry and introduces himself. They travel by cab to the Northumberland Hotel. Along the way a rock is thrown through the window of the cab. Attached is a note of warning, made from words clipped from the newspaper. Holmes examines the note and claims the words have been snipped from the London Times. He asks Sir Henry if any other unusual happenings have occurred. Sir Henry tells Holmes that one of his new boots was stolen when he left them to be cleaned. Mortimer and Sir Henry return to the hotel. Holmes instructs Mortimer to tell Sir Henry the whole story of his family. Holmes and Watson follow Mortimer and Sir Henry. Holmes tells Watson to keep an eye on the Hansom cab following Sir Henry. A gloved hand holds a revolver out the window of the cab, but Holmes yells at the driver and he rushes away. Holmes does get the number of the cab.At the hotel, Holmes asks Sir Henry what he intends to do. Sir Henry tells Holmes that he intends to go to Baskerville Hall. Holmes tells Mortimer and Sir Henry about the attempt on the heir's life. Sir Henry notices his brown boots are back, both of them, but now a black boot is missing. Watson arrives with John Clayton (E.E. Clive), the cabby of No. 2704. Holmes invites the man to sit down. He asks about his fare who shadowed Mortimer and Sir Henry. Clayton reveals the man was 35 and had a beard. He claims the man revealed his name as Sherlock Holmes. Everyone has a good laugh. Holmes tips the man and he leaves. Dr. Mortimer and Sir Henry plan to leave for Baskerville Hall the next day. Holmes suggests Watson accompany the pair to Dartmoor as he still has business in the city. Holmes asks Watson to provide daily reports.A horse drawn carriage carries Sir Henry, Mortimer and Watson through Dartmoor. Dr. Mortimer points out some sites of interest, including the Grimpen Mire. They pull up to Baskerville Hall. Barryman and his wife greet the three men. Barryman attends to the luggage. Dr. Mortimer tells Sir Henry that a few modern touches were added by his uncle, but the room downstairs is as it was during the time of Sir Hugo. Berryman shows Sir Henry to his room upstairs. Watson composes his first note to Holmes. He opines, "I wish I could describe the dreadful eeriness of this place." Watson hears a noise and sees his door handle move. He grabs a revolver and walks to the door. Sir Henry quietly enters Watson's room. Sir Henry tells Watson that someone is prowling around the house. They investigate and see a barefooted Barryman standing at a window with a candle. They confront the man and he lies about checking to see the window was fastened. Sir Henry sees a pinpoint of light in some rocks. Watson lights a candle and moves it up and down. The light goes on and off. Barryman was signaling someone so the pair dress and leave the house to investigate. Barryman and his wife watch the pair leave the house. They come to the crags and spot a torch burning. The convict spots the two men from a higher rock. He flings a rock down, hitting and extinguishing the torch. Watson fires his revolver at the fleeing man, who manages to escape. They decide Barryman is a man worth watching. They walk back to the house and hear a dog howling.Watson composes his next letter about their evening encounter. Sir Henry exits the house and greets Mrs. Barryman. He walks out towards the moor. Barryman tells Watson that Sir Henry ventured out on the moor. Watson takes off after Sir Henry and is greeted by Stapleton who tells Watson about the moor and Grimpen Mire. They hear the dog howling. Beryl Stapleton screams at Sir Henry to stop. She explains that he nearly wandered into the Mire. Stapleton and Watson join Sir Henry and his step-sister, Beryl. Stapleton and Beryl invite Sir Henry over for dinner the next evening. Watson composes another report in which he admits he does not like Stapleton.Frankland is invited to dinner and accuses John Stapleton of being a graverobber. Stapleton admits he removed a Neolithic man's skull from the ancient graveyard. Frankland accuses Dr. Mortimer and his wife of strange behavior. Mrs. Mortimer is asked about a séance, but she initially declines. Dr. Mortimer proudly announces his wife has consented to try to contact the spirit of Sir Charles. She asks for the hand of Sir Henry, and then begins to ask for Sir Charles to contact them. The neighborhood dogs begin to howl. Watson turns on a light and asks Frankland what he thinks the noise was. Frankland tells him, the Hound of the Baskervilles. The party breaks up and Sir Henry talks to Beryl and plans outings for them, such as fishing and horseback riding. They make a date for the next morning. Watson composes another report indicating that Sir Henry and Beryl are in love.Some mornings later, Sir Henry and Beryl ride out to High Tour, where the old ruins are located. They laugh and joke at the site of an ancient ruin. She recounts a childhood spent on the moors. Sir Henry professes his love and they kiss. Watson encounters the pair and they announce their engagement. An old beggar, Holmes in disguise, interrupts claiming he was just crossing the moor with wares to sell. Watson gets a note asking that he meet at the old stone hut. The convict grabs some old clothes from Mrs. Barryman, and then runs off. Sir Henry goes out for a walk, and Watson goes to the old stone hut for his appointment. Watson notices that the place has been recently occupied. The old beggar approaches and admits he sent the note asking for the meeting. Watson, trying to impress, claims he is Sherlock Holmes. The old man then claims to be Watson as he removes his disguise. Holmes tells Watson he wants to return to Baskerville Hall. He is convinced murder is to be committed, and he suspects someone, but has no proof. A dog attacks a man and Holmes and Watson investigate. They hear the dog howl. They find a body and are convinced it is Sir Henry because of the clothes. Upon closer examination they discover the man is the Notting Hill murderer; He escaped from prison last month and has been hiding on the moor ever since. Holmes observes that his death is a result of wearing Sir Henry's clothes. The scent on the clothes was the cause of the attack. Holmes reminds Watson of the missing boot. Actually both missing boots back in London. The brown one, never worn, would have no scent of the owner. John Stapleton shows up and immediately recognizes Holmes.Holmes and Watson enter Baskerville Hall. Holmes asks to speak to Mrs. Barryman. Holmes and Watson enter the study to speak to Sir Henry. Barryman returns with his wife. Holmes speaks to Mrs. Barryman. He tells her about her brother. She fears he will be caught and executed, but Holmes explains, "No, Mrs. Barryman, he's beyond the law now. He's in more merciful hands." Mrs. Barryman collapses into a chair and sobs. Mrs. Barryman takes the blame for aiding a felon and escaped convict. Holmes tells Sir Henry that all is cleared up. Sir Henry explains he is going to marry Beryl and honeymoon in Canada. Holmes expresses his joy at the news, and then is distracted by a portrait of Sir Hugo hanging on the wall. They discuss the value of the work, and agree it is by a minor painter and worth little, but Holmes observes, "One day it might prove to be of the greatest value."Holmes and Watson take the train back to London. Holmes explains the murderer was in London weeks before and orchestrated the boot exchanges and attempt on Sir Henry's life. Holmes explains that they will return to Dartmoor immediately to catch the man red-handed, but that involves gambling with Sir Henry's life in the process. A celebration is underway at the Stapleton's home. Holmes and Watson take a carriage to the Baskerville Hall, but the carriage breaks down along the way. They decide to cut across the moor to get to the house. Sir Henry decides to cross the moor to return home. Dr. Mortimer warns him against such a move. Beryl and Sir Henry kiss goodnight and Sir Henry walks home. Beryl enters the house. Stapleton bids his sister good night, and then he turns off the hall lights. He enters the study and dons a pair of gloves. He retrieves the black boot, stolen from Sir Henry, from a secret compartment in the desk and leaves the house. Holmes and Watson and Sir Henry are on the moors walking. Stapleton goes to an old crypt and pulls back the trap door enough to allow a large, vicious dog to get the scent from the purloined boot. He flings the boot and then releases the hound which runs off. Holmes and Watson and Sir Henry hear the dog, as does Beryl from her bedroom in the house. She looks for her brother. The dog catches Sir Henry and attacks him. He is mauled badly as Holmes and Watson approach and shoot the dog. It is wounded and runs off. Holmes and Watson attend to Sir Henry. Watson helps the injured man back to the house as Holmes searches for the dog. Stapleton, armed with a run, follows the detective. Holmes returns to the old graveyard and finds Sir Henry's boot and the underground lair that housed the dog. It is littered with beef bones and a water dish. Holmes jumps down to get a better look and Stapleton closes the hatch and locks it, trapping Holmes.While Holmes digs his way out with a pen knife, Stapleton runs off to Baskerville Hall. Stapleton enters to check on Sir Henry, who is being tended by Mrs. Barryman and Watson. Stapleton lies to Watson, telling him Mr. Holmes asked to see him at once. Stapleton convinces Watson he can provide Sir Henry with the necessary first aid. He doctors a drink with poison and hands it to Sir Henry. Sir Henry sniffs it, but Stapleton warns him it may be a little bitter, but not to worry. Just before he drinks the poison, Holmes enters the house and calls to Sir Henry. Holmes "accidently" knocks the drink from his hand. Dr. Mortimer and his wife, Beryl, and the Barrymans enter the room. Holmes explains that Sir Henry was still in danger and now Beryl. Holmes explains that the murderer is, and walking over to the picture of Sir Hugo and covering the hair and beard, Stapleton. Since he is next of kin, the death of Sir Henry would allow John Stapleton to inherit the estate. Stapleton pulls a gun and rushes from Baskerville Hall. Holmes had taken the precaution of posting policemen along the way and signals them with a whistle. We close with Sherlock Holmes claiming he has had a strenuous day and wishes to turn in. He calls to his friend, "Oh, Watson, the needle."
