To save his job, newsman Jeff Sherman offers to help his boss get out of a swingeing alimony settlement. But his devious plan to compromise Cornelia Porter, the judge on the case, while she is on holiday at Cape Cod soon proves to be - well - too devious!
Ace newspaper photographer Jeff Sherman tells off his boss, Judson Blair, and is promptly fired. In order to get back in the good graces of Blair, Jeff decides to rectify a situation his publisher-boss has gotten into with his gold-digging wife, who has obtained a divorce and awarded alimony in the amount of $5,000 a month, The divorce judge, Cornelia C. Porter, has stated she will not consider an appeal. Jeff's plan is to get Cornelia's name mixed up in a scandal. But along the way, as his scheme is working, he falls in love with Miss Cornelia C. Porter, judge-robes and all.
Wealthy publisher Judson M. Blair, who is a spendthrift when it comes to anyone else but himself, has been served divorce papers by his gold-digger of a wife of three months, Adele Blair, for he not living up to his bargain of lavishing her with whatever she wants. The presiding judge, Cornelia Porter, a fair and officious woman, grants the divorce and in the process awards Adele $4,000 a month in alimony for five years, that judgment to be reviewed at the end of the period unless Adele remarries, at which time alimony would end. J.M. is incensed by the settlement. Jeff Sherman, a reporter who J.M. recently fired, convinces J.M. to allow him to enact a plan to mire Judge Porter in a scandal related to her own personal conduct of a relationship matter that would force her to hear J.M.'s appeal of the settlement. Jeff is able to negotiate the deal on his own terms, which not only includes his job back, but to get the specific posting he wants and an unlimited expense account. Part of Jeff's plan is to woo Cornelia, who would in turn fall in love with him. But Jeff runs into many obstacles in the plan succeeding including J.M. balking at what ends up being Jeff's exorbitant expenses, one of those larger payments to another integral player in the plan, Jeff's manicurist friend Dotty, who is solely out for herself. But the biggest obstacles may be Jeff's playbook which is full of clichés which may not work on a woman like Cornelia, and he having a change of heart the more he gets to know her and have feelings for her.

