A factory manager in rural Czechoslovakia bargains with the army to send men to the area, to boost the morale of his young female workers, deprived of male company since the local boys have been conscripted. The army sends reservists, mostly married middle-aged men - and the local beauty Andula, spurns those bold enough to try to win her, for the jazz pianist, newly come from Prague to perform. He seduces her and impresses her, telling her "most women are round, like guitars but you are a guitar by Picasso". Staying the night with him causes a lecture on a young woman's honour at her hostel so she throws over her other suitors and makes her way to Prague to find the young man. His protective Mamma and weary Pappa are not pleased when she arrives on the doorstep with her suitcase.
A working-class young woman in a hick Czech town sleeps with one of the band members of a group from Prague. "You are a Mondrian, not a Picasso," he tells her. When she doesn't hear from him again, she packs up and arrives on his doorstep in the big city, throwing his household (he lives with his parents) into chaos.
A very funny adaptation of the "all-girls' boarding school" farce adapted to Communist Czechoslovakia in the years just preceding the Prague Spring. A director of a factory built in rural Moravia in the center of the country has a problem. His factory is staffed entirely by 18-20 year old young women but all the boys their age have been drafted and sent to the border with West Germany anticipating war with the West. This has begun to cause "morale problems" at the factory. Hat in hand, he gets a meeting with the general staff and asks for help. The generals respond that they can't spare any of the young men because "war may come." The factory director responds, "With all due respect, I appreciate your concerns but I have mine. And since it's been a while, may I ask, what if the war doesn't come? Can you do something to help me out?"Well, in a typical measured, _planned_, and regimented fashion, the generals decide to "deploy" a "reserve unit" of 40-something year old (mostly MARRIED) men to the next "factory dance." Well, the men are lost talking among themselves about how exactly they used to pick up girls "back in the day," while the young women are not exactly thrilled being asked to dance with men who are as old as their fathers. The only young man at the dance is a jazz musician from Prague who's playing in the band. The Blonde protagonist of the story decides to take things into her own hands and talks him up ...Loves of a Blonde also features possibly the single most over the top sincere/heartfelt defence of "a young woman's honor" ever portrayed in cinema given by the "comrade house mother" responsible for the girls' dorm at the factory.
