Truckers form a mile long "convoy" in support of a trucker's vendetta with an abusive sheriff...Based on the country song of same title by C.W. McCall.
While driving through the Arizona desert, Albuquerque based independent trucker Martin Penwald - who goes by the handle "Rubber Duck" - along with his fellow truckers "Pig Pen" and "Spider Mike", are entrapped by unscrupulous Sheriff Lyle "Cottonmouth" Wallace using a key tool of the trucker's trade, the citizens' band (CB) radio. Rubber Duck and Cottonmouth have a long, antagonistic history. When this encounter later escalates into a more physical one as Cottonmouth threatens Spider Mike, a man who just wants to get home to his pregnant wife, Rubber Duck and other the truckers involved, including Spider Mike, Pig Pen and "Widow Woman", go on the run, figuring the best thing to do being to head to New Mexico to avoid prosecution. Along for the ride is Melissa, a beautiful photographer who just wanted a ride to the airport. As news of what happened spreads over the CB airwaves, other truckers join their convoy as a show of support. Cottonmouth rallies other law enforcement officers throughout the southwest, they who soon learn that stopping Rubber Duck, the face of the now highly public standoff, is not as easy as shooting him and the truck due to his highly explosive cargo. As the standoff escalates, New Mexico Governor Jerry Haskins joins the fray, he who sees the strong public support for the truckers being something on which he can capitalize politically.
The truck drivers Martin "Rubber Duck" Penwald, Bobby "Love Machine" "Pig Pen" and Spider Mike are crossing the Arizona desert and they are lured by the corrupt Sheriff Lyle "Cottonmouth" Wallace that takes money from them. The truckers stop at a truck stop where Rubber Duck meets the photographer Melissa that asks for a ride to the airport. Soon the unscrupulous Sheriff Wallace comes to the restaurant and tells that he will arrest Spider Mike who wants to go home since his pregnant wife is near the delivery. The truckers react under the leadership of Rubber Duck and they leave the place in a convoy. Soon others truckers join the convoy in a huge protest.
Three truckers are setting off across country when they are harassed by a local Sheriff. The Sheriff is happy to use his power to extort money from anyone who he runs into, and he has a particular dislike for truckers. He and one of the truckers, "Rubber Duck", have a long-standing feud. This boils over when the truckers refuse to give in to one of his extortion attempts and get into a fight with the Sheriff and the local police. This results in a cross-state, even inter-state chase, and grows in magnitude as more and more trucks join the rebels, forming a convoy.
Real action with Kristofferson, MacGraw and Borgnine in a play full of police chasing. Truckers unite during the conflict to fight for their rights. Great action!
