John Bishop discovers a plot to rob a silver mine belonging to his girlfriend Mary's father and, to foil the evildoers, he joins them.
Framed for a stagecoach accident, John Bishop is jailed. Bob Leady helps break him out and in return John heads for Sonoora to look for Leady's missing son. He finds him when he joins Monte Black's gang, a gang from which no member has ever escaped alive.
On their way to Sonora Mary Burton and Patsy Ellis are motoring through Arizona and stop in Twin Forks, and meet cowhand John Bishop and his horse Duke. John, preparing to drive a coach in the big stagecoach race, innocently says that with Mary pulling for him, the other coach will probably fall to pieces before it gets around the first curve. Unknown to John, townsman with heavy bets on John's coach have tampered with the other coach which piles up in a horrible wreck. Circumstantial evidence and his own words points to John and he is jailed as the injured driver is carried off. Assuming his guilt Mary and Patsy motor on to meet up with Mary's father at his silver mine across the border in Mexico. Knowing he is innocent, John's employer Bob Leadly and ranch hands Shorty and Riley spring John from jail and urge him to ride for somewhere in Sonora. John asks Leadly why he took such a chance on him and Leadly tells him of his own son, Bart, who fell in with the wrong crowd and was falsely accused of murder. Bart is now across the border riding with the notorious outlaw Monte Black in the Brotherhood of Death, so named because anyone who tries to leave the gang is killed. John vows to bring Bart back to Arizona where he has been cleared of the crime, and is joined by Shorty and Riley, who tell him he has also been cleared by the recovery of the stage driver. In a Mexican cantina, the trio meets up again with Mary and Patsy, who have traded their car for a buckboard and the girl's still distrust him until he saves them when their wagon runs out of control, and Shorty and Riley set the record straight on John. John is told by Mary's father that the Mexican Rurales under Captain Ramirez have been pursuing Black's gang and, when one of Black's men is captured, learn the location of the gang's hideout. John rides out alone hoping to rescue Bart before the Rurales attack and Black, who was impressed at how John handled a saloon-full of Black's henchmen, takes him on as another gun. The gang rides out to raid the mine office at Paloma but John sends "Duke" ahead and the wonder horse, courtesy of stock footage of "Tarzan" from Ken Maynard's earlier "Somewhere in Sonora",beats the raiders to Paloma and pulls the warning-bells rope. The gang members that escape capture John and Bart but Duke (and Tarzan) again saves the day by leading the Rurales to the spot. Just curious, but who decided that a cast listing that didn't include the credited Duke the Miracle Horse could be "verified" as complete?

