Peggy Sue faints at a high school reunion. When she wakes up, she finds herself in her own past, just before she finished school.
A 43-year-old mother and housewife who's facing divorce is thrust back in time when she attends her high-school reunion. Given the chance to change the course of her life, she finds herself making many of the same choices.
Peggy Sue was one of the most popular girls in high school, enjoying life with her friends and her boyfriend Charlie. It was the typical high school dream, until she finds herself married to Charlie and becoming a young mother. However, her life takes a serious turn, leaving her depressed and facing divorce when Charlie runs off with another woman. At her high school reunion, Peggy Sue faints and wakes up back in high school. Despite her confusion about what has happened and how to get back to her own time, Peggy realizes that she has a chance to start her life over, to avoid her depression and her marriage to Charlie. However, just because she knows the future, does that mean she can really avoid it?
Forty-three year old Peggy Sue Bodell (née Kelcher) is in an unsatisfying marriage to her high school sweetheart, Charlie Bodell, a marriage which includes money issues and infidelity. They got married when she got pregnant at age eighteen. He still dreams about the musical career he wanted that never materialized. She feels he blames her for that failure. They are on the verge of divorce. At a pivotal moment related to her high school life, Peggy Sue mysteriously gets transported back twenty-five years to her senior year of high school. Initially, she is most concerned about what has happened to her, not knowing if what she's experiencing is real or if perhaps she's dead. But after the initial shocks of revisiting her youth, Peggy Sue thinks that she can rewrite her past and make different decisions that will affect her future, one she hopes will be happier than what she experienced the first time around. But she also learns some things about why Charlie made the decisions he did.

