As the horrors beneath the idealized 1950's come about, a successful young woman finds herself having a serious mental breakdown when she returns to New England.
Details a young woman's summer in New York working for a Mademoiselle-like magazine, return home to New England, and subsequent breakdown all amidst the horrors of the fifties, from news of the Rosenbergs' execution to sleazy disc jockeys and predatory college boys.
Based on Sylvia Plath's novel, The Bell Jar Esther Greenwood (Marilyn Hassett) dances turning around and around. She speaks directly to the camera, saying that she has won a scholarship and that she is a "very proper New England girl". She arrives to college by bike, and a friend wishes her luck. All the teaching body have gathered to hear the announced of the winner. The head of the English Department announces the winner of the Mary Elizabeth Harrison Award because that person has proved consistently an ability to write poetry along the year. All heads to Esther Greenwood, the winner of the award, but she doesn't look happy or satisfied about it - she just ignores the stares and keeps on dribbling on a notebook. Finally, she reacts, stands up and smiles to everybody in acceptance of the award.Later, she goes to meet the boy she likes Buddy Willard (Jameson Parker); they are alone in a bedroom, presumably his at his parents'. He proposes to her instead of having sex - this is the 50's, and premarital sex is very much frowned upon. He says that his mother says that marriage is the only way, "living in sin" is unthinkable and his mother says that people who have sex out of marriage end up in hell. They kiss and seem to be about to have sex, but she stops him. He has plans to study Medicine, and Esther worries that in his plans, there is no education for her. He says that she may go to college as well, and goes back to the topic of what will happen when he will have his practice. She inquires about his previous love affairs - he has had several, a waitress, another woman. He says that for a guy it is different, and sex may not always lead to have an emotional attachment. He assumes that she is still a virgin, and she finds it offensive. She finally admits that she has never sex with any man; this secretly relieves and satisfies him. He asks whether she has ever seen a naked man, and she says she hasn't. He asks her whether she would like to see one - referring to himself, of course. She finally says she is interested in doing that. He starts to undress while she munches on something. She laughs when she sees him on his undies. When he takes his underwear off, the light goes off, so she has to make do with the weak light from the street lamp coming in from outside the window. It's pitch dark anyway, and we don't get to see his willy. She laughs and directs his positioning. Immediately, he tells her that it's her turn to strip - she wasn't expecting that and argues that he has already seen a naked woman. She tries to laugh it off but he presses on. He tells her that she is really beautiful. He kisses her and wants to have sex with her. She finally stops him, screaming and crying. He asks what the matter was, as it seems an exaggerated reaction. She says that she doesn't know what the matter is.Esther speaks with her afraid about the incident. She found particularly annoying that he put away his clothes very neatly when he undressed. Esther saw his dick and his balls, and he compares everything with a turkey.
Esther is very excited because she has won a four-week trip to New York to work at a women's magazine, all expenses paid, including the hotel. Mrs Greenwood (Julie Harris), her mother, doesn't like the idea and can't wait to tell her - New York is a dangerous and dirty place, which could be either very hot or very cold. Esther doesn't appreciate the comments and becomes serious and detached. Mrs Greenwood and Esther are walking while pushing their bikes - they are going to have a picnic by the banks of a small river - the day is glorious, and they choose an area close to the water to the shade of trees. The mother says that her father would have been really proud of her. Esther was an A-student, and once she arrived home crying because she thought the teacher would give her a B, something which didn't happen. Her mother only regrets that Esther didn't have more friends. Esther denies to have been a lonely child. The mother takes a photo of her, and tells her to stop fooling around putting an apple on her mouth. The mother tells her that Esther has become la créme of the world, but Esther regrets not having so much money and silk sweaters as her classmates; some of them even had horses that they would take to school. Her mother says something obvious - that happened because those girls' parents were rich. The mother changes the subject, and says that she has joined a folk dancing class. Both laugh about the ridiculous hand-made hat she has made. Esther asks why she hasn't married again, and her mother says it's complicated. Esther says that she may find somebody during the dancing lessons, but the mother says that it would have to be somebody her daughter likes. Esther thinks that quite a ridiculous notion, as she doesn't even live at home anymore, but Mother says that during the holidays she lives there. Esther asks why she didn't let her go to Dad's funeral. Mother says that Esther was too young and that he didn't suffer. Mother doesn't want to keep on talking about that, but Esther complains that she doesn't even know what he died from. Mother ends up saying that some things are better left alone. Esther would do anything her father wanted, although on some other occasions she used to have a temper as a child. Mother seems to be jealous of Esther and her father's close relationship. She wants to know if there was any blood - finally, her mother starts crying.They finally go to a restaurant with John Gilling (Scott McKay), a rich man who has invited them and will pay. He makes Joan (Donna Mitchell) uncomfortable, even mentioned her alcoholic mother. Gilling stands up and asks for an ovation - he drunkenly sings; everybody joins in, even Mrs Greenwood - not Esther and Joan. Joan and Esther walk hand in hand in the night. Joan thinks that in ten years she will be dead. Esther cuts Joan when she speaks about death the same as her mother cut her. She mentions that it's possible that she ends up doing the same things than her mother. She wonders if she should marry a nice boy and get over with all worries.Another night, her boyfriend is pressing her again about marrying before leaving. She mentions that she wants to be a writer, and he tells her that they would lead a comfortable life with plenty of kids and that she could write while the children are in bed; he promises that he will wash the dishes for her. Later, they drunkenly walk. Esther watches a fashion catwalk.Esther is going to an elite college. Her mother is already preparing her. Esther and Joan speak about Mrs Tenner, their expelled old teacher, while they drink. Joan seats close to Esther, who starts thinking about ways of committing suicide. It is suggested that Joan is a Lesbian who is attracted to her.The editor tells about her professional life and old jobs, and tells Esther that her A marks won't help her in a professional life. When Esther insists that she wants to be a poet, but the editor seems to mock her off. Later, Esther throws all her toys to the floor and stays awake staring at the ceiling. Joan hugs and consoles her. Finally, they go to a party. Buddy and her dance. They go out to a garden and he tries to have sex with her - she rejects him and bites his face. He ends up screaming "slut" while she runs away. She arrives home and throws all her clothes away. She screams on the window, naked except for her undies. A dog is barking in the distance. She seems to be having a breakdown.Her mother recommends her to go outside more. Dr Gordon starts treating Esther, as he thinks she's mentally disturbed. Mrs Greenwood wants to teach Esther shorthand, so that she may take a job in the future, but Esther wants to go to university. Esther spills milk all over her mother's notebook - there is a tug-of-war between them two, with Mrs Greenwood screaming "stop it!, stop it!" This time it is electroshock for Esther; she is forced to take them; afterwards, she can't even walk on her own - she becomes a zombie. Dr Gordon thinks that she's improving. She cries and laughs because her mother won't take her to Boston.She writes on a mirror with lipstick that she is visiting Daddy. She looks around for the tombstones until she finds the right one; she gives him his old bad. Coming back home, she tries to cut her wrists, but later she gives up and has plenty of pills. She puts on red lipstick which makes her look like a clown. Finally, she is saved in the nick of time and sent again to the mental hospital.Dr Nolan (Anne Jackson) is more helpful, although after two months she realises that she has not improved. Dr Nolan puts her again on shock treatment, but this time she does it the right way. She gives her anesthetics, and when she wakes up she is already in bed. She feels a little bit better and she can have a normal conversation with Dr. Nolan.Her mother visits her. Esther tells her other to knock on the door. Her mother says "I am your own other" and enters anyway. Mrs Greenwood talks about the terrible trip. She has even brought a bouquet of roses for her. Mrs Greenwood asks what she has done wrong. Esther says she is sorry if she disappoints / embarrashes her. Mrs Greenwood leaves. Dr Nolan asks Mrs Greenwood not to visit for a while. Esther admits to Dr Nolan that she hates her mother.Joan visits Esther, who's returning from a biking trip. Esther is actually happy to see her. Joan is also staying at the hospital as well, as she couldn't handle living in the real world. She spoke to some of the people of the ladies' magazine. It looks like Joan's father is a crossdresser. Esther is a little nervous, and can't believe that Joan has realy tried to kill herself.Buddy visits Esther. He has started Medicine and hasn't found it easy. She hasn't forgiven him for the attempted rape. Buddy wants her to follow him to an internship in New Jersey, and takes for granted she will go with him. But she refuses - she still wants to be a poet. Buddy can't believes what he hears. Joan and Esther take a long stroll. Joan admits that he used her crossdressing father's razor to try to commit suicide. Joan hugs and kisses her tummy. Esther finally realises Joan's feelings for her. Esther stays frozen and eventually runs away, leaving Joan on her own, crying. Dr Richards (Gil Rogers) asks Esther to locate Joan. She finds her body - Joan had hung herself. Dr Nollan hugs her. The treatment will finally work.---written by KrystelClaire
