A man futilely struggles to make his fortune with a frog that sings and dances, but only when it is alone with the owner.
A workman finds a singing frog in the cornerstone of an old building being demolished. But when he tries to cash in on his discovery, he finds the frog will sing only for him, and just croak for the talent agent and the audience in the theater he's spent his life savings on.
A construction worker is part of a demolition crew, tearing down an old city building to make way for new construction. In the cornerstone he discovers an old, tattered box. When opened, out jumps a sad- and unimpressive-looking bullfrog. Unimpressive, that is, until he reaches for his cane and top hat and belts out the tune, "Hello! Ma Baby." The construction worker instantly deduces that this frog is his way out of the blue-collared lifestyle and into fabulous wealth. The man tells a stern-looking talent agent about his "discovery," but the frog only croaks (literally); it seems as though the frog will only perform for the construction worker and only when it's a one-man audience. Undaunted and still not coming to this realization, the man squanders his life's savings on the purchase of a theater, where he tries to get the frog to sing again. The frog does perform ... behind the jammed curtain, that is. By the time the man gets the curtain unjammed, the frog reverts to his sad-looking, croaking self, leaving his master to deal with an angry audience. Several months pass, and the man is now reduced to sleeping on park benches. The frog's singing disturbs the peace, and a policeman takes the hapless gent into custody. He ends up in a mental institution, where (you guessed it) the frog sings. The man, later released from the hospital, ends up discarding the frog and his box into the cornerstone of a new skyscraper. Fast forward to 100 years later, where that building is now being torn down. A member of the crew disintegrating the building (by use of laser guns) finds the singing frog, who goes into the same old song and dance. The cycle continues!
An unnamed man is working on the demolition of an old building. As he comes across the cornerstone of the building, he finds a box inside it. Contained within the box are a piece of paper commemorating the creating of the building in 1892, as well as a frog (still alive after more than 50 years). The man soon is amazed when the frog grabs a miniature cane, puts on a top hat, and begins to sing "Hello, My Baby." Sensing a way to get rich quickly, the man puts the frog back in the box, and sneaks away.He next ends up in the office of a talent agency, but the frog refuses to perform. After the man is kicked out of the office into an empty hallway, the frog begins to sing and dance to "The Michigan Rag." The man eagerly rushes back to let the talent agency employee see, but the frog goes silent before he can show him. Unknown to the man, the frog will only perform for him.Shortly afterwards, the man attempts to try to capitalize on the frog again. Using up all his money, he purchases a theater promoting the frog. However, when the curtain rises, the frog once again refuses to sing. The man shortly thereafter goes bankrupt, and ends up on the streets.One late evening, an officer overhears the frog singing "Largo al factotum." The officer finds the man sitting on the bench with the (now silent) frog. When the officer inquires who was disturbing the peace, the man angrily points to the frog. This causes the officer to arrest the man and have him committed to an asylum.When he finally gets out, the old man sees a new building about to be dedicated. Sneaking onto the site, he drops the box with the frog into the new building's cornerstone, and sneaks off as the frog sings "Please Don't Talk About Me When I'm Gone."Over a hundred years later, the new building is being demolished, when a worker comes across the cornerstone. Inside, like the previous man, he finds the singing frog, who sings "Hello, My Baby" just for him. Just like the previous man, this one feels he can profit from the singing amphibian, and sneaks off the site with it, unaware of what will happen to him.
