In a complex piece of espionage the Russian secret service attempts to kidnap a high ranking officer in the CIA and replace him with a double of its own.
Following notification of the death of his son, in a skiing accident in the Austrian Alps, the cold and emotion-less widower Dan Slater, a high ranking member of the CIA, travels to Austria for the funeral. Dan is mysteriously provided evidence of foul play in his son's death and he decides to investigate. His friend, a former undercover operative, Frank Wheatley, who operates the Internationl School where Dan left his son in care proves useless as Dan seeks out the murderers. Eventually, Dan finds a witness who was on the ski slope at the time of the accident, Gina, the companion of wealthy socialite Mrs. Carrington. Gina identifies two male strangers and Dan is led into a cleverly thought out trap laid by Berthold, a Russian agent. The Russians plan to kidnap Slater, do away with him and substitute him with an exact double in order to obtain a mole in the highest echelons of the CIA. Will Berthold succeed or will Frank and Gina realize something is amiss and rescue Slater?
Assistant Deputy Director Dan Slater of the CIA rushes from Washington DC to the Austrian ski resort of St. Anton when he learns that his sixteen year old son Robert Slater, who he has not seen in two years in his preoccupation with work, has died in a ski accident having fallen off a cliff. Robert had been attending the international school there operated by Dan's former colleague, retired MI5 Frank Wheatly, who wanted a less complicated life. Dan is unable to inform his boss, Director W. Edwards, before he heads to St. Anton, Edwards who would not have allowed him to go in believing that Robert's death a trap to lure Dan to St. Anton. Indeed, Dan believes as much, that Robert was murdered in order for him to rush to Europe. In doing his own investigation, Dan has decided to trust no one, not even his old friend Frank. Dan does find evidence that Robert was indeed murdered, having not fallen but been pushed off the cliff. Dan eventually discovers that Robert was only one of four people on the first gondola up the mountain that day, along with a beautiful young woman and two men. Dan locates the woman: Gina Ericson, who is at St. Anton working as the assistant to wealthy middle-aged cougar socialite, Charlotte Carrington. Gina is initially wary of Dan believing he just another of the many who have tried to hit on her. But when Gina eventually does open up to Dan about that morning and what she saw with Robert, it seems that it is one of the men, who was wearing a balaclava and who Robert seemed familiar with, that may be the key to finding out what is going on.

