The son of a sorceress, armed with weapons, armour and six magically summoned knights, embarks on a quest to save a princess from a vengeful wizard.
George, the son of the sorceress Sybil, has been watching the beautiful Princess Helene from afar and is very much in love with her. When she is kidnapped by the evil wizard Lodac, the king her father announces that she will be given in marriage to whoever rescues her. The first to volunteer is Sir Branton who expects to undertake the task alone. George, over his mother's objections, also decides to save her and is accompanied by six ancient knights. The journey is perilous with Lodac placing a series of challenges before them. Many in the group do not survive but George must eventually face Lodac's greatest challenge - his dragon.
Lodac, an evil wizard, has kidnapped the Princess Helene and intends to feed her to his dragon in seven days. One of the king's knights, Sir Branton, vows to rescue her, despite being warned of Lodac's seven curses, which have to be encountered before they can reach his castle. A boy named George, who was raised by Sybil, a slightly incompetent sorceress, and is smitten with the Princess wants to rescue her but Sybil, whose family had battles with Lodac and lost, refuses to let him go. But he uses the magic sword that she intends to give him to detain her while he goes to save the Princess. So he and six knights that he freed from Sybil's brothers spell of being turned to stone to be his allies go to the king and offer to accompany Branton and asks, if he should save the Princess, asks for her hand in marriage. Branton is not pleased but is implored by the King to bring them with him. But Branton plans to use them as pawns to evade the curses.
The evil sorcerer Lodac captures Princess Helene and whisks her off to his castle. Young George has been enamored of Helene from afar, and aided by a magic sword given to him by his sorceress stepmother he sets off with his six knights to save her. However, he must travel with Sir Branton, who also has romantic aspirations for the Princess. Together the knights must face Lodac's seven curses and liberate the Princess.

