In 1940, after watching and being traumatized by the movie Frankenstein (1931), a sensitive seven year-old girl living in a small Spanish village drifts into her own fantasy world.
In Castilla around 1940, a traveling movie theatre brings James Whale's black and white film classic "Frankenstein" (1931) to a small village. Two young girls, Isabel and Ana, are subsequently determined to find the monster themselves.
In the aftermath of the Spanish Civil War, Ana, a sensitive seven-year-old girl in a rural Spanish hamlet is traumatized after a traveling projectionist screens a print of James Whale's 1931 "Frankenstein" for the village. The youngster is profoundly disturbed by the scenes in which the monster murders the little girl and is later killed himself by the villagers. She questions her sister about the profundities of life and death and believes her older sibling when she tells her that the monster is not dead, but exists as a spirit inhabiting a nearby barn. When a Loyalist soldier, a fugitive from Franco's victorious army, hides out in the barn, Ana crosses from reality into a fantasy world of her own.
It's 1940 in a small, stark Castillian village. The Spanish Civil War has just ended and Franco has assumed dictatorship of the country. The war had a profound effect on beekeeper and amateur mycologist Fernando, his younger wife Teresa and their two adolescent daughters Isabel and Ana. Teresa longs to be with a soldier she met during the war and she still tries to correspond with him. As such, their family life is cold and emotionally distant, especially between husband and wife. One day, Isabel and Ana, who are not only sisters but best friends, go to watch the movie Frankenstein (1931), which is the latest movie to arrive in town as part of a traveling movie show. The movie leaves a lasting impression on seven year old Ana, who is moved especially by the friendship between the monster and the little girl and the result of that friendship. Isabel mockingly tells her impressionable younger sister that the spirit of the monster lives close by in an abandoned one room farmhouse and that its spirit will show itself to her at night once she befriends it. Thus it becomes Ana's mission to find the monster. An encounter she has with an anti-Franco soldier in hiding may assist in her goal indirectly, but at the possible cost of her life.
Two young sisters, Isabelle and Ana, live in a small Spanish village. After seeing the film Frankenstein (1931), Isabelle tells her younger sister that she's seen the monster before and takes her to an abandoned barn where she says he lives. Ana becomes obsessed with finding the creature and regularly visits the barn, always finding it abandoned. One day she finds a man there, in fact a fugitive on the run, and believing him to be the monster from the film, brings him food and clothes.

