A high school girl falls for a playboy artist, with screwball results.
Teenaged Susan Turner, with a severe crush on playboy artist Richard Nugent, sneaks into his apartment to model for him and is found there by her sister Judge Margaret Turner. Threatened with jail, Nugent agrees to date Susan until the crush abates. He counters Susan's comic false sophistication by even more comic put-on teenage mannerisms, with a slapstick climax.
A teen-age girl becomes infatuated with an artist, a man many years older than she. Her older sister,a Judge, convinces the artist that the only way to cure the young girl's infatuation is for him to take her out every night for a week. The sister's powers of persuasion are enhanced by the fact the girl had sneaked, uninvited, into his apartment to model for him, and she takes a dim view of 40-year-old men having teen-age girls in his apartment, so it's either date the quail or go to jail.
The adolescent Susan Turner is a fashionable and spoiled teenager that lives with her tough and uptight sister Margaret Turner, who is a judge. One day, Margaret has to judge the artist Richard "Dick" Nugent, who is a reckless and wolf playboy, for a fight in a nightclub and she dismiss the case. Richard leaves the court and goes to the high-school where Susan studies to give a lecture of modern arts to the students. Susan has a crush on Richard and she breaks up with her boyfriend Jerry. She interviews Richard after the lecture and during the night, she lies to the portlier of his building telling that she is going to model for Richard and she sneaks in his apartment. She sleeps on the couch and when Richard arrives home late night, he does not see her. Meanwhile, Margaret and her friend, the district attorney Tommy, are seeking out Susan. When they find her in Richard's apartment, they believe that she has been seduced by him and Richard is sent to the jail. Margaret's uncle Beemish, who is the court psychiatrist, convinces Margaret to release Richard; otherwise Susan's crush would not stop. They make a deal with Richard forcing him to date Susan to diminish her passion. Richard dislikes the situation but has no other way out of the problem. While dating Susan, Richard and Margaret fall in love with each other; but Susan is a pain in the ass for them.
Artist playboy Dickie Nugent appears before beautiful judge Margaret Turner for fighting at a nightclub, and charms her into dismissing the charge. That same day, Dickie happens to lecture at a high school, where Margaret's teenage sister, Susan, falls head-over-heels for him. Things get complicated when Susan sneaks away and is found in Dickie's apartment, and downright zany when he is court ordered to date the teen as a way of easing her attraction.

