A homely but vivacious young woman dodges the amorous attentions of her father's middle-aged employer while striving to capture some of the glamorous life of her swinging London roommate.
Georgy has resigned herself to being one of life's accidents. She disapproves somewhat of her father's butlering James Leamington. She's tall, plump, sloppy, and wistfully envious of what she conceives to be the life led by her beautiful, but icy roommate. Where her roommate, Meredith, is cool and calculating, Georgy gets so involved with the people around her she behaves like an affectionate puppy. Most of all, she burns to be a mother. But it is Meredith that is in the hospital having an unwanted child.
Twenty-two-year-old Georgina Parkin, Georgy to her friends, is a Plain Jane of a woman who beats to her own drummer. She grew up in the household of wealthy James Leamington, Georgy's parents being the household domestics. Middle-aged Leamington, who had provided for Georgy's every need while she was growing up, offers Georgy a business proposition, all written in a formal contract. He will provide for her whatever she wants if she becomes his mistress. She never really directly provides him with an answer. Meanwhile, Georgy shares a flat with Meredith Montgomery, a beautiful, but self-absorbed woman. Partying all the time without him, Meredith is dating Jos Jones, who hangs around with Georgy while Meredith is out partying. Jos and Georgy have a good time together. Georgy secretly loves her flatmate's boyfriend. Solely out of boredom, Meredith, who is pregnant with Jos' child, proposes she keep this one (she's previously had two abortions without much thought on the matter) and that she and Jos get married. The plan is for Jos to move into the flat, then Georgy is free to do as she pleases. As Meredith's pregnancy progresses, and after the baby arrives, the life of Georgy, Jos, and Leamington adjust to accommodate the change. By choice, Meredith's life is the one that doesn't.
Georgy (Lynn Redgrave) appears to be heading for spinsterhood: She's well past "marrying age", is overweight and frumpy, and her parents have low expectations of her. However, her natural ability and empathy with children make her shine. Mr. Leamington, her father's boss (James Mason), is stuck in a loveless marriage with a sickly wife (Rachel Kempson) and believes he has found a lonely woman in Georgy whom he can set up as his mistress. Some of the most clever scenes are when Georgy successfully stiff-arms Mr. Leamington and keeps him at bay. She is at her most vulnerable juxtaposed with her pretty roommate, Meredith (Charlotte Rampling), a tramp who has had many boyfriends and abortions. When Meredith turns up pregnant once again and decides to have the baby, Georgy's path in life becomes clear even to Georgy, despite a coming-of-age detour with Meredith's boyfriend-cum-husband Jos (Alan Bates).
