In 1883 South Dakota, two buffalo hunters start a personal feud over a captured squaw and a stand-off with a Dakota raiding party over some stolen horses.
Set in the early 1880s, this is the story of one of the last buffalo hunts in the Northwest. Sandy McKinzie is tired of hunting buffalo, and tired of killing-Charley on the other hand relishes the hunt and enjoys killing buffalo and Indians. When Charley kills an Indian raiding party, and takes their squaw as his own, tension develops between the two hunters, and matters will only be settled in a showdown.
In 1883, in South Dakota, the former buffalo hunter Sandy McKenzie is tired of hunting the animals. He is approached by Charlie Gilson, a man that feels pleasure in killing buffalos and Indians, who proposes a high salary to him to hunt buffalos for him. They associate to each other and hire the skilled skinner Woodfoot and the half-Indian Jimmy O'Brien to help them. When a group of Indians steal their horses, Charlie hunts them down and kills them in their camp. Charlie finds a gorgeous Indian girl with a baby boy and he brings her to his camp to be his woman. However, Sandy and she are attracted to each other but they fear Charlie. Over the days, the tension between them increases until the day Charlie kills a white buffalo that is sacred for the Indians.
It's 1883 in the Dakota Territory. Sandy McKenzie has spent most of his life as a buffalo hunter in one capacity or another, he now getting tired of the life. It is a dying profession as the number of buffalo roaming the plains is nowhere what it once was. As Sandy's reputation precedes him, Charlie Gilson, who he meets in the course of hunting, convinces him to go into the buffalo trade together, it, according to Charlie, still more lucrative than the primary alternative of cattle ranching. They hire Woodfoot, a grizzled one-legged long time skinner a little too fond of the drink, and Jimmy O'Brien, a young outcast in his half-Indian background, also to be a skinner. The business partners are a mismatched pair, Sandy who is methodical and can see the big picture, while Charlie is hot headed and quick to pull a trigger to kill before asking questions, especially if the person at the other end of the gun is an Indian. Although they are able to make good money working together, there is an inevitable breaking point, with only one man left standing at the end regardless if one or the other actually pulls the trigger on the other, the issue being: a young Indian woman and her infant who join their camp out of it being an better option than the alternative, with Charlie treating her like his possession; and/or a rare white buffalo which can garner more money for them than all the others combined, it which Charlie has no qualms in killing but Sandy who wants to see it live as being a sacred beast to the Indians.

