A man begins to suspect that something is wrong about his employers; meanwhile, Godzilla and Anguirus are alerted to something strange going on.
Aliens from space plan to conquer the world using space monsters Gigan and King Ghidrah, which they control from their secret headquarters inside the head of the Godzilla-replica building at a theme park. The only thing that can stop them is the combined efforts of Godzilla and Anguirus.
Otherwise known as "Godzilla on Monster Island" in some territories, this film begins with comic book artist Gengo Kotaka, who is trying to sell his story ideas for a comic newspaper. After being turned down, Gengo's girlfriend Tomoko Tomoe helps him get a job at an amusement park called "Children's Land," which contains a life-sized statue of Godzilla. Gengo tells his new employer, Kubota, that the park could use more monsters, and is hired to design them for the park. However, Gengo suspects something else is going on and does not trust his boss because of all his talk about attaining "perfect peace." On his way to work the next day, he visits the Children's Land office in downtown and bumps into a fleeing girl, who drops a tape. Gengo retrieves the tape, and then goes into the office to investigate. He meets the Chairman of the Children's Land Committee, a young teenager named Fumio Sudo, who was working on geometry equations for fun. Perplexed at him assuming a high position as such a young age, and getting suspicious of him also talking about attaining "perfect peace," he keeps the tape he recovered. Later that night, when he returns home to his apartment, Gengo is held up by the fleeing girl and her friend, demanding he return the tape.Gengo passes out from the hold-up, thinking they were pointing a gun at him. They take him to his apartment, where the two people, Machiko Shima and Shosaku Takasugi, explain their story to Gengo: Machiko's brother Takeshi was working at Children's Land at the time he went missing, and Machiko stole the tape to use as leverage. The three later play the tape, and although they cannot understand what is being played, it set off a beacon which connects with Godzilla on Monster Island, awakening him and his monster ally, Anguirus. Godzilla tells Anguirus to go to Japan to investigate, but is repelled by the Japanese armed forces when he reaches shore.After Gengo investigates the Godzilla Tower some more and finds the locked hideout of Takeshi, Kubota spots him. Gengo explains he was just trying to find him to get an opinion on his comic book drawings, but he is later tracked down at his apartment by Kubota and his henchman. They steal the tape back and were about to eliminate Gengo, Machiko, and Shosaku. However, Tomoko, having happened to visit Gengo, fights the intruders away with her karate skills.While Gengo and his friends tell the police their ordeal and the events at Children's Land, Godzilla and Anguirus, having gotten back to Monster Island, take to the seas again to take on whatever the strange events are occurring in the city. Meanwhile, at the Godzilla Tower, Fumio plays the recovered tape and it sends a beacon in outer space, yielding the monsters King Ghidorah and Gigan. Gengo and Tomoko sneaks into the Godzilla Tower and rescue Takeshi; however, they are caught by Kubota and his henchman. Kubota and Fumio tell them that they plan to use them as uniforms for their species, just as they use the uniform likeness of the real Kubota and Fumio, two villagers who are deceased. They reveal themselves to be cockroach aliens from another planet in the Nebula Space Hunter M galaxy, whose population was wiped out by excess pollution. The alien species had escape their ravaged planet and plan to take over Earth for their continued survival.King Ghidorah and Gigan fly to and land in Tokyo, wrecking havoc as they set industrial areas ablaze. Later, Godzilla and Anguirus arrive and do battle with the space monsters, while Machiko and Shosaku rescue Gengo, Tomoko, and Takeshi from the Godzilla Tower. They then report their findings to the Japanese armed forces, but the General tells them that they cannot attack the Godzilla Tower, as the space monsters are defending it. Takeshi suggests that a small group of people can sneak into the tower and launch their attack, to which the General agrees. Ghidorah and Gigan over match Godzilla and Anguirus, with Godzilla being shot down by the Godzilla Tower laser beam and Gigan injuring Anguirus with his buzz-saw. Amidst all the commotion, though, Gengo, Takeshi, Shosaku, and the armed forces sneak boxes of TNT dynamite in the Godzilla Tower elevator. The dynamite goes off, destroying the machines used to control the space monsters and the henchmen, and sending Kubota and Fumio to transform back into their cockroach alien selves.Without alien control, King Ghidorah and Gigan still recognize Godzilla and Anguirus as their nemesis and they continue to fight them, with Gigan cutting a weakened Godzilla on the forehead with his hooked arm, and King Ghidorah blasting Anguirus away with his lightening beams. Gigan then drops Godzilla to the ground and King Ghidorah sends him flying into the destroyed Godzilla Tower - the impact of the force reviving him. Regaining his strength, Godzilla gains the upper hand and overpowers Gigan with his punches and atomic ray, while Anguirus bites King Ghidorah's tail and head. He and Godzilla then gang up on Ghidorah, wrestling him to the ground and stepping on his heads. Sensing defeat, King Ghidorah and Gigan retreat back into space. Gengo and his friends watch on in wonderment as Godzilla and Anguirus leave, letting out a roar of triumph, and returning to Monster Island.
