A young trumpeter enjoys highs (musical success, fame, and fortune) and lows (sour marriage, death of his mentor, bout with alcoholism).
Aimless youth Rick Martin learns he has a gift for music and falls in love with the trumpet. Legendary trumpeter Art Hazzard takes Rick under his wing and teaches him all he knows about playing. To the exclusion of anything else in life, Rick becomes a star trumpeter, but his volatile personality and desire to play jazz rather than the restricted tunes of the bands he works for lands him in trouble.
Jazz pianist Willie 'Smoke' Willoughby recounts the life story of his friend, jazz trumpeter Rick Martin, who Smoke believes may be the most talented musician he's ever known. Rick's intense personality is focused on playing the type of music he wants to play, the way he wants to play it. Rick had an innate sense of music since he was a child, when, left to his own devices by his guardian sister, followed where the music was being played. Smoke met Rick and who would become their mutual friend, vocalist Jo Jordan, while they played together in a dance band. Although there was a mutual attraction between Rick and Jo, Rick would ultimately fall in love with Jo's friend, Amy North, who is equally as intense as Rick but for different reasons. Rick is attracted to Amy's sophistication. Amy, who is a medical student in psychiatry, is attracted to Rick's talent, which she feels she lacks herself as she struggles to find her place in life. Their intensity may be incompatible and may threaten their relationship, which may in turn make Rick try to find his non-musical self through destructive means.
In the 30s, the outcast orphan Rick Martin is raised by his daughter without any care or love. One day, he overhears a song in a mission and owner of absolute pitch, he is capable to play it on the piano. When he sees a trumpet in a pawnshop, he falls in love with the instrument and works to raise the necessary money to buy it. One day, he meets the legendary trumpeter Art Hazzard and Rick becomes his protégée. Art teaches how to play trumpet to Rick that becomes a well succeeded but rebel trumpeter. Along his career, Rick Martin's friends are Art Hazzard, the piano player Willie 'Smoke' Willoughby and the singer Jo Jordan and becomes the star of his orchestra. When Jo introduces her friend Amy North, who is a medical student that loves to experience new sensations, Rick falls in love with her in the beginning of his downfall.
From a young age, Rick Martin loved music. He taught himself to play the piano but when he hears Art Hazzard play the trumpet, he knows that's the instrument he wants to play. Hazzard becomes his teacher and mentor and Martin is truly gifted. As an adult, he has little trouble getting jobs but they're all with dance bands and he rarely gets to play the kind of music he really likes. Band singer Jo Jordan takes a liking to him and introduces him to her friend Amy North, who he marries. Theirs is not a happy union however and after Art Hazzard's death, he takes to drink and his playing abilities declined as well. With the help of close friends he starts the arduous journey to get back on his feet.
As a boy, orphan and dropout Rick Martin finds his only outlet in music. Through chance-met black jazzman Art Hazzard, he develops into a great trumpeter...too great for jazz-hating Jack Chandler, leader of the dance band he joins. But before long he's in a better big band, thanks to the interest of sweet singer Jo Jordan, who alas introduces him to her slinky, rich, highly neurotic friend Amy North. Amy's inconsistent ways soon make Rick a virtual basket case. Is he washed up, or will he find that elusive high note his trumpet won't play? Allegedly based on the life of jazz great Bix Beiderbecke.

