A committed film director struggles to complete his movie while coping with a myriad of crises, personal and professional, among the cast and crew.
The shooting of "Je vous presente Pamela" (may I introduce Pamela) begins. This is the story of en English married wife falling in love and running away with the father of her French husband. Will be simultaneously shown the shooting, the behavior of the people (including the technical team) on the set, and a part of their private life (a factor of complication)...
In Nice, the Studios La Victorine is producing the film "Je Vous Presente Pamela", about a French man that marries the English Pamela in England and brings his wife to France to introduce her to his parents. However, his father and Pamela fall in love with each other and she leaves her husband to live with him. The producer Bertrand and the director Ferrand invite British Julie Baker, who had a nervous breakdown and married her Dr. Nelson, to the role of Pamela. During shooting, the cast and crew are lodged in the Hotel Atlantic and Bertrand and Ferrand have to deal with problems with the stars Severine, an aging actress with drinking problems that affect her performance; the immature, spoiled and needy Alphonse; Julie that is emotionally unstable. But in the end, they succeed in completing the film.
A film about making of a film. and the parallels don't stop there. Whilst filming a a story of Pamela, am English woman who marries a Frenchman, and brings his new wife back to France - where she's introduced to his family's Pamela and his father both fall in love with each other, and she leaves her husband for the man. For the film, producer Bertrand and director Ferrand offer the British actress Julie Baker (who's married to Dr. Nelson), ?the role of Pamela. Whilst shooting, the cast and crew are lodged in the Hotel Atlantic and Bertrand and Ferrand have to deal with The problems which arise - amongst them, Severine, an older actress who's an alcoholic which affect her performance; the tong and spoilt Alphonse.
A film company at work. Actors arrive and depart; liaisons develop. Julie, the beautiful but possibly unstable lead, is recovering from a breakdown, aided by an older physician, her new husband. Alphonse is insecure, he babbles. When his fiance exits with a stunt man, he threatens to quit. Julie must convince him to stay. Alexandre, a consummate pro on the set, runs back and forth to the airport hoping a certain young man will visit. Severine, no longer young, hits the bottle and covers blown lines with emotional outbursts. At the center is Ferrand, the writer director, who must make constant decisions, answer a stream of questions, and deliver the film on schedule.

