A mysterious artifact is unearthed in London, and famous scientist Bernard Quatermass is called into to divine its origins and explain its strange effects on people.
While digging a new subway line in London, a construction crew discovers first: a skeleton, then what they think is an old World War II German missile. Upon closer examination the "missile" appears to be not of this earth! This movie examines the age old question of how we came to be on this planet. It is surprisingly scary.
In London, while digging in the Hobb's End Underground Station, the workers find a skull and skeleton in the excavation. Dr. Mathew Roney and his assistant Barbara Judd research the findings and believe that the skull belongs to a prehistoric ape man. When they find an unknown indestructible metal, the army is summoned and Colonel Breen believes that the metal is actually a V-2 German missile from the World War II. However, Professor Bernard Quatermass believes that it is a spacecraft from Mars. Quatermass and Roney find a plan from the Martians to invade Earth affecting the earthlings but the skeptical Colonel Breen does not accept their theory.
While digging an extension in the London underground, workers come across skeletal remains. Construction is halted and paleontologist Dr. Matthew Roney's team take over. They soon find a metal object that they initially think might be a bomb but turns out to be an alien spacecraft of some kind. Roney's assistant Barbara Judd and Professor Bernard Quatermass, a rocket specialist who does experimental work for the Ministry of Defence, discover that much of the housing around the site was abandoned by its inhabitants 40 years ago because of strange noises and what was believed to be ghosts. Inside the spacecraft they find the remnants of insect-like creatures, all now dead. In disturbing the craft however, they release an invisible force of immense power.
Workers excavating at an underground station in London uncover the skeletal remains of ancient apes with large skulls. Further digging reveals what is at first believed to be an unexploded German bomb from World War II. Missile expert Colonel Breen is brought in to investigate, accompanied by Professor Bernard Quartermass. When the interior of the "missile" is exposed, a dead locust-like creature that resembles the devil is found. It is determined by Quartermass that these "locusts" are evil Martians who altered the brains of our simian ancestors to eventually lay claim to the Earth. When Quartermass's suspicion that the missile can reactivate the dormant evil in humans is confirmed, all hell breaks loose.

