The idyllic life of Tarzan and Jane is challenged by men on safari who come seeking ivory, and come seeking Jane as well.
In the first sequel to Tarzan, the Ape Man, Harry Holt returns to Africa to head up a large ivory expedition. This time he brings his womanizing friend Marlin Arlington. Holt also harbors ideas about convincing Jane to return to London. When Holt and Arlington show Jane some of the modern clothes and perfumes they brought from civilization, she is impressed but not enough to return. Tarzan wrestles every wild animal imaginable to protect Jane but when he disallows the expedition from plundering ivory from the elephant burial grounds, it is he who takes a bullet from Arlington's gun. Jane eventually believes that Tarzan is dead but he is nursed back to health by the apes. As Jane and the returning expedition are attacked by violent natives, we wonder if Tarzan can rescue them yet again.
Tarzan and Jane are happily living in their jungle paradise. She's found a home among the trees and the animals and is living a life that she never dreamed possible. Their idyll is interrupted when Jane's former beau, Harry Holt, returns to the jungle intent on reclaiming her. He's brought beautiful clothes with her and many of the trappings of the civilized world in the hopes of enticing her back. With him is Martin Arlington who is intent on finding the elephants' graveyard and its fortune in ivory. They all face many perils in the jungle and Tarzan is there to protect them - and Jane in particular - from anything that might happen. When Tarzan is shot and cannot be found, Jane realizes that she may have no choice but to return to the outside world.
It has been twelve full months since the love-smitten Englishwoman, Jane Parker, traded civilisation for a humble but thrilling life in the lush African jungles, and the quest for the mythical elephants' graveyard, the Mutia Escarpment, continues. But, this time, Jane's old flame, Harry Holt, along with his companion and rapacious ivory-seeker, Martin Arlington, arrive bearing expensive gifts, in hopes that she returns with them. However, as the dangerous expedition for the fabled treasure begins, a grievous wound threatens to abruptly disrupt Tarzan and Jane's perfect life atop the trees, leaving the intruders of their peaceful haven completely undisturbed to do their looting. Will the Lord of the Jungle and his mate permit it?

