A group of professors working on a new encyclopedia encounter a mouthy nightclub singer who is wanted by the police to help bring down her mob boss lover.
Sexy, wisecracking nightclub singer Sugarpuss O'Shea is a hot tomato who needs to be kept on ice: mobster boyfriend Joe Lilac is suspected of murder and Sugarpuss' testimony could put him away. Naive Professor Bertram Potts meets Miss O'Shea while researching an article on slang and in true romantic comedy fashion the two worlds collide. When Miss O'Shea hides out with Potts and his fellow professors, everyone learns something new: the professors how to cha-cha and Potts the meaning of "yum-yum"!
A group of eight professors are writing an encyclopedia. The naive professor of English Bertram Potts concludes that he needs field research to update the slang in his article and he goes to the streets and to a night-club. He meets the sexy singer Sugarpuss O'Shea, who is the mistress of the mobster Joe Lilac, and invites her to participate of the meetings of his research in the foundation that is promoting the encyclopedia. When she learns that the police have arrested Joe Lilac and are chasing her to testify against him, she decides to meet Prof. Potts and stay in the foundation. She becomes the pride and joy of the seven old man and Prof. Potts falls for her and proposes to marry her. Meanwhile Joe Lilac decides to get married to Sugarplus to avoid her testimony in the court.
8 Professors are in the 9th year of a 12 year encyclopedia writing project. The youngest is Bertram Potts who specializes in language and grammar. When Professor Potts discovers that his section on slang is outdated, he sets out to research the topic. Nightclub performer Sugarpuss O'Shea is engaged to gangster Joe Lilac. When she discovers that the police are after her, she must find a place to lay low. Then Potts meets Sugarpuss. He is impressed with her slang and wants to study it further. Sugarpuss uses his study as an excuse to invite herself to stay with the 8 Professors at their residence--a perfect hideout. She wins over the older Professors teaching them how to do a Conga Line and earns a marriage proposal from 'Pottsie' by showing him 'yum-yum'. However, Joe Lilac resurfaces with other plans for Sugarpuss.

