A police lt. is ordered to stop investigating deadly crime boss Mr. Brown, because he hasn't been able to get any hard evidence against him. He then goes after Brown's girlfriend who despises him, for information instead.
Police Lt. Diamond is told to close his surveillance of suspected mob boss Mr. Brown because it's costing the department too much money with no results. Diamond makes one last attempt to uncover evidence against Brown by going to Brown's girlfriend, Susan Lowell.
Police Lt. Leonard Diamond of the 93 Precinct is obsessed with finding evidence against hoodlum Mr. Brown and unsuccessfully exceeds the budget after four years of investigation with his partner, Detective Sam Hill. Police Capt. Peterson orders him to stop the investigation, saying that his obsession is personal since he has fallen in love with Brown's mistress Susan Lowell. But Susan tries to commit suicide and Diamond convinces his chief to follow one last lead, the name Alicia babbled by Susan in the hospital. The powerful Mr. Brown is mad with Diamond's investigation and sends his gangsters Joe McClure, Fante and Mingo to try to stop Diamond. But the reluctant lieutenant insists in his pursue and the criminals decide to kill him. However, they murder Diamond's lover Rita by mistake. Now Diamond's is out for revenge and he will not stop until Mr. Brown is brought to justice.
Police captain Peterson (Robert Middleton) storms into the office of police Lt. Leonard Diamond (Cornel Wilde), critical of Diamond's spending exorbitant amounts of the city budget and his own personal money in an attempt to arrest a crime boss, Mr. Brown (Richard Conte). Peterson says it is a waste of time trying to find something incriminating to bring Mr. Brown to justice because his crime combo does business without accounting books, and furthermore Peterson says Diamond's actual motivation is Diamond's love for Brown's girlfriend Susan Lowell (Jean Wallace). Susan is attended to at all times by Brown's thugs Mingo (Earl Holliman) and Fante (Lee Van Cleef). Seemingly drawn to Brown through his ability to inflict pain, she seems kidnapped and yet willingly waits for Brown's brutal attentions. Attempting suicide, she overdoses on pills, and utters the name "Alicia" as Diamond attends to her in the hospital. Believing this may be Brown's wife, Diamond follows up on this new lead, but Brown captures and tortures Diamond and delivers him back to his boss Peterson, attempting to make Diamond appear drunk. Meanwhile, Joe McClure (Brian Donlevy), a deaf underling of Brown's, tries to overthrow him by enlisting Mingo and Fante to kill him, but they in turn stick with Mr. Brown and kill McClure instead. Diamond makes more headway by locating a former girlfriend of Brown's and Bettini (Ted De Corsia), the former First Mate of Brown's boat. When Brown tries to further kill off his hired thugs and escape, Diamond confronts him again, with new evidence to arrest him.
