The marital difficulties of four couples living in a southern California housing development become intertwined. Among the unhappy couples are ne'er-do-well Jerry Flagg and his long-suffering wife Isabelle, flirtatious Leola Boone and her sadistic husband Troy, hard working Herman Kreitzer and his understanding wife Betty, and newlyweds Jean and David Martin.
A college-educated, newlywed couple David &amp; Jean Martin (played by Jeffery Hunter &amp; Patricia Owens) moves into a newly constructed suburban Los Angeles subdivision in the late 1950s. The David &amp; Jean are invited to a cookout occurring that evening in the backyard of their new next door neighbors Herman &amp; Betty Kreitzer (played by Pat Hingle &amp; Barbara Rush). The Martins are introduced to other neighbors Jerry &amp; Isabelle Flagg (played by Tony Randall &amp; Sheree North) &amp; Troy &amp; Leola Boone (played by Cameron Mitchell &amp; Joanne Woodward) at the cookout. The neighbors are contemporary 1950s married couples dealing with issues that suburbanites have dealt with for years. Alcoholism, marital infidelity, racism, &amp; religion are a few of the suburban issues dealt with during the film's 1 hour &amp; 41 minute running time. No Down Payment is an interesting look at 1950s suburban life &amp; issues.
The intertwined lives of four couples living in the new housing development, Sunrise Hills Estates, in the suburban American town of Sunrise Hills is presented, their backyards which form the equivalent of the four corners. Sunrise Hills by design is a homogeneous community of white, middle class, Christian families. Each of the four couples enter this living situation from different histories, with some seeing it solely as a stopover to something better while others spend their time trying to make Sunrise Hills the best place to live in seeing it as home in the long run. Regardless of which group into which they fall, each person does regard this living situation as an important and necessary step in their version of the American dream. The financial price for taking this step is being in debt for twenty-five years as houses, cars and other big ticket items can be easily purchased on credit no money down, something not available to people in their standing one generation earlier. That surface homogeneity in particular does not necessarily make for a harmonious community below the surface, especially as there is a natural course of outward neighborliness in everyone being the same and having the same views without that actually being the case.

