Betty Boop and Bimbo run away from home, but that night they are scared by a chorus of ghosts singing the title song.
Betty Boop runs away from home with her friend, Bimbo the Dog. They end up in a cave where a walrus, with Cab Calloway's voice, sings "Minnie the Moocher" and dances to the melancholy song. He is joined in the performance by various ghosts, goblins, skeletons and other frightening things. Betty and Bimbo are subjected to skeletons drinking at a bar; ghost prisoners sitting in electric chairs; a mother cat with skull-like eyes feeding her equally empty-eyed kittens; and worse.
A Jewish mother and father scold their daughter, Betty Boop, not for her revealing dress, but for refusing to eat. Pa yells at her so much that his head becomes a phonograph playing the same old record. Betty runs away from the table. Even Ma is getting sick of Pa's yelling, so she turns over the record to play some music. Meanwhile, Betty sings about her woes as she walks up the stairs, declaring that she'll eat worms and die. Instead, she rolls up her toothbrush in a blanket and leaves a note. It says, "I'm leaving Home because you're not Sweet to me. I won't ever be Home again."She calls her friend, Bimbo the Dog, to come over. After Betty escapes through her window (by grabbing the blind and jumping out, letting it unroll until she reaches the ground), she and Bimbo head for a cave, where they meet a walrus, with Cab Calloway's voice, singing "Minnie the Moocher" and dancing to the melancholy song. Betty and Bimbo are subjected to frightening sights. Various dead things come to life and sing the chorus. Three skeletons drink from a bar, the booze turning them black. Their ghosts rise out of them and gyrate to the music.Bimbo looks down in a well, and sees three images of himself in the water singing along. Three ghost prisoners walk right through their bars and head to three electric chairs, which electrocute them, but don't stop them from singing.A mother cat with black circles for eyes, making her head appear skull-like, feeds her equally empty-eyed kittens. They feed from her and get large as she deflates like a balloon. She gives them a bottle of milk, with enough nipples for each, and they grow even larger.Bimbo and Betty are so scared they become negative images of themselves. Now an endless number of ghosts, phantoms, skeletons and other weird beings chase them out of the cave. Betty runs into her house and up to her room where she cowers in her bed. The note she left for her parents rips itself apart, leaving only the words, "Home Sweet Home."
