After a badly done assignment, a hitman finds himself in conflict with his organisation, and one mysterious and dangerous fellow-hitman in particular.
The number-three-ranked hit-man, with a fetish for sniffing boiling rice, fumbles his latest job, which puts him into conflict with a mysterious woman whose death wish inspires her to surround herself with dead butterflies and dead birds. Worse danger comes from his own treacherous wife and finally with the number-one-ranked hit-man, known only as a phantom to those who fear his unseen presence.
A hitman, known simply as "Number 3" (after his ranking in the hitman community) is hired to protect a key crime figure. Things don't go according to plan and he finds himself on the outer with his organisation. Furthermore, this brings him into conflict with the mysterious and dangerous Number 1.
Hanada, who has a fetish in the smell of boiling rice, is widely referred to as the No. 3 hit man in Japan. While most of the others in the top five are known, the identity of No. 1 remains a mystery, some who believe he solely a legend that does not really exist. As a favor to Kasuga, a former associate who has fallen out of favor with the yakuza, Hanada agrees to assist him in a job commissioned by Yabuhara, a yakuza head, to act as bodyguards to ensure a client gets safely to a destination. Out of that job, Hanada meets a beautiful young woman named Misako, to who he becomes infatuated despite having a satisfying sexual life with his wife Mami, Misako who makes a dangerous request and who seems to have a death wish of her own, and is asked by Yabuhara to do a series of four associated hits. One of those hits goes wrong, which leads to Hanada knowing that his life as No. 3 is not only in jeopardy but his life in its entirety as such an error is not tolerated by the yakuza. In a kill or be killed scenario, Hanada is in a fight for his life, especially difficult as he doesn't know who specifically has been commissioned to kill him. In his position as No. 3, it may only be the mysterious No. 1 that can get the job done.
The film's story centers on Hanada, a.k.a. "No. 3 Killer," the third-best hit man in Japanese organized crime. Near the top of his game, his fortunes change when he encounters Misako, a mysterious, death-obsessed woman who brings him a particularly difficult mission. In a famous moment indicative of the film's eccentric sensibility, a butterfly lands on his gun's sight at the exact moment he pulls the trigger, causing him to miss the shot. This failure means that the killer becomes the target, and must run for his life from his former employers, and the mysterious "No. 1 Killer." While the film does contain some spectacular action sequences, the story is played less as a suspense thriller than as a surrealistic, psychosexual nightmare, filled with grotesque imagery and strange touches, from Hanada's fetish for the smell of boiling rice, to Misako's use of a dead bird's corpse as a rear-view mirror decoration.

