A man is murdered, apparently by one of a group of demobilized soldiers he met in a bar. But which one? And why?
Homicide Capt. Finlay finds evidence that one or more of a group of demobilized soldiers is involved in the death of Joseph Samuels. In flashbacks, we see the night's events from different viewpoints as army Sgt. Keeley investigates on his own, trying to clear Mitchell, to whom circumstantial evidence points. Then the real, ugly motive for the killing begins to dawn on both Finlay and Keeley.
Joseph "Sammy" Samuels is found beaten to death in his Washington, D.C. apartment by his girlfriend, Miss Lewis. Capt. Finlay of the police department is the lead investigator into the murder, which seemingly has to do with a group of four recently demobilized military men that Sammy and Miss Lewis had drinks with earlier that evening in a bar. Those four are "Monty" Montgomery, Arthur "Mitch" Mitchell, Floyd Bowers, and Floyd's friend Leroy. Indeed, Monty, who is questioned first by Finlay as he wanders by Sammy's apartment during the investigation, confirms that he, Floyd and Mitch were in Sammy's apartment earlier having drinks with Sammy, which explains why Finlay found Mitch's wallet in the apartment. On the surface, Mitch seems to be the most likely candidate as the murderer based on Monty's story that Mitch was drunk and out of sorts. A fifth demobilized military man, Peter Keeley - Mitch's roommate - confirms Mitch's tenuous mental state over his uncertain future, especially with his wife back in Chicago, but knows sensitive Mitch is not the type of person who could be a murderer. Keeley himself tries to find the missing Mitch to get his story and hopefully a confirmable alibi for the time of the murder. Keeley and Finlay at times seem to be working at cross purposes, but both come to the realization of the identity of the murderer about the same time. Without hard evidence or a witness, Finlay believes the key to conviction lies with Leroy.
After a man by the name of Samuels is found beaten to death in his apartment, police Captain Finlay focuses on a group of soldiers who had been in the same bar with the victim earlier that day. One of them, Mitchell, had left the bar with Samuels and a girl. Another soldier, Montgomery, had seen Mitchell in Samuels' apartment but he ran off with Samuels still alive. Sgt. Peter Keeley doesn't believe for one minute that the mild-mannered Mitchell could kill anyone. He finds Mitchell who tells him he'd agreed to go out to dinner with Samuels but wasn't feeling well and left. The next thing he remembers is sitting in a club with a girl named Ginny. Finlay thinks it's a hate crime and that Samuels was killed because he was Jewish. The real killer is prepared to do whatever is necessary to ensure he gets away with Samuels' murder.
After WW II, Police Captain Finlay investigates with his team the murder of Jewish Joseph "Sammy" Samuels in his apartment after a beating. Out of the blue, soldier "Monty" Montgomery comes to the apartment and tells that three soldiers - Corporal Arthur "Mitch" Mitchell, soldier Floyd Bowers and himself - had been in the apartment drinking with Sammy, and Mitch would have been the last one to leave the place. Finlay finds Mitch's wallet on the couch and he becomes the prime suspect. Finlay visits Sergeant Peter Keeley who tells that his friend Mitch is a sensitive artist incapable of killing a man. Keeley decides to investigate the case to protect and clear the name of his friend. When Keeley discusses the evidences with Finlay, the captain concludes that Mitch did not have the motive to kill Sammy, who was a stranger that he met in a bar. Now Captain Finlay has another suspect and he decides to plot a scheme to expose the killer.

