Tom Jeffords tries to make peace between settlers and Apaches in Arizona territory.
By 1870, there has been 10 years of cruel war between settlers and Cochise's Apaches. Ex-soldier Tom Jeffords saves the life of an Apache boy and starts to wonder if Indians are human, after all; soon, he determines to use this chance to make himself an ambassador. Against all odds, his solitary mission into Cochise's stronghold opens a dialogue. Opportunely, the president sends General Howard with orders to conclude peace. But even with Jeffords's luck, the deep grievance and hatred on both sides make tragic failure all too likely.
Based on the real-life efforts of Tom Jeffords, this film dramatizes his efforts to make peace with Apache chief Cochise. After helping a young Indian boy, Cochise sets Jeffords free leading him to think that there may be a way to make peace in the war that has now lasted nearly 10 years. He takes time to learn their language and customs and then sets out to see if they can get safe passage for the mail riders who are always being ambushed. He succeeds, developing a mutual respect with the Apache leader. Not everyone is in favor of the deal with some settlers as well as Apaches refusing to go along and intent on doing what they can to break the peace. Jeffords pays a high price because of those efforts but his perseverance did lead to several conflict-free years.
In a rare meeting of fact and fiction, "Broken Arrow" portrays the efforts of the actual former Union captain, Tom Jeffords, to restore peace between white frontiersmen and Cochise's Chiricahua Apaches, after a long decade of ferocious and incessant war. Tired of the endless hostilities, Jeffords strongly believes that there is still hope for peace between both sides through honest and meaningful dialogue--and with this in mind--he manages to mediate a peaceful resolution of the conflict, in 1872. But, sadly, this is a fragile treaty, and now, it's up to the wise Indian chief to put an end to the intoxicating vengeance--wherever it comes from.
Indian scout Tom Jeffords (James Stewart) is sent out to stem the war between the Whites and Apaches in the late 1870s. He learns (through an uncomfortably close encounter) that the Indians kill only to protect themselves, or out of retaliation for white atrocities. Befriending the sagacious Apache leader Cochise (Jeff Chandler), Jeffords ensures safe passage for white mail-carriers through Indian territory. As he becomes closer to his Native American "brothers", Jeffords falls in love with and weds a pretty Apache girl (Debra Paget). This being a 1950 film (miscegenation was frowned upon by the Production Code), you can guess what happens to her. Jeffords wants to avenge his bride's death at the hands of white renegades, but it is the so-called "savage" Cochise who advises him not to. Having learned much from each other, Jeffords and Cochise symbolize the white/Indian detente with the traditional broken arrow. This superb, non-condescending film has been criticized in some circles because of the alleged depiction of Cochise as an Indian "Uncle Tom", and because actor Jeff Chandler was not a genuine Native American. Nonetheless, Broken Arrow stands the test of time far more successfully than the later, politically correct Dances with Wolves. In 1956, Broken Arrow was adapted into a TV series starring John Lupton as Jeffords and Michael Ansara as Cochise.
