To improve his social life, a nerdish professor drinks a potion that temporarily turns him into the handsome, but obnoxious, Buddy Love.
Nerd. Milquetoast. Klutz. These are just three of the many undesirable words that can be used to describe Professor Julius Kelp. But all that changes when the chemistry expert invents a potion that transforms him into a suave, sexy chick magnet, whom Julius aptly names Buddy Love. Unfortunately, there's one side effect: Buddy can't control when he'll change back into Julius, an event that always happens at inopportune times. How will Julius/Buddy resolve his Jekyll-and-Hyde dilemma?
Julius Kelp is a nerdy and not very handsome chemistry professor at small college. The mild mannered Kelp has been bullied all of his life and is now pushed around by his students, especially the football players. One of his students, the pretty Stella Purdy, encourages him to stand up to them but his approach is to develop a chemical solution that will turn him into a different man. What he develops turns him into Buddy Love, who Stella aptly describes as a rude and discourteous egomaniac. One thing he can't control however is when he turns back into Kelp, something that puts his secret in danger of becoming public.
Julius Kelp is an ugly chemistry teacher with no personal life. One day he creates something incredible! An elixir that transforms him into a totally different man, Buddy Love. He is very successful with women, and one of his students (Stella Purdy) falls in love with him. Of course nobody knows that this charming, cool guy is in fact Julius Kelp. Everyone is very excited with Buddy, but there is a problem. The elixir's effect doesn't last very long...
After an ill advised comment to an athlete in his chemistry class, Professor Kelp (Jerry Lewis) decides he needs to become more manly. He finds himself falling for a beauty in his class and overuses this fountain of cool youthfulness formula he creates. If it wears off it's trouble. But now he has Stella Purdy's (Stella Stevens) attention and cannot bear to lose it. After her frustration increases over this egotistical rebel Buddy Love (Jerry Lewis), she tells Kelp her feelings. SPOILER WARNING. And just in time because Kelp's about to blow it big time by a mistake with the potion. Playing his first big venue, the gig is up for buddy Love. With the truth now evident, only Stella can find a way to take the Jekyll and Hyde relationship and create a better, complete relationship. She becomes the hero, creating a relationship with a now confident, dutiful man which the professor could not do with his previous schizophrenia. But what will become of the macho-man formula?
