A fairly well-to-do family takes in two troubled orphans.
Anne and "Poppy" Rose are the average American family, with three quirky kids. Anne has a good heart and gives lost cats and dogs a home - and one day also the orphan Jane, a problem child who already tried to kill herself once. At first Poppy is worried and wants to get rid of her, but with love and patience they finally manage to integrate her into the family. Just then Anne invites another orphan, the aggressive handicapped Jimmy-John, to their summer vacation.
The Rose household is renowned for taking in stray animals. Although it is mother Anna Rose who is the one to take the strays in, this compassionate attitude which she has passed onto their three children Tim, Trot and Teenie, father George Rose, who is more practical on the surface, is equally compassionate under the surface. Although they cannot afford the luxuries for their current three children on George's modest salary as a city engineer, Anna, after touring a local orphanage with a bunch of other neighborhood mothers, suggests to George, on the urging of the facility's head Miss Kenyon, that they take in one of the orphanage's older children, if even for a trial period. Who Miss Kenyon would like them to take and who they eventually agree to take is a troubled and angry thirteen year old named Jane Miller, who came from a broken home, whose mother recently rejected her as she remarried, and who tried to commit suicide because of that rejection. Eventually, Anna and George decide to take in a second older child, equally angry and troubled Jimmy John Wilson, a twelve year old who has been orphaned since age two, who is treated as trouble by the authorities because of his belligerent behavior, and who has the added burden of needing to wear braces on his legs, which in turn has made him even angrier and more violent because of what he feels he can't do physically like most boys his age. They will also learn that Jimmy John, because of his anger, has so far refused to learn to read. Anna and George, who have to deal with Jane and Jimmy John's issues differently, will find if their love, support and compassion are enough to melt the seemingly icy hearts of the two, that love which may wane if their own three children are negatively affected. The situation may not be helped by the attitudes of their friends and neighbors who may look down on the notion of the two being trouble to begin with.

