Cowboy, and assorted blue collar buddies, inneffectually try to save a true Texas Honky Tonk from closing for good.
The cheerless events on the last night in the existence of a little suburban Houston pub. It has to be closed down for development reasons but one of the regular customers, Cowboy, seems to have friends in high places.
Set during one long Friday afternoon and evening at the Alamo, a long-standing working class dive bar on the outskirts of Houston, Texas. The local regulars gather for the final night before the place is closed down to make room for a high-rise development. Ichabod (Steven Matilla), whose real name is William, and his long-suffering girlfriend Mary (Tina Bess-Hubbard) arrive, engaged in a heated argument as they make their way to the pool table. Another customer, named Claude (Lou Perryman), arrives where he complains that his wife Marcie banished him from the house when he came home drunk one too many times. After ranting that Marcie is overly preoccupied with housekeeping, purchasing household gadgets, and making a good impression with the neighbors, he calls her from the bar's payphone several times over the course of the movie and pleads to be allowed to return home. He eventually hangs up, as the conversation only leads to more frustration.When two attractive newcomers, named Ginger (Peggy Pinnell) and Lisa (Amanda Lamar), walk in, the men at the bar immediately invite them over to buy them a drink. Claude tells a story about his friend, Cowboy Regan (Sonny Carl Davis), a popular regular at the Alamo who has a gift for charming women and creating drama. Meanwhile, Skipper (George Pheneger), the bartender, breaks up a fight between Ichabod and another customer.When Cowboy finally arrives, Ichabod and others are glad to see him. Self-assured, Cowboy is not worried about quitting another construction job, since he believes he would be better suited as a movie actor. Cowboy flirts with Lisa, claiming he might be able to save the Alamo from developers. Nearby, Steve (J. Michael Hammond) overhears and comments that Cowboy is merely boasting.In the poolroom, Cowboy agrees to loan Ichabod $50 to take Mary to the Paradise Motel. Next, Cowboy goes outside to reassure Claude, who continues to complain about Marcie and her materialistic obsession with buying stuff. They say hello to Janice (Doris Hargrave), an acquaintance from high school who lives in the small house next door to the Alamo. Referring to her promiscuous reputation, Cowboy tells Claude she is "a dirty leg". After listening to Claude's marital problems, Cowboy encourages his friend to consider working in the movie industry with him, but Claude reminds Cowboy that he has a family to support.Back inside the bar, Cowboy wins a tequila chugging contest against Hector (Earnest Huerta Jr.) , but when he loses the next challenge to Poke (David Schied), Steve taunts Cowboy about pretending to be a hero and saving the bar. Determined to prove Steve wrong, Cowboy uses the payphone and leaves an urgent message for his former college roommate, Representative Richard Waters, at the state capital in Austin, Texas. He tells Claude that he might have to fight Steve, who has been pestering him all night.During all of this, Claude remains preoccupied with Marcie, who now wants her husband to check into a motel for a few days. Cowboy resumes his flirtation with Lisa and invites her to listen to music in his truck. She accepts, despite objections from her friend, Ginger, who does not want to be left alone at the bar. In his pickup truck, Cowboy brags about his acting ability, but is unable to remember the title of the movie Western for which he is supposedly being considered. Cowboy kisses Lisa, and she leaves, noting he has the wrong impression of her.Frustrated, Cowboy remains in the parking lot kicking dirt, when Steve approaches. He taunts Cowboy, declaring that Lisa must have fled after realizing the hero was bald underneath his hat. Cowboy takes off his hat to reveal his bald spot, punches Steve, and a fight ensues. After knocking Steve to the ground, Cowboy staggers inside Janice's house. She tends to the cut on his lip, but when he tries to seduce her, she orders him to leave, yelling that she knows Cowboy and other men call her a dirty leg.Meanwhile, a intoxicated Ichabod stands on the bar counter and announces to everyone that they are invited to watch him and Mary make love at the Paradise Motel. Barely able to stand, Ichabod is escorted by some of the patrons to his truck, and Mary drives him away.Inside, Skipper warns Cowboy about causing trouble and behaving as if he is superior to everyone else. As Steve expresses doubt about Representative Waters, Cowboy suggests they set up a blockade against the bulldozers, but no one wants to risk being arrested. Cowboy argues that the Alamo represents the real Texas, amid the encroachment of fast food chains, condominiums, and fancy saloons with mechanical bulls. As more of the patrons leave for the night, either to go home or to go to the B&amp;B, a new and upscale bar several miles down the road, an increasingly drunken Cowboy yells to the departing patrons that they are traitors for going to the upscale "Yankee bar".A little while later, Waters telephones, but the politician tells Cowboy (off-camera) that he is unable to prevent the demolition. Cowboy grabs his rifle and challenges the remaining regulars at the bar, Poke, Steve, Willie (Henry Wideman), and Lionel (Kim Henkel), to defend the place.
Meanwhile, Claude drives home after calling his wife and threatening to burn down their house.After Steve insults him again, Cowboy fires a gunshot to prove he is serious. Annoyed, Skipper declares the place is closed and orders everyone to leave. However, Cowboy is determined to stay. Willie, the local drunkard, is the only one who agrees to remain behind and help Cowboy protect the bar, but he soon abandons the idea.Returning to the Alamo, Claude finds the besotted Cowboy dozing inside. He tells Cowboy that he followed through on his threat and set fire to his house. However, as Claude prepares to take Cowboy home, he learns from Marcie that the fire department arrived in time to save the place. Cowboy comments to Claude about the closing of the Alamo as the end to their "redneck" way of life. Claude then drives Cowboy home.In the final scene, Ichabod and Mary (still arguing with each other) drive back to the bar after the motel manager had apparently ejected them from their room due to Ichabod's drunken antics. It is here that Mary finally breaks up with Ichabod and drives off in his truck, while he runs after her on foot. While Steve, Poke, and Lionel laugh at the bickering couple, the lights of the Alamo are turned off for good.
