Shocked by the death of her spouse, a scheming widow hatches a bold plan to get her hands on the inheritance, unaware that she is targeted by an axe-wielding murderer who lurks in the family's estate. What mystery shrouds the noble house?
Whilst out on a rowboat with his wife Louise, John Haloran has a heart attack and dies. She casts his body overboard and hides his death telling the family he left on an urgent business trip. Louise's main concern is that she can only hope to inherit part of his family fortune if he's still alive. The Halorans are a strange family. They are still grieving over the death of the youngest daughter, Kathleen, who drowned in a pond when she was a young child. The family hold an annual ceremony of remembrance, on the anniversary of her death. But this year someone is wielding an ax...intent on murder.
The anniversary of Kathleen Haloran's death is approaching, she died drowning in the pond on the family estate. Since then, her mother has had a maniacal obsession with Kathleen's memory, and deeded the estate to a charity in Kathleen's name. This doesn't sit well with greedy wife, Louise Haloran, who believes her mother-in-law is crazy., On the eve of the ceremony, John dies from a heart attack in front of Louise, who hides his death from the family as she tries to work her and John back into the will through an elaborate scheme involving Lady Haloran's obsession with Kathleen.
Shocked by the sudden death of her spouse, the young widow, Louise Haloran--knowing that she will be excluded from the inheritance--hatches a daring plan to get her hands on her share. As a result, after carefully disposing of the body, the scheming woman pays a visit to her late husband's ancestral home in Ireland, the Castle Haloran, pretending that he is away for business. However, unbeknownst to Louise, a blood-thirsty axe-wielding murderer who lurks in the dark corners of the vast family estate has already set his sights on killing her, at all costs. Indeed, there's an invisible killer in their midst. What mystery shrouds Lady Haloran's noble house?
John Haloran has a fatal heart attack, and his wife, Louise will be excluded from inheritance if John is dead, when his mother, Lady Haloran dies.Louise plans to convince the rest of his family he's been called to New York on important business, and goes to his Irish ancestral home, Castle Haloran, to meet the family and look for a way to ensure a cut of the loot.

