A journalist attempts to uncover the mysterious disappearance of Inspector Clouseau.
The Pink Panther diamond is stolen once again from Lugash and the authorities call in Chief Inspector Clouseau from France. His plane disappears en-route. This time, famous French TV reporter Marie Jouvet sets out to solve the mystery and starts to interview everybody connected to Clouseau. Each interviewee Dreyfus, Sir Charles and Lady Lytton (an ex-wife of Clouseau), George Lytton, Hercule Lajoy (assistant in "A Shot In The Dark"), and Cato tell of their run-ins with Clouseau. She is also kidnapped by mobster Bruno Langlois who doesn't want Clouseau found but she continues and finds Clouseau Sr., Clouseau's father. Is Clouseau alive or is he dead? Each interview has not-yet-seen or famous clips from the previous movies (since Peter Sellers had sadly passed away) as Marie continues to get a honest view or impression of the great French detective.
In the opening scene, (a deleted scene from 'The Pink Panther Strikes Again') French Sûreté Chief Inspector Jacques Clouseau (Peter Sellers) enters a wig and makeup shop, where he is fitted for a prosthetic nose, wig, and false teeth by owner Professor Auguste Balls (Harvey Korman). Meanwhile, a television news anchor reports on the third theft of the Pink Panther, the world's largest cut diamond owned by the Middle Eastern nation of Lugash. Chief Inspector Dreyfus (Herbert Lom) meets with Commissioner Lasorde (Marne Maitland), who informs the detective that the Lugashian President Haleesh personally requested that Clouseau investigate the case.While smoking his pipe in his office, Clouseau sets his newspaper on fire and destroys the room struggling to extinguish the flames.Dreyfus attends a therapy session with a psychiatrist to discuss his renewed obsessive desire to kill Clouseau and end their long-standing rivalry.That night, Clouseau's pursuer watches his apartment building as the bumbling inspector spills his groceries across the lobby floor.At the police station, Dreyfus' assistant, Sergeant Francois Duval, informs his superior that Clouseau intends to travel to London, England, in search of Sir Charles Litton, also known as the "Phantom," whom he once suspected of a previous Pink Panther theft. Although Clouseau seems unaware that Litton has moved to the South of France, the two officers decide not to inform him.On his way to the airport, Clouseau detonates his car engine while attempting to fix the dashboard cigarette lighter. Wrapped under bandages and a splinted leg, he notifies London's New Scotland Yard that he will be arriving in England in "disguise," and boards the airplane. While airborne, Clouseau struggles to use the lavatory and becomes trapped in an inverted position for much of the flight. Once the plane lands, Scotland Yard detectives Alec Drummond and Hugh McLaren struggle to identify Clouseau, but recognize the inspector when he tumbles down the jet way stairs.Meanwhile, Dreyfus dreams of living a life without Clouseau and swimming in a pool full of gelatin. Awakened by a telephone call from Drummond, he learns about a possible Libyan assassination attempt on Clouseau's life, which the target has refused to take seriously, and Drummond urges him to send Clouseau back to Paris.While attempting to answer a telephone call in his hotel room, Clouseau is repeatedly knocked out the window by the bustling charwoman, and pulls the telephone wire out of the walls. Finally, Clouseau receives instructions from Dreyfus to go to Lugash, despite Drummond's warning.Meanwhile, Lugashian Colonel Bufoni informs President Haleesh that various insurance companies have already paid the government $12 million for the Pink Panther's theft, and resolves to protect the president's reputation by stopping Clouseau's arrival. During another therapy session, Dreyfus learns that Clouseau's airplane has gone missing over the ocean.Later, while being interviewed by investigative television reporter Marie Jouvet (Joanna Lumley), he struggles to mask his scathing dislike of Clouseau and glee over his presumed death.Marie also interviews Clouseau's Chinese housekeeper, Cato (Burt Kwouk), who helped train the detective for unexpected criminal attacks (in flashbacks to 'Return of the Pink Panther', The Pink Panther Strikes Again' and 'Revenge of the Pink Panther).She then finds Clouseau's former assistant, Hercule Lajoy (Graham Stark), aboard a river barge, and learns about the inspector's unorthodox crime-solving methods (in more flashbacks to the film 'A Shot in the Dark'). Lajoy encourages her to interview the criminals that Clouseau pursued and incarcerated.After watching Marie's first television report about Clouseau's disappearance, a Mafia boss named Bruno Langois (Robert Loggia) meets with other organized crime leaders and decides to track Marie's whereabouts to ensure that Clouseau is never found.Sir Charles Litton (David Niven), and his wife, Lady Litton (Capucine), the previous owner of the Pink Panther, tell Marie about meeting Clouseau 20 years earlier while skiing in Cortina d'Ampezzo, Italy (in a long flashback from the first 'Pink Panther' film); Clouseau and Lady Litton were married and later divorced before she remarried Charles and the inspector falsely accused him of stealing the jewel. Describing how the Pink Panther was actually taken by a man in a gorilla suit at a costume party, they reveal that Clouseau himself was mistaken for the criminal and subsequently arrested. Despite the detective's mysterious disappearance, the Littons insist that he is still alive.After the meeting, Marie's taxi driver (William Hootkins) is threatened into driving her to a secluded villa to meet Bruno, where she refuses the Mafia leader's request to stop her investigations. Later, Dreyfus declines Marie's demands to incriminate Bruno for her kidnapping, prompting her to accuse the police of sustaining corrupt ties to the Mafia. As a result, she begins developing a television expose on the subject and breaks into Clouseau's apartment while she believes Cato to be away on vacation. Cato springs from a secret hiding place to attack, but realizes who she is and tells her about Clouseau's upbringing on a French vineyard.Marie then speaks with Clouseau's ill and forgetful father (Richard Mulligan), who now lives with his son's former nurse and her energetic dog. Clouseau Senior recalls how his son became a policeman: After the love of his life married another man, Clouseau botched his own suicide and later joined the army in World War II, where his incompetence caused him to fumble the assassination of various important German officials.In Marie's final report on the subject, she refuses to believe that Clouseau has died and suggests that he has gone into hiding. While swooping over a rocky beach somewhere in Europe, a seagull deposits droppings on the inspector's familiar trench coat as he curses, "swine seagull!"
