A sinister corporation loses control of a house cat infected with a genetically engineered virus. The death toll rises during the mutant feline's rampage and, eventually, it finds its way on board the yacht of a criminal kingpin.
A bunch of young people are invited to a Caribbean cruise on a gangster's yacht, to distract the attention of the authorities. Unfortunately, a mutant cat which escaped from a test laboratory also gets on board, and kills most of the passengers.
At a genetic research facility, a genetically-altered mutant cat is placed inside a house cat. The house cat escapes captivity, and kills several people in the building before escaping through an air duct. The next day, it jumps on a truck driven by two men, and kills them both by attacking them, causing them to crash the car. Meanwhile, multimillionaire Walter Graham, and his associate Mike Harvey are preparing to take a luxury yacht to the Cayman Islands to evade criminal prosecution. Accompanying them are Rachel, the boat's captain whose working her way to buy the boat back from Walter, Albert, Walter's friend, and Suzanne, and Bobbi, two spring breakers invited to come along.Before the trip starts, Suzanne, and Bobbi meet three boys, Martin, Corey, and Lance, at the marina, and invite them to come along as well; Walter reluctantly agrees, but only under the condition that they work as the boat's crew as the other crew had previously quit. The cat finds its way to Suzanne, who also brings it along. After the ship sets sail, the passengers have a party, although a drunken Albert is killed alone on the deck by the cat, and falls into the water. The others find some of his blood the next day, although when Martin, a biologist, inspects it, he finds it to be poisoned.Walter later attempts to rape Bobbi, and Corey, and Lance try to stop it, although Mike intervenes, and shoots Lance in the shoulder before the cat bites into his Achilles' tendon. Mike is critically wounded by the bite, and Martin deduces that the cat's bites are poisonous. Rachel, and Suzanne attempt to call for help, although Walter destroys any means of communication, intending on reaching the Cayman Islands. Mike soon begins having horrible spasms, and eventually dies, the survivors throwing his body overboard. The next day, Lance, and Bobbi begin to have sex, although the cat bites off a few of Lance's fingers. Panicked, he decides to jump overboard to prevent the infection from killing him. Bobbi pleads him not to, although they both fall over, and drown. Corey places several pieces of food in the engine room to lure out the cat, although when he tries to shoot it, he causes a steam blast that kills him.The cat gets into the yacht's food, and infects it, resulting in Rachel, ad Martin locking it up. Suzanne believes they are hiding it for themselves, and eats a few bites of bread, only for the poison to cause a few of her neck veins to pop, killing her. A storm arrives, and the yacht begins sinking, resulting in Walter, Martin, and Rachel evacuating on one of the lifeboats. Walter throws two briefcases of money into the lifeboat, and goes to retrieve the third, although is killed by the cat. Martin, and Rachel escape in the lifeboat, although the cat follows them, and attacks them. They dump money from one of the briefcases into a duffel bag before knocking the cat overboard, watching it grab onto the briefcase, and slowly float away. The two reach the Cayman Islands sometime later, living off the two remaining briefcases of money.Meanwhile, the cat washes up on a beach somewhere, and a little boy picks it up, unaware of the danger.
