Young Cheryl moves into her estranged aunt Martha's rundown King Edward Hotel. One of its offbeat residents, disturbed photographer George, takes special interest in her. Cheryl begins suspecting that a resident was murdered.
After a falling out with her roommate Judy Adams, a friend from home and her only real friend in Los Angeles, Cheryl Stratton, a teenaged runaway from Cleveland, searches out the Kingston Hotel, operated by her maternal Uncle Orville and Aunt Martha Atwood neither who she's ever met but of who she's only heard stories, for a place to stay temporarily instead of going home. In Cheryl finding the rundown hotel and her uncle long deceased, seemingly puritanical Aunt Martha reluctantly allows Cheryl to stay for a few days. Cheryl, who tries to be more grown up emotionally than she actually is, is ill-prepared for living at the Kingston, being scared not only of the things that go bump in the night, but those that go bump in the day as well. After meeting a few of the rather odd cast of long term residents of the hotel, Cheryl discovers that one of them anonymously has an interest in her and is thus watching her. In Cheryl secretly going on a search for her admirer, one-by-one she discovers some of the many secrets of the hotel, but not the full meaning behind those secrets. As she befriends fifteen year old Jeff from the neighborhood, he who has some history with former resident Alice Rogers, Cheryl, growing up quicker than Aunt Martha would like, may stumble onto the meaning of those secrets, but perhaps after it's too late.
When Cheryl and her roommate quarrel, Cheryl moves into her aunt's skid-row hotel in downtown L.A. rather than return home to Ohio. The lodgers are odd, Aunt Martha is a moralizer obsessed with funerals, murder is afoot, and the inexperienced and trusting Cheryl may be the next victim. She wants to be treated like a woman, and she's drawn to George, a handsome photographer who longs for human contact but sleeps with a water-inflated doll and spies on Cheryl as she bathes. Jeff, a neighborhood clerk, may be Cheryl's only ally in what she doesn't realize is a perilous residence haunted by family secrets. And, what happened to Alice, a model who used to have Cheryl's room?
Young Cheryl (pronounced "CHAIR-ul") is a runaway shacking up with her friend Judy. After Judy throws her out for watching her have sex with a guy, Cheryl packs her suitcase and takes off, along with Judy's wallet, and heads out into the sleaziest part of L.A. looking for her long-lost Aunt Martha's rundown hotel.Aunt Martha is a stout, homely woman with no tolerance for worldly ways. She insists that Cheryl wash "that paint" off before joining her for dinner, and lectures her on the evils of sex. Cheryl plays along for a place to stay, but she soon finds out that the hotel is full of loonies of all types. There's a gay priest who has a thing for male bodybuilders, a drunk guy who doesn't do anything except pass out in his room, and an old lady who wanders around looking for a girl named "Alice". Perhaps the weirdest tenant is a reclusive photographer named George, who shows his affection for Cheryl by spying on her through cracks in the wall, leaving her pornographic reading material in her room, and offering her fetish gear to wear for his amusement. Cheryl craves the attention, but she's not aware that people are being murdered in the hotel. A hunky stud who comes looking for Cheryl gets his head cut off with a machete, and the other tenants of the hotel start dropping off too. Cheryl's arrival seems to have set somebody off.Despite Aunt Martha's objections to men, Cheryl secretly begins dating Jeff, a young man who takes an interest in her. She must take great pains to ensure that Aunt Martha doesn't find out.George will not directly interact with Cheryl, choosing instead to spy on her and photograph her. In one of the film's most disturbing scenes, he engages in a most unusual sex act. He fills a vinyl blow-up doll with water, simulating a body as best he can. He dresses it like Cheryl and attaches a closeup photograph of Cheryl's face to the doll's head. He then gets in bed with it and simulates sex, climaxing with a bizarre moment: he draws a syringe of blood from his body and injects it into the doll.Judy shows up at the hotel looking for Cheryl and is murdered while nosing around in the basement. Eventually we learn that Alice, the girl who used to live at the hotel, has met with the same fate, after becoming the object of George's strange affection.Finally all is revealed. Aunt Martha is the one who has gone machete-happy, murdering anybody who interferes with her notion of morality, as well as anybody who will go near George, who is her child. Note that George is not her son--George is actually female, urged by Aunt Martha to avoid embracing feminine wiles. This explains George's need for a syringe to complete the sex act, as well as his unstable condition. It is also suggested that Aunt Martha is not really a woman herself, but rather a man who has adopted the opposite gender to avoid the moral pitfalls of being male.Before Cheryl can fall victim to George and Martha, Jeff and his father intervene with some rather inept policemen. The film concludes as we learn that Cheryl has taken over Aunt Martha's hotel. Has she also taken over Aunt Martha's strange outlook on life?
