After murdering a young girl, Angela Baker assumes her identity and travels to Camp New Horizons, built on the grounds of the camp she terrorized the year before, and starts killing again.
Angela is back, in the form of an angry inner-city camper on the hunt for blood. Camp New Horizons, on the recycled grounds of the former murders, intends to pair high class teens with underclass counterparts. Angela, however, has a different plan. Will it be door number one, number two, or number three?
Angela kills a seventeen year-old teenager and travels to the Camp New Horizons assuming her identity. Lilly and her husband Herman are receiving six teenagers from the outskirts and another six from wealthy families for interaction in the camp. Lilly, Herman and Sheriff Barney split the group of teenagers in three and they go to different places in the beginning of Angela's massacre.
A young teenage girl named Maria Nacastro (Kashina Kessler) is packing, then heading off to camp. As she walks across the street, she is chased into an alleyway and run over by a garbage truck driven by serial killer Angela Baker (Pamela Springsteen), who has the same hair and clothes as Maria. After killing Maria, Angela disposes of her body and the girl's belongings with the garbage truck's trash compactor, before boarding a bus headed to Camp New Horizon, a camp where several youths from both upper and lower class areas are to live and work together in "an experiment in sharing."Arriving at the camp, Angela and her companions meet camp owners Lilly (Sandra Dorsey) and Herman Miranda (Michael J. Pollard) and news reporter Tawny Richards (Randi Lane), who interviews the campers one by one, asking their names and where they are from, with Angela assuming Maria's identity. After Tawny does her interviews, she mentions that Camp New Horizon was once Camp Rolling Hills, where Angela Baker had gone on a massacre the previous year, greatly upsetting Lilly. Before she leaves, Tawny asks Angela if she can get her some cocaine, which Angela agrees to do. She sneaks into a storage closet in the main cabin and takes some cleaning chemicals, which she gives to Tawny, who dies upon snorting them some distance away.Once the campers are all settled, Lilly and Herman reveal they will be split up into three groups and will be camping in the woods for several days, and proceed to introduce the third camp counselor, Officer Barney Whitmore (Cliff Brand). Angela realizes he is the father of Sean, one of her victims from the old camp in the previous movie. After a fight is broken up between Riff (Daryl Wilcher) and Tony DeRaro (Mark Oliver) by Barney, the campers are put into their groups, with Angela being sent out with Herman, Peter Doyle (Jarret Beal), Jan Hernandez (Stacey Lambert) and Snowboy (Kyle Holman).While fishing on the lake, Angela grows irritated by Peter constantly setting off firecrackers and returns to Herman's campsite, where she finds the counselor and Jan in the middle of having sex. As Herman attempts to explain the situation, Angela beats him with a log before impaling him through the mouth with and bashing Jan's head in. Having hidden the bodies of the two, she claims they took off when Peter and Snowboy return.During the night, Angela kills Peter by blowing his face off with one of his own firecrackers and beats Snowboy almost-unconsciousness with a log before burning him alive, disposing the rest of the bodies in the fire as well. She then roasts marshmallows over the fire.The next morning, Angela travels to Lilly's camp, telling her that Herman told her to switch into this camp. As she escorts Arab (Jill Terashita), who she claims she was told to be exchanged with to Herman's camp, Angela decapitates her with an axe. During a trust exercise organized by Lilly, Angela kills Cindy Hammersmith (Kim Wall) by raising her up a flagpole and dropping her from the extreme height, having grown tired of the girl's whiny and bigoted behavior. Angela explains away Cindy's absence by saying she had fallen ill and returned to Camp New Horizon.During another trust game, Angela is tied to Bobby Stark (Haynes Brooke), who she tells to meet her at the main cabin later on, claiming she will take care of Lilly. Upon returning to the camp, Angela convinces Lilly to go to the main camp, where she knocks the woman into a hole filled with garbage and buries her up to her neck. She kills her by running over her head with a lawnmower.Later that night, Angela kills Bobby outside Camp New Horizon by tying him to a tree and tearing his arms off with the Mirandas' jeep, the keys of which she had earlier taken. After killing Riff by pinning him to the ground with tent spikes, Angela heads off to the remaining camp.In Barney's camp, Angela once again claims that Herman told her to switch with another camper, in this case Marcia Holland (Tracy Griffith). Angela's plan is getting complicated. Barney insists on escorting the two to Herman's camp, prompting Angela to fake a leg injury. Taking Angela to the main camp to treat her wound, Barney correctly surmises that she lied about having to exchange with another camper. As Angela tells them about how she hated being with Herman and Lilly, due to the formers pervertedness and the latter's laziness, she tells Marcia and Barney that Lilly is just outside. Upon finding Lilly's decapitated body propped up in a chair, Angela reveals the situation to Barney. After Marcia is told by Angela how much she reminds her of her old friend Molly Nagle, Marcia flees, while Barney confronts Angela, who reveals her true identity to him before shooting him with Riff's stolen gun. With Barney dead, Angela chases and captures Marcia using the Mirandas' jeep.That night, Angela meets Tony, Greg Nakyshima (Chung Yen Tsay) and Anita Burcham (Sonya Maddox) at Barney's camp, telling them that Barney and Marcia told her to bring them to the main cabin. Upon reaching Camp New Horizon, Angela ties the three campers together under the pretense of playing a trust game, before revealing that she has murdered Barney and that they have two minutes to find Marcia, who is hidden in one of three cabins. After frantically searching the cabins, the group finds Marcia in the third, where Greg and Anita are killed when they spring a trap set by Angela. Congratulating Tony on finding Marcia, Angela prepares to leave, wishing them well and telling them that there is a payphone three miles away that they can use to call for help.As she enters the Mirandas' jeep to drive away, Angela is attacked by an axe-wielding Marcia. As the two women fight, Marcia gains the upperhand, repeatedly stabbing Angela in the stomach with a knife until she is stopped by Tony. As Marcia and Tony go off to seek aid, Angela lies severely wounded, exclaiming "You try to do something nice for someone... and look what happens."Later, while Angela is loaded into an ambulance, Tony, while waiting in a police car with Marcia, reveals his plan to move to Ohio to be with her, only for Marcia to tell him she already has a boyfriend, much to Tony's disgust.In the ambulance, an attending paramedic and police officer discover Angela is still alive and contemplate killing her for all she has done. Before the paramedic and officer can act on their plan, Angela awakens and stabs them to death with a syringe before collapsing again. When the ambulance driver asks what is going on, Angela weakly replies "Just taking care of business."
