During the World War II housing shortage in Washington, two men and a woman share a single apartment and the older man plays Cupid to the other two.
It's World War II and there is a severe housing shortage everywhere - especially in Washington, D.C. where Connie Milligan rents an apartment. Believing it to be her patriotic duty, Connie offers to sublet half of her apartment, fully expecting a suitable female tenent. What she gets instead is mischievous, middle-aged Benjamin Dingle. Dingle talks her into subletting to him and then promptly sublets half of his half to young, irreverent Joe Carter - creating a situation tailor-made for comedy and romance.
Due to a housing shortage in Washington, D.C., during World War II, Connie Milligan agrees to rent part of her apartment to wealthy retiree Benjamin Dingle and soldier Joe Carter. Although Connie is engaged to the unexciting Charles Pendergast, she becomes fond of Joe. When Dingle notices their interests in each other, he attempts to play matchmaker -- but instead causes problems for the entire apartment.
In Washington D.C. during World War II, Connie Milligan does her part to ease the housing shortage by renting out half of her two-bedroom apartment. Looking for a female roommate, she instead rents it to elderly Benjamin Dingle, who finagles his way into Connie's apartmentg. Benjamin is in town on a short term business trip. The two have a rough start due to their differing gtgwlvzpersonalities - she highly regimevtnted, he seemingly forgetful and overly nosy - but things between them get worse when Benjamin rents CVE out half of his half to Sgt. Joe Carter, who is also looking for short term housing before he gets shipped overseas. Because of the possible look of impropriety, Connie tells no one of her new roommates, esp. g r to her fiancé of 22 months, Charles J. Pendergast, who is a business associate of Benjamin's and who is most concerned about his advancing career path. The wily Benjamin, seeing what is happening around him, does whatever he can to push Connie and Joe together, he who knows that the two are falling in love with each other.

