In the sixth and final film of the Lone Wolf and Cub series, the final conflict between Ogami Itto and the Yagyu clan is carried out.
The final film, and the final confrontation between Ogami and Retsudo. With most of his family already dead at Ogami's hands, Retsudo launches one last plot to destroy him, and when that fails, unleashes the fury of every remaining member of the Yagyu Clan.
In this sixth and final 'Lone Wolf and Cub' film, the local Shogun from the capital city of Edo threatens to disgrace the Yagyu clan because of their continual failure to kill the wandering swordsman Ogami Itto and his young son Daigoro. The one-eyed lord Yagyu Retsudo (wearing a black eye-patch since being wounded by Itto in the fourth film 'Lone Wolf and Cub: Baby Cart in Peril') sends his daughter and last remaining child Kaori, an expert with flying daggers, to kill them.Kaori then tries to ambush Itto along a road, but the stone-faced ronin kills her with little difficulty. After she is killed, Retsudo attempts to use the Tsuchigumo, a secretive mountain clan that practices black magic and is commanded by Hyouei, an illegitimate son of Retsudo who is determined to cause the downfall of the Yagyu by killing Itto and Daigoro himself. Hyouei sends his three most fearsome followers, whose abilities include the ability to burrow through the earth and who kill anyone Itto and Daigoro come into contact with.Faced with such supernatural enemies, Itto (for the first time in the film series) is afraid of being finished off at any time. But he quickly decides to beat them at their own strategy by fleeting northward to the snow-covered region of northern Japan during the winter season where the Tsuchigumo will be at a disadvantage since they cannot appear to burrow through ice and snow.After Itto defeats Hyouei and kills the three supernatural Tsuchigumo, the story culminates in a final battle between Itto and the combined clan groups under Retsudo on a snow-capped mountain in northern Japan, in which the baby cart becomes a sled. Retsudo, now leading an army of Shogun warriors, around 1,000 strong, confront Itto on a mountain ridge. Once again, (as in the third film 'Lone Wolf and Cub: Baby Cart to Hades') Itto transforms the baby cart to a weapon with his machine gun, spears, daggers and swords. In a final combat, Itto defeats the entire army, shooting, stabbing, slashing, dismembering and beheading the entire army. But the one-eyed Retsudo once again escapes by fleeing from the scene on a sled, vowing to kill Itto some day.
