When a gargoyle falls off a church during a storm, a scientist and his assistant take it back to their lab, where they are doing genetic experiments. However, the gargoyle is possessed by an evil spirit and starts to interfere in their experiments.
The film starts with a scene set in a snowy field during the middle ages. On screen appears a hooded figure who goes into what looks like his home and proceeds to write what seem to be blueprints for a formula.Cut to the present day in Montréal. On a stormy night, scientist Vladimir Spratz and his girlfriend Flora, an art restorer, are lounging in bed. Flora notices that Vlad is distracted by the storm and the state of his laboratory. Vlad, currently in hopes of obtaining a Nobel Prize, looks out the window and watches the storm. Vlad tells Flora that it is incredible when lightning hits the church across from his home. Not too long after, a Priest is seen heading for home, when a Gargoyle from the Church tower falls upon the priest, instantly killing him.The next morning, Vlad is on his way to work, checking his car for any damage, when he stumbles upon a piece of the Gargoyle which contains a bizarre "G"-like symbol.Meanwhile at the local art museum, Flora is visited in her studio by the Sexton of the Church. The Sexton asks Flora to put the Gargoyle back together. They discuss the origins of the gargoyle and the priest that it fell upon the other night. Flora is unsure about the Sexton's offer at first, mostly because she only specializes in restoring paintings, but after the Sexton gives her a rather disappointed look, she agrees, albeit reluctantly, to put the gargoyle back together.At the hospital, where Vlad works, Vlad and his assistant Susan are researching plant life and trying to experiment with various formulas that can make plant life resistant to many pollutants such as acid rain. Vlad tells Susan about the gargoyle that fell down from the church tower that killed the church's priest. Susan doesn't believe him at first, until he shows her the rock from the gargoyle he picked up by his car. Susan's daughter Jacky observes it and draws with crayons the weird symbol on the rock. Susan scolds Jacky for drawing on important papers but Vlad intervenes and tells her it's no big deal. Vlad later tells Susan that he's thinking about getting monkeys for research to test his various formulas on. Susan is strongly against testing any sort of formula on any animal, let alone monkeys, as it's too fast and they are simply not ready to test anything on human application yet.At the church, the Sexton is introducing a new priest to the church. He remarks how the church is magnificent yet humble and also shows him how superb the music in the church can be.At the morgue, Vlad meets with the Coroner, Dr. R. Roberts. Dr. Roberts is pleased to see Vlad and the two socialize, drink and shoot darts. All goes well until Vlad tells the coroner that he needs cells to experiment on. Dr. Roberts refuses to help him, citing that he's not allowed to give him even one molecule of fat, let alone living tissue and tells Vlad to go to the University to mess around with whatever cells they may have without worry. Dr. Roberts is also curious as to why Vlad has to "play around with nature." Vlad states that he's only trying to make things better. At the same time, Dr. Roberts's beeper goes off and before the two part ways for the day, Dr. Roberts asks Vlad to take him to the baseball game, as all of his other co-workers prefer to take their girlfriends. Vlad says he'll think about it and asks him one more time about the cells before Dr. Roberts shoos him away.At the museum, Flora is examining the rock Vlad found by his car. It's a perfect fit. Flora recounts to Vlad her mythologically-fueled lunch break, recounting various mythological, religious or fairy tale related words starting with the letter 'G.'That night, at the museum, the power of the gargoyle is unleashed, as everything is flying around Flora's studio. The security guard rushes into the room to see what is happening. He can't get the alarm turned on and can't get any reception on his walkie-talkie to alert the other guards. The guard is later killed by the gargoyle's power and green ooze starts to ooze out of the one of the church gargoyles.As Vlad is on his way to work the next day, the Gargoyle's power starts to take effect on him and he starts having chest pains. He almost collapses near the church sign.Meanwhile, at the morgue, Dr. Roberts and Detective Mary are examining the corpse of the museum security guard. Dr. Roberts reveals that all of the guard's bones were crushed and liquefied with green ooze. Mary hopes that this can break into a big case to boost her career.Vlad is at his lab when he decides to trace Jacky's sketch of the Gargoyle's rock. This inspires Vlad to start his new project, entitled "Project G." After injecting his newfound formula onto some test plants, Vlad notices an extra pair of DNA chains develop on his computer. He immediately calls Susan to tell her the news. Susan arrives but decides that she does not want any part in Vlad's discovery. Vlad begs her to help him but his pleas fall on deaf ears, which eventually results in Vlad yelling at her, thanks to the power of the gargoyle.At the church, the Sexton lectures the new priest on how the first man (Adam) had chosen the wrong God to worship based upon being expelled from the Garden of Eden. The new priest isn't sure what to make of it, but the Sexton assures that it is in fact difficult to believe that in the last centuries, that several people worshiped a God that was actually the Devil all along. The Sexton justifies this by bringing up various wars and killings committed in the name of God and also brings up that God is actually poor and miserable, but it is why God is good. However, he brings up that his image was revamped in the bible, because no one would want to believe that God would be a loser, and the more beautiful God had become, the more jealous the Devil became. The Sexton adds that evil is everywhere, but on a brighter note, new life is being created by God on Earth. And only beautiful people will be on the planet.Back at his lab, Vlad is researching the formula microbes through his microscope. He accidentally knocks down a glass beaker, which breaks into shards. As he tries to pick up the pieces he accidentally cuts his hand on a shard of glass. By the time he arrives home, his cut has mysteriously healed rapidly.On her way home, Flora stops by the church and runs into the Sexton. The Sexton offers her a tour of the church, which she accepts, but not before the Sexton mentions to Flora, that he happens to be an admirer of art restoration and compares them to libraries, as they both provide human continuity. Flora is flattered by the Sexton's statement.The next afternoon, Vlad, on his way to the museum, runs into Susan. She tells Vlad that she has resigned from the hospital for personal reasons and she had just gotten done talking to Flora. Vlad tries to reason with her but Susan remains unmoved. At Flora's studio, the gargoyle is 98% complete. Vlad and Flora briefly discuss Susan and the gargoyle. Vlad notices that the gargoyle is missing a piece. The Sexton comes in to pick up the now complete gargoyle. Flora asks the Sexton if the gargoyle will be stowed away after the incident with the priest. The Sexton assures Flora that it will not happen again and it's a question of balance. The Sexton thanks Flora and invites her and Vlad to see him at his home inside the church tower someday.That night, Vlad and Flora are celebrating a job well done on Flora's behalf. Vlad makes Flora a margarita when suddenly, the power of the gargoyle takes effect. Vlad starts to feel weird with the knife. When he serves Flora her drink, at first, it seems like he is going to kill her, but he presents Flora with a present: a toy gargoyle. Later, the two are seen lounging in their bathtub. Flora recounts the Sexton and how he recounted that gargoyles are only scary because when one looks at a gargoyle, they see their true selves. Vlad brings up his breakthrough in his research and that the gargoyle shield inspired him. Suddenly, Vlad starts having chest pains again and Flora insists that Vlad see a doctor. Vlad insists in turn, that he is fine, albeit simply rundown.The next morning at the lab, Vlad discovers that all of his experimental plants and fruits have been ruined. Vlad deduces that the formula has caused this and confirms that a green substance has been seen through the cultures and bacteria growth has been delayed, yet there is still activity in Vlad's sample. Vlad doesn't recognize the cell type. Vlad decides to use himself as a guinea pig.At the morgue, Dr. Roberts and Detective Mary are about to perform an autopsy on the gargoyle's latest victim, an old lady that was a parishioner of the church. Dr. Roberts discovers the same green substance as before, and demands that the corpse be removed, as he refuses to open her up due to being liquefied. Dr. Roberts has a feeling that the latest victim is actually still alive, albeit comatose. Despite Mary's pleas, Dr. Roberts refuses to examine it any further and decides to retire. However, he later makes an off-record statement that it could be a genetic mutation that could be going around, which Dr. Roberts denounces as unscientific. He later adds that Mary may just have finally landed that big case she wanted to work on.The next morning, Vlad and Flora are in the middle of an argument. Vlad doesn't want to lose Flora, but Flora insists she will stay with him. Vlad has his doubts about that and takes off for work. At the lab, Vlad finds out that the formula is also present in human blood and determines that it's taken the form of a virus and spreading. He suddenly gets a feeling that Flora is in trouble. He tries to call her, but there is no answer. He rushes to her apartment, only to find her near death. Vlad tries to get her to come to, but fails. Flora has been killed by the power of the gargoyle.Back at the hospital, Susan is moving her stuff when she is approached by Mary who is looking for Vlad and wants to know any information regarding genetic mutations and the recent deaths in the city, as Dr. Roberts has stated that it could be a genetic virus. Susan tells Mary that she's not in any position to help her and that the contagion is most likely a poison infecting one's body and brushes her off. At the morgue, Dr. Roberts and Vlad are examining Flora's corpse. She is filled with the same green substance that Dr. Roberts had discovered previously and Dr. Roberts proclaims that Flora is now the twelfth victim in only two days. Vlad reveals to Dr. Roberts that he too, has the same sickness, but the power of the Gargoyle won't let Vlad go into greater detail. Dr. Roberts refuses to believe him. Mary then enters the morgue and grills Vlad about what's been going on. Vlad tells Mary that he can't stop it and he did not murder Flora. Vlad leaves the morgue.The next morning, Vlad wakes up in his car. He has spent the rest of the previous day there. As he heads back to his apartment, the Sexton greets him, but Vlad gives him a dirty look. Vlad is later seen that afternoon, after taking a nap, reading the same book about Gargoyles that Flora was reading just moments prior to her death. Vlad recalls the Gargoyle shield and that it is represented by two symbols. One represents good and the other evil. Vlad peeks out his window with his binoculars and sees the Sexton outside the church. Moments later, he suddenly has disappeared into thin air.Later that night, Vlad is in nothing more than his boxer shorts and, out of remorse for not being there to save Flora, contemplates suicide when the Sexton appears out of thin air. The Sexton tells Vlad that all that was needed to activate the Gargoyle's power was someone to unscramble the formula. Vlad concludes that he has been used by the Sexton, which the latter tells Vlad that it was his (Vlad's) decision and his alone. The Sexton points out Vlad's ignorance towards Christian mysticism and alchemy and offers him a chance to meet "the devil." Vlad refuses and tries to stab him, but the Sexton immediately disappears. Susan rushes in and tries to get control of Vlad, who freaks out because of the Sexton being present. Susan insists that there is no one else inside the apartment besides the two.Susan tells Vlad she is having a hard time understanding how the formula could just escape from the lab. Vlad insists that it is true, and realizes that the Sexton has the formula needed to make him healthy again. However, time is running out...
