An ambitious shoe salesman unknowingly meets his boss' daughter and tells her he is a leather tycoon, then has to try to hide his true circumstances.
Ambitious shoe salesman, Harold, unknowingly meets the boss' daughter and tells her he is a leather tycoon. The rest of the film he spends hiding his true circumstances, in the store and later on a ship. Trying to deliver a letter, he later finds himself dangling high above the street on a building's scaffolding.
Against the odds, Harold Horne is able to achieve his dream of moving from being a stock boy to an actual salesman at Tanner Shoes' new store in Honolulu. He overcame what was the belief of Mr. Endicott, his manager, of not having the personality fit to be a salesman by attending the six month course offered by the Personality Plus Corp., where he learned a multitude of stock complimentary phrases to use in almost any social or business situation, above those he steals from other salesmen. He has a new dream when he meets and mutually falls in love at first sight with a young woman, Barbara, who he believes to be a singer and heiress, the latter due to seeing her in the back of a limousine. He eventually also believes that she is not only an heiress, but the daughter of the Tanners, the owners of the shoe company, in seeing her in the company with who he learns are Mr. and Mrs. Tanner in Hawaii on business. In reality, she is really Mr. Tanner's secretary. She in turn believes he is "Mr. Harold", a leather tycoon. While she does not try to hide who she really is from him - she confused whenever he calls her "Miss Tanner" - he came up with his wealthy persona, believing she would never associate with a lowly shoe salesman. When he accidentally gets stuck aboard the same ship as the Tanners and Barbara sailing back to the mainland, he not only has to evade the ship authorities in being a stowaway, but keep up his tycoon persona in front of them with only the one suit of clothes on his back, all the while hoping nearsighted Mrs. Tanner doesn't recognize him as the bumbling salesman that waited on her at the store. He also has to just survive aboard the ship in finding a place to sleep and getting some food to eat. Harold and Barbara may have a "happily ever after" if he is able to survive the unexpected situation he finds himself in in his "emerging from a mailbag cocoon" routine, and complete the mission which got him into the mailbag in the first place.

