Two English aristocrats pursue a rich American widow who may not be quite the person she claims to be.
Mrs. Fay Cheyney, a rich American widow, insinuates herself into London society. Two men in particular -- middle-aged Lord Kelton and Lord Arthur Dilling, a young playboy -- pursue her. All are present at a large weekend house party, and though both men press their suit, Fay seems to favor Kelton. Then Dilling sees Fay's butler lurking in the gardens, recognizes him as a jewel thief who was apprehended in Monte Carlo, and realizes that Fay is probably after the hostess's pearls. Fay does get hold of the pearls -- but before she can pass them to her accomplice, Dilling gets hold of her.
In a long term stay in London, upper crust Fay Cheyney, a young widow from Minneapolis, Minnesota, ensconces herself into a small segment of British aristocratic society. She was introduced to this group in a rather unusual circumstance aboard the transatlantic sailing which brought her to England. Among this aristocratic group, she catches the attention of two men who are vying for her affections. One is older Lord Francis Kelton, who believed that he was past the age of falling in love. The other is younger Lord Arthur Dilling, who is seen among this social circle as the eternal bachelor in seeking the company of a number of women, but never a long term commitment with any of them, that is until now. Watching out for Mrs. Cheyney's best interests is her faithful long term butler, Charles, who seems to go above and beyond the call of duty to ensure that best interest. What one side does not know is that the other is not the upper crust or aristocratic people they are presenting to the other but rather criminals out for some larceny, the meeting aboard the liner not by accident but arranged to look like an accident. What happens specifically with that larceny is affected by some real emotion going against that criminal act, those emotions which must be balanced by the consequences of not going through with the crime, including the wrath of others behind the scene and the possibility of being sent to prison, and the greater fear of being found out for who one really is in all its meanings.

