A woman disappears during a Mediterranean boating trip. During the search, her lover and her best friend become attracted to each other.
A group of rich Italians head out on a yachting trip to a deserted volcanic island in the Mediterranean. When they are about to leave the island, they find Anna, the main character up to this point, has gone missing. Sandro, Anna's boyfriend, and Claudia, Anna's friend, try without success to find her. While looking for the missing friend, Claudia and Sandro develop an attraction for each other. When they get back to land, they continue the search with no success. Sandro and Claudia proceed to become lovers, and all but forget about the missing Anna.
The wealthy Anna is not sure about her feelings with her lover Sandro. While in a yacht trip with her upper class friends including her best friend Claudia in the Sicily coast, the group decides to visit a desert volcanic island. When the weather changes and they have to leave the island, they note that Anna has vanished. Claudia, Sandro and another friend stay in the island during the night trying to find Anna, while the rest of the group returns. On the next morning, they bring the coast guard and Anna is not found. Along the next days, Sandro and Claudia search Anna in the most different places in Italy and develop an attraction for each other, becoming lovers.
One summery Saturday afternoon a group of friends living in Rome departs on a yachting trip out to a local island. Two of the group, Anna (Lea Massari) and Sandro (Gabriele Ferzetti), young lovers considering marriage, have a dispute; that afternoon, Sandro announces that Anna is missing. A thorough search of the island is made on Anna's behalf, but she is never found, and Sandro, who remains relatively unconcerned, is never questioned. In fact, before the yachting group even returns to the mainland, Sandro tries to pick up Anna's best friend, Claudia (Monica Vitti). Still, he is not even considered suspicious. Claudia and Sandro galavant through the Italian countryside, supposedly investigating Claudia's disappearance, but their true motives are never clear, even in the last--entirely enigmatic--scene of the movie.
Off the coast of Sicily, at the Aeolian Panarea, a group of well-off friends including Claudia, her unhappy best friend, Anna, and the latter's fiancé, Sandro, set off on a yachting cruise. And then, unexpectedly, when the party casts anchor at the isolated volcanic island of Lisca Bianca, young Anna will vanish into thin air. To no avail, as the remaining friends along with the police comb the inhospitable lava island, little by little, an uncomfortable clandestine connection will form between Sandro and Claudia, following Anna's puzzling disappearance. Who knows where Anna could be? Did she escape a loveless marriage or did something bad happen to her? Furthermore, is Sandro and Claudia's adventure heading somewhere?

