Stefan, a recent college graduate, hitchhikes from Germany to Paris where he meets American expatriate, Estelle. They chase the sun to Ibiza. An idyllic island life degenerates when she introduces him to heroin and they get addicted.
In the late 1960s, after graduating in Mathematics, the German Stefan Brückner hitchhikes from Lübeck to Paris to see the world without any money. He befriends Charlie in an arcade and they go to a party. When Stefan meets gorgeous American Estelle Miller at the party, Charlie advises him to stay away from her. However, the straight Stefan falls in love with Estelle and, after breaking in to a house with Charlie to rob it, he follows her to Ibiza. Stefan seeks the hotel of his fellow citizen Dr. Ernesto Wolf where Estelle is lodged and asks her to leave the place and stay with him in an isolated seaside house. Before leaving the hotel, Estelle steals some money and a pack from Wolf. Soon, Stefan learns that Estelle had stolen 200 doses of heroin and he decides to try one fix with her, in the beginning of his trip to hell.
Having recently graduated from college, relatively straight-laced German Stefan Brückner hitchhikes to Paris where he plans to live a little and burn all the bridges and formulas of his life. In befriending a petty criminal named Charlie who shows him some kindness, he meets New Yorker Estelle Miller, under whose spell he immediately falls. She encourages him to join her in Ibiza where she will be spending the summer. In Ibiza, Stefan finds that she runs hot and cold toward him despite she being the one who suggested he come. When she does run hot toward him, together they embark on a hedonistic life of liberated sex, nude sunbathing on the seaside rocks, drinking and smoking weed. When she runs cold, he eventually sees that she seems more scared of something, that something which he ends up believing is a someone, namely an older wealthy German named Dr. Wolf, at whose hotel she stayed when she first arrived on the island and to whose house she often disappears days on end without a word. It seems as if he has some control over her. Stefan eventually learns why she is scared of Dr. Wolf, it being something from her past, that past of which Stefan was aware but thought that it was just that: the past. In his obsession with her, Stefan gets sucked into all that is Estelle, that obsession which proves to be more consuming and dangerous than he may have anticipated.
The making of a heroin addict. Stefan, fresh from college, hitches from Germany to Paris, where he does a little breaking and entering to get some money and soon meets Estelle, a young American. Even through a friend warns him off Estelle, Stefan falls for her (she's quixotic). Although he's quickly petulant and possessive, she invites him to follow her to Ibiza for romance in the sun and sand. There Stefan meets another German, Wolf, whose connection with Estelle Stefan can't fathom. He also meets Kathy, whose relationship with Estelle is also unclear at first. What explains her disappearances and furtive behavior? And once Stefan understands, what will he do about it?

