The sinister Dr Watt has an evil scheme going. He's kidnapping beautiful young women and turning them into mannequins to sell to local stores. Fortunately for Dr Watt, Detective-Sergeant Bung is on the case, and he doesn't have a clue! In this send up of the Hammer Horror movies, there are send-ups of all the horror greats from Frankenstein to Dr Jekyl and Mr Hyde.
Young ladies are being spirited away in the woods by Oddbod, creation of fiendish Dr Watt. Henpecked Sergeant Bung is on the case, but an early lead comes to nothing with the ghastly drowning while at work of lavatory attendant Dan Dann. Bung does seem to be having success with Valeria and her very obvious charms, but completely fails to realise her sinister country house holds the key to the unimaginable horrors going on.
In Edwardian England, Albert Potter's (Jim Dale) girlfriend Doris (Angela Douglas) is kidnapped in a forest by a Frankenstein/wolf man hybrid monster, leaving a big hairy finger behind for an unusual clue. He seeks out dedicated but hopeless Sergeant Sidney Bung (Harry H.Corbett) and his put-upon partner Slobotam (Peter Butterworth) for help, and isn't long before they come across a scary looking mansion where a mad scientist, Dr. Watt (Kenneth Williams), and his sexy sister Valeria (Fenella Fielding) live.It's revealed that they use a strange monster, Oddbod, to kidnap women but Bung doesn't suspect anything, despite the strangeness of the house and resident.Things become more mysterious when the hairy finger found by Potter is re-generated while the police forensics man works on it, and it produces another hairy monster which kills him. He goes to the mansion where Watt and take him in, while Bung appears again for more questions and ends up sleeping with her.The police are informed there's been a break in at a shop window where Potter believes he's seen Doris. Bung goes to the mansion to see Valeria and tells her. Realising she needs her back she poisons Bung with a drink and transforms him into a monster to get him to do it.The next morning, back in human form, Bung believes Potter to have taken Doris even though he denies it. He decides to set a trap for the monster that eludes them and has Slobotham dress up as a woman for bait in the woods. While this is happening Bung's wife (Joan Sims) is following him because she thinks he's having an affair and Potter s out n the woods himself hoping to catch the monster. Emily and Slotbotham are taken by the monsters and Bung and Potter go to the mansion to check on Valeria.
