In the West Berlin of the 1960s, two British agents are killed by a Nazi group, prompting British Intelligence to dispatch agent Quiller to investigate.
Two British agents are murdered by a mysterious Neo-Nazi organization in West Berlin. The British Secret Service sends agent Quiller to investigate. Soon Quiller is confronted with Neo-Nazi chief "Oktober" and involved in a dangerous game where each side tries to find out the enemy's headquarters at any price.
After two British agents are assassinated in Berlin by a group of Neo-Nazis, the British Secret Service assign Quiller to locate and identify the culprits. He accepts the assignment and almost immediately finds that he is being followed. He begins openly asking question about Neo-Nazis and is soon kidnapped by a man known only as "Oktober". The Neo-Nazis want to know the location of British operations and similarly, the British want to know the location of the Neo-Nazis' headquarters. Quiller befriends a teacher, Inge Lindt, whose predecessor at the school had been arrested for being a Neo-Nazi. For Quiller, it's a question of staying alive when he's not in possession of all of the facts.
In the 1960s, in Berlin, two British agents that are investigating a Neo-Nazi ring are murdered. The Chief of the Secret Service Pol summons the efficient Agent Quiller to investigate the location of organization's headquarter. He contacts the teacher Inge Lindt expecting to get some clues to be followed and soon he is abducted by the leader "Oktober" and his men. "Oktober" also wants to know the location of the British base in West Germany and uses drugs on Quiller to get the information, but the skilled agent resists. Quiller has a love affair with Inge and they seek out the location of "Oktober". When they find it, Quiller gives the phone number of his base to Inge and investigates the place. But soon he finds that she has been kidnapped, and "Oktober" gives him a couple of hours to give the location of the site; otherwise Inge and he will be killed. What will Quiller do?

