Count Yorga continues to prey on the local community while living by a nearby orphanage. He also intends to take a new wife, while feeding his bevy of female vampires.
NOTE: Sequel to "Count Yorga" (1970).Count Yorga [Robert Quarry] has purchased the old Gateway Mansion and moved in with his harem of vampiresses. His property is near that of the Westwood Orphanage, and the vampires have already bitten Tommy [Philip Frame], one of the children, and turned him into a good little renfield.Everyone at the orphanage is uneasy. The Santa Ana winds are coming, the bridge is out, and tonight is the annual fundraiser. The guests are few. There is Cynthia Nelson [Mariette Hartley] and her family -- father Bill [Walter Brooke], mother Liza [Helen Baron], and two sisters, Jennifer [Yvonne Wilder], who is deaf, and Ellen [Karen Ericson]. Also, there is Ellen's fiance Jason Baldwin [David Lampson], his father Dr David Baldwin [Roger Perry], who is Cynthia's beau, and only about a half dozen others, so it is a noticeable event when Count Yorga drops in. It is also a big event for Yorga because, when he meets Cynthia, he finds himself falling in love.When the Santa Anas hit, the Nelson family plus Tommy hole themselves up in their living room, except for Jennifer who is sleeping upstairs. As they attempt to make small talk, the patio door suddenly breaks, and a half dozen vampiresses enter and start biting. They carry Cynthia to Yorga. Yorga hypnotizes her and makes her believe that she was in a car accident near his house and that he has been nursing her back to health. The next morning, when Jennifer wakes up, she finds the carnage. Only Tommy is still alive, but he's not talking. Jennifer and Tommy go to the orphanage to tell Reverend Thomas [Tom toner], who immediately contacts Dr Baldwin, Jason, Lt Ben Madden [Rudy de Luca], and Sgt O'Connor [Craig Nelson]. When they all return to the house, however, there is no mess, no broken patio doors, and not a body to be found. Instead, they find a note from Cynthia saying that the family had to leave on urgent business and would return in several days. Although Jennifer insists that what she is saying is the truth, Tommy claims to have seen the Nelsons leave and did not see any destruction. With nothing to go on, the investigation is halted. Only the fact that Mitzi Carthay [Jesse Wells] was found after the fundraiser with two marks on her neck keeps Dr Baldwin's mind open to the possibility of vampirism.Cynthia is beginning to feel better and wants to call her parents but can find no phone. She starts having flashbacks in which she sees parts of the massacre and remembers the bodies of her family lying on the floor. When she tries to get away, she discovers that all the doors are locked and concludes that she is being held captive. When she asks Yorga why he is holding her, he kisses her. Dr Baldwin is becoming more and more convinced that there might be a vampire about, and he suspects it is Yorga. He goes to speak with the Professor Rightstat [George Macready], expert on folklore and cults, but he is of no help. When Mitzi's boyfriend Joe [Michael Pataki] is murdered and the same marks found on his neck, Baldwin asks Lt Madden for a blood sample so that he can have it checked for human saliva, but Madden refuses. When a photo taken of Yorga at the fundraising festival comes out blank, Baldwin can wait no more. He puts together a team of vampire hunters, composed of himself, Lt Madden, Sgt O'Connor, and the Reverend. Their plan is to for the Rev to keep Yorga occupied while the others search the mansion. However, the vampire hunters get knocked off one by one. First to go is the Reverend. While walking in the garden with Yorga and talking about making a donation to the orphanage, Yorga leads the Rev into a patch of quicksand. Next to go is Sgt O'Connor when he gets trapped in a room with the vampiresses. Third is Lt Madden when Tommy stabs him. Only Baldwin and Cynthia are left. Baldwin leads her around from room to room, hallway to hallway, outrunning the vampiresses at every turn until they become trapped. Cynthia goes with Yorga, while the vampiresses advance on Baldwin.Cut to Yorga and Cynthia. Just as Yorga is about to bite into Cynthia's neck, Baldwin grabs a hatchet off the wall. He chases Yorga up to the roof. They tussle around a bit. Just as Baldwin is about to go over the railing, Cynthia regains her memory and sinks the hatchet into Yorga's heart. Baldwin gives Yorga the final push that sends him plummeting to the ground below. Baldwin then turns to a relieved Cynthia who finds that Baldwin has been turned into a vampire. Only Tommy is left, playing ball on the front lawn. [Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.]
