The working-class twin sister of a callous, wealthy woman impulsively murders her out of revenge and assumes her identity. But impersonating her dead twin is more complicated and risky than she anticipated.
After the funeral of her brother-in-law, Edith Phillips learns that Margaret de Lorca, her rich twin sister, had tricked her way into marriage with the man she also loved. So she kills Margaret and assumes her identity and life-style. However, her life becomes complicated by her late sister's sleazy boyfriend, Tony Collins and Sgt. Jim Hobbson, a Los Angeles detective who loved the "dead" Edith.
In Los Angeles, after eighteen years without speaking to each other, Edith Phillips meets her twin sister Margaret de Lorca in the funeral of Maggie's husband and former love of Edith that died of heart attack. Maggie invites Edith to visit her mansion, and Edith finds through her sister's driver that Maggie used a fake pregnancy to trick her and marry her passion. When Edith arrives in her bar, she is evicted by her landlord. Edith calls Maggie, kills her and assumes her identity. The police, including her boyfriend Sergeant Jim Hobbson, believe that Edith committed suicide in an act of despair. Edith lures Maggie's servants and friends, but when Maggie's lover Tony Collins appears, the situation becomes complicated for her.
After eighteen years of estrangement, twin sisters Edith 'Edie' Phillips and Margaret 'Maggie' DeLorca are reunited at the funeral of Maggie's husband, Francesco 'Frank' DeLorca, who died of cardiac arrest. Their estrangement was due to the fact that callous Maggie stole wealthy Frank from Edie when Frank and Edie were dating. As such, Maggie went on to live a life of luxury, while Edie currently owns a seedy bar on which she is three months behind in rent. To gain what she believes is rightfully hers after she finds out some information about how Maggie coerced Frank to marry her, Edie decides to murder Maggie and take on her identity. In doing so, Edie plans on passing off the dead body as herself, the death by suicide. In taking on Maggie's identity, Edie has to convince Maggie's servants, acquaintances and friends that she really is Maggie. The most difficult of these people to convince may be golf pro Tony Collins, who had a somewhat secret and special relationship with Maggie about which Edie was initially unaware. Edie may also have some problems convincing Sgt. Jim Hobbson, who is investigating Edie's death and who is also Edie's boyfriend. The problems for Edie posing as Maggie are compounded when she discovers the circumstances behind Frank's death.

