A Finnish man goes to the city to find a job after the mine where he worked is closed and his father commits suicide.
The movie tells the story of Taisto Kasurinen, a finnish coal miner whose father has just committed suicide and who is framed for a crime he did not commit. In jail, he starts to dream about leaving the country and starting a new life. He escapes from prison but things don't go as planned...
Taisto Kasurinen is a miner in a remote Finnish town. After the mine where he works shuts down permanently, he is given an unusual send-off by his father as he heads toward Helsinki to start a new life. That send off includes his father giving him his broken down, older model convertible whose top is now permanently in the down position. Taisto has little money in his pockets and needs to work odd jobs along the way to survive. On his way to Helsinki and once in Helsinki, Taisto gets into one misadventure after another. But the one bright spot for him in Helsinki is meeting single mother Irmeli Pihlaja, who works several jobs in order to pay for the modest items in her possession she has paid for in installments. They quickly fall for each other and plan to get married, that plan which hits a snag when an incident befalls Taisto. Although marrying Irmeli is foremost on his mind, he will have to decide how far he will go to achieve that end goal, and what that end goal will look like for him, Irmeli and her adolescent son.
After Taisto Kasurinen loses his job when the mine he worked in closes down and then loses his father to suicide, he decides to seek his fortune elsewhere. He heads to the big city in an old convertible - he can't get the top up - but finds that life is not easy. Not long after leaving he is mugged and loses all of his cash. He finds odd jobs but has trouble getting a regular work. He does meet Irmeli who has a young son but soon finds himself in jail after attacking one of the muggers who stole his money. There, he and his cell-mate plan a breakout with the hope of starting anew in a foreign country. As is the case with his life so far, things don't go as planned.

