In a small Mexican town, a Catholic priest (Sir John Mills) and a local bandit (Sir Dirk Bogarde) clash, but the brave priest ultimately wins the outlaw's respect.
During the 1950s, in a small isolated Mexican village, the local Roman Catholic priest, Father Gomez (Leslie French), is an older man with a broken spirit. During his tenure in the village of Quantano, he fought hard to keep his flock of parishioners, in spite of threats and intimidation from the part of local bandit Anacleto Comachi (Sir Dirk Bogarde) and his men. The atheistic bandit has imposed his tyrannical rule over the region for many years. The local Police cannot find any witnesses to come forward and testify to any wrongdoing from the part of Anacleto. Therefore, they cannot charge him or arrest him. The Catholic Church replaces Father Gomez with a younger, more energetic priest, Father Keogh (Sir John Mills) from Ireland. Before departing the village, Father Gomez warns Father Keogh of the dangers of defying Anacleto Comachi's authority. But Father Keogh openly defies the bandit and administers his daily priestly duties at the village church. He even manages to persuade some of the villagers to start attending church again. In retaliation, Anacleto tries to intimidate the priest by starting to murder the villagers in alphabetical order. He also plans a few attempts on the priest's life. Coming between them, Locha (Mylène Demongeot), the beautiful daughter of the major local landowner, brings a bit of reason, sanity, and innocence to this violent world. Anacleto promises to Father Keogh to mend his ways and embrace religion if Father Keogh can persuade him that it's the religious message and teachings, not the personality and charisma of the priest that drives the faith. Father Keogh accepts the challenge and invites Anacleto to live with him and read the Bible. Upon doing this, Anacleto discovers Father Keogh's little secret.
Father Michael Keogh (John Mills) arrives to Quantana - they pronounce it &lt;&lt;Kantana&gt;&gt;, when in Spanish this orthography should be read &lt;&lt;Kwantana&gt;&gt;. Anyway, Father Keogh is going to be the new priest of this town. A blonde young lady, Locha de Cortínez (Mylène Demongeot) advises him not to go to the town, because Anacleto "Malo" Comachi (Dirk Bogarde), the gang-leader who rules in town with a fist of iron will kill him. Keogh says that Malo didn't kill Father Gómez (Leslie French), but she says that Gómez doesn't matter anymore. She leaves feeling contented with herself.Keogh walks, carrying his small suitcase, to town. Children run after him and adults spit from behind drawn curtains. Father Gómez tells him that he has to be careful with his laundry, and tells the story of Malo - he is a bright young man who happens to hate the Church, because in his mind it represents all the corruption of politics. Father Gómez is stressed and anxious because he is afraid he's going to miss his coach out. Gomez says that he tried to become Malo's friend to bring him back to church, to no avail. Then, he complains that he - Father Gómez - should have died in defense of the Church, but he didn't, as Malo killed other people, innocent people just to terrorise all the townsfolk. Malo killed people in alphabetical order making everything look as accidents.At that moment Malo arrives. He's an attractive young man dressed in leather. He loves cats but is unkind. He says that the townspeople didn't welcome Keogh because nobody knew that he was coming. Gómez tells Anacleto that he should not judge the Church for Gomez's mistakes.Anacleto and his gangmen appear on horses to give Gómez a "sendoff" and escort him to the buss. People laugh at Gómez and the horsemen surround them. One of the horsemen shoots to the air for no reason, startling Gómez. Pablo (Laurence Payne) is pushed off his horse so that Gómez can ride. It is implied that Gómez catches his bus in time.Keogh visits the church - it's a disaster and there's poultry and farm animals scattered among the chairs. He makes the bells heard. Old Uncle (Laurence Naismith) used to be a good Catholic man, but now he laughs at the tolls of the bells. Three women go to the church to speak to Keogh: Señora González (Marjorie Forsyth) and two females friends of hers.Presidente (Eric Pohlmann) is the mayor of the village, the richest and most influential man. Hegives stupid excuses not to go to church; also he is worried that his 6-month-old baby, Silvanito, is his wife Silvia's son, but not his. Jefe, the Police Captain (John Bentley) tells Keogh that Malo doesn't usually even have to use violence, as it came to the point when everybody is so terrified that nobody would dare oppose him. Jefe says that he needs proof, but nobody wants to become witness against him. Pedro de Cortínez (Roger Delgado) is a man who doesn't want to know anything about reality, he hides behind his books, and Lucha's mother is a disinterested woman, egotist and bored to death in this sleepy village, who would like to have been an international socialite. Pedro admits that he pays Anacleto for protection. Pedro also admits that Lucha behaves like a wild person. Lucha's mother, Doña Marian (Jacqueline Evans) offers Keogh a cup of hot chocolate. Lucha encounters Keogh later; she had already guessed that Keogh was looking for allies against Malo, but Pedro can't be bothered. Lucha says that god doesn't worry about Quantana at all. Keogh just wishes to see Lucha at church soon.A gang member (Larry Taylor) is setting some haystacks in fire in front of a rebellious farmer (Arthur Brough), who didn't pay for Anacleto's protection. Keogh appears and asks what's happening. Anacleto says that he and Marco (Frank Sieman) are trying to put off a fire. The farmer is so frightened that won't dare to contradict Anacleto.Keogh has visited a boy who was sickly. He notices Lucha staring at a car which won't start. Keogh solves the problem and starts the car. Lucha asks Keogh to teach her to drive - he is surprised that she is driving a car without really knowing how to, and he suggests that he become a sort of nurse in his dispensary.Keogh makes the bells sound. Many people go, but some of them are scared off by Malo's men. Lucha is defiant and looks at Malo's eyes before entering the church. Keogh starts preaching in the middle of the main square of the town. He tells everybody to kneel down and pray with him to fight the fear. Anacleto and his men appear, so that people stand up and leave while Keogh is left on his own still preaching on. Old Uncle finishes the prayer with an "Amen" on his own. Keogh says that he's prepared to suffer because of his faith. After Keogh has left, Anacleto asks what day he goes over the mountains to confess - it's on Wednesdays. Anacleto says that it's a pity that he has to be killed, because he likes him.Keogh gives first aid to the villagers with Lucha's help. Lucha realises that it's at that moment when Father Keogh is most vulnerable, and tells him so. Father Keogh tells him that nobody is ever on his own, smiles and leaves anyway, leaving her worried about him. Father Keogh is driven away. Lucha writes the names of Anacleto and Keogh in two pieces of paper, puts them in a small box, shakes it and picks one without looking - it says Anacleto. It looks like she doesn't like what she's chosen herself.Keogh arrives to a cross in the road. The driver puts water to the radiator of the car. The road is not very good, and the brakes of the car do not work. The car is moving faster and faster. Father Keogh sees a small mountain pathway and steers the car in that direction.Lucha goes to fix a glove. Anacleto lets her be tended to first. Lucha asked Anacleto not to harm Father Keogh. She tries to remind him that, a long time ago, he promised he would do anything for her; but Anacleto answers that she's right - that was a long time ago.Keogh tells Jefe, but he can't prove that Malo or any of his men cut the brakes' cable. The police officer offers police protection for him, but the priest refuses, as he can't be an example to the rest of the people if he's afraid himself. That night, he tolls the bells again, so that Anacleto realises that he's still alive. Lucha goes to visit Keogh at church. Lucha was hidden in the church, frightened. There's a noise outside, but there looks that nobody is there. Somebody with a machete attacks him, but the machete cuts on his bible. Keogh thinks that god has protected him, Old Uncle thinks it was the devil. Old Uncle offers to kill him. Anacleto says that they can't afford to fail one more time. He also knows that the bishop who sent Keogh to Quantana are watching for him - even in Rome they are aware of whatever happens to him. Pablo thinks that Anacleto admires Keogh too much, but Malo dismisses it, as it's only natural that one appreciates his enemies in their own value. He intends to use Michael Keogh's kind heart against him. Anacleto writes in a piece of paper a big "D".Chela (Selma Vaz Días) is Keogh's maid. She is serving dinner speaking about pythons when somebody knocks on the door. She complains that it's not civil hours - she gives Father Keogh what she found: the piece of paper with the letter D. The narrator says that D was for Domínguez, and we see the dead body of a man in the local river, E was for Elizondo, and we hear the scream of a man thrown down from a steep cliff, F was a young boy (Nyall Florenz), whom the audience sees still alive strolling around on his own. Keogh tells Jefe that he should arrest Anacleto, but the honest police officer cannot arrest Anacleto only on the "alphabet" clue - he needs a witness, or some evidence. Keogh believes that he's between the devil and the deep blue sea. A police officer (Jan Muzurus) arrives at that moment saying that a young boy was found run over, and that his name was Victorino Fernández. The child was only seven. Keogh gets really worked out on Anacleto, but then he restrains himself. Revenge is not the way, he says.Keogh leaves in anger and faces Anacleto, and wants to speak with him face-to-face. Anacleto asks him to be quick in a nonchalant way, because he's going to celebrate with his friends. Anacleto says that it had to be an accident. Keogh tells him to repent.Keogh visits Francisco Goya (John Steed), who works as Anacleto's messenger. He gives Father Keogh the letter in which somebody whose surname begins with "G", González, who will be killed in the early hours of the following morning. Jefe is positive that the following morning they may have at last proof against Anacleto. Jefe will hide in the farm of Anacleto, and threatens González in case he wants to tell Anacleto of the trap. Anacleto arrives with some of his men. Anacleto arrives with a paper and tells González to sign. The, he asks Keogh and Jefe whether they can breath hidden away. Anacleto says that he was only doing some business with González. However, Malo was about to leave. Jefe tells Keogh that it's not normal to do "business" at two in the morning.While they are coming back to Quamala, Francisco Goya, the messenger, was killed. Apparently, he was sleepwalking and fell from the window of his bedroom. Keogh officiates the funeral.Old Uncle thinks he's dying and calls for a priest. When Keogh arrives, he realises that Old Uncle's problem is that he's completely wasted. Old Uncle wants to confess. Pablo laughs and says "Tell him about María, that's a good story". Old Uncle still remembers when he was a boy and used to help the priest to celebrate mass. Anacleto arrives and inquires what's happening. He tells Keogh that he's sorry he's being played a joke. Keogh says that Old Uncle has some things on his conscience, but that there's no use hearing his confession in Old Uncle's present estate, and he leaves. When Father Keogh leaves, Anacleto tells off Pablo and Marco, calling him a fool. Anacleto throws some water to Old Uncle's face and asks him what he confessed to the Father, but the drunken old man says he can't remember, but then he says that Father Keogh wants to absolve Malo because Old Uncle loves Anacleto. Malo is furious that Old Uncle still wears a Catholic cross around his neck, but the old man says that he only wears it for good luck. Anacleto is angry because that cross proves that the Church and Keogh still have a little power over Old Uncle. Old Uncle throws it away through the window because he has never betrayed Malo, and he considers him as a son. Old Uncle drinks some more while Anacleto doesn't say anything else. Old Uncle leaves and almost falls down the stairs. Anacleto realises that the old man is going to look for the crucifix among the rubbish of the canteen.Anacleto pulls out his gun and goes to speak to Keogh. Chela sees him and runs to tell Jefe. Anacleto is not going to kill Father Keogh himself, though. All the opposite, he tells the priest that Old Uncle is coming to kill him. Malo asks Keogh what the priest told the old man; he says that he offered absolution to Anacleto if he confesses and repents, and that he wouldn't tell the police.Old Uncle arrives and Anacleto points his gun at the drunkard. He shows the necklace he found on the street. Old Uncle pushes Anacleto out of the way and goes for Father Keogh. They fight. Malo recovers and takes Old Uncle away from the priest, and finally shoots him on the back. Old Uncle cannot believe it. He tries to aim again and Malo shoots him twice. Old Uncle falls to the floor. Anacleto is hurt and Father Michael is OK. Jefe, the police officer and Chela arrive. Jefe now has the evidence that Anacleto tried to kill the priest, and nobody believes Keogh when he says that Anacleto was trying to protect him. Keogh insists that Anacleto is innocent, but nobody would believe him. Old Uncle came to kill the priest by Malo's orders. Jefe gives Anacleto 12 hours to leave town, or he'll go for him, thinking that Father Keogh wants to fight at both sides of the war. Anacleto says goodbye to Malo. He says that it must be irritating and fascinating at the same time to be a really good man. Chela is left with the body of Old Uncle and prays for him.The Presidente is celebrating the anniversary of Father Keogh's coming to Quantana. Anaclato comes back that very same night. He looks like a small-time squire. The priest asks him if he thinks it's wise to came back to the town. Anacleto says that he's thought about it, and that if the Catholic Church satisfies a man like him, it may also satisfy himself. Anacleto wants to believe and learn if it's the Church (the song) or the Singer (the people who believe) which make the message good. Anacleto wants to learn and be convinced. Father Keogh will try to convert him. Anacleto proposes to stay at the priest's house, as he doesn't have any friends anymore. Chela is outraged about the idea, and refuses because she had been eavesdropping. Chela wants Malo to sleep outdoors, but Keogh reprimands her and prepares a bed for him.Lucha doesn't want to hear how her mother tells her to enjoy life with boys, as the mother herself used to do when she was younger. She wants her to go to Florida and stay with Philip "Phil" Brown (Philip Gilbert), his rich cousin. In the ensuing argument, the mother finds some letter which she thinks they are love letters to Anacleto; she runs to show them to Father Keogh. The mother asks the priest to convince her to go to Florida. Keogh really thinks that Anacleto may convert.Anacleto reads the Bible. Father Keogh inquires about Lucha. Malo can't believe that she's in love with him. Malo thinks that if Lucha has a passion, it's not going to be for him, although the priest doesn't really understands what Malo means. The priest leaves, Anacleto looks out of the window and he sees Lucha arriving by car.Lucha enters the dispensary. Keogh is not there, but Anacleto is. Anacleto kisses Lucha, but she seems to reject him. Lucha says that she doesn't love him. Anacleto shows her one of her own letters and tells her that her parents and Keogh reached the obvious conclusion; he says that he is a modest man and that after the kiss he knows it's not him whom Lucha loves, and that realises that it must be hard for her to love a man who can't be hers. Anacleto says he understands her, which gives hopes to Lucha that Malo won't try to hurt him again.Father Keogh arrives. Anacleto leaves. They have no patients so far. The priest encourages Lucha to go to Florida. Lucha says that her mother wants her to marry Phil, but Lucha would prefer to become a spinster. Anyway, she'll go to Florida if Father Keogh thinks it's a good idea.Pablo asks Anacleto why he stays with the priest. Lucha has got engaged in the USA and will get married in Quantana in three weeks' time with Phil. Chela wishes Lucha happiness. Before, Lucha used to dress like a child, now she dresses as an old woman. Keogh is happy to see Lucha again, as nobody had told him that she was coming. Suddenly, Lucha doesn't look as happy. She says that Phil loves her and that she loves him as much as she could possibly love a man she could marry. That makes Father Keogh suspicious. Anacleto asks Keogh if he has ever loved a woman; he says that many years ago, before he got his vocation. Anacleto hasn't married because of his vocation as well.Lucha is running after her cat Lucky, which is in Anacleto's arms. He tries to convince her of not marrying Phil. Phil really loves Lucha. Phil has liked Father Keogh as well, who speaks wonders of Lucha. Michael Keogh marries Lucha and Phil. Lucha has a face of somebody who is going to be fed to the lions in her wedding dress. Anacleto arrives to see the wedding in his new fancy car. Keogh is terribly happy to marry her off, but suddenly he realises she's not happy at all. Lucha runs away without saying anything and leaves in Anacleto's car.Her father wants to police to rescue her, but Jefe tells him that she left to her own accord, she wasn't kidnapped and everybody has seen it. He also adds that it's Father Keogh's fault, because el Jefe himself would have never allowed Malo into the town again.Keogh is hearing a confesion (Eileen Way), and then Anacleto says he wants to confess. He tells Keogh that Lucha loves the priest, not him, which outrages Keogh, as he thinks he's lying. Anacleto says that the song is worthless. Anacleto thinks that Keogh will sacrifice the community of Quantana because he is in love with Lucha. A distraught Keogh prays in desperation.Lucha is being serenade, but she doesn't really appreciate it. Malo finally takes Father Keogh to Lucha. She hugs him and feels relieved he's OK. Lucha tells him that he's an egotistic man who never thinks on her. Finally, Lucha and Michael french-kiss. She is left even more distraught as Keogh doesn't love her.The bells in the tower toll. Anacleto goes to church with his friends. The rest of the townsfolk look at them with contempt. Father asks them to accept Anacleto if his repentance is honest, but he says that he'll denounce Anacleto's fake conversion. Finally, the priest denounces Malo. Anacleto runs from Jefe and his men. Malo is finally shot, although Louis keeps on helping him giving him a gun. During the shootout, Lucha takes cover while Father Keogh tells Jefe to take Malo alive. Finally, he shoots Anacleto twice and he dies.The priest runs to Anacleto, who's died. Pablo shoots Father Keogh, but he's shot by Jefe. Lucha cries and leaves. Father asks for an act of contrition from Anacleto, but he refuses. Keogh can't hear him, so he says that if he is repeating an act of contrition, he should press his hand.Anacleto says it's the singer, not the song, and presses his hand. Both die in each other's arms.---written by KrystelClaire
