A young girl rents an apartment from a man who has recently enlisted in the Marines. The trouble is that he's given out keys to a half-dozen of his friends, and they all keep dropping in.
Kathie Aumont has just arrived in the big city to work at a defense plant. When the promised accommodation with her friend Sally falls through, Kathie is forced to find somewhere else to live in the city where there is a virtually zero vacancy. She is able to finagle renting the apartment of Johnny Moore, who is just heading off into the marines. What Johnny forgets to tell her before he leaves is that he has given his apartment key to many of his enlisted friends for them to be able to use the apartment whenever they are in town. As such, Kathie never knows who she's going to find in the apartment. Complications ensue when Kathie falls for two of them, and they with her. One of them is Mike O'Brien, a navy sailor and notorious womanizer. The other is Johnny himself, Kathie and he who had a moment before he left and who comes home unexpectedly on a twenty-four hour pass. It gets even more complicated when one of the apartment keys gets into the wrong hands. All these complications are fueled by a gremlin, who vowed to Kathie that he would oversee her seven weeks of bad luck for spilling some salt.
Kathie Aumont, a defense worker, journeys to Washington, D. C. to take a job and live with her friend Sally. Upon her arrival, Kathie discovers that Sally has just been married and, consequently, Kathie has no place to live. While searching for an apartment, Kathie meets Johnny Moore, who has just been inducted into the Marines. Kathie convinces Johnny to sublet his apartment to her, and they soon fall in love. After Kathie takes Johnny to meet his troop train, she returns to the apartment and finds a male visitor there. The next day, sailor Mike Burke and his pal Jack arrive at the apartment, and Kathie realizes that Johnny has given keys to all his friends. Kathie agrees to let Mike use the apartment until midnight, but he follows her instead and they have dinner together. Several months later, Johnny and Mike are home on furloughs and Kathie discovers that she has fallen in love with both. Meanwhile, Jack has lent his key to the apartment to a chief petty officer Jeff Daniels who is expecting his wife and needs a place to stay. When Johnny notices the key in the officer's possession, he and Mike follow him to the apartment to investigate. A fight ensues, and the servicemen are arrested for disturbing the peace and taken to night court. The judge dismisses the case upon ascertaining the facts, but chastises Kathie for failing to change the lock on her apartment door. Kathie is then confronted with marriage proposals from both Mike and Johnny. Unable to choose, she asks for a minute to decide. The minute stretches into 1949, and Kathie now has a home, three children, and is awaiting the arrival of her husband. Mike arrives, followed by Johnny, and finally the doorbell rings and the judge, Kathie's husband, enters.
