A recently divorced man meets an emotionally devastated widow and they begin a love affair.
Andreas, a man struggling with the recent demise of his marriage and his own emotional isolation, befriends a married couple also in the midst of psychological turmoil. In turn he meets Anna, who is grieving the recent deaths of her husband and son. She appears zealous in her faith and steadfast in her search for truth, but gradually her delusions surface. Andreas and Anna pursue a love affair, but he is unable to overcome his feelings of deep humiliation and remains disconnected. Meanwhile, the island community is victimized by an unknown person committing acts of animal cruelty.
The interaction between four lost, tortured and/or conflicted souls on a sparsely populated desolate island in the middle of winter is presented. After the dissolution of his marriage, Andreas Winkelman spends his time alone repairing his farm house, without a means of income. While he enjoys the solitude in being contemplative, the solitude is also due to his legal troubles. He meets Anna Fromm when she asks to use his telephone. She is recuperating from a car accident that killed her husband, also named Andreas, and their son. She outwardly states that she searches for truth in the way she lives, while she is less than truthful herself. Anna eventually begins a relationship and moves in with Andreas. During her recovery, Anna lived with her friend Eva Vergérus and her husband Elis Vergérus, who Andreas knows casually. Elis is an architect, his current project being a cultural center in Milan, and does photography on the side, his collection of photographs, largely of posed human subjects, which he catalogs by emotion. Elis is quietly judgmental, the cultural center which he states will be a mausoleum of the meaninglessness in which his class strives. Eva, an insomniac, is a lonely woman who has no sense of herself, and as such ends up unwantingly being swept into the lives of those around her. She and Andreas have a brief affair - not her first, and not her first with an Andreas - in her loneliness. As a backdrop to the four, an unknown person has been torturing and then killing animals on the island, with most suspecting the culprit to be elderly Johan Andersson in what they consider his mental instability. Also as a backdrop to story of the four, the four actors as themselves talk about their interpretation of their own character.

