Ex-con Red O'Hara becomes a daring news photographer, but his old ways get him into trouble.
Red O'Hara, just released from prison after serving an unjust sentence on a frame engineered by Dude Merrill, leaves his wife Molly and tries unsuccessfully to land a news photographer's job. He finally gets a position after photographing a bank robbery, and tops this later by catching Dude in the midst of a crime and preventing the killing of a detective.
Although he did associate with mob criminals, namely the East River Gang, convict Red O'Hara, who has just been released on parole, has always professed his innocence concerning the bank robbery that sent him to prison. Among his mob associates, his only true friend - his best friend - is Slim Dugan, who generally acts as the getaway driver. Red had heard rumors that his wife, Molly O'Hara, who never visited him in prison, has taken up with the head of the gang, Dude Merrill. If true, Red plans to take care of the pair. Red instead learns the other secret Molly has been keeping which is the reason she never visited. Wanting to go on the straight and narrow and live a clean life with Molly, Red plans to earn an honest living as a photographer, a skill he learned in prison. Based on circumstance, he is able to get a job working as a photographer at the Illustrated News paper. Red's news photographer career may provide him with legitimacy, but in turn could threaten his new life with Molly in his increasing unofficial dealings with both the mob and the police in the managing editor Reardon's want for more and more sensational photographs. Red may have to make some tough choices, especially when it comes to Slim, the decisions made more difficult as police Lt. Biff Malone wants any excuse to send Red back to the slammer.
A surprised Red O'Hara is paroled, he serving a sentence for a bank robbery, for which he ended up being the fall guy for his criminal associates. The parole is largely due to the authorities truly unable to pin the robbery on him. His life on the outside is nothing as he planned as he reconciles with his wife, Molly O'Hara, when he learns the real reason for she running off after his incarceration and not visiting him in prison. Wanting to provide a stable home life, Red decides to use the photography skills he learned in prison has a career, specifically looking for a job as a newspaper staff photographer. After being turned down for job after job even those not in his chosen field, Red is able to get a job in his chosen field as, being at the right place at the right time, he takes photographs of a bank robbery and its aftermath that no staff photographer for any newspaper could. While good at this job, it also places him and Molly in a precarious position trying to balance all sides. Red's best friend, Slim Dugan, is still a member of the gang, Red not wanting to abandon Slim in any time of need. Lt. Biff Malone, the police officer who put him away and who now works for the parole office, seems intent on finding any wrongdoing on Red's part to put him away again. Reardon, the newspaper's publisher, asks Red to get more and more explosively sensationalistic photographs or else, these types of photos which may be against the conditions of his parole. And in taking crime scene photos, Red may get on the bad side of his old gang, who will not be hesitant to take appropriate action to ruin Red's life if need be.

