After spending three years in an asylum, a washed-up actor views a minor assignment from his old director in Rome as a chance for personal and professional redemption.
Former film star Jack Andrus is released from a sanitarium where he has lived for the previous three years, suffering from alcoholism, a traumatic automobile accident, and a severe mental breakdown. He's been offered two weeks of work in Rome by Maurice Kruger, his old director, who himself is near the end of his fading career and under pressure from his parsimonious Italian producer to finish his picture on time and under budget. Jack is also pressed from a manipulative ex-wife, a rising but self-destructive young star, the director's shrewish wife, and a temperamental Italian diva who requires handling with kid gloves. When the Kruger suffers a heart attack, Andrus views the opportunity as a last chance at the redemption of his personal life and professional career.
Movie star Jack Andrus has been at a mental hospital for three years following a nervous breakdown resulting from his movie star life, including a destructive marriage to his now ex-wife Carlotta. He receives a telegram from old colleague, director Maurice Kruger who was his directing mentor, to act in a bit, but pivotal role in a movie he is filming in Rome. It is a lucrative offer of two week's of filming for $5,000. With the blessings of his doctors, Jack accepts. This movie is also a comeback for Maurice, who needs this movie to be a success both as a personal legacy as well as for economic survival. A potential obstacle for Maurice is his reputation for romancing his leading ladies, a reputation that does not sit well with his controlling wife, Clara Kruger, who is in Rome with him. Someone else in Rome unexpectedly which may affect how Jack is able to cope is Carlotta. Upon his arrival in Rome, Jack is faced with a filming situation that he did not quite expect, and which changes as filming progresses. His time in Rome is also affected by: Davie Drew, the movie's insecure leading man, in who Jack sees himself at the start of his own career; and a young ingénue named Veronica, with who Jack begins a relationship, but who is hiding a part of what she is really feeling from Jack. Through this experience, Jack may come to the realization if his old movie making life and all its trappings is what he wants again despite what it did to him the first time around.

