A young, millionaire rock promoter decides to create a new boy/girl duo team for his teen TV dance show by teaming up an ambitious go-go dancer and a has-been pop star and presenting them to the public as a new romantic pair.
Hallie Rogers is a pent-up go-go dancer itching for her big break. She's up for a spot on the network rock'n'roll show "Whizbam," a detailed send-up of both "Shindig" and "Hullaballo," but the studio bosses keep giving her the shaft. So Hallie wigs out, escapes from her go-go cage, and steals the mike from Glen Campbell, who's singing onstage at the time. While Glen does all he can to stop this crazy girl on live TV, Hallie shakes and shimmies her way out of impending handcuffs. The audience goes wild, imitating her moves, and when a misdirected camera sends a message out to the nation, a new dance craze is born - the Tantrum! Tony Krum, a teen tycoon begins to manage her booming career. Hallie gets fired from "Whizbam," but her go-go dancing pals take her to Palm Springs, where they see the Leaves perform. She soon meets out-of-step teen idol Cliff Donner, with whom she forms a duo.
At age twenty-four, singer Cliff Donner is considered a has-been in the pop music business, which happened when his manager wanted him to expand into "old people" music. His has-been status is all right with him in wanting what he considers a happier life, which is calling the shots behind the scenes rather than singing. Hallie Rodgers, a background dancer on the Los Angeles based Whiz-Bam music show, has tried to get the show's producer, Fred MacElwaine, to let her be up front and center on the show as a solo singer - she even having had auditioned and impressed - but, despite leading her on, he won't give her the opportunity until she establishes herself as such by producing a record. When Cliff and Hallie meet at Stan's Cellar, a small Palm Springs club owned by Stanley Krumley where Cliff is performing, Cliff senses an opportunity for Hallie based on something he saw her do on the show, that opportunity being a song and dance combination which he names "The Tantrum". Cliff will help in any way he can, except what she really wants which is for him to be by her side performing. Cliff's resolve is strengthened when Stan brings in his brother, renowned music producer Tony Krum, an eccentric and neurotic man, whose role would take the place of what Cliff would have done behind the scenes. Part of Tony's grand plan is for Cliff, as the established performer, to do what Hallie wants in this matter in performing with her to give her a jump start in the business. But what Tony also tells Hallie as a task but not Cliff is to make Cliff fall in love with her and ask her to marry him, all as a publicity stunt. Although Cliff and Hallie do fall in love for real, a question becomes if the professional and personal lives of the two can mesh regardless, especially if Cliff finds out about Hallie's secret task.

