McGriff and Albaby are probably doing the worst law enforcement job in the world - they are plain clothes U.S. military policemen on duty in war-time Saigon. However, their job becomes even harder when they start investigating the serial killings of local prostitutes. Their prime suspect is high ranking U.S. Army officer which brings their lives in danger.
In Saigon, during the Vietnam war, Buck McGriff and Albaby Perkins are U.S. Military Policemen trying to do law enforcement in a chaotic city. When a prostitute is executed in bed, they investigate and they find a witness - the G.I. Maurice that is scared since the killer is an American officer. However Maurice is murdered and soon they find that there are six other prostitutes that have been murdered but their cases have vanished from the files. They meet the former investigator that gives a copy of his findings and they have five colonels as prime suspects that might be the serial-killer, but their friend Sargeant Dix warns that only three of them were in Saigon in the night of the last murder. McGriff finds that Sister Nicole has a witness hidden in the jungle with the Vietcong and he tries to convince her to let them meet her to find who the serial-killer is.
In Saigon, during the Vietnam war, Buck McGriff and Albaby Perkins are U.S. Military Policemen trying to do law enforcement in a chaotic city. When a prostitute is executed in bed, they investigate and find a witness - G.I. Maurice, who is scared, because the killer is an American officer. After Maurice is murdered they find there are six other prostitutes who have been murdered and whose case files have vanished. They meet a former investigator who gives a copy of his findings which include five colonels as prime suspects. Their friend, Sargeant Dix, warns that only three of them were in Saigon the night of the last murder. McGriff learns of a witness hidden in the jungle with the Vietcong and he tries to convince Sister Nicole to track her down and reveal the killer's identity.

