After being in Hollywood for a month with lots of compliments but no offers, girl next door Libby Caruso decides to give up on having a singing career and focus on what she believes is her destiny: to be a wife, hopefully to a doctor. To nab a husband, she believes she has to get a job where many eligible bachelors would notice her, that job despite she having no skills besides singing. Away from her job as a Girl Friday at a brokerage firm, Libby, upon seeing him, believes she is destined to marry Paul Davis, who works at the product development company where Libby's best friend and roommate Jan McNair works, and who believes he is God's gift to the world, if only anyone would notice. Jan knows that Libby isn't Paul's type, he who didn't even notice her. However, who may be Libby's type, but who she in turn didn't really notice is Cuz Rickover, part-time supermarket stock-boy and part-time bass player among some other part-time activities. Ultimately, Paul believes he can help Libby and in turn help himself in developing a product for market that Libby created to make her 9-to-5 life easier. But as Paul helps Libby with the product with Libby in turn hoping to get Paul to ask her to marry him, Libby gets an opportunity to showcase her singing to a wide audience. So as Libby's 9-to-5 life, her pursuit of a husband, the product development and the singing seem to be moving up and down simultaneously, Libby has to decide where her focus lies. The answers as to what she should do with her life may just fall into place by others giving those areas a little push.
Libby has spent a whole month trying to get into show business with her singing, and has not made it. Therefore she decides to retire and get a job where she can meet the right man and get married. The right man turns out to be Paul Davis when she sees him at the supermarket. The only problem is that Paul ignores her as his ideal woman is TnT (tall and top heavy), which Libby is not. One day, Libby creates a clothes stand which she calls the 'Lady Valet'. This product interests Paul who wants to promote it. Paul gets Libby on the 'Tonight Show' to push the product and when she mentions that she was formerly a singer, Johnny asks her to sing. After that, the career in showbiz that she had not found grows, to the astonishment of Paul. She uses her new fame to get Paul's attention.

