Mockumentary about German schoolgirls openly talking about their scandalous sexual experiences. Some of these are illustrated through inserted vignettes. Also, a street reporter asks actual common folk about their views on sex.
A teenage girl is caught petting with the bus driver during an outing. The school's parent council discusses her punishment. One parent, a psychologist, suggests that her behavior is not abnormal or worthy of expulsion. He describes teen girls' experiments with sex, and these dramatized vignettes, interspersed with man-in-the-street interviews with young women about their attitudes and experiences, make a case for 60's generation's attitude of independence. The girls argue for telling the truth in the face of post-war German convention. In the end, will Renata be expelled or recognized as a girl from a new era?
During a school field trip, the school bus driver gets caught with one of the schoolgirls. She confess she seduced him, so the school board and the parents organize a meeting to discuss this scandal. One of the men present, psychologist Dr. Bernauer, proposes a theory that sexual norms among the youth are loosening every year and that that's just the way it is. Most parents vehemently refuse to consider this notion, so a discussion is organized with the schoolgirls themselves. They're asked to talk openly about their sexual experiences and they give surprisingly straight and shocking answers. Several vignettes, some comical and others exploitative, are shown as illustrations of the schoolgirls' scandalous sex life. A cheeky schoolgirl tries to turn on a stoic young priest by telling him the most erotic fantasy she can think of during her confession. At a public pool, three horny teens try to seduce the life guard, but one of them turns out to be pregnant. A girl has her first lesbian experience with her two friends. A girl tries to seduce her gymnastics coach. A horny girl tries to use her favorite doll, a plush elephant, as a masturbation tool, but gets caught by her shocked mother. A girl is about to have sex for the first time, but her lover isn't all that he's cracked up to be. After seeing two horses having sex, a horny girl discovers female masturbation. A girl falls in love with her young literature tutor. A girl is not sure if she wants to have sex or not, so her friend tells her all about her crazy sex life. Meanwhile, a street reporter is asking every day women who are passing by, and are not actresses, about their sex lives, with informative and often amusing results.

