A magazine's staff, including bickering ex-lovers Linda and Carey, cover an Indiana wedding, which goes slightly wrong...
Foreign correspondent Carey Jackson is offered a job on Home Life, a "women's" magazine; he accepts when he finds the editor is his old flame Linda Gilman. Verbal pyrotechnics fly between Carey and Linda as they go to Indiana to cover the Brinker family's "typical American wedding." But triangles lurk beneath the surface of the impending nuptials. Can Carey rescue a story (and his job) out of the wreckage? Can all the sundered hearts be re-united?
Vienna-based Carey Jackson is one of Carleton Towne's most valued foreign correspondents. With the Vienna office closing due to changing times, Carleton reassigns Carey to the only open position within his media empire, as feature writer for Home Life, a women's magazine. While feature writers have come and gone from the magazine in none of them being able to work for its hard-nosed editor Linda Gilman, Carey only accepts the reassignment when he learns that he will be working for Linda in they having had a personal past. Their breakup occurred three years ago when Carey made the unilateral decision for the overseas assignment, Linda who would have wanted a more stable home life if given the choice. While Carey hopes to rekindle their romance, Linda has no such thoughts, she solely focused on their next edition of the magazine, which will be a June bride feature. The subjects are Jeanne Brinkman and Bud Mitchell of Crestville, Indiana, their wedding which is supposed to be portrayed as taking place in June despite it being the middle of winter. Linda and her staff will have one week to transform both the Brinkman house and the Brinkmans themselves into magazine-worthy subjects before the actual wedding ceremony at the house. While what Linda wants is a straightforward piece of a perfect June wedding in small town America, Carey has thoughts of a more newsworthy piece if he can sniff out a story. Without telling Linda, he believes he has found that story, he needing to orchestrate the proceedings, which will not only affect Jeanne and Bud, but Jeanne's younger seventeen year old sister "Boo" Brinkman, and Bud's older brother, Jim Mitchell, who is currently away in the military. Carey being able to make this all work out has no guarantee, but will result in what he truly believes is what should have happened, and that just needed a little push. Carey's machinations in this issue may kibosh his and Linda's professional and personal relationship, even if they were eventually able to get over their fundamental differences which led to their breakup in the first place.

