A chronicle of the political career of US President Woodrow Wilson.
The political career of Woodrow Wilson is chronicled, beginning with his decision to leave his post at Princeton to run for Governor of New Jersey, and his subsequent ascent to the Presidency of the United States. During his terms in office, Wilson must deal with the death of his first wife, the onslaught of German hostilities leading to American involvement in the Great War, and his own country's reticence to join the League of Nations.
The life of Woodrow Wilson, the 28th President of the United States, is presented from his time as President of Princeton University in 1909 to his final second in the White House on March 4, 1921. Despite having written books on politics, he was surprised to be approached to run for his first political office as Governor of New Jersey, that surprise because he did not see himself as being a politician in the traditional sense of the word. Although party brass would somewhat regret asking him to do so, the political system which was ruled by the boss system, Wilson became a populist politician largely because he stayed true to his own convictions rather than work the political system either for his advantage or for the advantage of his party masters, who thought they could manipulate him because of not being a seasoned politician. Following a rough Democratic Party nomination process, Wilson swept into the White House in the 1912 election, his presidency where he continued staying true to himself and doing what he said he would do, despite those around him often advising him to take more politically expedient paths. Key events which would mark his presidency include how he would deal with the German aggression in Europe and in the North Atlantic, and his push to create what was called the League of Nations following the end of the Great War despite naysayers believing such an organization would dilute American power in the global sense. His time in the White House was also a period that marked the death of his wife, Ellen Wilson, the love of his life, and his subsequent relationship with Edith Bolling Galt, the decision to marry or not which may have affected his popularity as a politician.
Princeton University president Woodrow Wilson leaves his post to run for governor of New Jersey, and soon becomes President of the United States. The turmoil of this era, from the death of his first wife, Ellen, and his remarriage to the glamorous Edith Galt, to the buildup to and aftermath of World War I, is faithfully dramatized. Wilson's political opponent Henry Cabot Lodge serves as the film's primary villain.

