Hercules battles an evil sorceress who turns men into werewolves.
A monster marauds the land ruled by Prince Regent Zerah, who seized power 10 years ago through the assassination of the Great Khan, fears that local hero Hercules (Ursus) may wrest the throne from him. To solidify his power, Zerah plans to marry his cousin, Amiko, daughter of the Great Khan. Amiko, however, loves Hercules. Meanwhile, Hercules, while attempting to find and subdue the monster, is badly injured by the monster. Zerah takes advantage of this situation through attacks and pillage but Hercules recovers, defeats Zerah in combat. Zerah now reveals that Amiko is not the daughter of the Khan. The daughter is Katya (Kato), a young woman rescued years ago and cared for by Hercules and his followers. The truth revealed, Amiko now openly uses her sorceress-powers to turn Hercules into the monster, just as she'd enchanted various other men in the past. Hercules (now the unwitting monster) prepares to kill Katya on Amiko's orders. When Hercules' brother, Ilo, brings about the death of Amiko, the spell is broken. Hercules, returned to normal, prepares to help Katya reclaim her kingdom.
A state of war exists between two tribes. The Circassi are led by Ursus (Reg Park) and the Kirghisi under the reining prince Zereteli (Furio Meniconi). The conflict has continued for many years, following the death of the old Khan.These turbulent lands are tormented by the bloody raids of a monsterous being called The Vulture, who assaults peaceful caravans of passers-by, spreading panic and death. The scheming daughter of the murdered Khan, Aniko (Mirille Granelli) is making her claim to the throne. Seeing that the death of Ursus would serve this purpose, Aniko sends an assassin to kill the hero, but Ursus escapes the attack.The arrival of the shrewd Ido (Ettore Manni), the brother of Ursus, provokes a battle between the two communities. One night, when Ursus is absent because he has kept an appointment with Aniko, Ido is resting in Ursus tent, only to be attacked by the Vulture, only just managing to save himself. Later, Aniko tells Ido of her secret relationship with Ursus and about her future marriage to him which will be a prelude to their crowning at Sura, the capital of the kingdom.During a hunting expedition, Ursus is attacked and wounded by the Vulture. Meanwhile, the Kirghisi, taking advantage of the act that all the towns warriors are away, attack Meliva (the Circassi village) killing all the remaining inhabitants. The Vulture is accused of this massacre, while Zereteli and his med drag Ido to Sura, and imprison Aniko in a cave where the monster dwells. While he is in prison, Ido discovers everything about Zeretelis schemes and, after escaping, he warns the Circassi, who attack Sura to avenge the massacre of Meliva. After having captured Zereteli, the force a confession from him in which he reveals that Aniko is not the heir to the throne, a right which is due to the real daughter of the Khan, Katia (Maria Teresa Orisini), now Ursus servant who had lost her memory after the death of her father.It turns out that Aniko is in fact a cruel witch who control a potion which causes her victims to transform into the monster; the Vulture is in fact Ursus, or whomever drunk the potion. The perfidious woman thus spreads panic in the region, destabilizing the power of Zereteli and provoking the clash between the Circassi and the Kirghisi. Exposed by the astute Ido, Aniko commits suicide by throwing herself into the void.
