In this variant of The Searchers (1956), a tough frontier trapper tracks the young Cheyenne warrior who kidnapped his daughter.
Set in 1848 Montana Territory, a young Cheyenne warrior, who goes by the name Grayeagle, kidnaps the daughter of a grizzled frontier man John Colter who goes on an epic search for his daughter Beth, and is aided by a friendly native, named Standing Bear, as well as Trapper Willis, a fur trapper and trader whom brave the elements of nature as well as hostile native warriors to find Beth and bring her home. At the same time, Beth becomes intrigued by her own captor who has reason for his taking of Beth.
In 1848 Montana Territory, a Cheyenne chief, Running Wolf (Paul Fix), prays to the Great Spirit, lamenting the coming of the white man, and anticipating the warrior Grayeagle (Alex Cord) fulfilling his final dream.Meanwhile, further north, trapper John Colter (Ben Johnson) and his daughter, Beth (Lana Wood), welcome their servant, Standing Bear (Iron Eyes Cody), back from a hunting trip. For two nights, a young Cheyenne warrior, Grayeagle, appears on the horizon beyond the Colter's cabin. On the third day, when Colter and Standing Bear search the immediate area, Grayeagle sneaks into the cabin and kidnaps Beth. Colter and Standing Bear split up to search for Beth. Along a river, Grayeagle and Beth encounter a crazy white man named Bugler (Charles B. Pierce), who lives with a small band of Shoshone people.Later, Colter reaches Fort Harrison where he obtains supplies and a fresh horse from Abe Stroud (Jimmy Clem). When Standing Bear does not arrive, Colter leaves without him. Meanwhile, Grayeagle and Beth stop at the Shoshone camp for food and lodging. A Shoshone warrior, Scar (Jacob Daniels), repeatedly tries to trade horses for Beth.Colter finds Bugler, who tells him that Grayeagle and Beth are headed up river. In the morning, Scar discovers that Grayeagle and Beth have fled in the night and sets out after them. Not far from the Shoshone camp, Colter finds Standing Bear and they raid the camp looking for Beth.When Grayeagle and Beth camp for the night, he tells her they will reach the Cheyenne Nation in two days and she will know more when she meets Chief Running Wolf. The next day, Scar watches Beth bathe from across the river and challenges Grayeagle to a fight. During their battle, Beth shoots and kills Scar.Elsewhere, Colter and Standing Bear call on a trapper, Willis (Jack Elam), who knows of Grayeagle and says he will be heading to the camp of Running Wolf and the Cheyenne on the banks of the Missouri River. Standing Bear lies and says he has never heard of Running Wolf and the three men head toward the Cheyenne camp. Meanwhile, the Shoshone and Bugler discover Scar's body and determine it is the work of a white man. They go to the Willis cabin and destroy it.Nearing the camp of Running Wolf, Grayeagle calms Beth and tells her not to be afraid. Elsewhere, Colter, Willis, and Standing Bear make camp. Standing Bear recalls an encounter between a young Running Wolf and Colters wife, Ida, while Colter was away on a long trapping expedition, then slips away. Morning comes and the Shoshone capture Colter and Willis. Willis and his dog are killed during a fighting ritual, but Colter wins his freedom. After burying Willis, Colter continues on his journey alone.At the Cheyenne camp, Beth meets Running Wolf and learns that the old chief is her real father. She is relieved when Standing Bear arrives and she asks him how he will tell Colter the truth. Meanwhile, Colter finds Bugler setting a bear trap on a river. The two exchange shots before Bugler steps on the trap and drowns. Later, a wounded Colter falls from his horse, which runs away. The Cheyenne hold a celebration and Running Wolf dies, his spirit at peace from having seen his daughter.Later, Colter awakens in the cabin of Abe Stroud, who found him after his horse returned to Stroud. Colter returns to his cabin to recuperate before making another attempt to rescue Beth. Meanwhile, Standing Bear and Beth head home, but are attacked by the Shoshone. Grayeagle, who has been watching after them, leads the Shoshone away so that Beth may live. She and Standing Bear return home and Standing Bear tells Colter the truth. As Colter and Beth reunite, Grayeagle arrives and is greeted as a hero.
