Parody of WWII spy movies in which an American rock and roll singer becomes involved in a Resistance plot to rescue a scientist imprisoned in East Germany.
This time Zucker and Abrahams are spoofing, most notably, Elvis films and WWII spy movies. Val Kilmer stars as Nick Rivers, a handsome American 50s-style rock and roll singer. While performing in East Germany, he falls in love with a beautiful heroine and becomes involved with the French Resistance.
American rock star Nick Rivers teams up with the lovely Hillary Flammond to escape capture by the East German High Command. They don't have long, as Rivers and Flammond must try to find her father, in order to stop him from creating the ultimate super weapon, known as 'the Polaris Mine'. A host of characters join them, including Déjà Vu and Chocolate Mousse.
In East Germany, the American rock and roll singer Nick Rivers meets Hillary Flammond in a fancy restaurant. Hillary is a member from the resistance and her hope is to rescue her father, the scientist Dr. Paul Flammond, who is imprisoned by the Germans to develop a powerful weapon. Nick is arrested and sent to prison for helping Hillary and he meets Dr. Flammond in his laboratory. Hillary helps him to escape during a show and when he tells that he has met Dr. Flammond in the prison to Hillary, they decide to seek out the resistance leader. When they meet him, they discover that Nigel was Hillary's first lover. Further, they learn that there is a traitor in the resistance. Who might be the traitor?
This is a comedy that references a heck of a lot of other movies and seeks to parody them in the most ridiculous and hilariously over the top way.Nick Rivers (Val Kilmer) is an archetypical '50's rock 'n roll heart throb: young, dumb and full of fun. He's Elvis, The Beach Boys, The Big Bopper, Buddy Holly and any other rocker from that period you can think of.He is invited to East Germany to be featured in the musical festival there and is unaware that evil "Nazi's" are only using the festival as a cover to disguise their true dream of world domination. They plan to use this festival to distract the NATO nations away from their true goals.Nick gets involved with a pretty, young woman; Hillary. She is in fact part of the French Resistance (in East Germany!?!) and part of a very oddly and obviously named crew of French freedom fighters. Including Chocolate Mousse, Deja Vu and many others.He gets into a heap of trouble, lands in jail and then attempts an escape in a very slap stick sort of way. He is eventually released to perform at the festival.Will Nick's heart be broken by Hilary when her ex, Nigel, who she spent time with on an island as a child and then felt stricken when he vanished, comes back into her life, still sporting an oiled six pack and a loin cloth?And will he decide to help the resistance with a couple of tunes and gyrations of his pelvis? Will he save the day in a manner that is completely side splitting? Will he win the love of Hillary and still sing Tuttie Fruttie?
