A drunken Sherlock Holmes is really just a cover for the real detective, Dr. Watson.
This is a Sherlock Holmes story with a difference. Here, Dr. Watson is the ace detective and has been using an actor to play the part Holmes. Holmes is a drunken actor and gets on Watson's nerves. When Watson tries to go it alone, he doesn't have much success, so he is forced to let Holmes take all the credit once more.
Sherlock Holmes is as dashing as ever, but with a little secret: Dr. Watson is the brains behing the operation. Watson scripts all of Holmes' solutions, having discovered that while people would believe in Holmes, no one was ready to accept, Dr. Watson, Crime Doctor. When Reginald Kincaid, the actor he has hired to play Holmes becomes insufferable, Watson fires him and tries to go out on his own, but finds that he has done all too good a job building Holmes up in the public's mind.
Sherlock Holmes is real, except he's a fake.It's a world where the London public reads the mysteries of the greatest living detective, as chronicled by his friend Dr. Watson, in the Strand Magazine. The story begins as one such adventure ends, with the famous pair catching some criminals in the act. The familiar Inspector Lestrade arrives with enough manpower to make the arrests. Holmes dramatically declares the case closed.Once everyone's gone, Watson loudly calls Holmes an idiot.On the carriage ride back to Baker Street, Holmes meekly asks what mistakes he's made, but is more concerned with impressing reporters that await them at the entry stairs. After going indoors, an argument ensues with Missus Hudson taking Watson's side. It is clear that Watson is smarter than the average doctor whereas the well-known genius of Sherlock Holmes is just a facade known only to the three of them. Watson and Hudson have had enough.Watson visits the offices of the Strand Magazine and confesses the backstory. He solved the Study in Scarlet (Holmes' famous first case) by himself. But the timing coincided with his medical license renewal, and he didn't want the stuff-shirt review board distracted by his moonlighting as a mystery solver.So he claimed to have met a detective who'd done the job. Gossip spread and many wanted a face to go with the made-up name. Watson therefore sought a stage actor, not realizing he'd have to hire him full-time.Enter Reginald Kincaid, a great one for maintaining a character, but secretly a bungling alcoholic.At cost of exposing his own great lie, Watson has now chosen to fire his fake Holmes, but perilous circumstances may make their parting fatal. Watson finds it harder than expected to escape Sherlock's shadow, and Reginald is stuck trying to solve his hardest case yet with no real head for detection.Meanwhile, Professor Moriarty has stolen printing plates to mint his own money, and may already know the sad secret of Sherlock Holmes.
