A promising classical musician finds his life poisoned by a music hall dancer -- and by the strange gaps in his memory.
George Harvey Bone is a composer in early 20th century London, who is under stress because he is writing a piano concerto. Due to this stress, he gets black outs when ever he hears dissonances. When he finds himself after the black out in a different quarter of the town, he returns home, to read in the paper that somebody in that quarter was murdered. Asking help from a doctor at Scotland Yard he is assured that he has nothing to do with it, but he is advised to cut back in his work and get some relaxation like other, ordinary people. At a cheap musical he meets Netta, a singer, who inspires him for a new motive for his concerto. But Netta discovers that this motive could also be used as a song for her. The song gets sold, and she hangs around George to get more songs out of him. George believes that Netta is in love with him, and gets in an argument with his girlfriend Barbara, the daughter of Lord Henry, who wants the concerto for one of his soirées. George has another black out, and after recovering he hears that Barbara was almost strangled to death. He starts working again on the concerto. On London's special holiday he learns that Netta, who offered him quite a lot for a new song, is going to marry theatrical producer Carstair, and he causes some violins to fall in his room, and this sound drives him to another black out...
London, early 20th century. George Harvey Bone is a very promising musician, who is working on a concerto that is likely to fulfill that promise. Sir Henry Chapman, a distinguished conductor, wants to perform it at one of his soirées, with Bone at the piano. Chapman's daughter, Barbara, is thrilled; she's in love with George and believes in his talent. The black cloud over George's life is his propensity to having "black little moods." He visits Dr. Allan Middleton of Scotland Yard. Middleton is an expert on the mind. The doctor's suggestion that George get out and mingle with ordinary people may be good in theory. But it leads George to meet Netta Longdon, a duplicitous music hall dancer. Netta leads George into a torment that sends him into ever blacker and blacker moods, where he does things he can't remember. And wouldn't want to.
On a dark side street in London at the turn of the century an old shopkeeper is stabbed and his place set ablaze. As George Harvey Bone (Laird Cregar) finds himself walking sown the street away from the fire he realizes he cannot remember what he has done for the last half hour or where he has been. When he reaches home and his fiancée Barbara Chapman (Faye Marlowe) he feels he may be responsible for the crime of the dead shopkeeper and goes to see his doctor, attached to Scotland Yard, Dr. Allan Middleton (George Sanders) who cannot find evidence that George has been involved in the crime. George has been experiencing periods of memory loss for some time and though he is deeply involved in writing a new concerto that has been promised a public concert he feels constricted by his daily routine and periods of memory loss. For diversion George goes to a beer hall where he discovers Netta London (Linda Darnell) entertaining a full house of men with her singing. George approaches Netta and her manager with a new song he has written and the three partner together to produce and sell it. George is successful at writing popular songs and falls in love with Netta but the singer has bigger plans and strings George along to get him to write more songs for her. When he discovers that she is planning to marry someone else George strangles Netta and puts her dead body on a bon fire to destroy it. When Dr. Middleton discovers the truth he attempts to get George medical help but the composer demands to play his concert and when the police move it to take George away a deadly confrontation occurs.
