Six impossibly intelligent children from all over the world with dangerous psychic powers hide in a church in England after the military tries to experiment on them. Besieged, they warn the military to back off before carnage ensues.
Scientists discovers that six children from six different places in the world each have superhuman intelligence to such extent that they've even developed psychic powers. The children are flown to London to be studied, but they each escape their embassy and barricade themselves in a church which the military besieges. Is there a way to resolve this stand off peacefully, and if not, what then?
In England, a child with astonishing level of intelligence is discovered, and Col. Tom Llewellyn (Ian Hendry) is eager to find out how this specific individual came to possess such astounding ability. He discovers that the mother is a victim of supposed divine pregnancy but then several more children appear all around the world with the same cerebral gifts as the original one. Each of them comes from one of five major nations and together with the child from England this group of six turns out to share collective consciousness as well as deadly kinetic powers. When the children take over a small church, the army closes in to eradicate them. The children send a message of peace and love to the world, but no one realizes this until it's too late to stop the all out carnage that ensues as the children prove to be more than a match for the military. Eventually, Llewellyn discovers that the children's DNA really is that of a normal human but that it somehow went through a million more years of evolution in just one generation. He also realizes that the children just want to be left alone and not experimented on anymore, so he gets everyone to stop shooting. The children also realize that resistance is futile since they simply don't belong in this world and decide to give themselves up, even if it means their deaths. However, a tragic irony of fate in the form of a simple screwdriver causing an accident which leads to miscommunication renders this peaceful resolution irrelevant and the children are gunned down.
