A night club owner becomes infatuated with a torch singer and frames his best friend/manager for embezzlement when the chanteuse falls in love with him.
Jefty, owner of a roadhouse in a backwoods town, hires sultry, tough-talking torch singer Lily Stevens against the advice of his manager Pete Morgan. Jefty is smitten with Lily, who in turn exerts her charms on the more resistant Pete. When Pete finally falls for her and she turns down Jefty's marriage proposal, they must face Jefty's murderous jealousy and his twisted plots to "punish" the two.
Jefty Robbins, a somewhat demented playboy, hires a singer from Chicago, Lily Stevens, to sing at his lush roadhouse, which Pete Morgan manages for him. Robbins falls for Lily but Lily has eyes only for Pete, who plays hard to get. When Robbins goes on a trip, Lily and Pete spend a lot of time together and fall in love. Pete makes the mistake of telling Robbins about it. Robbins then frames Pete for stealing money, and the judge paroles Pete into Robbins' custody. When all three goes on a trip, Pete knocks out Robbins and he and Lily make for the border. But Robbins is close behind them.
When the Chicago singer Lily Stevens arrives at the Jefty Road House hired by the owner Jefferson T. 'Jefty' Robbins, the manager Pete Morgan gives a cold reception to her. Jefty asks Pete, who is his best friend, to drive Lily to the local hotel. However Pete drives her to the train station instead and asks Lily to go back to Chicago. She refuses to go and her performance is successful in her debut. Soon Pete changes his opinion towards Lily and the accountant and cashier Susie Smith informs that the public has increased not only in the roadhouse, but also in the bowling alley. Jefty feels attraction for Lily, but when he travels, Lily and Pete fall in love with each other. When Jefty returns, he brings a marriage license and proposes Lily; however she dumps him and Pete and she decide to travel to Chicago and leave the town. However Jefty frames Pete and reports a fake theft to the police. Pete is arrested and found guilty by the jury. However Jefty proposes to the judge that Pete continues to work for him instead of going to the prison. What is the intention of Jefty?

