Count Dracula and the Wolf Man seek cures for their afflictions; a hunchbacked woman, a mad scientist and Frankenstein's Monster have their own troubles.
Dracula arrives at Dr. Edelman's office asking for a cure to his vampirism. However, this is a ruse by Dracula to get near Dr. Edelman's beautiful female assistant and turn her into a vampire. Meanwhile, a sincere Lawrence Talbot, AKA the Wolfman, arrives seeking a cure for his lycanthropy. When Dr. Edelman's first attempt fails, Talbot tries to commit suicide by jumping off a cliff, but instead finds a network of underground caves where Frankensteins Monster is in stasis. Chaos ensues as the three monsters fight for dominance of each other.
Baron Latos appears to Dr. Edelman in the middle of the night and reveals that he's really Count Dracula. He seeks a cure for his vampirism. A trip to the basement shows that Dracula has already taken the liberty of moving in - there's his coffin, filled with the dirt from his own grave. Dr. Edelman takes this brazenness in stride while refusing to believe in the supernatural. Later, Lawrence Talbot shows up, asking for a cure for his lycanthropy. He can't bear to change into a werewolf one more time. Edelman must save Talbot from a suicide attempt when Talbot throws himself into the ocean and gets swept into a cave. While in the cave, Edelman and Talbot find Frankenstein's monster. Edelman decides to revive him, but Talbot and Edelman's hunchbacked female assistant talk him out of it. Meanwhile, Edelman's other assistant finds herself seduced by Count Dracula; while Edelman finds the evil count has an even more powerful influence over his own life.
There are monsters galore in this tale when Count Dracula approaches the renowned Dr. Edelman to see if there might be a medical cure for his vampirism. Soon after, Lamont Cranston, the Wolfman approaches the good doctor who discovers that a brain tumor may be the cause of his problems. Finally, Edelman and Cranston discover the body of Dr. Frankenstein's monster in caves below the house. While Dr. Edelman deals with the ethical dilemma of whether or not to revive the monster, he realizes that his experimentation with Count Dracula has resulted in he also becoming a vampire. All of this leads to final confrontation where only one of the three monsters will survive.
NOTE: Sequel to "House of Frankenstein" (1944)Dr Franz Edelman [Onslow Stevens] of Visaria has a reputation for treating patients with strange diseases. Consequently, Count Dracula [John Carradine] (known to the outside world as Baron Latos) and Larry Talbot [Lon Chaney, Jr] (aka The Wolfman) come to Edelman in search of cures for their problems. After securing a blood sample from Dracula, Edelman finds that his blood contains an unknown parasite. Edelman thinks he can create an antitoxin and administer it through a series of blood transfusions. In the meantime, Dracula can sleep in his coffin in the basement.Talbot doesn't fare as well. When he calls, Edelman is unable to see him, so Talbot races to the village jail and asks to be confined in a cell. When Edelman arrives, he is able to personally witness the transformation of Talbot into the Wolfman and agrees to attempt a cure. After examining Talbot, Edelman announces that pressure on his brain is causing his glands to secrete an abnormal supply of the hormone that causes him to transform. Fortunately, in an attempt to help his nurse Nina [Jane Adams] become cured of her hunchback, Edelman has been working on a mold which softens calcium salts (i.e., bone). This mold might also be used to reshape Talbot's skull and take some of the pressure off his brain.Unfortunately, it will take at least a month to produce enough of the mold for the operations. Distraught at the thought of becoming the Wolfman one more time, Talbot attempts suicide by jumping from a cliff. Thinking that the rushing river below might have washed Talbot into some nearby caves, Edelman is lowered into the caves where he discovers perfect conditions for growing the molds and convinces Talbot to return for treatment. He also discovers the body of the Frankenstein monster [Glenn Strange] as well as a secret passageway between the cave and his laboratory.In the meantime, Dracula has become smitten with Edelman's other nurse, the luscious Miliza Morelle [Martha O'Driscoll], and tries to entice her into joining him. But Nina oversees the Baron casting no reflection in a mirror and reports this observation to Edelman who rushes to the garden in time to save Miliza. Edelman tells Dracula that another transfusion must be done immediately. This time, however, Dracula reverses the blood flow so that some of his blood contaminates Edelman. When Edelman realizes what Dracula has done, he moves Dracula's coffin into the sunlight and destroys him, releasing the hold on Miliza.But now Edelman starts transforming. During the day he is himself, but at night he surges with the urge to kill. Knowing that his time is limited, Edelman operates on Talbot. That night, from his wheelchair by the window, Talbot sees Edelman hop a cart. Edelman subsequently kills the cart driver, and the villagers follow him home thinking that he is Talbot. The police interview both Edelman and Talbot but agree that Talbot is physically incapable of such activity. Talbot has put two and two together and promises Edelman that he will say nothing until Edelman is able to operate on Nina.That night, however, Edelman reawakens the Frankenstein monster. Nina tries to stop him, but Edelman strangles her. Talbot shoots Edelman, and the Frankenstein monster turns on Talbot and begins destroying the laboratory. The monster is killed in a fire, and Talbot walks off into the moonlight with Miliza. [Original synopsis by bj_kuehl.]
