A young soprano becomes the obsession of a horribly disfigured composer, who has plans for those who oppose him or the young singer.
In New York, the Julliard student Christine Day meets her friend Meg in the library where she works and she shows a piece of music from the unknown author Erik Destler that she has found on the shelf. Christine decides to use the music in her audition on the next day for a role in a version of Faust in the New York Opera. During the audition, there is an accident on the stage and Christina faints. She relives her past life in the 19th century in London, when she is an aspirant opera singer and becomes the protégée of the Phantom of the London Opera House. The Phantom is the unknown composer Erik Destler who makes a pact with the devil in order to the world would love his music. In return, the devil destroys his face and tells him that he would never be loved by anyone and would be disfigured forever. After a tragic ending, Christine awakes in the present day and has a great surprise when she is introduced to the producer of the opera.
A newer and gorier version of the horror film classic of Gaston Leroux's classic tale. Christine Day is a young Broadway singer in New York City. She is auditioning for an opera and comes across a piece of music written by an unknown composer named Erik Destler nearly 100 years before. Erik had made a pack with the devil so the world would love his music, but the devil had one condition: that Erik's face would be horribly disfigured forever. Once Christine sings his music, she is taken from present day New York to 1881 London were she is the star of the London Opera House. There she is coached by a mysterious caped figure who will do anything to make her the star of the opera even if it means murdering people, and the figure is none other than Erik Destler himself. The silver-voiced soprano enjoys success through his arrangements - until she realizes that he has been committing unspeakable grisly murders in her honor and will not stop until the reclusive maestro has completed his masterpiece - in blood.

