Counseling helps family deal with the discovery that their child was sexually abused by the closest relative.
Shame and fear have kept Amelia Bennett silent about the sexual molestation she's been suffering at the hands of her father, Steven. But as Amelia starts to believe that Steven might harm her younger sibling in similar ways, she unburdens herself of her awful secret. Confronted with this horrifying piece of news, Steven's wife, Gail, can't believe it's true, and he professes his innocence. But as new details emerge, the family is shaken to its core.
A film dealing with incest that is perpetrated by a most trusted and authoritative member of the family. Allegations that rock the heart of the family to its very core. The eldest child only unburdens the secret in order to reassure that nothing may happen to the younger child.
Gail and Steven Bennett have two daughters, thirteen year old Amelia and ten year old Beth. Amelia confides in her school guidance counselor, Mrs. Hall, that her father is forcing her to have sex with him. By law Mrs. Hall must notify the police. She drives Amelia home so they can tell her mother. Amelia is convinced her mother won't believe her. Gail is furious and turns on both Mrs. Hall and Amelia, accusing her daughter of making the story up. She sends Amelia to her room. Mrs. Hall attempts to explain the law but Gail is too angry to listen. Beth comes home and is bewildered by what is going on. She is sent to spend the night with a friend. After Mrs. Hall leaves, Gail tries to call her husband at work but there is no answer. Two detectives arrive and question Amelia. Based on what she tells them, they remove her from the home. Amelia thinks she has done something wrong and is under arrest, especially when she is held at the police station for several hours. A social worker, Mrs. Walters, arrives and assures Amelia that she has done nothing wrong. Amelia is taken to a shelter where she is examined by a doctor. She is dismayed at having to stay at the shelter for several days, until a court hearing can be held. Mrs. Walters tells her that no one at the shelter will know why she is there unless she tells them. Meanwhile, Steven has come home and been confronted by Gail. He is verbally abusive to her at how she handled the situation and goes to the police station, thinking he can pick up his daughter. But the detectives tell him otherwise. He is arrested and released on his own recognizance, still not understanding that he is not allowed to have any contact with Amelia. Later he learns from Gail that if he does not move out of the home, the police will remove Beth. A court hearing is held in a few days and since Steven has moved out, Amelia is allowed to return home. Beth has been told what happened and calls Amelia a liar. Gail asks her why she didn't refuse her father. They blame Amelia but in an about-face, become supportive of her. Mrs. Walters interviews Amelia and finds out just what happened and how long it has been going on. Amelia spoke up because she feared Beth was next. The entire family has to attend counseling. Steven at first refuses but his lawyer, who is not very sympathetic to him, reminds him that he'd better do everything he is told if he ever wants to see his daughters again. Eventually there is hope that the family might come together again.
