Two aging playboys are both after the same attractive young woman, but she fends them off by claiming that she plans to remain a virgin until her wedding night. Both men determine to find a way around her objections.
Successful architect Don Gresham (William Holden) engages a young actress, Patty O'Neill (Maggie McNamara), in conversation on top of the Empire State Building, and she accepts his invitation to dinner. Dropping in at his apartment on the way, they decide to dine there as Patty announces herself an excellent cook. Don slips out to buy food, and Patty is briefly visited by his ex-fiancée, Cynthia Slater (Dawn Addams), and not too briefly, by Cynthia's father David (David Niven), a middle-aged, practiced charmer who, on her invitation, stays to dinner. A slight accident at the table occasions Patty to change her dress for Don's bathrobe. While Don is away placating the jealous Cynthia, David loses no time in offering Patty a proposal of marriage and a six hundred dollar gift. She accepts the latter and is surprised by Don in a grateful kiss to David. Don is still enraged with Patty when her father arrives, and, outraged to discover his daughter in a bachelor's apartment, knocks him senseless.
Successful architect Donald Gresham and struggling actress Patty O'Neill are immediately attracted to each other when they meet for the first time at the Empire State Building, where Don works. Don, a playboy of a man, picks her up. Patty, on the other hand, is virtuous, but clear on what she expects when she accepts his dinner date with a stop at his apartment first: "affection but no passion". She ends up confounding him by her incessant straightforward talk about male-female relationships and sexuality, in combination which may or may not alter what Don has in mind with her. But what may be further obstacles in Don getting what he wants from Patty are Cynthia Slater, Don's most recent girlfriend with who he broke up only last night after Don was too much of a "gentleman", and David Slater, who is also a playboy of a man, is a friend of David's, is also immediately attracted to Patty when he meets her and thus wants the same things from her as Don (to which Patty may give in after she meets David), and has an unusual relationship to Cynthia: he's her not so understanding father, with who Cynthia lives in the apartment above Don's.

