The movie starts while Floreal, the main protagonist, was being released from the prison when the military coup ended in 1983. He is estranged to his former life because of his last few years in prison and especially discovering his wife has cheated on him soured their relation. He is not sure if he wants to go back to his old life and family. Wandering through the night his old friend "El-Negro" appears in the dark. He announces that he was assassinated during the military coup and he is a dead man now. But he has a special mission this night and he is back for this special occasion: To help Floreal catch up fast and face with his life and his time in prison. El-Negro helps him to watch through the important events happened in his absence. He confronts some people of importance to him as he wanders around through the night while his wife is waiting for him anxiously thinking he might never come back. During the long night El-Negro helps him to get past with his anger, makes him to understand the difficulties in such a controversial time and how military coup crushes people's lives and even killing a some of them relentlessly. Finally during the dawn, El-Negro announces that he is ready to go on with his life now and he must be back. Floreal figures that he must be strong and continue his life where he left off like his coup stricken country.
After the end of the military dictatorship in Argentina in 1983, Floreal is released from prison. Instead of returning to his wife, he wanders through the night of Buenos Aires. He meets some people from his past - most of which are only imaginary - and remembers the events of his arrest and imprisonment.
Floreal is released from the prison prior to the end of military coup d'etat in 1983. He is estranged to his former life because of his last few years in prison and discovering that his wife cheated him he is not sure he wants to go back to his former life and family. Wandering through the night his former friend "El-Negro" appears in the dark. He is already killed during the military coup. But this night he has a special mission: to help Floreal to catch up and face with the past, what has happened when he was serving time in prison. El-Negro helps him to live through the important events happened in his absence. He confronts some people of importance to him as he wanders through the night while his wife is afraid he will never come back home. During the long night El-Negro helps him to get past with his anger, understanding how hard it was to stand such a controversial time and how military Coup crushed people's lives and even killing lots of them relentlessly. By the sunset, when El-Negro finally says he is ready now to go on with his life and he must be back now, Floreal discovers he must be strong and must continue his life where he left like his coup stricken country...

