Modern grave robbing "archeologists" find perfectly preserved specimens from the past of a man, a woman, and their child. Unbeknownst to the scientist and his two bumbling assistants, these are vampires immobilized only by the paper spells pasted on their foreheads. While transporting the child to a buyer, its spell blows off and the vampire child escapes and befriends some local children. Eventually, the parent vampires are also awakened and escape, but by now the local herbalist is on their trail to destroy them.
Grave-robbing Professor Kwok Tun Wong [Fat Chung] and his bungling assistants,
Chicken [Billy Lau] and Sonny[?], make what they think might be a major find--three
corpses from the Chien Lung reign. One is a woman, another looks like her
son, and the third looks like the father. A family! Not only are they
dressed in clothing and jewels from that period, but the corpses
themselves are perfectly preserved. In fact, their flesh is still soft.
The discerning viewer will recognize, of course, that the yellow talismans
pasted on the corpses' foreheads are wards against the undead. This is not
an ordinary family...it is a family of chiang-shih!Professor Kwok telephones Mr Nelsson, who requests a sample of the
find, so the professor and Sonny transport the boy. On the way, the
talisman is blown off the little chiang-shih's forehead and he escapes.
Meanwhile, Chicken is attempting to discern the meaning to the talisman on
Mama's forehead. He removes it in order to look it up in a book, which
says that the talisman "touches yin and yang and unites the five elements.
It can exorcise all kinds of spirits. It's called the 'corpse-appeasing
talisman'. Any corpse pasted with it may get provoked. Descendents
shouldn't tear it off or it may resurrect." While Chicken is reading, Mama [Pauline Wong]
awakens. Thereafter follows seven minutes in which both hopping vampires
try to get the bite on Chicken (actually, Papa succeeds) until the
professor and Sonny return and help to subdue the vampires.Chicken takes his bitten arm to the local herbal store where Master
Lin Chin Ying [Ching-Ying Lam] recognizes the bite as that from a vampire. Chicken won't
tell the truth about where he got the bite so, after treating him, Master
Lin follows Chicken. Lin's assistant Jen [Biao Yuen], an aspiring
photographer/reporter follows Lin. Gigi [Lee Choi Fung Moon], Lin's daughter and Jen's
girlfriend, follows Jen. The trail leads to Professor Kwok's house. When
Kwok, Chicken, and Sonny go in search of the chiang-shih boy, Jen decides
that this is a perfect time to investigate Kwok's house. Jen finds the
corpses of Mama and Papa and, while trying to photograph them, succeeds in
awakening them. Thereafter follows 11+ minutes in which both hopping
vampires try to get the bite on Jen, Gigi, and Master Lin while Jen tries
to subdue them with a foul-smelling sedative, which causes everything to
occur in slow motion. Finally, Jen successfully subdues them by pouring
pints of the sedatives down the throats of Mama and Papa.When Chicken learns that the only way he can recover from a vampire's
bite is to get some blood from a chiang-shih, he goes to the morgue where
Mama and Papa have been taken. Jen and Master Lin have also gone to the
morgue in order to spear the hearts of the vampires, but the corpses are
too frozen for the stakes to penetrate. Likewise, their skin is too frozen
for the hypodermic needle to penetrate, so Professor Kwok orders that the
bodies be taken back to his place. While in transport, Mama
and Papa escape, hopping from car roof to car roof and causing major chaos
such that a TV crew shows up to report the damage.Meanwhile, chiang-shih boy has found his way into Mr Hu's [Fung Wo] greenhouse,
where he meets and befriends Mr Hu's daughter Chia Chi [?], who hides him in
her bedroom closet. Since the vampire boy doesn't speak, Chia Chia names
him "OK Boy" and introduces him to her brother and to all her friends. OK
Boy is enjoying his new friends until he sees his Mama and Papa on the
evening news and he starts to wail. Mama and Papa hear his cries and
follow them to Mr Hu's house. They chase Mr Hu and his children from room
to room until OK Boy intervenes and forces his parents to leave his
friends alone. However, when the hopping vampires attempt to leave, the
waiting police shine intense lights on them.Fortunately, Master Lin shows up. He and Jen manage to drive a stake
through Mama's heart and, after luring Papa into the greenhouse, set the
joint afire. Badly burned, Papa escapes but the police kill him with a
calcium sulfate bullet. Still protecting OK Boy, Chia Chia begs Master Lin
to spare OK Boy. They change his clothes, and Jen and Lin carry him out,
vowing to help OK Boy into "early, happy reincarnation", Buddha be
praised. As Master Lin, Jen, and OK Boy walk away, they are suddenly
confronted with Chicken and Sonny, both of whom have become vampires.
[Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl]
