In the sixteenth century, Francis Barnard travels to Spain to clarify the strange circumstances of his sister's death after she had married the son of a cruel Spanish Inquisitor.
Francis Barnard goes to Spain, when he hears his sister Elizabeth has died. Her husband Nicholas Medina, the son of the brutest torturer of the Spanish Inquisition, tells him she has died of a blood disease, but Francis finds this hard to believe. After some investigating he finds out that it was extreme fear that was fatal to his sister and that she may have been buried alive! Strange things then start to happen in the Medina castle.
After the mysterious death of Elizabeth Barnard Medina, her brother Francis Barnard travels from London to Spain and without previous notice he arrives at the castle of her husband Nicholas Medina. He is received by Nicholas' sister Catherine Medina that invites Francis to have dinner with her brother and her. Francis learns that their father Sebastian Medina was a cruel torturer of the Spanish Inquisition and Nicholas is a traumatized man that has witnessed the murder of his uncle Bartolome and his mother adulterer Isabella being tortured and killed by his father when he was a kid. During the dinner, the family's friend Doctor Charles Leon unexpectedly arrives and Francis discovers that his sister died of heart attack after visiting the torture chamber in the dungeons. Soon the place is haunted by strange events and Nicholas suspects of his servants Maximillian and Maria but Francis is convinced that Nicholas is the responsible for the death of his sister.
Francis Barnard visits the castle of Nicholas Medina, his late sister's husband, to pay his respects and find out how she died. The castle was used to torture victims during the Spanish Inquisition and that feeling of terror remains within parts of the castle. Moreover it appears that the spirit of his sister is haunting the castle.
When his sister Elizabeth dies suddenly, Francis Barnard visits his brother-in-law Don Medina to find out exactly what happened to her. Don Medina lives a lonely life since his wife's death. He loved her dearly and can't explain what she died of. Francis clearly isn't welcome and it is only Don Medina's sister Catherine that seems to have an interest him. As Francis and Catherine explore the events surrounding Elizabeth's death, Francis learns of Don Medina's horrific childhood experiences and discover an attempt to drive him mad.

