When compulsive gambler Sir Giles Staverley (Christopher Plummer) has lost his estate and all of his money playing dice, he realizes that he only has one thing left of value: his daughter Serena (Helena Bonham Carter). In a final game, he stakes his daughter's hand in marriage, convinced that this time he will not lose. Unfortunately, however, he does lose; to the evil Lord Harry Wrotham (Edward Fox). Unable to return home and tell his daughter that he has lost her in a game of dice, Sir Giles kills himself there and then. Lord Justin Vulcan (Marcus Gilbert), who has witnessed the events, takes pity on Serena Staverley, although they have never met. He challenges Lord Harry Wrotham to a game of dice in which the winner takes Staverley Court and Miss Serena. Lord Justin Vulcan wins and is simply pleased that he has saved someone from the nasty Wrotham, he thinks no more about the event. One evening, however, Vulcan's friend Lord Peter Gillingham (Robert Addie) insists upon them going to Staverley Court to take a look at Vulcan's "prize". When arriving there, Vulcan finds Serena Staverley more beautiful than he ever imagined.
Compulsive gambler Sir Giles Staverley (Christopher Plummer) is tricked into gambling away his home by his old adversary Lord Harry Wrotham (Edward Fox). As Staverley is distraught and desperate, Wrotham gives him one last chance. He will gamble everything Staverley has lost against Staverley's daughter's hand in marriage and her trust fund of eighty thousand guineas. Staverley agress and loses once again, but unable to face his daughter, Serena (Helena Bonham Carter), he kills himself. Lord Justin Vulcan (Marcus Gilbert), a notoriously cold, clear-headed gambler challenges Wrotham for the house and the girl and, much to Wrotham's disgust, wins. Justin now finds himself in possession of the house and Serena, but has no idea of what to do with them. After meeting Serena and realizing that she is much younger and more beautiful than he had imagined, he installs her as a guest at Mandrake, his family home, despite the hatred of Justin's mother, Lady Harriet Vulcan (Dame Diana Rigg). As Lady Vulcan attempts to marry Serena off to anyone except her son, Serena and Justin become friends and he teaches her about Mandrake, the home he loves. A crisis forces Serena and Justin to confront their feelings for each other. Can the course of true love run smoothly for them?

