A young woman who has just become engaged has her life completely shattered when she is raped while on her way home from work.
A young girl is raped while coming home from work. The trauma of the attack turns her away from her parents and her fiancé, and, unable to face society, she runs away and, using an assumed name, takes a job on an orange ranch. A young clergyman takes an interest in her, although she won't confide in him. When a ranch hand tries to kiss her, she relives her terrifying experience and nearly kills him. She is arrested but when her identity is established and the facts of her case are brought forth, the clergyman convinces the court that it is society that should shoulder the blame. He helps rebuild her faith and send her back to her parents and fiancé.
In Capital City, Ann Walton and Jim Owens seem to have their lives on track, and as such they decide to get officially engaged. That all changes when leaving work one day from her office job at a mill, Ann is followed by a man. Ann, scared and thus unable to notice anything about the man beyond the scar on his neck and his brown leather jacket, is raped by him. Among the health related issues associated with the attack is Ann's visible emotional shock. As the more physical aspects of Ann heal and as she tries to get on with her life over time, Ann still feels the emotional shock and stigma associated with the incident, where she believes that everything about her is a walking billboard as "THE rape victim" and as every little thing around her steers her mind back toward the attack. Unable to cope and no longer wanting to get married - not to Jim or anyone else, ever - Ann decides to run away to Los Angeles, not telling anyone that she is leaving. En route, Ann encounters Tom and Madge Harrison, owners of an orange grove, and Reverend Bruce Ferguson - Doc to his friends - who try to help this stranger who they can only see is a frightened young woman. Ann does not tell them her real name or about the rape. The question becomes whether Doc and the Harrisons' compassion can help Ann deal directly with the rape and thus capture of her attacker, and/or come to emotional terms with the rape and thus be able to move on with her life, regardless of if she tells them the truth.

