Ten years later, after ratting on his old mobster friends in exchange for personal immunity, two hit men drive a hardened criminal to Paris for his execution. However, while on the way, whatever can go wrong, does go wrong.
Ex-gangster Willie Parker (Terence Stamp) has betrayed his former "colleagues" and now lives in Spain where he thinks he can hide from their vengeance. But one day, ten years later, two hitmen (Braddock (Sir John Hurt) and Myron (Tim Roth)) show up and kidnap Willie. They are ordered to escort him back to Paris where he should stand trial. But it is a long way to Paris.
Before the High Court, British hardened professional criminal Willie Parker decides to give a full confession, and without a second thought, turns "supergrass", or otherwise, an informer, ratting on his old mobster friends in exchange for personal immunity. Now, with the promise to get back at him as heard from the singing lips of the villainous pack, Willie, for fear of retaliation, will take refuge in a sun-bleached villa somewhere in southern Spain's sun-kissed countryside, hiding from their vengeance completely undetected. However, after ten years in self-exile, Willie's past eventually catches up with him, and with the Mob's two hitmen on his doorstep, the frigid seasoned assassin Braddock, and Myron, his loose-cannon sidekick, he inevitably winds up as a hostage in the backseat of their car. From this point on, the plan is quite straightforward and the two executioners will only need to drive Willie safely to Paris, cross the frontier, and deliver him to the head of the organized crime to execute him. Nevertheless, what was supposed to be a quick and clean job, somehow, it is not turning out like it should, and as the Spanish Police is pursuing them, Murphy's Law applies, and whatever can go wrong, will undoubtedly go wrong.
Two hitmen are sent to Spain to pick up a man who's been hiding there for ten years and bring him to Paris to be executed. A sort of road movie ensues, in which the hitmen must face their own ineptitude and nothing goes as planned.

