An undertaker marries an old executioner's daughter and, although he doesn't like it, must continue the profession of his father-in-law after his retirement.
The history starts with the main character (an old executioner in the Spain of early 60's) approaching retirement age. As his profession is not exactly what you could call "popular", he (a very gentle and nice man, caring, and proud of traditions) begins to worry about who might take his place when he retires. He has a daughter, but, unfortunately, she seems doomed to perpetual "spinsterhood": as soon as any prospective groom learns about her dad and her dad's "trade", he runs away from her, scared. A sad life... However, a new character enters: the local undertaker, a handsome and young man who has exactly the same problem... No girl wants him given his profession. So, you have the woman whom almost nobody would marry and the man whom almost nobody would marry. Obviously, they are meant for each other. But here the old executioner has something to say: He does not object to her daughter marrying the young undertaker; he seems a decent man, and all that... But there is a condition: Only if the groom agrees to take the executioner's job when he will retire, will he agree to her daughter's marriage. And, anyway, as the old executioner says to the worried young man.... "Don't worry, they sentence people, but, in the last moment, they're going to pardon them!".
In the years where death penalty was present in Spain, professional executioners did exist; this was not a very popular profession. As the man in our history retires, his place is vacant. His son doesn't like at all becoming an executioner, but that is the only way to keep the house where he is going to live after getting married. Anyway, executions are not very common, maybe he doesn't have to kill anyone.
La historia comienza con Amadeo, el personaje principal. Es un viejo verdugo de la España de principios de los 60 a punto de jubilarse. Ya que su profesión no es exactamente lo que podríamos llamar "popular", él, un hombre gentil, agradable, cariñoso y amante de las tradiciones, empieza a preocuparse por quién ocupará su lugar tras su jubilación. Tiene una hija, Carmen, pero esta, por desventura, parece abocada a la soltería perpetua: tan pronto como sus pretendientes conocen el "negocio" de su padre, huyen de ella, despavoridos. Una triste vida, ciertamente - No obstante, aparece ahora en la historia un nuevo personaje: José Luis, el enterrador local, un apuesto joven que tiene exactamente el mismo problema que Carmen: ninguna chica se acerca a él debido a su profesión. Así, tenemos a la mujer con la que casi nadie querría casarse y al hombre con el que casi nadie querría casarse. Obviamente, están hechos el uno para el otro, y se enamoran. Cierto día ocurre "lo que tenía que ocurrir" - y no tienen más remedio que casarse cuanto antes. Para poder mantener a la nueva familia (en la que ahora está incluido el recién jubilado suegro), José Luis deberá relevar a Amadeo en el oficio de verdugo, cosa que le pone los pelos de punta tan sólo de pensarlo. Pero no hay por qué preocuparse, ya que, como dice Amadeo, "sentencian a la gente, pero en el último momento casi siempre les perdonan la vida..."

