In Paris a wild girl becomes possessed by the soul of her twin who died to save her life.
Two girls cast in the same mold physically, but in soul and character as far apart as the poles: Georgina, wistfully charming, sheltered from the world, and Nancy, devilishly fascinating, idol of the Paris underworld. Movingly and with a wealth of dramatic power, the story of these twin sisters is unfolded in "The White Shadow."
After her studies in Paris, Nancy goes back to her family in Devonshire. Initially she is happy to see her father, mother and twin sister again, but soon she gets tired of her authoritarian father who has hit the bottle. If he forbids Nancy to see her American boyfriend, she had enough of it. At night she sneaks out of the house with a suitcase and goes back to Paris. When her sister finds Nancy's farewell note and tells her parents that Nancy is gone, their father decides to go find Nancy and bring her back.Years later, after the death of Nancy and Georgina's mother, the family's lawyer comes to tell Georgina that her twin sister and father have been missing for so long that they must be presumed dead. The timid Georgina decides to go and search for Nancy and her father herself.
Her search takes her to Paris. She does not know that her father had come up with the same idea. But he gave up the search for Nancy and now lives the existence of a clochard.After leaving Devonshire, Nancy joined the Bohemians in Paris. She provides for herself by gambling. At one point, both Nancy and Georgina and their father are in the same club, but they don't see each other. From this moment on, the rest of the film is lost.The Derby Daily Telegraph (23/Sep/1924) writes about the rest of the film:
"Searching for her vicious sister, Georgina, the good twin, dies, and her soul passes into the body of Nancy, who instantly reforms and takes the place of her sister. Her reformation is the means of the salvation of the man she once loved, and the two find happiness in the Devonshire home of the dead sister, whose living soul still directs the life of her once depraved sister."
