Three pigs' career as a jazz band is complicated by a wolf they rejected for membership who keeps blowing down their gigs.
Three hip, Little Pigs are travelling entertainers, moving from straw to wood, to brick nightclubs, playing swinging tunes for high-class, "with it" crowds, but an uncool Big Bad Wolf keeps intruding on their act with his "corny horn" and uses it to blow down their nightclubs when they throw him out - until they are playing in their brick club and the Wolf tries a more drastic, explosive method for destroying the "House of Bricks".
Musical retelling of the classic children's story, "The Three Little Pigs", this time set to a hip rock-flavored jazz beat. Three pigs have formed a jazz trio and play in upper-class nightclubs, entertaining the crowds with their uptempo rock-flavored music. All is well until the Big Bad Wolf, armed with a horn, repeatedly makes unwanted auditions to join (and no wonder; the off-key wolf is awful). Each time, the frustrated pigs throw the inept Big Bad out, with the windy wolf retaliating the first two times by blowing down the pig's nightclubs -- appropriately, the first made of straw and the second of sticks. Big Bad's third attempt comes when the pigs perform their gig in a nightclub made of bricks. After he is thrown out and Big Bad's unsuccessful attempt to blow down the brick nightclub, the wolf makes several more attempts to join and/or get back at the pigs. Finally, the exasperated wolf makes one last desperate attempt to get in -- by blowing the place up. He only succeeds at blowing himself up, but all's well that ends well: the deceased wolf finally got hot and now plays real cool.
The film opens with the narrator singing how we, the audience, remember the story of the Three Little Pigs by showing a book titled "The Three Little Pigs", and then tells the audience that they are still around, but "playing music with a modern sound" (which is upbeat jazz), while it cross-fades to a nightclub, ironically called the "House of Straw".Suddenly, the Big Bad Wolf appears, dancing to the music. He shakes the hands of the pigs and tells them that he's joining up with the band. He pulls out his trumpet from his coat, and begins playing out of tune, much to the dismay of the pigs. The pigs throw him out through the emergency exit. Insulted that he was not allowed to get into the swing, the wolf tries to barge back in, but to no avail. As a result, he vows to "huff and puff and blow the place down". He does this by blasting his trumpet, causing all the straw that surrounded the nightclub to be blown away.The pigs then travel to their next gig, the "Dew Drop Inn", also known as the house of sticks, and as usual, all goes well. Again, the wolf comes in, sits down on the stage, pulls out his trumpet and begins to play. Again, he plays out of tune, this time, to the dismay of not just the pigs, but also the patrons, who call for them to "throw the square out". In anger, and like in the original story, he blows the place down with his trumpet, causing the sticks to collapse on the pigs and patrons. The three pigs then conjure up a plan to keep the wolf from ruining their future gigs, saying that their next place will be made of bricks.Cross-fading into the next scene, we see the "House of Bricks" (built in 1776). A sign is shown on the entrance saying "No Wolves Allowed". The wolf lifts the sign up, only to be punched in the face by an unknown person's fist that was on the other side of the door. Desperate, the wolf grabs a large log, and attempts to use it as a battering ram, but unfortunately fails. He then tries to blow the place down with his trumpet numerous times until he ran out of breath (which the narrator points out that he stopped at 10:00 PM). Upon failure, he gets the idea of disguising himself.Cut to the pigs playing and the patrons dancing, the wolf is dressed in a large brown fur coat playing James P. Johnson's "The Charleston" on the ukulele, only to slide on a banana peel thrown by the piano pig through the exit, with the door closing behind him. Hiding in a potted plant, the wolf then sneaks in and then begins to play out of tune as soon as he is inside. The double bass pig launches a toilet plunger at the bell-end of the wolf's trumpet, causing him to be flown out of the building. Finally, he comes in with a large bass drum while dressed in a marching band outfit. The drummer pig throws a dart at the drum, causing it to deflate in a comedic fashion. The wolf then shows himself out, as the pigs slam the door shut and then lock it.Having the last straw, the wolf then grabs a large cylinder of TNT, vowing "I'll show those pigs that I'm not stuck! if I can't blow it down, I'll blow it up!" However, when he tries to light the fuse, the piano pig on the other side of the door blows out the flame with a straw. The wolf then moves back so that the pigs cannot reach, and tries to rush back when the fuse is lit, only to blow himself "and his corny horn" up.We then see that the wolf ended up, not in Heaven, but in "the other place" (Hell), and we see the wolf inside a heated black cauldron, playing his trumpet, this time in tune. The pigs suddenly hear this, and they decide to allow him to join them in spirit, they said "The Big Bad Wolf, he learned the rule: you gotta be hot to play real cool!" As the song ends, the band then proudly flips the card in front of the piano announcing the act, with it saying "The Three Little Bops - Plus One". Iris out to "The End".
