Weary of the conventions of Parisian society, a rich playboy and a youthful courtesan-in-training enjoy a platonic friendship, but it may not stay platonic for long.
Weary of the conventions of Parisian society, a rich playboy and a youthful courtesan-in-training enjoy a platonic friendship, but it may not stay platonic for long. Gaston, the scion of a wealthy Parisian family finds emotional refuge from the superficial lifestyle of upper class Parisian 1900s society with the former mistress of his uncle and her outgoing, tomboy granddaughter, Gigi. When Gaston becomes aware that Gigi has matured into a woman, her grandmother and aunt, who have educated Gigi to be a wealthy man's mistress, urge the pair to act out their roles but love adds a surprise twist to this delightful turn-of-the 20th century Cinderella story.
Gigi, living in the Belle Époque era of Paris, is training to be a courtesan- a highly educated and cultured woman who will become a society darling and mistress to wealthy men. She is mentored by her kind but firm Grandmother who has raised her and her glamorous, flamboyant Aunt Alicia. Both try to teach her the ways of good manners, first class diamonds and rolling cigars however the vivacious and idealistic tomboy is resistant. Her respite from her lessons comes in the form of her good friend Gaston - a wealthy aristocrat and playboy who is bored by the decadent but superficial world he inhabits. The two have a dear playful friendship. However with Gigi growing up and Gaston's current mistress being caught up in scandal can these two escape the inevitable roles their two worlds seemed determine to place on them and perhaps explore the true feelings that lie beneath their friendship? All this takes place under the eye of Honore Lachaille (played by the legendary Maurice Chevalier) Gaston's charming, cheery and youthful Uncle who doubles as the movie's narrator and Gaston's mentor in the story. Comedy, romance and many a delightful song ensue.
Gaston is a restless Parisian playboy who moves from one mistress to another, while also spending time with Gigi, a precocious younger friend learning the ways of high society. The platonic relationship between Gaston and Gigi changes, however, when she matures, but the possibility of something lasting seems unlikely since he won't commit to one woman. Gigi refuses to be anyone's mistress, however, and Gaston must choose between her and his carefree lifestyle.
Paris, 1900. Gigi (Leslie Caron) is a young woman living with her grandmother. Gaston is a wealthy womaniser who has grown tired of the romantic intrigues, and everything else, of Paris. Gigi is sent to her Great Aunt Alicia to learn etiquette and the ways of a courtesan. Gaston is an old friend of Gigi's family and they have known each other for a while. Gigi and Gaston are just friends but over time their relationship develops into something more.

