A neurotic film critic obsessed with the movie Casablanca (1942) attempts to get over his wife leaving him by dating again with the help of a married couple and his illusory idol, Humphrey Bogart.
A mild mannered film critic is dumped by his wife and his ego is crushed. His hero persona is the tough guy played by Humphrey Bogart in many of his movies and the apparition of Bogart begins showing up to give him advice. With the encouragement of his two married friends, he actually tries dating again, with less than satisfactory results, until he relaxes.
In San Francisco, the neurotic, awkward and clumsy film critic Allan that is a fan of "Casablanca" is left by his wife Nancy that is tired of their boring life. His friends Linda and her husband Dick try to help him finding available acquaintances to date him. Allan is advised by his alter ego Bogart how to behave with women, but Allan is too weird and the women never go in a second date with him. Soon Allan finds that he is in love with Linda, but Dick is his best friend and he does not want to make a move despite Bogart advices.
San Francisco. After two years of marriage, Nancy Felix files for divorce from her nebbish movie journalist and film buff husband, Allan Felix. Allan receives support from his friends, married couple Dick and Linda Christie, to reenter the dating pool, they who set him up on a series of blind dates, the four of them often double dating. Dick fits in his support for Allan while he is preoccupied with a business deal, whereas Linda's support is tinged with her own self neuroses. Non-confident with himself as a man because of Nancy's action, Allan turns to the spirit of one of his movie idols for advice on how to proceed on his dates: Humphrey Bogart, most specifically his portrayal of Rick Blaine in Casablanca (1942). In wanting those dates to work, Allan tries to be like his version of Bogey, which is no where close to who he really is as a person. The constant as Allan is going through this dating process is Linda, with who he can show his true colors. In the process, Allan falls in love with Linda, and he hopes she with him in return. Still turning to Bogey, Allan has to decide if he will risk a move on Linda, in the process potentially losing both Dick and Linda as friends.
Allan Felix is a neurotic, shy and clumsy film critic whose all-time favorite movie is Casablanca (1942). Not only is it his favorite film, but he is all-consumed with it in his personal life, including with its star Humphrey Bogart. Allan's escape with the movies helps him to avoid the turmoil in his life, both from a occupational and romantic standpoint. Moreover, his fascination with Bogart sees him constantly trying to be just like him with the women, giving rise to some hilarious, and totally unnatural, moments.
Allan Felix, a neurotic San Francisco movie critic has just broken up with his wife, Nancy. This devastating event has caused him to spiral into a deep depression and look for solace in the classic movies that he loves, particularly the romantic saga CASABLANCA. Allan begins to have conversations with the fantasy ghost of his film idol, Humphrey Bogart, who gives him advice on romance and masculinity. Worried about their insecure friend, Linda and Dick spark Allan into action, which leads to a series of disastrously funny blind dates in which Allan tries, but fails, to be as cool as Bogie. Allan's love life is clearly going nowhere, until his quest for romance unexpectedly leads him into the arms of Linda.
Allan Felix (Woody Allen), a San Francisco film critic, watches the final scenes of the 1942 film 'Casablanca' and finds himself inspired by the manliness and selflessness of the character of Rick Blaine, played by Humphrey Bogart. Soon, however, he reverts to his typical neuroses and insecurity, and recalls the recent departure of his wife Nancy (Susan Anspach), who left him to experience a more exciting life. Wondering how to be more self-confident, Allan imagines Bogart (Jerry Lacy) sitting in his room, advising him to treat women like dames.Later, Allan is visited by his best friends, overworked businessman Dick Christie (Tony Roberts) and his wife Linda (Diane Keaton), a model. Although Dick tries to convince Allan that Nancy's exodus means Allan is free to play around, Allan complains that he has no luck with women. As Linda, another neurotic, and Allan commiserate and compare medications, Dick obsessively calls his office to report on his exact whereabouts. Although Dick and Linda love each other, she feels abandoned by his constant work schedule.The next day, Dick suggests a double date, and when Allan insists on a blonde with large breasts, Linda points out that girls who look that way often do not have great minds. As Allan imagines Nancy on the back of motorcycle complaining about him to her new boyfriend, Linda decides to invite her photographer's assistant, Sharon Lake (Jennifer Salt), to dinner. Allan is immediately overwrought with excitement.At home, as Allan worries about the possible outcomes of the evening, Bogart materializes and recommends that he remain cool and calm. Allan imagines himself winning over Sharon with his manliness, but by the time of the date, he is verging on hysteria. Desperate to appear cool, Allan repulses Sharon with his bizarre utterances and uncontrollable clumsiness. Although he is convinced that she likes him, at the end of the evening she shuts her door in his face.Over repeated phone calls, Allan and Linda discuss his chances with women, and she suggests that he date her friend Jennifer. That date is even worse, however, as she calls herself a nymphomaniac but then refuses to allow him to kiss her.Allan and Linda go to the museum, where Linda admires his intensity, which is so unlike Dick. Allan asks out a beautiful girl, undeterred by her announcement that she plans to commit suicide that weekend.A few days later, Allan, Dick and Linda take a vacation at the beach. Allan and Linda go to a nightclub, but the gorgeous woman on the dance floor rejects his advances. While Dick attends endless meetings, Linda and Allan enjoy each other's company. She urges Allan to be himself with women, and, knowing it is her favorite animal, he gives her a plastic skunk for her birthday, which she treasures. Dick later reveals to Allan that Linda feels neglected, but that he is too busy to dote on her.Dick sets up Allan with a woman from his office, Julie, and on their date Julie insists on entering a biker bar. There, two rough men harass them and Allan ineffectually attempts to protect his date. Meanwhile, Linda learns that he is on a date, and is surprised to find that she is jealous. When Allan returns, bedraggled and bruised, his comments about the date reduce her to tears of laughter. Back in the city, both Allan and Linda wander their respective homes feeling lonely.One night, Linda comes over, suffering an anxiety attack because Dick is away on a business trip. As they walk in the park, she suggests dinner and movie, and he immediately imagines them kissing. Realizing that he is in love with her but that, as his best friend's wife, she is off-limits, he is torn between lust and guilt.In a local grocery store, Allan pictures Bogart encouraging him to come on to Linda while Nancy insists that Dick will beat him up, then hopefully imagines Dick asking him to look after Linda while Dick leaves to live with his new Eskimo lover.At home, Allan first prepares a romantic meal for Linda, and then, envisioning her screaming as he tries to kiss her, quickly snuffs out the candles. When Linda arrives she has taken Librium and is light-headed. Nervous, Allan tries to talk her in to leaving the apartment, but when she asks if he believes it is possible to love two people at once, he hears Bogart urging him to kiss her. He does not respond quickly enough, and when he tries again later, the kiss is interrupted by a phone call from Dick. Linda, who is becoming drunk, tells Allan she could only cheat on Dick if she were in love, and Bogart reappears to push Allan into making a move. As Allan apprehensively compliments Linda, he imagines Nancy entering and shooting Bogart. Confused, he lunges at Linda, who pulls away and rushes out. Allan is berating himself when she comes back in and kisses him. They make love, and the next morning discuss how to tell Dick. Allan brings Linda home then walks back to his apartment, feeling uncharacteristically cocky and gregarious.Buying Linda a music box, Allan runs into Nancy in a store and handles the meeting with aplomb. Later, he frets about how Dick will take the news, imagining him having three different responses: first understanding, then killing himself, then killing Allan. Dick is waiting outside Allan's apartment, and there confides that he is afraid Linda is having an affair. Seeing his friend's distress and repentance, Allan calls Linda to instruct her not to leave him, but she is already telling Dick that their marriage is over.When Dick leaves for the airport in response, Linda follows in a cab and Allan rushes after them. In his mind, his cab driver is Bogart, who demonstrates how to let a "dame" down easily, then declares he is proud of Allan for his selflessness. At the airport, the three get to the gate at the same time. Allan tells Linda they must call it off, but she has already reached the same conclusion, and thanks him for helping her realize she still loves Dick. Thrilled finally to have a chance to say the words, he recites the lines from the parting scene of Casablanca , in which Rick tells Ilsa that she will regret not following Victor onto his plane, ending with "Maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, but soon and for the rest of your life." Allan then reassures Dick that although he tried to seduce Linda, she rebuffed him.As Dick and Linda walk off into the fog, Allan is joined by Bogart. Allan has finally realized that he can attract a woman by being himself, and so bids farewell to Bogart, who says admiringly, "Here's looking at you, kid."
