A strung-out junkie deals with a demoralizing drug addiction while his crippled wife and card sharks pull him down.
Frankie Machine is a skilled card dealer and one-time heroin addict. When he returns home from jail, he struggles to find a new livelihood and to avoid slipping back into addiction.
Frankie Machine is no sooner back in his old neighborhood after a 6 month stint in prison and rehab than his old drug dealer, Louie is after him to restart his old drug habit. Frankie will have nothing to with him, proudly declaring that he is drug free and has no intention of letting that monkey get on his back ever again. Before going to prison he was a card dealer but learned to play the drums and now has hopes of becoming a professional musician. It's going to be a struggle however. His wife Zosch, clinging and wheelchair-bound and his old gambling boss, Schwiefka, stress him to the point that he soon falls back into his old drug habit. The girl he really loves, Molly, stands by him through thick and thin but when Louie is killed, the police believe Frankie is the man responsible and go after him.
Junkie Frankie Machine has just returned to his north-side Chicago neighborhood after a six month incarceration. He took the fall as the dealer for Schwiefka's raided illegal high stakes poker game, Schwiefka who in turn promised to take care of Frankie's wife, Sophia - who everyone calls Zosh - while Frankie was in prison for Frankie not talking. For three years, Zosh has been in a wheelchair, the result of a car accident caused by Frankie, the guilt associated which led to Frankie marrying her, despite he now being in love with a young woman named Molly, a strip club hostess, who lives downstairs in their tenement building. While in prison, Frankie became clean and learned how to play the drums, which he hopes will lead to a drug-free life on the outside as a union-carded musician. Dealing for Schwiefka, especially in high pressure all night games, exacerbated his need for drugs to remain on the edge during the games. Louie, Frankie's drug supplier, knows this, he who works in unofficial collaboration as the senior partner with Schwiefka. Despite Schwiefka and Louie trying to lure Frankie back into his old life, Frankie believes he can steer clear of that life. However, with their maneuvering, it may make it more difficult than Frankie imagines. But what Frankie may be unaware of is that the biggest obstacle to his staying clean in a literal and figurative sense is Zosh, who is keeping a secret all in an effort to hang on to Frankie and not have him leave her for specifically Molly.
Fresh out of rehab after six long months of incarceration, the former card dealer and drug addict, Frankie Machine, returns to his squalid old neighbourhood in Chicago with dreams of a new and clean life. However, Frankie's hopes of an honest living as a professional drummer will soon collapse like a house of cards, when his ex-drug pusher, Louie, and his ruthless former employer, Schwiefka, force their way into his life--while at the same time--Zosh, the wheelchair-bound wife, clings to him for security. Suddenly, staying clean seems like an impossible task, and Frankie's itch for a way out grows stronger and stronger. Will Frankie ever get his share of happiness?
In the late 1940s, Frankie Majcinek (Frank Sinatra), who is known as Frankie Machine, returns to Chicago's South Side, which is mostly inhabited by Polish Americans, after serving a six-month sentence at a federal narcotics hospital. The denizens of Antek's Tug `n' Maul Tavern, Frankie's favorite bar, are pleased to see Frankie, especially his best friend, "lost dog finder" Sparrow (Arnold Stang). Although Frankie's former drug supplier, "Nifty" Louie Fomorowski (Darren McGavin), offers Frankie a free "fix, Frankie refuses and vows to Sparrow that he has kicked narcotics for good and intends to become a drummer for a big-name band. Frankie proudly shows off the drums he was given at the hospital, and after sending Sparrow to find him some new clothes, goes to the rooming house where he lives with his wheelchair-bound wife Zosch (Eleanor Parker). The neurotic Zosch, determined to keep Frankie with her by whatever means necessary, has manipulated him for three years by playing on his guilt over causing the accident that injured her while he was driving drunk. Zosch is dubious about his plans to become a musician and urges him to return to dealing poker for Zero Schwiefka (Robert Strauss). Frankie's consistent method of dealing has earned him a city-wide reputation as "the man with the golden arm," but Frankie is determined to improve his life so that he is not tempted to return to drugs. Frankie calls Harry Lane (Will Wright), a musical agent referred to him by his doctor at the narcotics hospital, and makes an appointment to see him. After Sparrow returns with a "borrowed" suit for Frankie to wear, they stop at Antek's for a drink and there run into Schwiefka. Frankie announces his intention to quit dealing, and the angry Schwiefka notifies "Cousin" Kvorka (Harold 'Tommy' Hart), a local beat policeman, that Frankie and Sparrow shoplifted a suit. Kvorka takes the pair to police captain "Record Head" Bednar (Emile Meyer), who wearily ignores Frankie's protests that he has a job interview and insists that he be locked up. Schwiefka then offers to bail out Frankie and Sparrow if Frankie returns to deal for him, and Frankie is forced to accept. Disturbed by a jailed junkie's tormented plea for a fix, Frankie returns home, where Zosch is pleased that he is going back to dealing cards. That night, Louie's taunts about Frankie's shaking hand unnerve the dealer and he leaves to visit the Safari Club, a nearby strip bar where Frankie's former sweetheart, Molly Novotny (Kim Novak), works as a b-girl. Although Molly and Frankie are still in love, Frankie's guilt over causing Zosch's paralysis have kept them apart. Frankie tries to tell Molly that she should leave her current boyfriend, the chiseling, alcoholic Drunky John (John Conte), but Molly states that she needs someone to stave off her deep-seated loneliness. Soon after, Frankie has an interview with Lane, who promises to call him with an audition for a band, but warns him that if he backslides even once, Lane will no longer sponsor him. Despite Frankie's happiness, Zosch nags at him that he is being unrealistic in striving for a better life. A week passes without word from Lane, and Frankie sinks into depression, until one afternoon, Frankie runs into Louie and, succumbing to temptation, accompanies Louie to his apartment for a fix and Frankie is hooked again. Later, after yet another quarrel with Zosch, Frankie storms down to Antek's. There he meets Molly, who encourages him to call Lane, telling him that Lane probably lost his phone number. Molly proves to be correct, and Lane arranges for Frankie to audition for Shorty Rogers' band on the coming Monday. Frankie then pleads with Molly to let him practice playing his drums in her room, as the spiteful Zosch has forbidden him to do so at their place. Although she is reluctant to encourage Frankie's hopes of building a future for the two of them, Molly agrees. After bragging that he has quit Schwiefka and joined the musicians' union, Frankie promises Molly that he is going to kick drugs again, and that after he has made some money and can send Zosch to a clinic, they will be together. Meanwhile, Schwiefka and Louie search for Frankie, as they have used Frankie's reputation to lure two big-time gamblers, Markette (George E. Stone) and Williams (George Mathews), to play in Schwiefka's poker game. After Zosch urges Frankie to deal the big game and tears up his musicians' union card, Frankie seeks refuge at Antek's, where Louie offers him some of the profits if he will deal for Markette and Williams. Desperately needing the money, Frankie agrees, and again gives in when Louie tempts him with another fix. Frankie then goes to the Safari Club, where a disappointed Molly berates him for getting high. When Frankie gets in a fight with John, Molly hurriedly leaves the neighborhood without telling Frankie where she is going. Later, Frankie deals the game for Markette and Williams, and with his skill easily wins. After dealing all night, an exhausted Frankie insists on leaving, but when he arrives home, he is suddenly overwhelmed by the need for a fix and rushes back to Schwiefka's. Louie refuses to give Frankie any drugs unless he resumes dealing, because Markette and Williams have begun to win. The game continues, and soon it is early Monday morning. Louie promises Frankie that if he cheats and wins, he will give him a fix, but Frankie, weary from his long hours of dealing, becomes careless, and Williams spots his card-palming and beats him. After Louie then refuses to give Frankie any drugs, Frankie knocks him out and searches his apartment, to no avail. Frankie then goes to his audition but cannot play competently due to his withdrawal symptoms. Meanwhile, Louie regains consciousness and goes to the rooming house to exact his revenge upon Frankie. Instead, Louie accidentally enters the room as Zosch is walking and deduces that she has been pretending to be paralyzed. When Louie threatens to reveal her secret, the hysterical Zosch pushes him down the stairwell to his death. Frankie, not knowing of Louie's death but fearing that he is after him, runs away and finds Molly, whom he begs for help. Molly then learns from John that Frankie is Bednar's main suspect. Molly then agrees to help Frankie quit drugs cold turkey, so that he can go to the police sober and withstand questioning to prove his innocence. After an agonizing few days, during which Frankie suffers great torment, he is free of his craving. John sees Frankie in Molly's apartment, however, and alerts Bednar. Frankie leaves before Bednar arrives, and Molly takes the police captain to Zosch's, where Frankie is telling her that he is going away with Molly. Just as a terrified Zosch gets up from her wheelchair to chase after Frankie, Bednar and Molly arrive, and they all realize that Zosch must have killed Louie. Before Bednar can arrest her, Zosch runs out to the fire escape and falls to street below. Frankie rushes to the street, where Zosch lays dying, and holds her as she tells him she loves him. After Zosch dies, Frankie and Molly slowly walk off together, leaving their old life behind.
