A writer falls in love with a young socialite and they're soon married. But her obsessive love for him threatens to be the undoing of them both, and everyone else around them.
Novelist Richard Harland and socialite Ellen Berent meet on a train and are attracted to each other. They fall in love and decide to get married. They love each other, in spite of their differences. Ellen's love for Richard is obsessive - possessive, and wants Richard all to herself. Richard learns to what extent Ellen will go to get what she wants,
In this Technicolor noir, young novelist Richard Harland accepts an invitation to write on a friend's remote ranch. On the train ride to his New Mexican retreat, he meets beautiful Ellen Berent, a devoted daddy's girl on a mission to scatter her late father's ashes. Ellen sees so much of her beloved father in Richard while Richard is immediately drawn to her outward appearance. The two quickly fall in love and marry without really knowing much about the other. As Richard settles into married life with Ellen, her provocative nature emerges from the shadows and he is gradually separated from the people he loves most. The couple's once promising future together begins to resemble something other than the conventional love story he thought he committed to.
Writer Richard Harland unhesitatingly marries lovely Ellen Berent. He soon finds his life blighted when tragedies take first his brother then his unborn son from him. He comes to suspect these events are not unconnected with his wife's unreasoning jealousy. This also turns her family from her, and yet another shock awaits them all as Ellen's emotions become uncontrollable.
Writer Richard Harland meets the stunning and self-assured Ellen Berent on a train and she takes him to meet her family. She sweeps him off his feet with the force of her love but he does not understand how obsessive her love actually is. His writing, her family, and his family are all objects of her jealousy. She will go to any length to have him to herself - with consequences that he does not understand until it's too late.

