Randy is still unfocused after 2 years in college. His dad will no longer pay tuition and Randy gets a job delivering pizzas. Several cute cougars pay him $200 for pizza delivery and "services rendered". Their husbands?
College sophomore Randy Bodek is unfocused. The only thing he knows is that he loves his roommate, Jenny Gordon, who feels unappreciated as other things in his life seem to take precedence over her. He hasn't even told his parents, Diane and Joe Bodek, that he is living with a female, let alone a significant other. As such, Jenny breaks up with him at the end of the semester. While Randy is home during the summer break, Joe, against Diane's wishes, decides not to fund Randy's college education anymore as he is flunking all his classes, and hasn't yet declared a major. Not knowing what to do besides try to get back to college if only to be with Jenny, Randy gets a minimum wage job as a delivery guy at a pizza joint. During the course of his job, he meets Alex Barnett, a beautiful, older, sophisticated woman who likes pizzas with extra anchovies. To his surprise, she seduces him, after their sexual encounter which she gives him $200 to help him get back to college. Without telling him, she ends up telling her neglected, married female friends about Randy. As such, the pizza joint starts getting a lot of orders for pizzas with extra anchovies. Although Randy balks at the notion of being a stud for hire, he eventually goes along with it if only as a means to pay for his college tuition and be able to get back to Jenny. Through the process, he finds that most of the women just want companionship, romance and attention, which he ends up being able to provide, and which he didn't provide in a meaningful way to Jenny. There is the potential problem of anyone finding out what is happening, mainly his boss, angry jealous husbands, his parents and most specifically Jenny, who may have other guys waiting in the wings. Meanwhile, his parents, on the eve of their twentieth wedding anniversary, are facing their own marital problems focused primarily on Randy, problems which Diane may feel can be solved by a $200 pizza with extra anchovies.
Randy Bodek works as a pizza delivery boy at Senor Pizza to make a few extra bucks. Some customers are special, though: When the order is for a pizza with extra anchovies, it means the female customers are looking for some loving. "Loverboy's" reputation soon makes him very popular, but when Mom Bodek suddenly feels like some extra anchovies, things are looking grim for young Randy.
Randy Bodek is a college sophomore who returns home for the summer and upon seeing his grades, his father asks if he should continue. Randy who feels that he is still looking for himself, tells him that things will change. But his father doesn't believe him, so he tells him that if he wants to continue going to college he has to pay it himself. So he goes to work at Senor Pizza and is not exactly raking in the bucks. However when an older woman Alex takes in an interest in him the next thing he knows he is her boy toy. Now she has made up a code which is a signal for them to meet, which is "extra anchovies". When he gets the signal he expects to see Alex but to his astonishment, it's a friend of hers who is a lonely wife. He decides to take care of her, and it isn't long before he is a legend and several women are calling him to service them. He also has to deal with their parents indifference towards him because they are under the mistaken impression that he is gay and they don't want to ask him if he is. But his erratic behavior leads them to think that he is. And he also has to deal with his girlfriend, Jenny, whom he hasn't told his parents of. She is upset that he doesn't tell his parents about her and is wondering why he is ignoring her.
College student Randy Bodek leads a lazy slacker's life with no issues... until his father, who disapproves of his unambitious lifestyle, cuts Randy's college funding and forces him to come back home. Desperate to keep going to college and maintain his relationship with Jenny, Randy gets a job as a pizza delivery boy at the Senor Pizza store, but its earnings aren't enough for him to last even the next semester. He makes the acquaintance of Alex Barrett, a wealthy middle-aged woman who is visiting from Italy. She is attracted to him, seduces him and they end up having an affair. When the time comes for Alex to return to Italy, she informs him that whenever Senor Pizza receives a delivery order for pizza with extra anchovies, it will be her summoning him again - during the liaison, extra anchovy toppings was Randy's cue that Alex was calling on him for a meeting. Afterwards, Randy receives many orders for extra anchovies. However, he meets not Alex but other women, and as time passes he develops a thriving escort business. His most frequent clients are three particular women: Kyoko Bruckner, an unhappy housewife who is neglected by her uncaring and obnoxious husband Harry; Joyce Palmer, a doctor who hires Randy to get back at her adulterous husband Reed; and Monica Delancy, who feels insecure and under appreciated because she likes rich food and her husband Claude is a fitness trainer who handles beautiful athletic women. Randy provides these women company, and in return he gets knowledge and experience on how to deal with women. However, it isn't long before the three husbands Harry, Reed and Claude are aware something is up.

