While waiting on a delayed flight, David Trask, who has left his unfaithful wife, meets three of his fellow passengers. When the aircraft crashes, he is one of few survivors, and sets out to resolve their unfinished business.
On a flight from Chicago to Los Angeles via Iowa, lawyer David Trask gets to know three of his fellow passengers as one technical issue after another leads to delays and unscheduled stops along the way. Those three are physician Dr. Robert Fortness, struggling actress with the stage name Binky Gay, and loud salesman Eddie Hoke, who is both quick with a joke and quick to show off a photograph of his beautiful wife, Marie Hoke. Below the surface, the three have deeper stories, which are bringing them back to Los Angeles and which Dr. Fortness and Binky divulge to David. Dr. Fortness, an alcoholic, is returning to own up to his drunken part in the death of a friend, and his wife Claire's complicity in the matter. Binky, after being away in New York for a year, is returning to her husband, Mike Carr, hoping to take him away from his overbearing mother, former vaudeville star Sally Carr, who still basks in her former but no longer shining glory, and who is the cause of any marital problem she and Mike have had as she sees Binky as competition in every sense of the word. Because of an incident en route and his burgeoning friendship with them, David feels compelled to help them resolve their issues. Specifically in dealing with Eddie's life, David is forced to reflect on his own and the reason he left his home in Midland City, Iowa.
An East Coast lawyer (Gary Merrill) learns that his wife has been unfaithful. After a month of stressful uncertainty, he is unable to keep going in his marriage, and, despite pleas from his wife, decides to take a trip to Los Angeles to think things through. He gets on a plane that makes several stops along the way, and, because of inclement weather, there are delays and waits in waiting rooms and restaurants, where he strikes up conversations with three other travelers, a struggling actress (Shelley Winters), an alcoholic doctor (Michael Rennie), and a clownish traveling salesman (Keenan Wynn). While talking to his fellow passengers, he learns intimate details of their lives, their loves, their personal tragedies and failures. They become bound by the confidences and promise each other that they will meet again in the future to see what life has brought them. The plane crashes near LA, and the lawyer is the only survivor of the four. In his hotel room after being patched up in a hospital he reaches into his pocket, finds the addresses and names that had been given to him, and he feels the need to contact the families of the deceased in order to share details about what the three were thinking and planning during their last day of life. In his three separate visits he learns more about the lives of the deceased, and while sharing what he knows he does bring comfort and closure to the families. In the process, his own views on love, forgiveness, success and a life well lived are transformed.This film treats grand themes, life, love, death, tragedy. humor, success, failure, confession, forgiveness and redemption thorough its interesting subplot twists without becoming unduly maudlin. Great philosophical paradoxes make an appearance: You can't be truly happy until you have experienced tragedy, getting the success you hope to have often makes you unhappy, humor is often a mask for melancholy, forgiveness does more for the forgiver than for its target, confession and acceptance soothe as they hurt.
