Robert Taylor and Eleanor Parker star as a Kentucky backwoodsman and the woman who will NOT let anything interfere with her plans to marry him in this humorous romantic adventure through the American Frontier of 1798.
During 1798,Bushrod Gentry is a Kentucky trapper who travels from place to place,sometimes staying with settler families for a night or two before moving on.Being a handsome man he often breaks the hearts of the unmarried young daughters of his hosts and it always leads to proposals of marriage from the girls' part.This causes Bushrod to quickly pack his gear, give the smitten girl his standard speech about why he cannot marry or settle down and depart in a hurry, leaving the girl in tears.But one day,after being saved from an Indian attack by young Scotish woman, Mary Stuart Cherne, he takes shelter with her family until his broken arm can heal.Invariably,the girl falls for his charm and asks him to marry her.Bushrod gives her his standard speech and thinks he's off the hook but stubborn Mary Stuart is not so easily dissuaded.This leads to lies, insinuations, evasive actions, hilarity, fist fights with her brothers, a shooting contest, broken promises and a shotgun wedding.Bushrod is determined to leave and he has a few tricks up his sleeve.
1798, Kentucky. Arguably the two biggest hazards trapper and fur trader Bushrod Gentry has to face are marauding Shawnee Indians, who infrequently leave their reserve but when they do travel in packs, and the amorous daughters of the farmers with who he trades, he who they see as different than the farming and ranching boys who generally court them. Bushrod has no intention of settling down, a wife and family who does not mix with his Lone Wolf nomadic life, especially as he is on his way to the uncharted northwest territory. He may have met his match in headstrong Mary Stuart Cherne and the Cherne family, who take him in temporarily while he recuperates from an injury. Mary Stuart is the only girl among five siblings, but arguably is the best frontiersperson among the five, she having mastered the skills of shooting from her father, Cadmus Cherne. Mary Stuart's sights set on Bushrod as husband material are despite burly Luke Radford always having seen her as his intended. But the more that Mary Stuart tries to manipulate the situation for she and Bushrod to get married, the further Bushrod wants to run to get away from the situation and her. Their time together, in good and bad, may change their individual perspectives on matrimony to each other.
In this Western Comedy Robert Taylor portrays Bushrod Gentry, a footloose frontiersman and trapper in the early American West who winds up being pursued by a very determined Eleanor Parker who plays Mary, a tomboyish gal who has decided her marriage to Bushrod will save her from spinsterhood. Hilarity ensues as she sets about trying to trap Taylor into tying the knot.. Bushrod, for his part, seems more willing to tackle Indians on the warpath rather than submit to matrimony and be tied down. This is an excellent family film with plenty of action, great dialouge and laughs.
