Three single women in a picturesque village have their wishes granted, at a cost, when a mysterious and flamboyant man arrives in their lives.
All three previously married but now single, best friends sculptress Alex Medford, cellist Jane Spofford and writer Sukie Ridgemont are feeling emotionally and sexually repressed, in large part due to the traditional mores overriding their small New England coastal town of Eastwick. After their latest conversation lamenting about the lack of suitable men in Eastwick and describing the qualities they are looking for in a man, mysterious Daryl Van Horne and his equally mysterious butler Fidel arrive in town. Despite being vulgar, crude, brazen and not particularly handsome, Daryl manages to be able to tap into the innermost emotions of the three friends, and as such manages to seduce each. In turn, the three women blossom emotionally and sexually. After an incident involving one of the town's leading citizens, the ultra conservative Felicia Alden, the three women begin to understand how and why Daryl is able to mesmerize them so fully. The three decide to experiment with some powers learned indirectly from Daryl so that they can hopefully regain control of their own lives.
In the traditional and conservative Eastwick, the sculptress Alexandra Medford, the shy musician and teacher Jane Spofford and the journalist Sukie Ridgemont are best friends. Alexandra is a widow; Jane is divorced since she can not have a child; and Sukie is divorced because she frequently gets pregnant and has five children. They are sexually repressed and one night, they describe the characteristics of their ideal man while drinking. There is a storm on the town and the mysterious Daryl Van Horne appears in town and buys a notorious mansion. Nobody can recall his name, but he seduces the three friends. Meanwhile the pious Felicia Alden, who is married with Sukie's boss Clyde Alden, has a weird accident and feels that Daryl is the devil. When Felicia dies, Alexandra, Jane and Sukie realize that there is something strange about Daryl. But what can they do?
Alex, Jane, and Suki are three bored New England women left to live without their husbands. They innocently conjure up a mystery man, who could satisfy all their desires. A new man moves into town - and he fits the bill perfectly. Daryl Van Horne is filthy rich and wild eyed, and within days the three women have all discovered almighty power within themselves. Will good triumph over evil, or will Daryl continue to have his evil way with his witches ?
Alexandra Medford, Jane Spofford and Sukie Ridgemont are three dissatisfied women living in the small town of Eastwick, New England. Alexandra is a sculptress and single mother, Jane is a newly divorced music teacher incapable of having children, and Sukie is an extremely fertile woman with six children and also works as a journalist at the "Eastwick Word". Besides an everlasting friendship, these three women share similar misfortunes of being abandoned by their husbands. Not knowing of themselves as being Witches, the women unwittingly form a coven of which consists of weekly get-togethers, during which they drink, play cards, and share their fantasies about ideal men.The day after one such meeting, a mysterious man arrives in the town and immediately stirs up trouble by buying the city's landmark property, the Lennox mansion. The arrival of this enigmatic stranger causes fascination among the townfolks, all except local townswoman Felicia Alden, the Christian wife of newspaper editor Clyde Alden. Clyde is the boss of Sukie (who Felicia does not like). Although Felicia is not a Witch, she is somehow able to sense that this man, whose name is easily forgotten by everyone, is up to no good. One night, at Jane's music recital, the man appears and makes a spectacle of himself, which leads to more gossip among the people. After the recital Jane receives flowers and a personal note from the man, signed with the initial "D". This then sparks Sukie's memory, finally revealing the man's name to be Daryl Van Horne. At the very moment of Sukie remembering his name, her beaded necklace inexplicably breaks and falls to the floor, causing Felicia, who had mocked Daryl's name, to trip down a large staircase, breaking her leg.Daryl begins to seduce the women one by one, beginning with self-assured Alexandra, who is at first appalled by his arrogance and bravado, but then allows him into her heart. He moves on to Jane, who is seen as being very shy and reserved. Jane explains to Daryl that the home he lives in was once said to be an area where people were burned alive after being accused of witchcraft. Daryl then encourages Jane to stop living a life of doubt and learn to enjoy herself. She takes his advice and begins to act and live recklessly. The next day Daryl invites all three women over to the mansion, which allows him to finally turn his attentions on Sukie. A jealous rivalry emerges between the women, leading to a supernatural game of tennis, where the tennis ball begins to behave oddly--floating, stopping in mid-air--in response to their mood. This shared telekinesis reveals to the women their magical abilities. The women decide to forgo competition and share Daryl, and have the most fun they've ever had in their entire lives.Their frequent presence at Daryl's mansion leads to gossip and rumors spread by Felicia. Alex, Sukie, and Jane become outcasts of the city; the women of Eastwick acknowledge the trio with nasty looks and snotty comments. The Witches begin to have second thoughts on whether or not they should continue to see each other, which then motivates Daryl into causing the girls to unknowingly cast a spell on Felicia, causing her to projectile vomit cherry stones. Felicia is finally killed by husband, who beats her with a fire poker after being horrified when seeing his wife so incredibly ill. Terrified of the dangerous effects of their relationship with Daryl, they agree among each other to never see Daryl or each other for a long period of time. This upsets Daryl, causing him to use his powers against the girls, bringing their worst fears to life. Alex awakens into a bed of snakes, Jane begins to lose her youth transforming into a old woman, and Sukie is forced to feel intense pain. The women reconcile with Daryl in order to get in his good graces again.Realizing that the only way to rid Daryl from their lives is by using Witchcraft against him, the girls trick Daryl into going to town for a while as they practice a banishing spell to make him go away forever. Sukie goes to Daryl's office and takes a spell book he kept locked in a glass chest. Jane gathered some of Daryl's personal belongings such as hair, clothing, and pictures of him. Alex created a Voodoo doll out of wax that resembled Daryl. Meanwhile, as Daryl was in town shopping for the girls, he began to feel painful sharp aches in his body from the girls sticking pins and needles into the doll. Daryl becomes infuriated with the girls betrayal, and as he made his way home, Daryl's devilish figure was beginning to reveal itself more and more. Now terrified of what Daryl is capable of doing to them, the girls throw the Voodoo into the flames of a fire then causing Daryl to disappear.Eighteen months later, Alex, Jane, and Sukie are now the mothers of Daryl's sons. They still have their Magic powers and they now live together in Daryl's mansion. Daryl appears on television screen and talks to the boys, but the women catch him and turn the TV off.
