Two scientists are placed in hibernation and should be awaken after three years. But when they wake up, it turns out that it has been fifty years, and they are the only two males in a new, underground society composed exclusively of women.
Two scientists are chosen as guinea pigs for a time experiment: they are placed in hibernation and should be brought back to life after three years. In the meantime, however, the World War III breaks out and life have been wiped out of the surface of the Earth. When they wake up, it turns out that not only 50 years have passed but also that they are the only living specimens of the male sex in a new, underground society composed exclusively of women. Max used to be woman-chaser so he finds himself in heaven. Albert, on the other hand, forgot all about love and sex as a serious scientist, but is willing to learn. So are the Amazons, who after a kiss turn into pliant kittens. The Council of Women is going to decide their fate, so they are trying to win more time.
Two men volunteer for a cryogenics experiment, expecting to be revived in a couple of years. Instead, they are revived several years in the future, in a world with only women which is run by the League of Women's Lib. This movie has a lot of nudity.
Maks and Albert agree to take part in a scientific experiment involving hibernation. The experiment is only supposed to last a couple of years; but after getting defrosted, they find themselves in a society they can't begin to understand. They gradually discover that the world has gone to hell and there are only women left on the planet, living in a humongous underground "Vault" (like in the game Fallout, only a lot larger ;) and ruled by the radical Women's League, which was barely even established in their day. The League has developed a thorough system of propaganda, human control and changed history, which focuses mainly on how "males" used to be absolutely evil (at one point when Maks and Albert are trying to defend men, they are told that "Einstein was a woman" and that "one man named Cain invented murder and tested it on his sister Abel"). However, they manage to instill doubt in one woman and with her help discover that not everything - if anything - is as it seems...

