On their way to a sailing trip, an aging husband and wife invite along an emphatic young hitchhiker out of sheer patronization.
Well off Andrzej and Krystyna's marriage is at a stage where familiarity breeds contempt, that contempt which is outwardly shown only behind closed doors and only when an incident of some sort sets off one or the other. While driving through the countryside on a Sunday on their way to the lake to embark on an overnight sailing excursion, they almost run over a young male hitchhiker. Despite the antagonism between Andrzej and the hitchhiker, Andrzej offers him a ride as far as the marina. By the time they reach the lake, their antagonism has dissipated enough that Andrzej asks if he would like to join them on their sailing trip. The hitchhiker accepts despite knowing nothing about sailing. As the sailing trip progresses, the antagonism between the two men begins to increase again, fueled on both sides as each strives to be the alpha male. Andrzej needs to show his superiority, while the hitchhiker needs to show that his young age and inexperience, not only with sailing but with life in general, do not make him any less of a man in comparison. Later incidents demonstrate that their relationship may have been different if Krystyna was not in the picture. The hitchhiker's pocket knife, seemingly his most prized possession on his person, becomes a symbol of that power struggle between the two men. If the three emerge from their sailing trip alive, they may be forever changed by their encounter.
Andrzej and Krystyna--a young bourgeois Polish couple who is already experiencing fatigue and emotional exhaustion in their marriage--pick up a handsome nineteen-year-old hitchhiker on their way to the marina. And, just like that, much to Krystyna's surprise, Andrzej invites the blonde student along on a yachting weekend. However, aboard the small and nimble vessel, little by little, a quiet but sinister undercurrent of intense violence and unbridled erotic competition for the lady's approval, will pave the way for a cruel exhibition of alpha-male bravado with unforeseen consequences. Who shall prevail when the sharp knife cuts the water?
An attractive young woman, Christine, takes the wheel of a car belonging to her partner Andrzej, a sports columnist. While he criticizes her driving skills, a reckless student leaps out in front of the car. Andrzej gives the student a ride and invites him to accompany them on their yacht trip. Attracted to Christine, the student becomes increasingly clumsy. He spends his time jabbing the point of a pocket knife rapidly between the fingers of his other hand. Andrzek argues with the student, who topples overboard.
While driving to sail with his wife Krystyna in his yacht, the arrogant and wealthy Andrzej "stumbles" with a drifter in front of his car hitchhiking on the lonely road. Andrzej gives a ride to the young man with despisal. When they reach the marina, Andrzej unexpectedly and without any reason invites the young man to sail with them, initiating a tense dispute of power with the youth, in a claustrophobic and erotic environment.
While driving early one morning on their way to a boat outing Andrzej (Leon Niemczyk) and his young somewhat homely wife Krystyna (Jolanta Umecka) nearly run down a Young Boy (Zygmunt Malanowicz) who is hitchhiking. Andrzej initially acts belligerent towards the Young Boy but gives him a ride to the marina. Once there Andrzej asks the Young Boy aboard the boat and the three move out into the still waters of Olszryn, Poland. While spending the day together Andrzej bullies the Young Boy into laboring as a deck hand, while Krystyna slowly transforms into a beautiful women. As male egos collide, the Young Boy wants to be taken back to shore but Anrzej refuses and the ship grounds in the shallows. When they get the boat back to deeper water the wind has stopped and the three spend the night quietly but the next day a fight erupts with Andrzej throwing the Young Boy off the boat to drown. When Krystyna confronts Anrdzej he swims ashore unaware that the Young Boy returns to the boat for possible revenge.
