Eight people are invited to their old high school for their ten-year reunion where a fellow former student, disfigured from a prank gone wrong, is out to seek revenge.
A group of popular students play a cruel prank on a shy nerd resulting in a terrible accident. Years later a reunion is held where each of the students face a stalker killer who may be the same nerd out for revenge.
At Doddsville County High School, Carol (Caroline Munro) leaves the geek Marty (Simon Scuddamore) down the hallway, both laughing about doing it. She leads Marty to the girls locker room as, unbeknownst to Marty, a group of people follow. Marty goes into a shower stall and undressed, and Carol lets the people inside the room. The curtain is thrown aside and they yell "April Fools!" The crowed mocks the half-naked Marty. The coach appears and tells all of them, except Marty, to go to the gym and "suit up". While they are working out, one of the students, Stella (Donna Yeager) is angry and blames Marty for this collective punishment they are now receiving. Carl (John Segal) and Ted (Michael Saffran) stop by Marty's locker and to show him that there are no hard feelings toward him, give him a joint to smoke.Working alone in chemistry class, Marty decides to light up and smoke the joint. He immediately gets sick and goes to the locker room to throw up. In the gym, Skip (Carmine Iannaccone) throws a brick through a window and feigns that it came from the outside to get away from the coach still punishing them. Skip goes to the deserted chemistry room, adds some white powder to a container, and walks away back to the gym. Marty returns when the liquid in the container pops and a fire starts. He tries to turn off the gas, and a bottle of nitric acid falls and splashes on his face. Marty is taken away on a stretcher into an ambulance. As Carol approaches Marty on the stretcher to apologize, he grabs her by the neck. She screams and wakes up in bed.It is suddenly 10 years later, Carol, now a rich and successful actress, gets a phone call from Manny her agent who tries to convince her to appear in another movie. Susan (Sally Cross) visits Carol and tells her that the she recently engaged and will try to make it for the class reunion later.It is the day before April 1, and Skip is driving his car through the countryside. He stops for a hitchhiker and it is Nancy (Kelly Baker) one of his old classmates also on her way to the reunion. When Skip tries to start his car again, it refuses to start. But two other former classmates, Joe (Gary Martin) and Stella, pass by and Joe tows Skips broken down car to the school. Everyone arrives at the closed down school, with Frank arriving last on his motorbike. Night falls, and it is only this small group of friends whom have arrived at their closed-down school. Joe and Skip walk around to the back to get inside the boarded up building. As it begins to rain, the rest of the group forces their way in through the front door. The find Skip and Joe inside and the group looks around the school, eventually coming to a classroom with a 'Welcome Back' sign, school photographs, alcohol and their old lockers. Shriley points out Martys old locker, and they find a rat inside. They also find Martys old yearbook and look though it. Skip talks about Marty's six months of plastic surgery for the accident and the fact that he flipped out.Meanwhile, someone wearing a jesters mask (the same one that Skip wore during the shower prank) is lurking in the halls. The group begins to smoke some marijuana, and Carol shows off her more expensive cocaine. Nancy decides to go to the bathroom and Carol joins her. They are both scared by Skip and Frank who scare them for kicks. The two guys run out and have a run-in with Digby, the old janitor, who asks them what are they doing here. When Skip mentions the reunion, Digby tells them that he hasn't heard of any reunion, and tells them that the building will be knocked down soon, but allows them to take a last look around if they want. After Digby walks on, the jester mask wearing person jumps out and shoves Digbys head into a hook and nails his hand to a door.Nancy plays a joke on Skip and pours a drink down his pants. Carl tells Ted to show everyone how to "sink a beer" and Ted demonstrates. Suddenly, Ted gets sick, his stomach pops wide open and some of his innards are exposed. The "beer" is actually a lethal acid. Everyone screams and runs away except Shirley who stands in shock with some of Teds blood splashed onto her face.When the group sees that the door will not open and one of the windows gives Nancy a shock, Carl kicks the fencing, takes Carols car keys, and crawls out telling them that he will go for help. Carl gets to Carols car and when he tries to start it, the jester-masked killer rises from the back seat and shoves a steel pole through the seat and out of Carls chest. Back in the school building, Shirley goes to the locker room and gets in a tub to wash off the blood she has on her. When she turns on the fauset for water, acid fills the tub instead and she screams. Several people run in and find Shirley's skeleton in the tub. Carol realizes and screams out "Marty's come back!"Susan arrives at the school, and Skip fruitless tries to get her to leave. She walks in through the front door which is unlocked and sees a life-size picture of Marty at the end of the hallway. Hands punch through and grab her. The survivors convene, and Frank says that he saw a tractor earlier. Frank, Skip, and Joe begin to work on getting the tractor started with the hope of plowing through the doors.While Frank and Skip leave Joe alone to work on the tractor, Stells flirts with Frank and says she wished she was with him instead of Joe. The killer visits Joe while he is under the tracker and kicks the jack away. Joe holds the tractor up and the killer starts the machine and cuts Joes arm with a pocket knife , letting the running blades do the rest. The killer then goes to Stella and Frank during their time of intimacy, hooks up cables to the bed they are on, and electrocutes both of them. Nancy goes to check on Joe and finding him dead, and runs off to tell Skip and Carol. They also find Stella and Frank dead and Skip screams out into the hallways for Marty to show himself. Nancy becomes upset, blaming Skip and Carol for everything that has led to Marty's accident, and Carol calms her down.Morning comes, a sleeping Skip awakes, goes into the hallway and is grabbed. Carol asks Nancy where Skip is. Carol explains that if Marty is behind all this, they just have to wait until April 1 which ends at noon which is the time Marty is disfigured and they only need one hour. The two women leave the room.Skip wakes up and find himself hanging from a rope. He tries to shake himself free until the rope comes loose and he falls. Carol and Nancy look around and realize that all the dead bodies are gone. The hear a noise and walk into a room with a video playing of the shower prank. Nancy sees her photograph marked out in a nearby yearbook and she runs. She manages to get through a window and outside only to fall into a pit of dirty water. Unable to swim, Nancy tries to use a metal pipe to pull herself up, and the killer knocks her back in and leaves. Back in the building, Carol finds Digby dead and hides in the girls locker room and hears a noise. She finds blood in one of the toilets and she flushes it, only to have it overflow. She picks up a baseball bat and hits the killer when he enters the locker room.Carol runs into the auditorium and hides onstage. A javelin is shoved through the curtain, nearly missing her. From hiding she hears footsteps and swings a hatchet, hitting Skip in the face, accidentally killing him. The killer then punches through the glass, grabbing her. Carol pushes the killer back through the glass and he lands on the gym floor. Carol relaxes and sees that it is noon. But Marty stands up, picks up the javelin and chases Carol back into the girls locker room. He sees Carol hiding in the same shower stall where this all happened and pulls aside the curtain. Marty then, reveals his horribly scared face for the first time. Marty laughs and impales Carol through the stomach to the wall with the Javelin, killing her. Marty yells, "I showed ya!"With his revenge against all those who caused his disfigurement over, Marty relaxes until he begins to hear voices calling his name. Marty sees all of the dead people he killed rising up and coming after him chanting his name over and over again as they chase and corner him in the auditorium.Marty screams and wakes up in his hospital bed, with bandages all over his face. A nurse comes into his room and tells him to relax for he's had a serious accident just the other day. Apparently the whole reunion event was nothing but a bad dream that Marty had out of wishing revenge against all those who caused his disfigurement. A little later, a doctor responds to an alarm and runs into Marty's hospital room where the nurse stands over him with a syringe. The nurse turns around and it is actually Marty wearing the nurse's uniform while the dead nurse is lying in his bed. Marty shoves the syringe into the doctor's eye killing him too. Marty then pulls off his bandages from his face, and some of his face with it, and escapes from the hospital, vowing to find and kill those who caused his disfigurement.
