San Francisco Inspector "Dirty" Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) must foil a terrorist organization made up of disgruntled Vietnam veterans. But this time, he's teamed with female partner Inspector Kate Moore (Tyne Daly), with whom he's not too excited to be working.
Picking up three years after the events in Magnum Force (1973), a threatening terrorist group called "The People's Revolutionary Strike Force" declare war on the city of San Francisco and demand a ransom to be paid, otherwise they plan to blow the city apart. While Inspector "Dirty" Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) is in limbo following his unorthodox method during a robbery, he's sent to dispatch the terrorist group, by playing their game by being dirtier than ever. But this time, he has a new partner, Inspector Kate Moore (Tyne Daly), which might prove the task to be somewhat more difficult than ever, unless the two can work together.
San Francisco Police Inspector "Dirty" Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) returns in the third movie of the franchise. Teamed with his new partner, Inspector Kate Moore (Tyne Daly), they hunt for a group of terrorists that are blackmailing the city of San Francisco for two million dollars.
Robbers at a liquor store are holding a shopkeeper and three of his patrons hostage. Asked by the robbers for a car with a Police radio, San Francisco Inspector "Dirty" Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) volunteers his own car. Harry drives the car right through the store's plate glass window. Before the robbers know what hit them, Harry has shot them. Fourteen thousand three hundred seventy-nine dollars is how much the San Francisco Police Department will have to pay to repair the damages caused by Harry's encounter with the robbers. Rather than getting a medal, which he doesn't want, Harry is relegated to Personnel to help interview patrol officers on the list to make Inspector. Harry is told that of the eight openings, three will be filled by women. A group that calls themselves the "People's Revolutionary Strike Force" (P.R.S.F.), led by Bobby Maxwell (DeVeren Bookwalter), are making plans to go on a rampage throughout San Francisco as some kind of extremist political statement. When Harry's longtime partner is killed by them during a major weapons theft, Harry vows revenge and, surprisingly, is given some support by his superiors. Harry has bad luck when it comes to partners. Being Harry's partner is like having your doctor say you only have a few days left to live. Harry gets a new partner named Kate Moore (Tyne Daly), a woman whose decade-long Police career has been spent in the Human Resources department. With her suit and high heels, Kate has trouble chasing suspects. But she proves to be resilient and resourceful and becomes Harry's friend. The P.R.S.F. continues stealing explosive devices and rocket launchers. After they're armed to the teeth, they kidnap the Mayor (John Crawford) and demand a ransom of two million dollars. The P.R.S.F. is prepared to blow up the toilets in the Police station itself. Harry goes undercover, attempting to root out Maxwell and his crew. Kate and Harry discover that the Mayor is being held on Alcatraz Island. This leads Kate and Harry to a showdown against Maxwell.
Following a reprimand from his superiors for his somewhat destructive approach to his work, San Francisco Inspector "Dirty" Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) finds his new partner to be female. Though none too pleased with this, the job has to come first. In this case, the city is being held for ransom following an arms robbery by a gang prepared to blow up the toilets in the Police station.
When San Francisco Inspector "Dirty" Harry Callahan (Clint Eastwood) ends a liquor store hold-up by doing things in his usual hard-boiled manner, his bleeding-heart boss, Captain McKay (Bradford Dillman) demotes Harry to the Personnel Division. But Harry doesn't remain there for long, as a group of terrorists robs an arms warehouse and begins a bloody extortion spree demanding two million dollars from the city. Harry is paired with Inspector Kate Moore (Tyne Daly) to shut the terrorists down. Callahan is none too thrilled to be paired with Moore, but she more than proves herself when she and Harry pursue the terrorists to their hideout in the old prison of Alcatraz.
In the opening scenes, a beautiful hitchhiker, Miki (Joselyn Jones), entices two Western Gas &amp; Electric servicemen to a remote cabin in Mill Valley, California, where they are both killed by a radical militant named Bobby Maxwell (Deverne Bookwalter).In San Francisco, California, Inspector 'Dirty Harry' Callahan (Clint Eastwood) and his partner, Frank DiGeorgio (John Mitchum), respond to a hostage standoff at a liquor store. Held at gunpoint, Harry agrees to the thieves' demand for a police car, then speeds his vehicle through the store window and shoots and kills the three assailants. Back at the police station, Captain McKay (Bradford Dillman) reprimands Harry for "excessive use of force" and transfers the inspector to the personnel department.Harry grudgingly saunters into an examination board for hopeful inspectors, where a representative from the mayor's office, Mrs. Grey (Jan Stratton), announces that she is monitoring the board to ensure affirmative action. When Harry grills applicant Kate Moore (Tyne Daly) about her inexperience, Mrs. Grey accuses him of intimidation.That night, Bobby Maxwell and his militant organization, which includes Miki the hitchhiker, drive the stolen Western Gas &amp; Electric truck to the Hamilton Firearms Co., planning to rob the arsenal to for the sake of "the people." After killing an elderly security guard, the group loads weapons and U.S. military Light Anti-Tank Weapon (LAW) rockets into the truck, but DiGeorgio and his new police partner arrive to investigate. As Maxwell stabs DiGeorgio in the back, the officer misfires and hits Miki. Although Maxwell's minion, Lalo (Michael Cavanaugh), tries to save Miki, Maxwell shoots her dead. The group steals off with the contraband, running over DiGeorgio's partner in the process. Harry and his colleague Lt. Bressler (Harry Guardino) rush to the hospital, where DiGeorgio reports with his dying words that the attacker was a pimp that he and Harry questioned in an unsolved murder years earlier.Back at the police station, Capt. McKay receives a cassette tape from Maxwell's group, which identifies itself as the 'People's Revolutionary Strike Force' and threatens to blow up buildings around the city unless they are paid $1 million. McKay, who believes the Strike Force is composed of black militants, reinstates Harry to the homicide division to work the case. Harry notes that Miki, who was found dead at the crime scene, was a known prostitute, and argues that the killer is a pimp, as DiGeorgio reported. Harry is chagrined to discover that his new partner is Kate Moore, the young woman he interrogated at the inspector interview.When Harry and Kate attend a LAW rocket demonstration, Harry pulls the naive Kate away from the launcher's backfire, saving her life. The inspectors then visit the coroner's office to learn that DiGeorgio's murderer used killing techniques indicative of Special Forces servicemen in the Vietnam War. As Kate grows squeamish and runs outside, a bomb detonates in the building's bathroom, prompting Harry and Kate to chase a Strike Force operative named Henry Lee Caldwell (Tim Burris), whom Harry vaguely recognized on his way inside. During the pursuit, Caldwell drops his briefcase in a dumpster, but Kate retrieves it as Harry follows the militant across apartment rooftops. Caldwell falls through a skylight, lands on the set of a pornographic film and gets away until Harry detains him at a church.Sometime later, Harry delivers the dynamite that was stashed in Caldwell's briefcase to Lt. Bressler, who reports that the "suspect" is a member of the black militant group Uhuru, lead by Big Ed Mustapha (Alpert Popwell). Harry and Kate visit Mustapha's headquarters, where Kate fends off aggressive men while Harry learns that Caldwell left Uhuru to "go white," joining the criminal organization of a fellow Vietnam veteran. Noticing that Mustapha's office is filled with stolen artifacts, Harry threatens to bust the radical leader for robbery unless he provides information about Caldwell's organization. Mustapha negotiates for the prison release of an Uhuru member, then reviews Harry's list of names which includes all of the pimps that he and DiGeorgio once interviewed; Mustapha identifies Bobby Maxwell as Caldwell's new leader. After Harry and Kate leave, Capt. McKay, Lt. Bressler and a SWAT team surround Mustapha's building and load Uhuru members into a paddy wagon.Later, McKay strategies with the mayor to credit Harry and Kate to for the Uhuru arrests, noting that the commendation of a female inspector will impress the electorate. When Harry realizes that Uhuru is being blamed for Hamilton Firearms Co. theft, as well as the ensuing threat of violence and the blackmail, which has now been increased to $2 million, he refuses to participate in the publicity stunt. As Harry states his case to the mayor (John Crawford), McKay suspends him and Kate runs after her partner, offering support. Harry lets down his guard, reporting that Maxwell, their primary suspect, will be impossible to find without Mustapha, and Kate suggests they post Mustapha's bail.Sometime later, Maxwell's Strike Force kidnaps the mayor after a San Francisco Giants baseball game by ambushing his limousine and raising the China Basin Bridge so he cannot escape. That evening, Maxwell's girl friend and second in command, Wanda (Samantha Doane), telephones a local radio station to announce the Strike Force's demands, leaving a cassette tape in the phone booth. After listening to the tape, which sets a $5 million ransom for the mayor, Capt. McKay and Lt. Bressler find Harry in a pool hall and demand cooperation, but Harry refuses their plan to negotiate with the terrorists.Harry later meets with Mustapha, who identifies the Strike Force and leads him to Wanda, who works as a masseuse. At the massage parlor, which fronts as a brothel, Harry learns that Wanda has left her job to become involved with a church, lead by Father John (M.G. Kelly). Kate later briefs Harry about the militant, radical priest, who gave rehabilitation seminars at San Quentin State Prison while Maxwell was an inmate.At John's church, Harry bullies the priest for information as Wanda, dressed as a nun, aims her gun from behind; however, Kate appears in the pews and shoots Wanda dead, saving her partner's life. Distressed by the violence, Father John tells the detectives that the mayor is being held hostage at Alcatraz.The inspectors take a boat to the abandoned prison island and a gunfight ensues. After finding the mayor and shooting his captor, Kate shields the politician from Maxwell and his henchmen. As she reunites with Harry, she warns her partner that Maxwell is aiming from behind and is caught in the crossfire, herself. As Kate dies, she urges Harry to carry on without her. Although Maxwell resumes control of the mayor and leads him up an observation tower, Harry pursues them from a distance with a LAW rocket. As Maxwell leaves the mayor on a lower floor to look for Harry from the top, Harry launches the rocket and kills Maxwell. Disinterested in the pompus mayor's promise of commendation, Harry stands over Kate's body as Capt. McKay arrives by helicopter. Unaware that the standoff has ended, McKay announces to Maxwell that he is delivering the Strike Force's $5 million ransom.
