A woman whose husband is fighting in Vietnam falls in love with another man who suffered a paralyzing combat injury there.
Sally Bender is the wife of a Captain in the U.S. Marine Corps. He is sent over to Vietnam, and Sally is alone. With nothing else to do, she decides to volunteer at a local veteran's hospital, where she meets Luke, who went to high school with Sally. Luke was wounded and is paralyzed and confined to a wheelchair. When Sally begins to fall in love with Luke, she has to make a crucial decision about her life.
It's 1968. U.S. Marine Corps Captain Bob Hyde and his wife, Sally Hyde, have traditional conservative views. Theoretically, they understand that Bob's current role in life is to fight and kill for his country in Vietnam. When Bob is eventually sent to Vietnam and into active combat, Sally, who has never been alone in her life, has to figure out how to survive without Bob. On the advice of Vi Munson, the girlfriend of Bob's colleague Sergeant Dink Mobley, who too was shipped to Vietnam, Sally volunteers at the local VA hospital where Vi works. There, Sally's view of life and the war changes as she encounters the many injured veterans who have been emotionally scarred by the war. One of those vets is Sergeant Luke Martin, now a paraplegic who happens to be an acquaintance of Sally's from high school. Luke is now an angry and sullen man due to his experience in Vietnam. Despite Sally's love for Bob never being in question, Luke and Sally begin a relationship based on their current needs, and in the process they begin to look at life a little differently. Their relationship and friendship is put to the test when Bob arrives back from Vietnam earlier than expected, and whose own experience there makes his transition back to life in the U.S. a difficult one.
Sally Hyde's husband Bob has gone to Vietnam. She becomes a volunteer in a veteran's hospital where Violet, her friend, works. In the hospital, she meets an old friend, Luke Martin. Like Bob, Luke had gone to Vietnam, but he came back a paraplegic. Love between Luke and Sally grow and she discovers the orgasm. After the suicide of Violet's brother (another veteran who came back mad) Luke has only one obsession: do anything to stop the sending of young guys to war.

