A delicious, mysterious goo that oozes from the earth is marketed as the newest dessert sensation, but the tasty treat rots more than teeth when zombie-like snackers who only want to consume more of the strange substance at any cost begin infesting the world.
When a mysterious, green, gooey but delicious substance begins oozing from the earth's surface, it makes a great new dessert product but this new dessert has a sinister origin: it's a supernatural entity that takes over its victims mind while making them crave more of it
A delicious, mysterious goo which was found oozing from the earth. It's marketed as the newest dessert sensation, but the tasty treat rots more than teeth when zombie-like snackers who only want to consume more of the strange substance at any cost begin infesting the world.
A delicious, mysterious goo oozes from the Earth. It's marketed as the Stuff and becomes the newest dessert sensation. The American public literally eats up the new product, but It takes over those who eat it, turning them into zombie-like creatures with no will to do anything but eat more of the bizarre substance.
Two miners (Peter Hock and Harry Bellaver) find a yogurt- and ice-cream-like substance that appears from inside the Earth's core in a kind of eruption. They taste it to see whether it's edible, and they like it a lot. They love the way that it tastes so much that they decide to mass-produce it and start selling it. From now on, it's known as the Stuff, the latest taste sensation.Jason's mother (Colette Blonigan) buys the product--suddenly it's everywhere, on commercials, billboards, at the supermarket. The Stuff is usually kept in the fridge, but Jason (Scott Bloom) doesn't like this new product at all, especially because he saw it move all by itself inside his refrigerator. However, his parents don't listen to him. Soon, there is only Stuff in the household fridge, so that Jason feels more and more hungry and isolated. Jason's family was not a really good family before--at least toward Jason--but now they only talk, eat, and think Stuff.Finally Jason is contacted by industrial-espionage expert David "Mo" Rutherford (Michael Moriarty). They recognize each other as people who have not tasted the Stuff. They go to the main factory to try to stop them from producing the deadly dessert. People become slaves of the Stuff, preferring that substance instead of food.Mo and Jason, and Nicole (Andrea Marcovicci), the designer of the strange substance's advertising campaign, start being attacked by people who have become addicted to the Stuff.Finally, they reach the factory. Mo and Nicole are given a tour around the factory, and the foreman tells them that they have a room paid for at the nearest motel. Meanwhile, Jason sneaks around the plant, and he becomes trapped inside one of the distribution trucks.The most famous scene happens now when at a cheap motel: Stuff starts appearing from David and Nicole's mattress. First, it tries to suffocate David, but Nicole burns it. They run away, but a man obedient to the Stuff is the one who gets killed. Stuff overfloods the whole motel. Meanwhile, the truck in which Jason is in starts moving, followed by David and Nicole. Jason tumbles all around inside it. The truck reaches its destination.Nicole and David see a stream of Stuff flooding from the core of the Earth, being put inside distribution trucks without any filtering. David attaches some mini recording cameras to his ankles and then uses the yellow overalls of the Stuff workers. The Stuff creates weird milky structures and is possibly sentient.Stuff is being poured into the truck in which Jason is trapped. David hears Jason talking though the truck, so he can free him. Meanwhile, Nicole is attacked by one of the workers while she is traveling to the meeting point with David, who saves her. Then, David comes back to take Jason from the truck.A police officer stops the truck that David is driving because the back door was open. David mentions that it's a pity that so much Stuff is getting wasted. Jason and Nicole pretend to eat it until the police officer also goes to eat some and David can knock him down.They reach a fortress, and a rightist militia helps them to take on the factory, lead by Colonel Malcolm Grommett Spears (Paul Sorvino). They kill many factory workers but the Stuff overflows once again. Nicole and Jason run in the last second. The Stuff wrecks the factory. They want to broadcast from Atlanta so that everybody knows what the Stuff can do.'Chocolate Chip' Charlie W. Hobbs (Garrett Morris) is a cookie mogul who will help them because sales of the Stuff made him file for bankruptcy. However, when he arrives at the colonel's radio station, it turns out that he is addicted to Stuff. He takes Nicole aside and opens his mouth and Stuff starts pouring out.Somehow, people believe what the Colonel says and they start turning against the Stuff. They burn it and vandalize places that sell it.The unscrupulous owners of the Stuff want to re-market it by calling it the Taste, a blend of yogurt and ice cream, with enough Stuff on it to turn consumers into addicts. David calls Jason, and he enters the room. Jason takes glasses and glasses of Stuff and they force the company owners to eat it.The police arrive while the two owners eat and eat. They are already hooked on it and can't stop. David and Jason leave.Meanwhile, some criminals are buying loads and loads of their drug of choice, Stuff, implying that the Stuff is here to stay.
