Twisted tale about a crazy, preaching redneck named Jake who kidnaps people off the highway and performs sick medical experiments on them. He then proceeds to sell their organs on the black market to Mr. Stone. Everything is fine until he kidnaps the handicapped April and finds that she is harder to control than the others.
Meet Jake, an affable country junkman with a spare parts business. But not just auto parts - human parts, too! With the help of Hiram and Roy, his two half-witted sons, Jake roams the Georgia back roads in search of broke-down motorists in need of automotive assistance. When he finds his prey, "Good Samaritan" Jake introduces himself to the stranded travelers and offers to check out their disabled vehicle. After a quick look under the hood, Jake informs them that he has found the problem, but doesn't have the necessary parts with him to fix it. He offers to tow the weary travelers back to his shop to make repairs. Relived, they happily agree, thinking the worst is over... Once back at his isolated junkyard, Jake and his Boys forcibly abducts the hapless travelers and lock them away in the barn - until it's time to "procure" their organs - One at at time! Jake keeps his "patients" alive between operations on life-support machines made out of old car parts (along with the rest of his captive congregation of patients in in his "triage garage"). Jake's associate in this rather insidious enterprise is a shady black-market organ dealer by the name of Mr. Stone (played by screen legend Ray Walston). Stone pays top dollar for organs that he can sell to hospitals that don't ask too many questions. One hot summer night at the Stonewall County Peach Festival, Jake crosses paths with April Evans, a teenage beauty contestant competing that evening. Jake is totally smitten with her. See, April isn't your typical beauty queen. Besides being young and beautiful, she's also confined to a wheelchair. Jake must have her for his own! He knows he can fix her! He sabotages the family's RV so it breaks down in the boonies and then Jake and the Boys kidnap the whole family to get his prize. April's father, Clifford Evans (John Saxon) fights valiantly to defend his family, only to be out-witted by the devious and crafty Jake. Using his homespun surgical skills, Jake vows to make April walk again and then walk down the aisle with him! But April has other plans and Jake is about to learn just how mean and cunning his "Little Miss April" can be!

