In New York, two honest cops try to hinder a crime syndicate from moving into the precinct and also to prevent the mob's plan of electing a corrupt prosecutor to a judgeship.
The big national crime syndicate has moved into town, partnering up with local crime boss Nick Scanlon. There are only two problems: First, Nick is the violent type, preferring to do things the old-fashioned way instead of using the syndicate's more genteel methods. The second problem is McQuigg, the only honest police captain on the force, and his loyal patrolman, Johnson. Together, they take on the violent Nick and try to foil the syndicate's plans to elect Welch, the crooked prosecutor running for a crooked judgeship.
Captain Thomas McQuigg is an honest cop who wants to keep the rackets out of his precinct. The problem is that a national crime syndicate has moved into the city and is being fronted by a local hood, Nick Scanlon. After Scanlon tries to kill him, McQuigg and one of his patrolmen, Bob Johnson, decide to make an arrest that will stick, despite all of the corruption around them. They arrest Scanlon's brother in an attempt to smoke out Nick who will stop at nothing to set him free.
In New York, corruption has reached all levels under the command of the powerful mobster lord "The Old Man" and the local crime boss Nick Scanlon. When the Crime Commission under the command of Chief Investigator Harry Craig meets with governor, the disbelief of the population is almost total. Craig tells that the uncorrupted Captain Thomas McQuigg was moved to the 7th District Police Station and has the intention to clean his district. The Commission counts on the testimony of Roy Higgins but Nick sends one of his men to eliminate him. McQuigg uses his honest Officer Bob Johnson to arrest Nick's brother Joe Scanlon and his lover and singer Irene Hayes to press Nick, under the protest of the corrupt District Attorney Mortimer X. Welsh, who is supported by the mafia to the position of judge on the next elections. When Nick kills Bob, he sees the collapse of his empire and the end of the support of "The Old Man".

