In Europe at the start of World War II, a woman notices that wherever her husband goes, the Nazis seem to follow. Meanwhile, a charming reporter is following them.
At the start of WWII, Katie O'Hara, an American burlesque girl intent on social climbing, marries Austrian Baron Von Luber. Pat O'Toole, an American radio reporter, sees this as a chance to investigate Von Luber, who is suspected of having Nazi ties. As country after country falls to the Nazis, O'Tool follows O'Hara across Europe. At first he is after a story, but he gradually falls in love with her. When she learns that her husband is indeed a Nazi, O'Hara fakes her death and runs off with O'Toole. In Paris, she is recruited to spy for the allies; he uses a radio broadcast to make Von Luber and the Nazis look like fools.
1938. Based in Vienna, Austrian Baron Franz Von Luber and old money Philadelphia socialite Katherine Butt-Smith (Butt pronounced Bute) get married in Prague, before heading off on an around the continent honeymoon. American radio broadcaster Patrick O'Toole, also currently based in Vienna as a correspondent, is assigned by his boss Ed Cumberland to discover the truth about Von Luber, who Ed is certain is not only a Nazi sympathizer, but is strategically placed within Adolf Hitler's regime. Indeed, the honeymoon is only a guise for Von Luber to pave the way in those locations where he and the Baroness will be traveling like Czechoslovakia, Poland, Norway and France for the Nazis to overtake those countries. Unable to get to Von Luber directly, Pat decides to get his story through the Baroness instead. In meeting the Baroness, Pat is amazed by her resemblance to a burlesque queen he saw perform in Brooklyn named Kathie O'Hara. Indeed, the Baroness is said Kathie O'Hara, a social climber trying to put her burlesque life behind her. In falling for the Baroness, Pat tries to rescue her from her marriage to Von Luber, she who begins to believe the stories about her husband. In Kathie too falling for Pat, they have decide how best to save themselves for that happily ever after against what good they can be in thwarting Von Luber's plans.
Katherine Butt-Smith, a Brooklyn-born gold digger, finally got her catch and was about to marry a baron. The only trouble is, her Baron was working for Hitler, helping to infiltrate European countries through "goodwill" tours.Reporter Patrick O'Toole had been trying to gather information for a story on the Baron. Having met Katie, disguised as a dressmaker, Patrick was intrigued by Katie's beauty and her complete ignorance and disregard for politics.The Baron and Baroness went on their honeymoon, and Patrick followed their trail - as every country the Baron's been to seem to fall under the Nazi.In Warsaw Katie had her rude awakening: Her husband was arrested, Patrick told her about the dark side of the Baron, and her Jewish maid Anna had her children hiding in her hotel room, fearing that they would be arrested and sent to concentration camps. Katie gave her passport to Anna to help them escape, Patrick lost his passport in a fire. The two were about to head for the American embassy when they were arrested by the Gestapo - Katie was carrying Anna's passport.The mix-up was sorted out by the American embassy just in time, and Patrick and Katie were on their way back to the States. When they were in Paris waiting for the next ship, Katie met Gaston Le Blanc, a double agent posing as a photographer specialising in passport photos. Gaston managed to appeal to Katie's patriotism and she agreed to sacrifice her love for Patrick and return to the Baron.As Patrick sat in a café, drinking away the misery of the mysterious disappearance of Katie, he met the Baron, and was offered the job of the announcer for Hitler's propaganda broadcast to the US. Patrick decided to play the typical money-hungry American and take the job after he realised that Katie's gone back to the Baron. Le Blanc happened to be tailing the Baron at the time and told Patrick about Katie's becoming a spy.Katie was not good at espionage and was being watched. After her secret rendezvou with Le Blanc, he was killed and she was arrested. As a courtesy to the Baron, Katie was brought back to the hotel to change before questioning. Anna, now working at the same hotel, came to Katie's rescue. She switched clothes with Anna and went to find Patrick as Le Blanc instructed, who was preparing to start the live broadcast.Using innuendos and casually misplaced words, Patrick managed to have the Baron arrested for treason. He and Katie promptly quit the spy business and headed home.On board the ship, Patrick was shocked when a trembling Katie told him that the Baron was on board as well, and that she's just pushed him overboard. Having confirmed that Katie's got her divorce and the Baron couldn't swim, the captain turned the ship around and dropped the rescue attempt.
