Junkman and movie-maker Harlan Hollis struggles to stay alive when a jealous partner in his company hires goons to kill him. Full of amazing car chases, fantastic crashes, and edge-of-your-seat action.
Harlan B. Hollis (H.B. Halicki) is a self-made millionaire-turned independent filmmaker who is shooting his latest car chase film. He runs his own studio with the help of his brother-in-law Michael Fox (Christopher Stone), the head of public relations, whose sister was tragically killed in an automobile accident, Arthur Wheeler (Lang Jeffries), who handles theatrical bookings and his childhood friend Richard (Richard L. Muse), the company's vice president. Also helping Harlan out at the studio is his teenage daughter Kelly (Kelly Busia), who is soon turning 16 and Harlan is planning to throw her a surprise party. Harlan is also planning to make a special appearance at a James Dean memorial festival in Dean's hometown of Shalam, California, that weekend. News reporter Susan (Susan Shaw) is hired to do a cover story on Harlan and the premiere of his latest film.However, a team of expert assassins: Blackbird (Rita Rickard), Magnum (Dave Logue), and Cover (Tony Ostermeier) are hired by a hit man named Frank Spyros, (Kopi Sotiropoulos), who owns an airplane hangar as a front, to rub out Harlan before he arrives to the event. They are also instructed to destroy any car or any one that gets in their way. The night before the festival, Harlan has a heart-to-heart with Kelly about how he tried very hard to be both mother and father to her and that to be grateful that she has what she has and eventually take responsibility for her advantages and they both hug. The next day, the assassins are ready for the ambush and while Harlan drives to the James Dean festival, he is immediately besieged by exploding hand grenades, gunfire, and the assassins commandeering various cars and airplanes. The dangerous chase causes massive car pile-ups and property damage to various locations. When Harlan manages to escape his pursuers by blowing up Magnum's car and Cover's plane, killing both of them, one of the other assassins in another plane drops a grenade in front of Harlan's car, losing control and plowing through an empty suburban home. The assassin throws another grenade through the house, blowing up the property and torching the car. Miraculously, Harlan escapes the explosion and meets up with Susan, her cameraman Jack (Jack Vacek) and sound man Bruce (Bruce Cameron), whose car was also damaged during the pursuit. Though badly injured, Harlan recruits the three to find out who is trying to kill him.However, the news reports falsely claim that Harlan died in the explosion and his sudden death shocks everyone associated with him, including Kelly. Susan is also under pressure from her fussy boss Larry Bergleman (Dan Grimaldi) to get the story as a deadline is approaching and Harlan escapes Susan's house to equip himself with money, a gun, and a yellow Corvette (all provided by Harlan's friend Hoyt Axton). Back at the studio, Arthur gives security guard Dennis (Dennis Stouffer) strict orders not to let anyone on the property, unless they are employees, but Michael allows Susan and her crew access for the cover story. However, the FBI arrive to grill Richard, who was recently promoted to studio president following Harlan's supposed death, who they believe was responsible for the ambush attempt, but their lawyers speak on behalf of Richard saying he has nothing to say to them and are told to leave. Susan attempts to interview Arthur for the story, but shoots her down when she accuses him of using Harlan's passing to increase his personal earnings. That night, Harlan sneaks into the studio, but finds himself trying to hide himself from Dennis, who chases him away with gunfire. He steals his priceless Eleanor Mustang and drives it through a wall. He hops over the front gate, where Jack and Bruce are waiting and help him escape before the cops arrive.The next day, Susan is assigned to interview Spyros at his hangar. She notices that two of the planes were used for the assassination attempt, spooking him. Later on, he is met by Blackbird, one of the remaining assassins, and shoots him dead and steals a bomb, using it to blow up a limousine at the movie premiere. Harlan arrives at Spyro's workplace to see him sitting on his chair dead. An employee comes in and Harlan orders him to face the wall, before taking off in the Corvette. The employee immediately phones the cops and Harlan, now accused of murder, is pursued by a convoy of police cars. Harlan eventually totals his car, but escapes in the Goodyear blimp sitting in a nearby field. He instructs its commander Nick Nickolary to drop him off at the Cinerama Dome in Hollywood, where the premiere is being held, as well as the police sergeant (Phil Boroff) to dispatch units to the location. When Harlan arrives, he notices the limo bomb is planning to blow up the rest of Harlan's studio staff and he discovers Michael was behind the whole thing. As the police swoop in to arrest Blackbird, Harlan chases Michael onto the theater's roof. Michael tells Harlan that it was himself that made Harlan famous and Michael wants all the fame and fortune for himself. He picks up a two-by-four and taunts Harlan with it. He lunges to hit Harlan, but loses his balance and falls to his death. Jack and Bruce manage to extract the bomb from the limo and throw it in the air, exploding under a parked carpet cleaning truck. Harlan and Kelly happily embrace and the studio throws a massive birthday blowout for her.
