In 1845 Montana, a Blackfoot Chief tries to buy a cure for his tribe's small-pox infection but the white settlers are unsympathetic forcing the Indian Chief to resort to desperate measures.
Set in the autumn and winter seasons of 1845 Montana, the Blackfoot tribe of Chief Winterhawk are ill. His friend and blood-brother, trapper Guthrie, suggests he ask the Settlers in a nearby settlement for help, but they, learning that Wintehawk's people are infected by smallpox, become afraid and back away quickly. Two fur trappers/smugglers, Gates and Scoby, tell Winterhawk and his Braves to follow them and they will take them to someone that has the cure.The Trappers ambush and murder Winterhawk's Braves as Winterhawk escapes after sensing something is wrong. In retribution, Winterhawk and more of his Braves abducts a young woman, Clayanna, and her brother Cotton, from the settlement. Clayanna's uncle Finley, organizes a posse of several trackers by hiring Guthrie, under protest, to follow Winterhawk and his band of warriors, leaving Guthries woman, Pale Flower alone, to get Clayanna and Cotton back at any cost. However, the two murderous trappers who slaughtered Winterhawk's Braves are ahead of the rescue party selling furs stolen from Pale Flower, after raping and murdering her while Guthrie is away.
In 1840 Idaho territory, the Native American Blackfoot Siksika tribe is nearly decimated by smallpox. A white mountain man named Guthrie (Leife Erickson) encourages Blackfoot Chief Winterhawk (Michael Dante) to initiate trade with white settlers, since they have medicine that will save his people. Although Winterhawk has remained a mystery to the white community, he guides his braves to a nearby homestead.At the homestead, beautiful Clayanna Finley (Dawn Wells) and her younger brother, Cotton (Chuck Pierce Jr.), prepare to visit their father on a journey guided by their wealthy, missionary uncle, Will Finley (Elisa Cook Jr.). The locals are astonished to behold Winterhawk and welcome him to the camp. Speaking in broken English, Winterhawk declares his intention to trade for the smallpox remedy, but the onlookers back away in fear of getting the disease. One man agrees to lead the chief to a medicine source, but two outlaws named Gates (L.Q. Jones) and Scoby (Dennis Fimple) ambush Winterhawk along the trail. In the ensuing fight, two Indians are shot dead; however, Winterhawk gets away.That evening, the homesteaders prepare for Winterhawk's revenge. Will Finley argues in favor of going after Gates and Scoby, to bring them to Winterhawk, but another man warns that the chief will not negotiate.The next day, Clayanna and Cotton wander in a field discussing God as Winterhawk gallops toward the homestead; two Indians capture the siblings at the chief's behest. The white settlers give chase on horseback, but the Indians get away after a standoff.Sometime later, the men appeal for help from Winterhawk's confidante, Guthrie, who is married to a Blackfoot woman named Pale Flower. Guthrie reports that Clayanna and Cotton have likely been embraced as members of the Blackfoot tribe, but their uncle, Finley, is fearful of their fate. Guthrie feels responsible for sending Winterhawk to trade with the white men and agrees to join the homesteaders on their rescue mission.Meanwhile, Winterhawk tells Clayanna and Cotton that their abduction has settled the score; two Blackfoot men were killed, and in return two homesteaders have been taken. Clayanna is convinced she and her brother will be rescued, but they slowly become accustomed to Blackfoot life.Back at Guthrie's cabin, the outlaws Gates and Scoby search for the homesteader posse and attack Pale Flower (Sacheen Littlefeather), who is now living alone in her husband's absence; Gates rapes and kills the Indian maiden. Elsewhere, Winterhawk receives word that Guthrie and the settlers are on his trail as he moves toward Canada. Although he believes Guthrie is trustworthy, he orders his men to go after the pursuers. However, the braves are no match for the homesteaders shotguns, and several Indians are killed. One survivor shares the news with Winterhawk, but falls dead in a river, and Clayanna goes after the brave. Winterhawk is moved by her compassion and cuts her and Cotton's hands free from their restraints.Months later as the first snow of the winter season begins to fall, Clayanna promises Winterhawk riches and amnesty in return for freedom. Winterhawk is impressed by her courage, but refuses to release the siblings. Elsewhere, Guthrie warns his posse that the recent Blackfoot standoff has put them in great danger, and the group is ambushed the following day. A mountain man named Big Smith (Seamon Glass) is shot in the back with an arrow, but he kills two more Indians. The settlers bury their fallen comrade and resume their rescue mission.However, Gates and Scoby are still on their trail with stolen horses, including one belonging to Pale Feather. When they try to sell the horses at a remote saloon, the owner, McClusky (Arthur Hunnicutt), recognizes Pale Feather's horse and reports the news to Guthrie. Realizing Pale Feather is dead, Guthrie demands to know the culprits whereabouts, and McClusky directs him to Johnsons Pass.Despite the snowy terrain, Guthrie tracks down the outlaws, injures Gates with a gunshot, and takes the men hostage. Elsewhere, Cotton learns that Winterhawk's wife died long ago of smallpox, "the white mans disease". Cotton apologizes to the chief, then pleases his sister with the news that Winterhawk is unattached. The Indians continue their trek north, but Winterhawk is distressed by his failure to trade for a smallpox remedy. He sees Clayanna and Cotton as his last hope to bargain for the white man's medicine. However, an old warrior warns that the hostages will only provoke further violence.Sometime later, the settlers Indian informant seizes the old warrior at knife point to broker an exchange with Winterhawk, but the aged man suddenly dies. When Winterhawk realizes he has been betrayed, the informant Indian is tortured with a burning log. Guthrie and the settlers watch from afar and shoot the persecuted Indian dead to relieve him from pain. Winterhawk finds their camp and approaches with Clayanna and Cotton. The Indian chief thinks Guthrie has betrayed him, too, but the mountain man declares that he has acted in the Winterhawks favor, bringing him the detained murderers, Gates and Scoby.Winterhawk offers to trade Clayanna and Cotton for medicine, and vows to fight the homesteaders if they disagree. In the ensuing battle, Cotton runs after Winterhawk, whom he now considers a friend. The boy is accidentally impaled by one of the homesteaders spears. As Clayanna screams in horror, Winterhawk removes the weapon and Uncle Finley is reunited with his injured nephew. Clayanna and Cotton are set free, and Gates is left behind to die in the cold with Scoby's recently deceased corpse. As Winterhawk gallops away on the horizon, Clayanna realizes her place is now with him. She leaves her family and guides her horse to join the warrior chief.
