Three sailors on a day of shore leave in New York City look for fun and romance before their twenty-four hours are up.
Three sailors - Gabey, Chip and Ozzie - let loose on a 24-hour pass in New York and the Big Apple will never be the same! Gabey falls head over heels for "Miss Turnstiles of the Month" (he thinks she's a high society deb when she's really a 'cooch dancer at Coney Island); innocent Chip gets highjacked (literally) by a lady cab driver; and Ozzie becomes the object of interest of a gorgeous anthropologist who thinks he's the perfect example of a "prehistoric man". Wonderful music and terrific shots of New York at its best.
Three sailors get a 24 hour pass when their ship docks in New York. Gabey falls in love with a young woman he sees in a subway station and is shown on a poster as Miss Turnstyle of the Month. He spends most of his day trying to find her. Chip has his day all planned out and is intent on doing a lot of sightseeing. A friendly lady cab driver is more than happy to help him out. Ozzie meanwhile comes across an attractive anthropologist who thinks he the perfect example of primitive man. All in all, the sailors have the best 24 hours of the lives.
Gabey, Chip and Ozzie are among one wave of US Navy sailors from their ship on a twenty-four hour shore leave in New York City, where none of the three has ever been. With a forty-five year old guidebook in hand, Chip wants to see the sights, but gets sidetracked when he gets in the sights of smitten cabbie Hildy Esterhazy, who won't let him go as long as he's in the city. Ozzie, who is basically following his mates, may instead want to follow anthropologist Claire Huddesen, who is into prehistoric looking men like Ozzie. Unlike his two friends, Gabey purposefully wants to spend his time with a beautiful, sophisticated New York gal. He believes he's found that girl, at least her photograph, when he sees a poster for the subway system's newly crowned Miss Turnstiles for June, Ivy Smith, who he mistakenly believes is the belle of New York high society. Based on the bio on the poster, Gabey goes on a search for her. His two pals help him, but manage equally to spend quality alone time with their respective new female friends. The questions become if Gabey will be able to find Ivy, if so if she will give him the time of day, and if he would feel the same about her if he knew that she's just a working girl from small town USA trying to make it in the big city. Through it all, the six get into one misadventure after another - largely based on Hildy's long overdue cab and Ozzie causing a mishap at a museum - as they take in all New York City has to offer.
Sailors Gabey, Chip, and Ozzie are very excited about getting a 24-hour leave and spending it in New York, New York - a wonderful town! They are especially concerned with the female inhabitants of the city, and each finds his own to cuddle up with. Chip tries but can't resist the horny advances of a cab driver, Ozzie gladly fills the role of a lovely anthropologist's "prehistoric man," and after much desperate searching, Gabey finds the model who poses for the Miss Turnstiles advertisements, who isn't quite the glamorous celebrity he envisioned but nevertheless will do.

