A relatively boring Los Angeles couple discovers a bizarre, if not murderous, way to get funding for opening a restaurant.
When a Paul enters his apartment to find Mary fighting off a swinger who has gotten into the wrong apartement (and thinks that Mary is just playing hard to get) he hits the man with a frying pan, killing him. Their dreams of running a small resturant seem to be in jeopardy until they decide to dispose of the body, keep the wallet, and to advertise for other sexually oriented visitors who are summarily killed, bagged, robbed and disposed of. This goes along quite well until one night a burglar named Raoul breaks in and cuts himself in for a piece of the action.
Married Paul and Mary Bland, a wine store clerk and hospital nurse/nutritionist respectively, lead an atypical Hollywood life, as they are as straight-laced as a couple could be, especially about sex as witnessed by them sleeping in separate twin beds. Foodies, their dream is to open a gourmet restaurant, although they have no money to do so except for Paul's expensive collection of wines, which he wants to save as calling cards for the restaurant's wine cellar. After failing to get the money for the restaurant by legitimate means, they decide to lure men to their apartment in the guise of a sex fantasy business and kill them to be able to steal their money, the idea stemming from Paul having recently killed a man who tried to rape Mary, the man who was attending a swingers' party in an apartment down the hall from theirs and who had a large wad of cash in his pockets. In bumping off these men, they would not only get the needed money for the restaurant but also rid the world of who they consider sexual perverts. They get an unexpected third in their larceny in the form of Raoul Mendoza, an unscrupulous locksmith and fraudster of all trades who finds out about the murders but doesn't want any of the cash on hand, only the cadavers which he will sell to an unspecified buyer, the money from which he will split equally with them. After a further discovery two have about their partnership, one of them feels that a partnership of two would be better for all, the third who he/she wants to eliminate permanently, that third not necessarily being Raoul. What happens is partly affected by Paul and Mary discovering what exactly Raoul does with the cadavers, and how else he has been profiting from the business without telling them.
The Blands are a couple living in swinging Los Angeles, with their ultra-conservative ways, they find it hard to live life in the midst of completely obnoxious swinging bachelors. But one incident too grand to ignore leaves one of them dead, with a wallet full of cash. The birth of a scheme comes to light when they decide to off the swingers in their apartment with the use of a frying pan to the head. But fate intervenes when they meet a cat burglar named Raoul, who devises a plan for them to dispose of the bodies. But things take a turn for the worst when people become untrustworthy leaving one of them for dead.

