Although married Chinese farmers Wang and O-Lan initially experience success, their lives are complicated by declining fortunes and lean times, as well as the arrival of the beautiful young Lotus.
The story of a farmer in China: a story of humility and bravery. His father gives Wang Lung a freed slave as wife. By diligence and frugality the two manage to enlarge their property. But then a famine forces them to leave their land and live in the town. However it turns out to be a blessing in disguise for them...
Wang is a poor farmer who bears the brunt of living a hand to mouth existence. Into his life comes a new bride, O-Lan and his luck begins to change. Not only does she bear him a son, he soon makes enough money from his harvest to buy a bit more land. Forced to relocate to the city when famine sets in, it is again O-Lan that unexpectedly finds their fortune giving them the opportunity to return to the land that Wang holds so dear. With his new-found wealth however, Wang also decides to take a much younger and prettier second wife and again, his fortunes seem to change. It is only at the end that he realizes how important O-Lan was to the good life he has led.
Rural China, 1930s. A farmer, Wang (played by Paul Muni), is given a small plot of land by his father. Soon after he marries O-Lan (Luise Rainer) in an arranged marriage. Things go well: not only does he buy more land but he and his wife have three children. Then famine strikes the land and they are forced to move to the city, doing anything to stay alive. It looks like Wang and his family have to start all over again.
The many ups and downs in the lives of Chinese farmers Wang Lung and O-Lan. Though the couple initially finds success farming their land, their fortunes decline, and lean times follow. Later, when Wang Lung and O-Lan once again reap bountiful harvests and raise a family, the presence of the beautiful young Lotus complicates their lives further.
Wang, a poor Chinese farmer, marries Olan, a slave from the 'Great House' and starts raising a family. When famine hits, Wang takes his family south to the city in search of work. Olan stays with him through hard times and revolution and helps get enough money to return the family to their northern farmlands. Wang becomes prosperous but his passions sway to a younger woman. The young woman's indiscretions with Wang's now grown up son cause a family rift but Olan remains steadfast. Then a new challenge arrives - a plague of locusts.

