After the nurse who declares that a recent surgical death was a murder dies also, an enigmatic Scotland Yard inspector arrives to investigate.
In a rural English hospital during WWII, a postman dies on the operating table. One of the nurses states that she has proof of who the murderer is. The facetious Inspector Cockrill suspects one of the five doctors and nurses who were in the operating theater to be the assassin. But four poisonous pills have disappeared....
When not dealing with casualties from V1 raids on London, operating theatre staff at Heron's Park Hospital spend their time handling their jealousies, rivalries, and unrequited loves. When a nurse on the team announces publicly that a recent death in theatre was murder, she too soon meets a grisly fate. Enter unorthodox Inspector Cockrill from Scotland Yard to try to unravel the bitter cross-currents that lead to the crimes.
After Nursing Sister Marion Bates publicly claims that a recent surgical patient, postman Joseph Higgins, was murdered on the operating table, she too is found dead. Before being wheeled into the operating theatre, Higgins, who had been injured in a V-1 rocket attack, claimed to have recognized someone's voice. He also chastised the anesthetist, Dr. Barnes. When Bates is soon after found dead, stabbed in the chest with a scalpel, Inspector Cockrill of Scotland Yard arrives to investigate. Several members of the staff have secrets, be they love affairs or something else and it isn't at all clear who might be responsible or why. In the end, a surgical gown and a dab of paint leads Cockrill to the killer.
Inspector Cockrill (Alastair Sim) of Scotland Yard begins retelling the story in voice over of the string of murders that occurred in a British Army Hospital during World War 2. It appears that a postman wounded by a German V-1 bomb has been brought into the operating theatre for surgery by Mr. Eden (Leo Genn) and Nurse Linley (Sally Gray), mysteriously dies from unknown causes during a relatively minor surgical procedure. For the anesthetist Dr. Barney Barnes (Trevor Howard) this is a repeat of a similar event he was responsible for from a few years back and he is confounded by the event. This is just the start as Nurse Bates (Judy Campbell), jealous over the attention that Eden shows to Sally, proclaims to a room full of hospital employees at a dance that the postman was murdered and further more that she knows where the clues are. As she goes to retrieve the evidence in the darkness of the operating theatre, a killer dressed in white operating scrubs appears behind her in a flash of light. After this and some other unexplainable events Inspector Cockrill comes in to investigate the case; he determines that any one of the five remaining medical professionals could be the murderer. When an attempt is made on the life of one of the nurses, Inspector Cockrill uses her as bait to draw out the real murderer by setting up an operation identical to the one in which the postman died, causing the murderer to appear.
