A toxic spill revives a beautiful, dead heiress who, with the help of her childhood friend, must quench her insatiable thirst for blood.
Abruptly, the eternal slumber of the once vital 20-year-old Catherine Valmont is disturbed when a violent tremor shakes her damp and sombre underground crypt in the very foundation of her once vibrant French château. Now that the much lamented, delicate and oblivious Catherine is enticed to dwell in the world of the living tethered to the place she used to live, summoning pale memories of her beloved blood-sister Hélène remains her only link to this earth except for that vague, yet overwhelming rabid desire for innocent fragrant blood. Sooner or later, the dumbfounded Hélène will encounter once again her solitary dark sister who is longing for her in silence, nevertheless, is the cryptic Catherine the person she once knew or has she become a grim and soulless monster?
When they were children, Catherine [Francoise Blanchard] and Hélène [Marina Pierro] swore blood oaths that
they would always love each other and, whomever died first, the other
would follow. It was Catherine who was first to go. She was laid to rest
in the Valmont crypt underneath the family castle. Two years later,
however, some men reawaken Catherine while illegally dumping toxic waste
in the Valmont vault. Unfortunately, Catherine now requires the blood of
the living to survive.Having just returned from a lengthy trip, Hélène telephones the
Valmont castle which, unbeknown to her, is up for sale. Catherine, who
is a virtual zombie, picks up the receiver while playing a musicbox that
she and Hélène shared. Not knowing who answered the phone, Hélène pays the
castle a visit, only to find Catherine and the dead bodies of the waste
dumpers, the real estate saleswoman, and her boyfriend. Concerned for
Catherine, Hélène cleans up the mess, thinking that Catherine is sick and
that her death was faked. When Hélène realizes that Catherine needs human
blood, she begins to lure young women to the castle to provide it, while
trying harder and harder to bring Catherine out of her catatonia. It's
working. Catherine is beginning to "wake up" and become less and less of a
zombie. She regains the ability to speak and to recognize the nature of
her emotions. She also comprehends that she is "evil," a living dead girl,
and refuses to drink any more blood. She begs Hélène to kill her, but
Hélène refuses.Meanwhile, Barbara Simon [Carina Barone] and her American friend Greg [Mike Marshall] are in town
taking photographs. Barbara shot a picture of Catherine walking through a
field and has become interested in her. Barbara begins asking the
townspeople if they recognize the girl in the photograph. In all cases,
she is identified as Catherine Valmont who died two years ago. But Barbara
just took the photo a day ago so this is impossible according to Greg, who
thinks the girl is just a Catherine lookalike. Barbara decides to pay a
visit to the Valmont castle to see if she can get Catherine to pose for
more photos. When Barbara meets Catherine face to face and Catherine is
mumbling jibberish about being dead, Barbara concludes that Catherine is
disturbed and in need of help. Hélène attempts to wrest the camera from
Barbara, but Barbara is able to escape. At a town festival that evening,
Barbara spies Hélène, who is in town seeking the next meal for Catherine.
Barbara convinces Greg to accompany her to the castle. Bad move. Hélène
sets Barbara afire and drops an axe into Greg's skull.Catherine, wanting to rest in peace, sets the latest victim free and
advises her to tell everyone in town what happened. Hélène, remembering
her blood oath, promises to stay with Catherine, even knowing what the
consequences might be. So Catherine kills Hélène and drinks her blood.
[Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.]
