In post-war Berlin, an American private helps a lost Czech boy find his mother.
A silent nine-year-old Czech boy, a survivor of Auschwitz, flees a refugee center in postwar Germany and is found by an American G.I. At the same time, the boy's mother, the sole surviving member of his family, searches refugee centers for her son. Time, distance, and the massive numbers of refugee children are factors hampering the reunion of mother and son.
During the Post-War a group of orphans arrive to an assistance center of the U.S. Army. This is an eclectic group, formed with kids from almost every point of Europe, such as Germany, France, Poland. There's one boy, Karel Malik, who almost say a word and doesn't know to much about himself. He has a french friend, and during a transfer they escape with other scare kids and hide in the ruins of the bombed Berlin. The french boy tragically dies and after being wander around in the streets, Karel meets Ralph, a private of the U.S. Army, who takes the frightened boy to his house. Ralph will teach the boy to speak in English and will take care of him. Everything goes well for Karel, until he begins to question Ralph about his mother. Meanwhile, Karel's mother is desperately searching his son, despite the news about his possible death. Karel's about to travel with Ralph to the United States.
In post-World War II Germany, The United Nation Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA) has to deal with thousand of displaced persons, many of them children. In this group is young Karel Malik, a Czech boy who was in a concentration camp from such a young age that he remembers little if anything of his life before the camps. His mother Anna has also survived the concentration camps and has spent the last 7 months looking for her son. The boy is fearful of adults and has run away from the UNRRA home only to be taken in by a kindly US soldier who is prepared to take the boy home to America.
The Maliks are a young Czech family consisting of mother and doctor father, Hannah and Jan, and children, older daughter Vlasda and younger son Karel. During World War II, the Nazis separate the family: Jan and Vlasda are eventually killed, and Hannah and Karel, together, are sent to Auschwitz where they are eventually separated from each other. In post war Germany, Hannah, looking for Karel, wanders from one United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA) camp after another, these camps where many of the children who were separated from their parents during the war are housed. Meanwhile, U.S. Army engineer, Ralph 'Steve' Stevenson, finds a scared and hungry Karel wandering the streets - Karel managed to run away from one of the UNRRA camps. Suspicious of Steve at first, Karel, who Steve renames "Jim" as he will not provide his own name, ultimately learns to trust Steve. Thinking that Jim's mother is dead, Steve wants to bring Jim back to the United States with him, not knowing that Jim's mother is on a desperate mission looking for her son.

