Ilsa is an evil Nazi warden at a death camp that conducts "medical experiments". Ilsa's goal is to prove that women can withstand more pain and suffering than men and therefore should be allowed to fight on the front lines.
The scene is set from the start - Ilsa, chief warden of a Nazi concentration - is enjoying the pleasures of one of her male captives. He has the temerity to orgasm before she does, and is speedily hauled off by 2 of Ilsa's henchwomen for speedy castration. Shortly after, a lorry load of fresh female captives arrives. Ilsa informs them: "Do not be afraid, we are doctors." While this statement is true, the reality is that she wishes to use them in "medical experiments" to prove that women are as able to withstand pain as men, in fact better. This is in fact "proved" by flogging one of each to death at the same time, with the two henchwomen laying on with whips while stripped to the waist. After much more along the same lines, Ilsa's nemesis arrives - a blond, blue-eyed American who has been swept up in the death camps. He satisfies her, but weakened by lust for him, Ilsa fails to spot the inevitable prisoners revolt which reverses the table on the baddies. Ilsa is given the full, um, lash by the delectable Dianne Thorne - the bogus German action laid on with a trowel, magnificent breasts deployed at every available opportunity. The success of Ilsa begat a series of similarly themed knock offs by the one and only Jess Franco - the best of these, set in a dodgy South American prison - is Ilsa, Wicked Warden.
The Teutonic deity, Ilsa, fearful Commandant of a Nazi prison camp, conducts indefatigably excruciating and sadistic medical experiments on inmates, obsessed to prove that females can endure more pain than men. But during the long and lonely nights of the camp, Ilsa attempts to appease her ravenous and damnably insatiable erotic appetite for men, looking for the right one who can satisfy her needs. Soon, a handsome convict will become indispensable to the warden, however, his plans for escape from the infernal camp of the Third Reich will threaten to put an end to Ilsa's reign of terror.

