Bent on winning a Pulitzer Prize, a journalist commits himself to a mental institution to solve a strange and unclear murder.
Johnny Barrett, an ambitious journalist, is determined to win a Pulitzer Prize by solving a murder committed in a lunatic asylum and witnessed only by three inmates, from whom the police have been unable to extract the information. With the connivance of a psychiatrist, and the reluctant help of his girlfriend, he succeeds in having himself declared insane and sent to the asylum. There he slowly tracks down and interviews the witnesses - but things are stranger than they seem ...
The ambitious journalist of the Daily Globe Johnny Barrett aims to win the Pulitzer Prize solving the murder of the inmate Slone, stabbed in the kitchen of a mental hospital with a butcher knife and witnessed by three insane interns. With the support of his boss and manager of the newspaper Swanson and the orientation of the psychiatrist Dr. Fong, Johnny simulates an incestuous situation with his stripper girlfriend Cathy, who is totally against the idea, and is sent to the institution. While being submitted to a mental treatment along the weeks, he approaches the three witnesses, waiting for a moment of sanity to interview them. The former soldier Stuart tells him that the killer wore white pants; the former university black student Trent tells him that it was an attendant; and the former physicist Dr. Boden tells him the name of the killer. However, Johnny finds the price he pays for his award.
Journalist Johnny Barrett is out to solve a murder at an insane asylum but the only way he can do so is to have himself committed to the institution and solve the crime from the inside. He spends a full year being coached by professionals to convince psychiatrists that he is a fetishist who desires his sister sexually. Posing as his sister, his girlfriend Cathy files a complaint with the police leading to Johnny's arrest and eventual committal. Once inside he encounters a variety of mental patients but learns that there were three witnesses to the murder of the patient named Sloan. The first was Stuart who thinks he's a Confederate general. In a lucid moment he tells Johnny that the killer wore white pants, meaning the killer is either a doctor or an attendant. The second patient, Trent, is an African-American who hates blacks and in his mind is a member of the KKK. He can't identify the killer but the third witness, Boden, tells him exactly who the killer is. Unfortunately for Johnny his own mental condition has been deteriorating and is now behaving erratically, to the point that even when the doctors learn of the deception, they're not sure they can release him.
Daily Globe newspaper reporter Johnny Barrett has just been institutionalized at a criminal psychiatric hospital as a sexual deviant, his sister Cathy charging him with attempted incest. What the institution psychiatrists don't know is that Johnny's deviance is all made up. Johnny wanted to be committed there to solve a crime that happened at the hospital, the murder of a patient named Sloan, the resulting story which Johnny believes will win him the Pulitzer Prize. The only people who know and support Johnny in this venture are Swanee, his managing editor, psychiatrist Dr. Fong, Swanee's friend who trained Johnny for a year for this job, and Cathy, who is really his girlfriend. Cathy in reality is scared for Johnny, fearing that Johnny cannot help but be affected by the battery of tests and to what he is being exposed on a 24/7 basis as a "crazy" person. Despite abhorring her own job as an exotic dancer/singer, which she does because as better paying than secretarial work it will get her and Johnny to their dream faster, she still believes what she does is more respectable than this undercover work. Three patients witnessed the murder, but in their mental states have not been able to provide any useful information to the police. Johnny believes as a fellow patient he can get one or a combination of the three to a lucid enough state for them to divulge the killer to him. The question becomes if he can discover the identity of the killer either before he is found out or the institution gets the better of him.

