San Francisco ex-con Eddie Pedak wants to go straight but local cop Mike Vido, motivated by a personal vendetta, keeps harassing him while Eddie's brother, Walter, wants Eddie for one last major heist.
Eddie Pedak, a convicted criminal, has a steady job, a wife and daughter and he puts a down payment on a boat. He also has a police detective and brother after him, the first believes Eddie shot him, the second wants him for one last heist.
In San Francisco, ex-con Eddie Pedak, who served time for armed robbery in cahoots with a gang led by his brother Walter Pedak, has been out of jail for six years and is still on parole. Since then, he met his current wife Kristine, they had a daughter Kathy, and he has tried to live his life on the straight and narrow... or so he says. San Francisco Police Inspector Mike Vido is certain that Eddie was one of two who recently held up a grocery store and in the process shot and killed its proprietress point blank, and used the moneys from the robbery to place a down payment on a fishing boat. Vido has been tracking Eddie for years - sometimes to the point of harassment - since Vido is also certain that it was Eddie who once shot him in the gut during a robbery, despite Vido having only seen the shooter's eyes. Vido's current harassment causes problems for Eddie in maintaining a job. Walter and the rest of the gang also reenter Eddie's life - which is against the stipulations of Eddie's parole - Walter who wants to enlist Eddie in one last big heist worth $1 million. These events place a strain on Eddie and Kristine's relationship. As Vido provides Eddie with some news about the grocery store hold-up, Eddie and Kristine individually make some decisions on how best to move forward in their lives.
In San Francisco, two men kill a Chinese woman after robbing her store. One of the thieves has the same characteristics of the Italian immigrant Eddie Pedak and he becomes the prime suspect of Inspector Mike Vido. Eddie is an ex-thief that was found not guilty for shooting Vito in a bank heist, but the inspector blames him. Presently Eddie is married with a child with Kristine Pedak, works as a truck driver and has put a down payment on a fishing vessel with his savings. Out of the blue, Eddie's brother and gangster Walter Pedak and his henchmen Arthur Sargatanas and Cleveland 'Cleve' Shoenstein visit Eddie to invite him to participate in a one-million dollar heist. Eddie loses his job and his personal life is deeply affected by Vito since he can not find another job. He decides to meet his brother and accepts to participate in the hold up. Meanwhile Vito discovers that Eddie was actually framed in the Chinese murder. He visits Eddie to disclose his findings to him but Eddie has already participated in the plan. What will happen to him?

