A hard-nosed newspaper editor poses as a night school student in order to woo a journalism teacher who cannot stand him.
James Gannon, the hardboiled city editor of a newspaper, believes that the only way to learn the business is by way of the School of Hard Knocks, and has a very low regard for college-taught journalism, so he's not pleased when his managing editor orders him to help Erica Stone, a college professor, with her journalism class. Finding himself attracted to her, he pretends to be a student in her class, not revealing he's Gannon, whom she despises. As they bob and weave around their mutual growing attraction, they both begin to gain respect for each other's approaches to reporting news, but how will Erica react when she finds out who he really is?
The New York Evening Chronicle's City Editor James Gannon is a stubborn self-made journalist that has not even concluded high-school and believes that the business is to be learnt working in a newspaper office and not in college. He also believes that the fact is important but not the why behind the story. When he is invited to be the guest lecturer in the night school journalism of E. Stone, he wrongly believes that she is a man and sends a non-polite letter to her explaining the reasons why he does not want to waste his time. However his boss Lloyd Crowley gives direct orders to him to attend the class. Instructor Erica Stone reads Gannon's letter for the class and he pretends to be a student to humiliate her to her class. However, they feel both attracted by each other and Erica believes that Gannon has a great potential to be a journalist. When Erica dates the talented Dr. Hugo Pine, Gannon goes to the same restaurant and disputes Erica's attention with Dr. Pine. Gannon and Erica fall in love with each other, but how will Erica react when she learns that her student is the notorious Gannon?
Without yet having met, James Gannon, the hard nosed city desk editor of the New York Daily Chronicle, and E.R. Stone - Erica - a night school journalism instructor at a local college, get into a philosophical war of words. He believes that newspaper journalism is a trade that can only be learned through on the job training. Additionally, he believes that people who teach journalism probably have not spent a day in their life working at a newspaper, E.R. Stone included. He also has disdain for any of his staff who have studied journalism at school, he himself not even having ever graduated from high school. As such, he tersely declines her invitation to provide a guest lecture to her class. Their war ratchets up a level when she reads his letter to her class, she unaware that he is sitting in her class at the time, he who has come to abide her request as directed by his managing editor. Because of her diatribe against him, he decides to enroll in her class incognito as James Gallagher to show her up. Their war softens, at least from Jim's side, as he can't help but be attracted to her as a person. And Erica, not knowing his true identity, is enthralled with her new pupil, who is the most naturally gifted writer she has ever had in any of her classes. As Jim and Erica get closer personally and professionally, not only is his true identity a major obstacle in their relationship if she ever discovers it, but seemingly so is Dr. Hugo Pine, a Renaissance man of a psychology professor at the college who Jim assumes is her suitor. Jim ultimately may be able to use Hugo's profession and knowledge of Erica for his own benefit in getting closer to her. But learning directly from her of her motivations in life, based on idolizing a Pulitzer Prize winning editorialist, may give him a clearer picture of who Erica is as a person.

