A poor, uneducated mountain girl leaves her cabin in search of respect, a wealthy husband, and a better life in this fictionalized biopic of Margaret "Molly" Brown, who survived the 1912 sinking of the RMS Titanic.
Majestic mountains are in the background and a waterfall in the foreground. Is that a canoe on the river? No it's a cradle with a baby. The buoyant Molly Brown has survived the first crisis of her life -- a flood. Sixteen years later she sets out to make her way in the world. Can she sing and play the piano? She assures the Leadville saloon keeper that she can and learns quickly. Soon she is the bride of Johnny Brown, who in a few years will be able to replace the original cigar wrapper wedding ring with a replica in gold and gemstones. But it takes more than a few million dollars to be accepted by Denver society. The Browns head for Europe and bring a few crowned heads back to Denver for a party that turns into a ballroom brawl. Molly goes to Europe alone, returning on the Titanic. She didn't survive a flood as a baby for the story to end here.
Here you watch the fictional story of Margaret Tobin Brown, better know as The Unsinkable Molly Brown. Born and raised in wilderness, Molly left to Leadville to seek her fame and fortune. There she met Johnny Brown were the two got married and found their fortunes in silver and gold mines. After striking it rich, they move to Denver to mingle with others like them who are wealthy. However they do not receive the welcome mat from Denver that easy so they head for Europe to improve their image. While in Europe, the Browns meet the "Crown Heads" of Europe and invite them to Denver. Only to end up in a huge scuffle that ends up in the sports page of the local paper. Johnny is fed up with this rich lifestyle and wants to return to Leadville. However Molly does not want to leave this lifestyle and wants to return to Europe. So the two go their separate ways. While in Europe, Molly begins to miss Johnny so she decides to travel back home on the infamous Titanic. After the Titanic sinks, Molly gains her nickname by her bravery through the disaster. When Molly meets Johnny back in Denver, the two make amends.
