In 1865, three escaped Confederate POWs are coerced into joining an offshoot of Quantrill's raiders who are planning to rob a Union gold shipment concealed in a civilian wagon train going from Santa Fe to St. Louis.
Late in the Civil War, three Confederate soldiers escape from Camp Benton, a Union prison camp in Missouri. They soon fall into the hands of pro-Confederate raiders, who force them to to go to Santa Fe to join a civilian wagon train that will be secretly transporting $1miilion in Union gold to St. Louis, Missouri. The three men are to lead the wagons into a raider trap at Cow Creek in Missouri, but one of them builds friendships with the wagon train travelers and a widow and he continues to have doubts and misgivings..
In 1865, confederate soldiers Will Owen, Jesse Wallace, and Clint Priest have just escaped from the Camp Benton Missouri union prison camp, where they became friends despite their differing personalities. Will is a drifter who joined up in Texas. Jesse is a southern gentleman of wealth, who is not averse to killing. Clint is older, weary and just wants to live the rest of his life in peace. Because of the difficulties in rejoining their respective regiments, they decide instead to try to make their way home to a civilian life. Their journey changes when they meet Keeley, a rogue confederate officer, who has a war task for them. He knows of a purported shipment of $1 million in gold leaving Santa Fe on its way to St. Louis among the personal possessions in the caravan of Don Antonio Chaves. Keeley wants them to join Don Antonio's caravan. They're to lead Don Antonio straight into an ambush by Kelley who wants to use the gold to finance the confederate war offensive. Under threat of death the three agree, despite Will not liking the raiders' methods. The three interrupt an Apache attack on the caravan and Don Antonio requests they join his caravan as outriders. But Will's loyalty to the mission and his partners is put to the test when he gets involved with the other passengers in the caravan, most specifically the beautiful Jen Gort, a recent war widow, and her teen-aged brother-in-law Roy Gort, who seems to have the need to prove that he is not only a man, but a brave one at that.

