On a spooky island, three stranded travelers find an evil doctor working with foreign spies and in control of zombies.
During World War 2, a small plane off the south coast of America is low on fuel and blown off course by a storm. Guided by a faint radio signal, they crashland on an island. The passenger, his manservant and the pilot take refuge in a mansion owned by a doctor. The easily-spooked manservant soon becomes convinced the mansion is haunted by zombies and ghosts. Exploring, the 3 find a voodoo ritual in the cellar, where the doctor is trying to acquire war intelligence by transferring personalities into his zombies. But the interruption causes the zombies to turn on their creator.
In World War II, during a storm, a small plane crashes in an island between Cuba and Porto Rico, but the pilot James 'Mac' McCarthy and his two passengers, Bill Summers and his black servant Jeff Jackson, survive. Bill is in a mission trying to find Admiral Arthur Wainwright, who vanished in that area. They are lodged by the Austrian Dr. Mikhail Sangre in his mansion. The scared Jeff finds that the place has zombies, but Mac and Bill do not believe on him. Later, they find that Dr. Sangre is a spy transferring the knowledge of the admiral and other prominent persons to the zombies.
A small plane crash lands onto a small island and into a cemetary. The survivors James McCarthy and his servant Jeff (Dick Purcell and Mantan Moreland) and the pilot (John Archer) are greeted by Dr. Sangre (Henry Victor) and asked to stay in the mansion until a boat arrives.Jeff is asked to go sleep in the kitchen with the other servants while James and Bill are given a room. While down in the kitchen, Jeff discovers zombies are helping out. When he mentions this to James, no one believes him. After he is attacked by the zombies, they let him sleep in the room upstairs. That night the wife of Dr. Sangre, comes in the room through a secret door and rops an earing. Jeff happens to see her and again James and Bill don't believe him, but when he shows them the earing, they suspect foul play. They go snooping downstairs and Bill is attacked by a zombie, while James discovers the doctors neice doing her own snooping in the library, investigating a book on hypnosis. The next morning, James and Bill go to the plane in order to use the radio. They find out its gone. They spilt up and Bill goes searching for the Doctors radio, while James goes back to the mansion to talk to the niece. He discovers that both Bill and Jeff have disappeared. Jeff is hypnotised to be a zombie and later while in the kitchen, he realizes he's not. He goes back to the bedroom through the secret entrance and meets up with James. They both enter the secret entrance and they find a voodoo ritual in the process. When the doctor discovers them, an attack ensues and the Doctor is killed. The doctor was working for the Germans and was trying to get information on an admiral that had had crash landed in the same place a few weeks before. The doctor was trying to transfer the admiral's thoughts to the niece in order to get that information.
