Touching story of elderly couple David and Eva who go on one last journey across the USA when they discover Eva is dying, ending up with their granddaughter Jeannie in San Francisco.
Eva and David are an old Jewish Russian couple, married for many decades after meeting during the oppressive days of the Russian revolution. The story is told from her point of view, often in flashbacks to her youthful days when she joined the resistance and met David as a teenager.David's limited mobility has made him frustrated with maintaining their large home, and he tells Eva they should sell it to go into assisted living, which she refuses.David promotes his idea of selling the house when their children come to visit, making Eva further upset. She is so enamored with the place that he finds her sitting on a swing outside in the rain.Eva becomes sick and the doctor reveals to David-- but not to Eva-- that she has terminal cancer, and maybe only a year to live.Eva and David embark on a trip to Omaha to visit their daughter and new grandson, which does not cheer her up as much as he had hoped. Eva still suspects him of trying to sell their house, which he denies.Eva and David fly on to San Francisco to visit their granddaughter Jeannie, who is a nurse working with poor and dying patients. They do not quite understand her modern and arty lifestyle, but settle in to her apartment.Eva happens to meet their old friend Mrs. Mays, although when she visits her tiny studio apartment, Eva is aghast at how little the woman has left.After becoming sick-- but still not knowing she is dying-- Eva gets angry at David and demands to return home. He relents and tells her that he actually did sell their house, and she screams at him in anger.He brings her a corsage of small roses as an apology, and they go to the 80th birthday party of Mrs. Mays, at which Eva has a flashback of the revolution, which makes her rather happy. They later talk about their struggles during the days of the pogroms and in the Depression, and admit they both fear losing each other.Jeannie sets up a hospital bed for Eva in her apartment, and Eva shows her photos of her freedom fighting days. Eva still has many memories of reading great literature and organizing the resistance, as well as days of poverty during which she resorted to abortion because she had too many children.Eva quietly passes away. Jeannie dances a few steps with David in front of Eva's body, wrapped in a bright shawl. She then drapes the shawl on Eva's body.
