An anonymous love letter left in Michael's locker on the last day of school wreaks havoc on his life and the lives of everyone who come in contact with it.
On the last day before summer vacations Michael receives a glowing, but anonymous, love-letter. He suspects, or better: hopes, it's from Deborah, the girl he's after since a while, but who dates college students only. However she shows him a cold shoulder again. So his and her best friend Toni advises him to write her an anonymous letter in return. However these letters get in the wrong hands and cause lots of confusion in their families, until it's revealed, who wrote which letter to whom.
On the last day before summer vacation, Michael Ryan finds an anonymous love letter in his locker. Michael has a crush on Deborah "Debbie" Anne Fimple, who is the most beautiful girl of the high-school, and his friend Roger convinces him that Debbie has written the letter. Michael writes a love letter to Debbie and asks his best friend Toni, who actually wrote the letter for him, to deliver the letter to Debbie that is also her friend. However Toni reads the letter and rewrites it to Debbie, who immediately falls in love with the unknown author. Meanwhile, Michael's mother Connie Ryan finds Michael's letter and believes it belongs to her husband George Ryan and Debbie's father Lou Fimple finds Debbie's letter and believes it belongs to his wife Elizabeth Fimple. Michael dates Debbie while their parents are astonished with the betrayals of their mates. Soon Michael finds that Debbie is a shallow teenager and he misses Toni. Further, he realizes that she has written the letters and he feels that he loves her. But Toni is aboard of a ship ready to travel to study abroad for one year. Will they meet each other?
Infatuated for too long with the cheerful prom queen, Deborah Anne Fimple, the sixteen-year-old high-school student, Michael Ryan, discovers a fervent, yet unsigned love letter in his locker on the last day of school. Inspired by it but unsure of the romantic note's source, Michael summons up the courage to express his deep feelings for his unattainable object of desire on a similarly powerful billet-doux, only to be intercepted by his close friend, Toni, who decides to lend a hand. However--as both anonymous letters fall into the wrong hands--a seemingly endless string of clumsy misinterpretations, uneasy suspicions, and regrettable misunderstandings will entangle teens and parents alike in one glorious mix-up. But, who is the poet behind the original love letter?
Secret Admirer is the story of teenager Michael Ryan, who receives a passionate anonymous love letter on the last day of school. Michael's long-time friend Toni has a friend, Deborah Anne Fimple, who Michael is constantly obsessed with. Later that day, Michael and his friends get together at his house. One of his friends, Roger Despard, gets hold of the letter and reads it out aloud, surprising everybody. Because Michael is totally smitten with Deborah Anne Fimple, Roger easily convinces him that she must be the girl that wrote him the letter. Later that night, Michael meets her at a party, and begins smooth-talking her, by repeating the words of the love letter. Because Deborah Anne Fimple does not respond to Michael in the way that he expected, he soon realizes that she did not write him the letter. After the party, Michael and Toni walk to a quiet spot and lie down on the grass. Michael explains to Toni how he made a fool of himself in front of Deborah Anne Fimple, and how much he loved the letter. Toni then convinces Michael to write an anonymous love letter to Deborah Anne Fimple. Michael ends up writing two letters, but Toni re-writes them before passing them on, and without telling Michael. Consequently, all the letters fall into the wrong hands, causing confusion with almost everyone in Michael's life, until finally he discovers who wrote him the love letter.

