With her brother killed Sonya is given Turkish captive Mahmud to do the hard work on the farm. After they become fond of each other he strikes a Turkish officer. When peace arrives, his blow costs him his noble lands. She is burned out of her house. They meet again on the road with nothing but each other.
At the opening of the picture a young peasant of Montenegro, Marko Martinovitch, living on the border between Montenegro and Turkey, is supporting his sister and little crippled brother on a tiny farm with a poor but comfortable cabin. The call to arms comes, and he leaves the fields to take up his weapons of war. In contrast to this scene is shown a dinner at the castle belonging to Mahmud Hassan, a great Turkish Bey, who is also leaving for the front to fight for his country. These two introductory scenes are followed by a view of the Battle of Lule Burgess, during which the Montenegran peasant is slain and the Turkish noble is taken prisoner of war. For a time Mahmud is in prison, but he is later taken to a Montenegrin village with other captives, who are to be allotted to the bereaved women of the district as servants to do the work of the slain or absent men. Mahmud is allotted to Sonya, the sister of the peasant Martinovitch, and she leads him to her cabin, literally driving him, whip in hand. Sonya, partly as revenge for the death of her brother, decides to treat Mahmud in the most humiliating manner possible, taking the horse out of the plough and forcing him to drag it himself and also compelling him to do unaccustomed menial tasks of cooking and washing. Mahmud, who has given his parole to Sonya, accepts the bitter situation with a touch of humorous restraint. His only friend is the little crippled brother, who has immediately taken a fancy to him. In the end Mahmud revolts and Sonya finds that her captive is really the master. Little by little Sonya finds herself coming to regard the captive in a more friendly light, for his courtesy, strength and courage are vast forces of attraction. They do not confess the fact, they both come to realize the growth of a mutual sentiment. When affairs have reached this stage a band of Turkish soldiers capture the nearby village, get drunk in the tavern and go foraging. The officer takes a fancy to Sonya, drags her into the house and tries to kiss her. Mahmud rushes to the rescue, and the Turkish officer, at first delighted to see him, says that he will set him free. However, when the officer indicates that he wants Sonya the two men immediately clash. Mahmud throws the officer out of the house which he then barricades, intending to fight a forlorn hope. The Montenegran reinforcements fortunately arrive in time to prevent a catastrophe of a serious nature, but Mahmud is wounded by a shot fired by the officer whom he has defied. Mahmud, regretting that he cannot marry Sonya because of their different stations in life, now returns to his Turkish castle, but is greeted on his arrival by a soldier from the Sultan who hands him a proclamation confiscating his lands and its title for resisting his superior officer. Hero and heroine, now equally destitute, finally are brought together.
During the Balkan Wars, Sonya Martinovitch, her older brother and her younger, disabled brother live on a small farm in Montenegro. In the first battle of the war, the older brother is killed and Sonya is left helpless. One of the captured Turks, Mahmud Hassan, is assigned to Sonya as a captive who must take the place of the dead brother on the farm.

