A seedy writer of sleazy pulp novels is recruited by a quirky, reclusive ex-actor to help him write his biography at his house in Malta.
Michael King is a seedy writer of sleazy pulp genre novels under a half-dozen sensational pseudonyms whose ambition is to dictate ten thousand words per minute to stenographers a la Earle Stanley Gardner. He's recruited by the agent of Preston Gilbert, a quirky ex-Hollywood star currently living reclusively in exile in Malta, to help him write his biography. Despite being pursued by an enigmatic hitman, Gilbert has a large entourage of eccentrics and remains an inveterate practical joker. After Gilbert is eventually murdered by an apparent Priest, King tries to stay alive while interacting with a variety of idiosyncratic characters including an ersatz Princess, a henpecked clairvoyant, and a cross-dressing hitman.
Chester Thomas King is a successful writer of pulp fiction. He has written and lived under many different pseudonyms, the most current being "Mickey King". A native Brit, he is currently living in Italy. Much like one of his trashy novels, Mickey narrates the story of a recent adventure in which he was involved that by its end would send five people to the morgue. At his publisher's office, he is approached by a man named Ben Dinuccio, the agent of someone famous, who would at this time like to remain anonymous, to ghostwrite that famous person's memoirs. Mickey agrees if only because of the exorbitant fee offered. Before Mickey can meet the person in question, he is sent by Dinuccio on a multi-day tour throughout Italy to hide the person's identity and locale for safety reasons. Mickey will be contacted along the way by a yet unknown person, who will lead Mickey to his ultimate destination. An incident en route leads to Mickey questioning taking the job. That feeling is strengthened when he meets the subject person: ex-Hollywood movie star Preston Gilbert, whose private life was rumored to have been associated with gangsters. Preston has a wicked temper and unusual sense of humor. Another incident during Preston's dictation and Mickey's writing process leads to Mickey believing that his life is in danger, because of what he eventually learns is something that may be written in Preston's memoirs. Mickey has to do some digging if he is going to figure out what that story is, and who if anyone is trying to kill him.

