A former counterrevolutionary pirate befriends a mentally ill young woman and this in turn leads to tragedy when she falls in love with a French naval officer.
In late 18th century, during the Napoleonic Wars, Great Britain and the French Republic are fighting for the control of the Mediterranean Sea. Both sides employ former pirates, corsairs and privateers who, after receiving official pardons and amnesties, are fighting alongside regular navies. On the French side, former pirate Peyrol is tasked with transporting a captured treasure chest in British gold coins from the Caribbean to the French port of Toulon. The gold is sorely needed by the French Navy in its struggle against the mighty British Navy that is blockading most French ports and thus chocking the young French Republic. Peyrol and his crew of former privateers are entrusted with the gold and with a captured British ship for the transport to Toulon. Peyrol is also given a small package of secret documents and dispatches bound in oilskin to be delivered personally to the French Admiral in charge of the port of Toulon. Skilfully evading the British warships blockading Toulon, Peyrol manages to arrive in port relatively unmolested by the British guns. Reporting to the French Admiralty, Peyrol delivers the package containing the secret dispatches but says nothing about the treasure chest containing the captured British gold. When asked if he had any other things to be delivered to the French Admiralty, Peyrol says no. But in the French Admiralty office, among Navy officers, is Revolutionary Political Officer Dussard, who's in charge of verifying the political reliability and loyalty to the Revolutionary government of all French citizens. Dussard is very suspicious of a former pirate, even if Peyrol is a pardoned pirate, and orders Peyrol to remain in town and not attempt to leave Toulon without permission. He also reveals that he will place police guards in the port to make sure no one will attempt to sail away on any ship, without his consent. Dussard tells Peyrol that he will check Peyrol's story and his background and credentials before allowing Peyrol and his crew to leave Toulon. Peyrol leaves the Admiralty but he realizes that he is tailed and that sooner or later the French authorities will discover that he stole the chest of gold entrusted to him for transportation to France. In a sailor's pub in the port, Peyrol asks his men to join him in finding a ship, or stealing one, and sneaking away from Toulon but his crew refuses to disobey the Admiralty's orders. Disappointed, Peyrol pays for all the drinks at the pub, rents a room above and hires a prostitute for the night. Unfortunately, the coin he uses to pay for all of this is one of the gold coins from the captured British treasure chest entrusted to him for transport by the French Navy. The barkeep flags an informer who alerts Dussard at the Admiralty. Dussard arrives at the pub with soldiers and policemen and goes to Peyrol's room where he confronts Peyrol. The two of them have a private chat in the room, while the soldiers await for orders outside the door. A corrupt Dussard makes an offer to Peyrol. If Peyrol's willing to share the stolen gold with Dussard, Dussard will keep quiet about it and he will allow Peyrol and his crew of sailors to sneak out of Toulon with half the loot. Will he accept the offer ?

