Emotions are ignited amongst the complacent townsfolk when a handsome drifter arrives in a small Kansas community on the morning of the Labour Day picnic.
The morning of a small town Labor Day picnic, a drifter (Hal Carter) blows into town to visit an old fraternity buddy (Alan Benson) who also happens to be the son of the richest man in town. Hal is an egocentric braggart - all potential and no accomplishment. He meets up with Madge Owens, the town beauty queen and girlfriend of Alan Benson.
The drifter Hal Carter hitchhikes by train to a small town to visit the college friend Alan Benson, who is the son of the industrialist Mr. Benson that is the wealthiest person in town. Hal asks for a small job to Ms. Helen Potts and the old lady feels affection for him and tells that nobody works in the Labor Day. She gives a breakfast to Hal and he meets her next door neighbor, the gorgeous Marjorie "Madge" Owens that is Alan's girlfriend. Then Hal is welcomed by Alan that invites him to go to the local picnic with Madge's younger sister Millie Owens. Hal is a braggart, but attractive and gentle, and he becomes successful with the local girls. However, he falls in love with Madge and Alan feels betrayed by his best friend.
Hal Carter is a drifter whose life thus far hasn't amounted to much. He got as far as third year in college and since then has tried his hand at a number of things, all without success. He decides to head for Kansas to find his old college buddy, Alan Benson the son of a wealthy man. It's Labor Day and most of the town is preparing to go to the annual picnic. Hal finds his old friend but is immediately taken with Alan's beautiful girlfriend, Madge Owens. Madge's mother very much wants her to marry Alan and while Madge likes him, it's apparent that she doesn't love him. The sparks fly however between Madge and Hal.
Of the Owens sisters, nineteen year old Madge is seen as the pretty one, and high school senior Millie is seen as the smart one, although they both would like to be perceived a little more like the other. Millie makes no effort to be feminine, believing it will put her deeper into Madge's shadow in comparison. Madge wants to be more than just an object to be looked at. She believes her current boyfriend, Alan Benson, sees her solely in that light. Alan wants to marry her, but she isn't sure she loves him. Madge's mother, Flo Owens, wants her to marry wealthy Alan if only to get her into a better life than she had with her deadbeat husband, who left them, leading them needing to open their home as a boarding house to make ends meet. On the other hand, Alan's father, who owns most of the grain elevators in their small Kansas town, feels Madge isn't good enough for his son. On Labor Day, Alan's old fraternity brother, Hal Carter, who he hasn't seen since their college days, comes unexpectedly into town. Hal is a drifter in every aspect of the word, who comes from a poor family and who could only afford to go to college, where he was eventually dismissed for poor grades, because of a football scholarship. Hal is at the end of his rope and has come to ask Alan for a job, somewhat naively believing he can get a white collar office job complete with a secretary. Hal is all bravado, which captivates some, and off-puts others. Regardless, Hal is seen as a fresh breath of masculinity by most of the women in town. As Hal spends time with Alan, the Owens, spinster schoolmarm Rosemary Sydney (the Owen's boarder) and Rosemary's somewhat beau Howard Bevans, over the course of the day, mostly at the town's annual Labor Day picnic, Hal and Madge find in the other something that is missing from their respective lives that they believe could be fulfilled by the other - which would be against Alan's plans - while Rosemary, who believed she was still young and desirable, comes to certain realizations about her life.
A handsome stranger ignites passions at a small-town dance. Beginning with his college fraternity buddy, both youthful students and others old enough to have children are faced with the regrets, whether their own or those of others from less than ideal homes. Should one envy a pretty other? Should another not marry at all? Wouldn't this pretty thing fall into misfortune if mother not make decisions for her? How are things for real in this small town? What are the passions which cannot be held down? And What part can a stranger play if he's not dishonest to his truest self?
