Adventurer Allan Quartermain leads an expedition into uncharted African territory in an attempt to locate an explorer who went missing during his search for the fabled diamond mines of King Solomon.
Guide Allan Quatermain helps a young lady (Beth) find her lost husband somewhere in Africa. It's a spectacular adventure story with romance, because while they fight with wild animals and cannibals, they fall in love. Will they find the lost husband and finish the nice connection?
Allan Quartermain leads an expedition into uncharted African territory in an effort to locate Elizabeth Curtis' husband Henry, who was searching for King Solomon's legendary treasure. Along the way they encounter a variety of wild animals including snakes, a leopard and a rhino. Quartermain isn't keen on having a woman on the expedition and he and Elizabeth quarrel regularly. Elizabeth and her husband were not very fond of one another and her expedition is driven by her own guilt. She and Quatermain fall in love but survival becomes their goal when they meet dangerous tribesmen.
1897. Widowed for six years, Briton Allan Quatermain uses his skills as a big game hunter to guide hunting safaris in East Africa mostly for other visiting Brits. He is growing disillusioned with life, he contemplating going back to Britain for good to care for his now seven year old son who lives there. Although initially declining the offer, he eventually agrees to the request of Elizabeth Curtis and her brother John Goode for £5,000 - twenty-five times his usual fee - to search for her husband Henry Curtis who apparently went on a quest to find the mythical mines of King Solomon in uncharted African territory in the interior west of Allan's base, the mines purported to be filled with diamonds. Live or die through the experience, he largely expecting the latter, Allan only agrees to be able to leave his son with the money. Allan also agrees despite never having had to guide a woman on safari, prim and proper Elizabeth who he can see will be ill-equipped physically and mentally for trekking through the wilds of Africa. As a starting point, Elizabeth and John have a copy of the map Henry was using for his quest. Allan knows they will have to battle the elements and the native wildlife to survive, as well as the natives themselves, some who may be less than friendly, with all these items more unknown as they enter the uncharted territory. That uncertainty concerning the natives becomes all the more acute when they are joined by a seven foot tall native named Umbopa, Allan believing it safer to let him join their party than not allow him to join only to have him track them. But Allan and Elizabeth's biggest obstacle in finding Henry and/or reaching King Solomon's mines is arguably each other, as, as John states, they seem to be waiting for the other to fall flat on his/her face in their mutual antagonism. However, in Allan and Elizabeth's case, the old adage may apply in that there is a fine line between love and hate.
East Africa, 19th century. Alan Quartermain, a veteran guide, is hired to take Elizabeth Curtis to search for her husband in unexplored territory. There is another reason for her expedition: to search for a treasure beyond imagination...King Solomon's Mines.
In Africa, in 1897, white hunter Allan Quatermain forswears his lifelong search for adventure after losing his native guide in an elephant stampede. His vow is soon broken, however, when he meets Englishwoman Elizabeth Curtis, who persuades him to take her and her brother John Goode on a dangerous expedition into the continent's interior to find her missing husband Henry. As Allan needs money to send to his son in England, he accepts Elizabeth's offer of five thousand English pounds to lead the safari. As his only clue to Henry's whereabouts, Allan is given a crude, four-hundred -year-old map to King Solomon's diamond mines, Henry's destination. From the outset, Allan questions Elizabeth's motives, but his first theory, that she must find Henry's body to claim his inheritance money, proves false when he learns that she is wealthy. The expedition moves slowly toward its first goal, Kalawanna village, an area not visited by a white man in more than five years. When a violent stampede of zebras, giraffes and other wild animals forces the expedition members to take cover, Elizabeth and Allan fall into an accidental embrace. As time passes, a mild but contentious romance between Elizabeth and Allan begins to flourish. Just before approaching Kalawanna, Allan's native escorts encounter a Kalawanna rattle snake, which they know to be a bad omen, and they flee. Elizabeth and John are Allan's only remaining companions until a mysterious and silent native asks to join them. When the four enter the eerie village of Kalawanna, they are immediately taken by the villagers to Kalawanna's only white man, the sinister Smith, who tells them that he met Henry one year earlier. Allan suddenly remembers that Smith is wanted for cannibalistic murder, and realizing that Smith has no intention of letting them get out alive, he quickly overpowers him and forces him to instruct his army of natives to let them leave. Allan takes Smith hostage to ensure their safe passage, and when Smith tries to escape, Allan shoots him. During a brutal desert passage Allan and Elizabeth find the handle of Henry's rifle, and Allan suspects that Henry is dead. Elizabeth then confesses to Allan that she is searching for Henry as a form of penance for not loving her husband enough and running out on him. Later Allan discovers that their mysterious African companion is a Watusi king returning to claim the kingdom that was stolen from him. Upon entering the Watusi village, the reigning king shows Allan, John and Elizabeth the direction of King Solomon's Mines. The rebel king's apparent hospitality is short-lived, however, as some of his men follow Allan and the others and set off a rock slide to trap them. After discovering a human skull in the mines, the three believe the situation to be hopeless until they discover a passageway to freedom. Allan, John and Elizabeth return to the Watusi village in time to witness the rightful king win his kingdom back from the rebels in a battle. They then begin their journey home.
