During a blackout, a New York executive crosses paths with a Broadway actress and her husband.
When the Great Northeast Blackout of 1965 hit, millions of people were left in the dark, including Waldo Zane, a New York executive in the process of stealing a fortune from his company, and two people whose paths he's destined to cross, Broadway actress Margaret Garrison and her husband, Peter.
November 9, 1965. Successful Hollywood actress Maggie Garrison is starring in her first Broadway play. She is at the theater more often than she is at home at her New York apartment, making her architect husband Peter Garrison feel neglected. Partly as the play only furthers her good girl image - the play titled "The Constant Virgin" - Maggie is contemplating quitting the play and retiring to live at her and Peter's Connecticut cottage permanently. Rumors of her retirement do not sit well with the play's director, Ladislaus Walichek, a secret Peeping Tom who sees in Maggie dollar signs. He believes Peter is the problem, the break-up of their marriage which would encourage Maggie to focus on her career, which in turn Ladsy would hope would result in Maggie signing a long term contract. Meanwhile, Waldo Zane, the current Vice-President and Treasurer at Manhattan-headquartered Megatronics Inc., has a plan to embezzle the company's current year's profits of $2.4 million in cash, his resolve to do so even stronger when he is passed over for the promotion to President in favor of the current President's nebbish son, Otis J. Hendershot, Jr. At approximately 17:27 this day, a blackout hits the US northeast, resulting in general chaos and mayhem. Maggie, at the theater at the time, is able to make it back to the apartment, only to find Peter cheating on her with another woman. As such, she runs off to her sanctuary, namely the Connecticut house. Waldo, in his office at the time of the blackout with a valise filled with the money, has one issue after another getting out of the city. He is only able to make it as far as a certain Connecticut cottage. When the power is restored approximately twelve hours later, Maggie and Waldo, out of the circumstance at hand, have no idea what happened overnight, the only thing they know being that they were in bed together at some point. Peter, who has since come to the cottage, initially believes that Maggie had an affair with Waldo in retaliation. Ladsy, also at the cottage on Maggie's urging, wants to play upon the belief of both Peter and Maggie having had affairs to break up the marriage so that Maggie will sign the long term contract. And Waldo, who can't yet leave with no transportation, doesn't want to leave anyway as the cash-filled valise is missing, it most-likely still somewhere on the property. These lies and misunderstandings lead to one complication after another.

