The twin of a kindly small-town physician returns from the grave for vengeance against his brother, who secretly killed him because the twin served Satan.
We meet Doctor Lloyd Clayton at the funeral of his twin brother, evil magician Elwyn. Zolarr, Elwyn's hunchbacked servant, accuses Lloyd of Elwyn's murder, but Lloyd claims it was self-defense. Lloyd's niece Gayle and her fiance David soon find that Elwyn's evil influence is still at work.
With the death of Dr. Elwyn Clayton, his twin brother, Dr. Lloyd Clayton is almost relieved. His late brother has changed significantly since a trip to India where he had become interested in mysticism and the occult. In fact, his brother has now risen from the dead and is a vampire out to seek revenge on his brother who had a hand in his premature death. Despite several deaths in the town, Lloyd is reluctant to believe his late brother is a vampire. When Elwyn attacks their niece Gayle, he enlists the aid of her fiancé to fight the evil that is among them.
During the funeral service of Elwyn, the local Kate accuses him of evilness. Later, his brother Dr. Lloyd Clayton and tutor of his niece Gayle Clayton tells her and her fiancé Dr. David Bently that his brother has become obsessed by mysticism and black magic since he traveled to India. During the night, Elwyn comes to Dr. Lloyd Clayton's house and accuses Dr. Clayton of pushing him off a cliff to die. Further, he tells Dr. Clayton that he will take revenge, slowly killing Gayle and transforming her in a vampire. Dr. Clayton does not believe in what he has seen and heard, but when Gayle gets mysteriously sick and Dr. Clayton becomes the prime suspect of David and the locals, he finally accepts that his brother is a vampire and tries to find his coffin to destroy him.
B-Movie actor George Zucco plays both mild-mannered Dr. Lloyd Clayton, who kills his "evil-twin" in self defense (played also by Zucco). Clayton's evil-twin comes back from the dead, exacting revenge of Dr Clayton's family. Dwight Frye (Dracula, Frankenstein) is the revivified Clayton's partner in this dastardly sibling rivalry.
