A young woman is terrorized by her deceased fiancé's demented mother who blames her for her son's death.
Patricia Carroll arrives in London to get married with her fiancé Alan Glentower. However, the stubborn Pat decides to pay a visit in the country to Mrs. Trefoile, the mother of her former fiancé Stephen, who died in a car accident. Once there, the religious fanatic Mrs. Trefoile insists to Pat to stay overnight to go to the mass on the next morning. After going to the church, the naive Pat tells Mrs. Trefoile that she was not going to marry Stephen, triggering her insanity. Mrs. Trefoile abducts Pat to purify her sins and make her pure for her beloved son.
American Patricia Carroll has sailed to London with her British fiancé, Alan Glentower. Before they are to get married, Pat, against Alan's wishes, goes to visit Mrs. Trefoile, who Pat has never met. Mrs. Trefoile's son Stephen was Pat's former fiancé before Stephen tragically died. Pat needs to close that chapter of her life before she can move on, and she feels she owes Mrs. Trefoile the courtesy of the visit. Mrs. Trefoile lives in a secluded house in the English country, with her servants, husband and wife Harry and Anna, and a mentally disabled young man named Joseph. Once there, Pat learns that Mrs. Trefoile is a devoutly religious woman who lives by an extremely strict moral code. But Pat quickly comes to the realization that Mrs. Trefoile's need to adhere to that moral code is fanatical. With the assistance of Harry and Anna who are working on their own motivations unknown to their boss, Mrs. Trefoile will do whatever she needs to to save both Pat and Stephen's immortal souls.
Patricia Carroll was once engaged to Stephen Trefoile who died in an auto accident. Now in England to marry her new fiancé Alan Glentower, she decides to follow up on a promise and visit Stephen's mother. Mrs. Trefoile welcomes her warmly and insists that she spend the night. She proves to be a demanding hostess however - there are no mirrors in the house, insists that Patricia not wear lipstick and is highly religious requiring that her guest attend prayers with her. When Mrs. Trefoile tells her that she considers her to be her daughter and that it would be a sin to "remarry", Patricia tells her the truth: that she never intended to marry Stephen. Mrs. Trefoile then locks her in a room, intending to teach her the errors of her sinful ways.
While in rural England beautiful Pat Carroll decides to pay a courtesy call on the mother of her dead fiance Stephen, who was killed in an auto accident several years earlier. The overbearing Mrs. Trefoile is very controlling and presses Pat to stay overnight and go to church with her in the morning. In short order, her guest becomes her prisoner as the religious fanatic uses her servants to enforce her will. When Pat tells her that she wasn't going through with the marriage and that Stephen actually committed suicide, Mrs. Trefoile decides to starve her into obedient submission. Her only hope is that Alan, her current fiance, will rescue her.

