Prior to leaving by train for Paris, a married American woman tries to break off her affair with a young Italian in Rome's Stazione Termini.
A married American woman has gotten involved with another man while visiting relatives in Rome. She decides that the time has come to break off the relationship, and she makes plans to return home to her husband. But she soon realizes that she is not at all sure about what she wants to do, and she continues to agonize over her decision.
Mary Forbes, a Philadelphia housewife and mother, has been in Rome for a month visiting with her sister and her family. In that one month period, she and Italian Giovanni Doria meet and fall in love. Although Mary was going to leave Rome without telling Giovanni instead of meeting for their scheduled rendezvous, Giovanni, who finds out, is able to stop her. Their time at the train station over the next few hours - until Mary's next scheduled departure - will show if there is a future for them or if Mary will indeed get on that train. The answer is not as straightforward as Giovanni convincing her that he wants to be with her forever, or Mary making the decision of Giovanni or her husband Howard.
After spending a few weeks of vacation in Rome to visit her sister, Mary Forbes, a married American woman, falls in love with an Italian-American professor, Giovanni Doria. As Mary decides to end their torrid affair and being unable to confront Giovanni in person, she gets ready to catch a train at Rome's Terminal Station, intending to write him a telegram and finally tear herself away from the uncompromising suitor. However, when Mary sees Giovanni looking for her on the platform, the clandestine couple will have less than two hours before she takes the next train to Paris to deal with difficult decisions, their remaining conscience, and of course, the fear of a scandal. How strong were yesterday's promises?
Mary Forbes, a married Philadelphia housewife and mother, falls in love with an Italian-American professor named Giovanni Doria while visiting her sister in Rome, Italy. Mary has a one-month romantic adventure with Giovanni, but is unable to continue the infidelity, and decides to leave Rome. She boards the first train to Paris, but before the train leaves the station, Mary catches sight of Giovanni, who has learned of her hasty departure from her sister. Giovanni asks Mary why she left without a word, but their conversation is interrupted by the arrival of Mary's young nephew, Paul. Paul leaves, and as the train pulls out of the station, Mary is transfixed by Giovanni's gaze and decides to postpone her departure so that she can explain her feelings.In a quiet corner of the station restaurant, Giovanni reminds Mary that she had told him only the day before that she loved him. Mary, however, cannot put the thought of her husband and young daughter Catherine out of her mind. When Giovanni tells Mary that he had dreams of a happy life with both she and Catherine in Pisa, he rekindles her passion. Giovanni persuades Mary to go with him to his apartment, but as they are leaving the terminal, she sees Paul. Flustered, Mary offers to buy a hot chocolate for the boy and sends him to the restaurant to wait for her. Mary then tells Giovanni that she feels that their relationship is doomed, and that they should part, but Giovanni, angered by her sudden change of heart, slaps her across the face and leaves.Paul waits with Mary for the next train, and they find a seat next to an Italian woman who has gone into labor. Mary helps the woman find a doctor and briefly watches her three children for her. Giovanni, meanwhile, becomes remorseful and returns to the station to find Mary. Giovanni eventually finds Mary, but is nearly struck by a passing train while running to meet her. They embrace and make their way to a darkened train compartment, where they engage in a passionate kiss. Giovanni begs Mary's forgiveness, but, moments later, the two are arrested for public lovemaking and taken before the police commissioner.The commissioner tells Mary and Giovanni that the charge requires a trial, but then decides to release Mary because she has a husband and child. Giovanni escorts Mary to the train, and the two bid each other a sad farewell.
