A tale of ambition, family, love, and war set in the midst of the Japanese Civil Wars of the sixteenth century.
In the beginning of the springtime in the period of the Japanese Civil Wars of the Sixteenth Century in Lake Biwa in the Province of Omi, the family man farmer and craftsman Genjurô travels to Nagahama to sell his wares and makes a small fortune. His neighbor Tobei that is a fool man dreams on becoming a samurai, but he can not afford to buy the necessary outfit. The greedy Genjurô and Tobei work together manufacturing clay potteries, expecting to sell the pieces and enrich; however, their wives Miyage and Ohama are worried about the army of the cruel Shibata that is coming to their village and they warn their ambitious husbands. Their village is looted but the families flee and survive; Genjurô and Tobei decide to travel by boat with their wives and baby to sell the wares in a bigger town. When they meet another boat that was attacked by pirates, Genjurô decides to leave his wife and son on the bank of the river, promising to return in ten days. Genjurô, Tobei and Ohama raise a large amount but Tobei leaves his wife to buy the samurai outfit and seek fame and fortune. Meanwhile the female aristocratic Lady Wakasa and her servant ask Genjurô to bring her shopping to her fancy Kutsuki House. Sooner Genjurô and Tobei discover the price they have to pay for their ambition.
In a time of unceasing turmoil, as sixteenth-century Japan is ravaged by marauding gangs of warriors, the ambitious and hard-working potter, Genjuro, and his aspiring samurai brother, Tobei, risk a dangerous trip to the bustling city to sell their wares, seeking quick profit. Indeed, a treasure awaits the daring entrepreneurs--and as rapacious avarice gets the best of them--a second visit to the town can only end in disaster and separation. However--as the eerily alluring noblewoman, Lady Wakasa, takes an interest in the materialistic artisan's exquisite craftsmanship at the busy and populous bazaar--a sincere invitation to her elegant mansion paired with a tempting offer will pave the way for a complete change of plans. Undoubtedly, within the thick walls of the mysterious aristocrat's castle, unimaginable delights exist; nevertheless, can Genjuro afford to sacrifice his values for the sake of sheer pleasure, aesthetic enlightenment, and otherworldly beauty?
In the civil wars of 16th century Japan, two ambitious peasants want to make their fortunes. The potter Genjuro intends to sell his wares for vast profits in the local city, while his brother-in-law Tobei wishes to become a samurai. Their village is sacked by the marauding armies, but Genjuro's kiln miraculously survives, and they and their wives head for the city. However, Genjuro soon sends his wife Miyagi back home, promising to return to her soon, and Tobei, in his keenness to follow the samurai, abandons his wife Ohama. Meanwhile, a wealthy noblewoman, the Lady Wakasa, shows an interest in Genjuro's pots, and invites him to her mansion.

