A con man named Steve Blair (Robert Preston), enlists an out-of-work, drunk writer Paul Ferris (Tony Randall) to write a fictitious screenplay he hopes will be funded by a rich, but unethical producer (who also happens to be a mobster) named Tony Dallas (Walter Matthau). As if that's not enough, Blair then plans to scam the money from Dallas, all with the beauty of a gorgeous Greek isle.
Steve Blair is a New York based con artist. His latest endeavor to make money, which he is doing with his reluctant partner in crime Paul Ferris - a writer who is easily manipulated when he's had a few drinks in him, which is always - is to transform and market the Greek island of Paradeisos from a backwater nothing into a tourist trap of a lovers' haven, partly by dealing in fake antiquities to support the old but recently debunked Greek story of it being the island of love. Steve spent eighteen months on the island during the war. This scheme could make Steve and Paul rich beyond their wildest dreams. Steve and Paul are able to finance this scheme partly from their most recent scam on not too bright New York mobster Tony Dallas, who surrounds himself with yes men. The trip to Greece initially was solely for Steve and Paul to get away from Tony before he found out they bilked him, Tony getting his hands on them which would probably mean their lives. In Paradeisos, Steve is unexpectedly reunited with the Harakas family - Mama Harakas, her now grown daughter Elena Harakas, and her professor "pre"-fiancé Gregor Pappas - the latter who Steve hopes to be able to use to his advantage as a local historian in verifying the Dionysian "finds". One complicating factor is that Steve is falling in love with Elena, who may not approve if she knew of his deceit. Beyond them possibly being caught in the fraud, there still is the issue of Tony, who has his thugs scouring the globe for Steve and Paul. What Steve and Paul also discover is that Mama's brother, who she hasn't seen in years and who is coming to the island for his honeymoon, may negatively factor into what happens.

