A young reporter enlists the help of a top notch private eye to solve the murder of a female stripper at a Chicago nightclub.
Strippers at a sleazy club are being mutilated at an alarming rate. A pretty reporter enlists the aid of a debonair detective to solve the case and land her a front-page story. Soon, the two are wading through evidence against a vegetable-pulverizing freak, a creepy college student, and a group of angry feminists.
Nancy Weston (Amy Farrell), a reporter for The Globe, a local Chicago newspaper, approaches Abraham Gentry (Frank Kress), an obnoxious, crack shot private investigator, on behalf of The Globe, which offers him $25,000 to investigate the brutal murder of stripper Suzie Cream Puff (Jackie Kroeger) who was brutally murdered in her dressing room at the nightclub where she performed. They sweeten the deal with a $25,000 bonus for solving the case. Of course this comes contingent that The Globe gets the exclusive story. Gentry takes the case and begins the investigation of the murder with Weston in tow.At the strip club, Gentry encounters a waitress, named Marlene (Hedda Lubin), whose obnoxiousness rivals his. He neverless gets through to her so he can speak to another stripper and gets his first suspect whom is Joseph Carter, a local business man who frequented the club.Soon another stripper, named Candy Cane, gets murdered and Gentry expands his suspect list to Grout (Ray Sager), the club's bartender who turns out to be an unstable war veteran who took pride in crushing the heads of corpses he found when on the battlefields of Vietnam. Grout relieves tension by drawing faces on squashes and tomatoes then crushes them with his bare fists. Gentry also suspects the leader of a radical feminist group that riots in the strip club carrying banners with catchy phrases like "Lewd is Crude", "Quit with Tit", and "Women Right On!"That evening, the unseen killer strikes again by sneaking into another apartment and committing an over-the-top gory murder of another dancer, named Pickles, which included mutilating her buttocks with a meat tenderizer hammer and salt and peppering it. A badge with "Women Right On!" is found at the scene by the police which Gentry arrives shortly thereafter and thinks someone else might be doing the killing.The next day, Gentry buys Weston many drinks to keep her drunk and out of his way. During one of Nancy Weston's drunken episodes she admits that she's attracted to Gentry. Gentry ignores this and concentrates on the case. His investigation takes him to the owner of most of the strip clubs in town, Mr. Marzdone Mobilie (Henry Youngman). Gentry then coerces Mobilie into holding an amateur stripper contest with a $1,000 prize, which also works as the beginning of a plan for Gentry's trap.After having a few too many drinks, Gentry encourages Weston to perform the amateur stripper contest in which she goes all out by "taking it all off" and wins the $1,000 cash prize. Gentry accompanies Weston back to her apartment and lets her rest on her couch as he seemingly leaves. Soon, the killer arrives and Gentry, who anticipated that the killer would do just that, appears after hiding behind a door and takes off the killer's hood revealing Marlene. He also further reveals more when he pulls off her shirt revealing burn marks on her chest, literally obscuring her breasts. After a brief struggle, Marlene falls out a balcony window and lands on the street below where her head is crushed by an oncoming car.Gentry then reveals his case in a long monologue to Nancy Weston about following the clues which Gout told him earlier about Marlene being burned in a fire which her breasts were burned off. This drew the conclusion that she was killing all those strippers out of jealousy and hatred to their own beauty which Marlene's was now taken from her. Weston is somewhat angry that Gentry used her as bait to trap Marlene into revealing herself as the killer, but accepts for the risk was worth it. Gentry and Weston profess their love for each other as she tells him that the story will make a great contribution to the Globe and both of them get "down to business" (making out), before Gentry looks at the camera and tells the viewers that it's over and to leave them alone.The closing title card then appears reading: "We thankfully announce that this movie is over!"
