At Zabriskie Point, United States' lowest point, two perfect strangers meet; an undergraduate dreamer and a young hippie student who start off an unrestrained romance, making love on the dusty terrain.
An epic portrait of late Sixties America, as seen through the portrayal of two of its children: anthropology student Daria (who's helping a property developer build a village in the Los Angeles desert) and dropout Mark (who's wanted by the authorities for allegedly killing a policeman during a student riot)...
In what is supposed to be an indictment of 1960's American society, two aimless young adults try to find themselves in the California desert. Mark is a college student who spends most of his time attending protest rallies. He's also taken to carrying a gun which gets him into big trouble when he is incorrectly identified as the shooter in a cop killing. To get out of town, he steals a small single-engined airplane. Daria works for a property owner planning a new development but she's headed off into the desert, looking for a quiet place to meditate. When Mark and Daria meet they have sex, travel a bit together and otherwise spend their time idly wondering about life in general.
At the same time when the students took over their universities in the 1968 riots against the system Mark was mistaken for a cop killer so he stole a small plane flying to Death Valley. On the way he met Darla and they soon end up making love in a desert.
In late 1960s America, at Zabriskie Point, United State's lowest point, two perfect strangers meet. Mark, a young undergraduate dreamer, during a massive students' revolt, armed and on the run from the police, he steals a small aeroplane and flies to the safety of the Death Valley, across the vast Californian desert. There, the young hippie student, Daria, is driving across the empty stretch of highway in her Buick, and before long, the two rebellious youngsters will meet, starting off an unrestrained romance, making love at Zabriskie Point's dusty terrain. Two perfect bodies in a flawed world.

