Bugs' showbiz career is recounted from babyhood to stardom. Bugs and Elmer Fudd perform the title song.
The Disassociated Press wants Bugs Bunny's life story. Got a pencil? "First," says Bugs, "I was born." He quickly learns he is different from the other children: he's a "rabbit in a human world." He grows up to accept repetitive chorus boy jobs in such Broadway revues as "Girl of the Golden Vest," "Wearing of the Grin" and "Rosie's Cheeks." His career hits the skids and he's living on a park bench before he's discovered by that great vaudeville star, Elmer Fudd. Their dual comedy act is a hit, which leads to film roles. Will Bugs Bunny ever have to look back?
While relaxing at his luxury home in Hollywood, Bugs is telephoned by the Disassociated Press and asked about his life story. He begins to recount it to the caller, starting with his birth. We see Bugs is born as "a rabbit in a human world", and grows up to attend dancing school.Bugs decides to enter acting after graduating, and is quickly inundated with offers, most of which he rejects, including a script for "Life with Father", saying, "This will never be a hit." He finally accepts roles in three major plays-- all as a chorus boy. One day, though, he is given the opportunity to have a starring role when the original actor falls ill. Bugs does his best to entertain, but his routine completely dies in front of the audience, forcing him back to the role of a chorus boy. As a result of this, Bugs takes a sabbatical from acting until he can find a decent part.One day, Elmer Fudd, a major vaudeville star, comes through a park filled with out of work actors, including Bugs. All of them try to impress Elmer, to no avail. Elmer suddenly spots Bugs, and encourages him to be his co-star. Bugs instantly accepts. The role he receives is being on the receiving end of humiliation in a vaudeville show, being hit with pies and sprayed with seltzer by Elmer while he's telling the punchline to a lame joke. The two perform this show in Peoria and Buffalo to moderate success.On the way to New York, however, Bugs decides to add variety to the act. On stage, he pies Elmer, sprays him with seltzer, and hits him with a mallet while telling the punchline to a lame joke. Elmer then pulls a rifle on Bugs in front of the audience, prompting him to nervously ad-lib, "Eh, what's up, doc?" This line receives rapturous applause. The two realize they have a successful routine, so they repeat it and receive rapturous applause again. They bow and dance off the stage.Bugs takes a job at Warner Bros, shooting a screen test with Elmer that goes over very well. This brings Bugs to the end of his story, and he tells the caller he's due to begin shooting his first major film, noting that the part was written specifically for him. He lets the caller go after realizing he's due on set.The picture is called "What's Up Doc?", and the first scene is about to begin shooting. It takes place on a massive stage, and the curtain opens. Bugs comes onto the stage performing the same role he started with-- a chorus boy, much to his frustration. Iris out.
