Paula Parkins is the teenage daughter of wealthy parents who don't seem to make time for her, so she looks for thrills as the leader of her all girl gang who steal, rob, and rape young men.
A newspaper publisher's daughter suffers from neglect by her parents. She and her friends turn to crime by dressing up like men, holding up gas stations, raping young men at gunpoint, and having makeout parties when her parents are away. Their "fence" gets them to trash the school on request of sinister un-American clients, and they run afoul of the law, apple pie, and God himself.
"Good Citizenship - Self Restraint - Politeness - Loyalty" is the motto on the high-school's blackboard, in front of which pass, smiling derisively, and dressed in tight sweaters or smart dresses. Paula Parkins Jean Moorhead, and her friends and accomplices: black haired Georgia Theresa Hancock, brunette Geraldine Joanne Cangi, and blonde Phyllis Gloria Farr.
[flashforward]
Judge Raymond Clara I. Stanford Jolley passes sentence on his friends, Carl Parkins Art Millan and his wife Jane Parkins Barbara Weeks, Paula's parents, for having neglected their daughter for 15 years, denying their (unrevealed) request.
[flashback]
While father is busy at work and mother needs to attend her women's club meetings for charity, Paula and her three friends, dressed as boys, rob a gas station at gun point, and nearly kill the attendant by bashing him in the head with a gun.
At the hospital, Detective Artman F. Chan McClure and Lieutenant Holmes Timothy Farrell inquire the Doctor Harry Keaton about the gas station attendant, but he is in a pretty bad state, but he'll make it. Newspaperman Barney Stetson Glen Corbett is also there, and comments that it's one more gas station in the State to be robbed, and the Lieutenant tells him that those working in the night shift will have a policeman inside from then on.
Back to headquarters the newspaperman passes this information to the director, Paula's father, and he has been working overtime to cover the local crime spree. Knowing that he has no reason to suspect her, Paula goes to her father, prompting him to find out more about the robberies. The unsuspecting father tells her that the service stations will have an officer in disguise on duty, to deter future robberies. Paula tells her friends that they will be stopping the gas station robberies. [The scene between Paula and her father are edited after the Lover's Lane attack, by an editing error.]At Lover's Lane, the girls, dressed as such, assault a couple who was making love in their car. Phyllis and Geraldine order the woman to strip her blouse off. Geraldine gags and ties the woman with pieces of her own torn skirt, and then the four girls take her boyfriend further into the wood, Paula strips her sweater off, and they have their way with him (off screen). Geraldine has done a poor job, the woman victim gets free of her bonds, and runs away screaming for help. Next day, The Daily Chronicle page one headline is, "Young Man Robbed, Criminally Attacked By Four Girls".On Paula's anniversary, her father is again too busy at the newspaper and her mother has an another committee meeting, so that Paula can have a pajama party at home. Again, Paula prods her father for information about the juvenile delinquency spree.Paula drives in her white sedan with her friends to Sheila's Lee Constant, the fencer for the robbed items, and they argue about their value. When Paula explains that the money really means nothing to her, Sheila explains that she has some connections who would pay good money if she and her friends would wreck some schools. These actions would be presented as a terrorist act by the communists.The pajama party is on, and each girl is petting on the couch with a young man of choice, without caring to the music on the record player. Paula, in a decollete dress, is talking with Manny Bruno Metsa, a young man in a square patterned jacket. While the others dance or kiss, Paula and Manny also embrace on a couch. They're interrupted by the visit of Barney Stetson who stops by with her father's gift: a new watch. Paula complains that her parents have been getting her the same birthday gift for years. Paula's Mom always trades in her new car from last year for a new one. Manny provokes Barney, who asks him is age. "Over 21," he replies. "That's old enough," says Barney, knocking the taller young man out with a punch to the jaw. Barney leaves, but cautions Paula to watch out for the company she keeps. Paula dismisses her male guests.Following Sheila's request, the four girls set about to wreck one of the high-school rooms. However, the noise they make catches the attention of a night watchman, who radios the police.The girls are cornered. and get into a firefight with the police. A police officer uses a shotgun to fire into the second-floor window, and hits Phyllis when she wasn't paying attention. She falls, dying, and blurting out to Paula, "It... It was... wasn't supposed... to be this way..." Paula squats by her, checking that she's not breathing, before picking up Phyllis revolver, and return fire against the cops, wounding the killer.The three girls are getting aboard their black sedan car, when the wounded policeman shoots Geraldine dead. Paula and Georgia escape to Sheila's. Paula demands payment for what they did, but Sheila refuses, claiming she'll call the police. Paula shoots Sheila in the stomach. She sprawls dead onto the couch. Then, the girls check Sheila's apartment for new clothing. They also change the car at a second hand car stand. After leaving the stand, the two girls are spotted and chased by a police car. Paula's driving causes her to crash into a store window, killing Georgia, the last of her classmates.Paula wakes up in the hospital. Some time later, Judge Raymond Clara hears the jury verdict, and tells Paula that she's been found guilty as charged of murder in the first degree. Her parents are sitting in the audience, in shock. The Daily Chronicle blares out, "Paula Parker found guilty / Will be sentenced next Tuesday".She's sentenced to life in prison - but it's not going to be. It is revealed that due to her sexual attack to the man at Lover's Lane, Paula is pregnant. Eventually, Paula gives birth to a baby girl, but she dies giving birth.Her parents request the court to raise the child, but the Judge denies their request, stating that the baby will instead be placed in foster care for a more worthy family to raise the baby, and gives the negligent parents a speech on parental care and juvenile delinquency [in part as voice over flashbacks to action scenes].
