An Edwardian archaeologist and two companions stumble upon a lost city in East Africa, run by a beautiful queen whose love holds the promise of immortality.
After doing military service in the Middle East, British archaeologist Holly, his valet and his handsome young friend Leo are spotted in Palestine and approached by a mysterious oriental who identified Leo by his uncanny likeness to the portrait on an ancient coin. An adventurous search for the lost Pharaonic city of Kuma proceeds relying on a recently-acquired map. Their hasty mini-expedition reaches a hidden city where the Hellenistic age is still alive. It is ruled by the supernatural Ayesha, 'She who must be obeyed', who believes Leo is is the reincarnation she waited for all those centuries of Callicrates, a companion of Alexander the Great. She offers him immortality and to share the throne as her eternal love, but it goes tragically wrong...
In 1918 Palestine with the war at its end Major Holly, his former batman Job and Leo Vincey wonder what the future holds for them. At a cabaret, the handsome Vincey is lured to a nearby house where he meets the beautiful Ayesha who gives him a ring and a map. Holly, an archaeologist by training, thinks the map may refer to the lost city of Kuma and they set out to find it. After an arduous journey across the desert, they learn from a local tribal leader that Vincey looks like Killikrates, once the high priest of Isis. He was Ayesha's great love but over 2000 years ago she killed him in a fit of jealousy. Now she wants him to join her in the the blue flames that will give them everlasting youth and immortality.
Palestine 1918. In a bar, former soldiers Major Holly [Peter Cushing], his manservant Job [Bernard Cribbins] and their friend Leo [John Richardson] discuss their futures after fighting in the great war. Leo meets Ustane [Rosenda Monteros] and leaves the bar with her but it is a trap. She leads him to Billali [Christopher Lee] who knocks him out and takes him to a nearby house.Leo meets Ayesha [Ursula Andress], also known as She-who-waits. Leo bears a striking resemblance to the face on an ancient gold pendant. Ayesha tells him of a place where he can have everything he wants and gives him a ring and a map. Ayesha and Billali believe Leo is Ayesha's lover from the past who has finally returned to her.The map shows the way to the ancient lost city of Kuma where, according to legend, ancient Egyptian treasure may be located. Holly, Leo and Job leave on an expedition to find it, watched by Ustane who has fallen in love with Leo.Their journey across the desert is dangerous. Their water bags are slashed while they sleep and during a gunfight with Arabs, their camels are stolen and Leo suffers a gunshot wound to the arm. One of the dead Arabs is wearing the pendant with Leo's face on it. Leo convinces his friends to continue, having a sense he has traveled the route before and is being called by an ancient memory. They continue on foot into the mountains but struggle through lack of water. On the point of collapse, Ustane arrives with food and water. She has followed them, having grown up in Kuma where she was training to be Ayesha's servant. She wants them to turn back but Leo is determined to continue to Kuma. Leo is very weak when they are found by Ustane's native people and taken to her father Haumeid [Andre Morell].Haumeid explains the face on the gold pendant is Killikrates, the ancient high priest of the all-powerful Queen Ayesha, also known as She-who-must-be-obeyed. The natives are afraid of Leo and tie him up in a dance ritual. As they are about to sacrifice him, Billali, who is the current high priest serving Ayesha, arrives with some soldiers. They take Leo and the others, plus fifteen native men as a punishment, to Kuma.Ayesha is convinced Leo is her lover returned from the past because he survived the ordeals she has set on the journey across the desert but Billali attributes that to Ustane's love for Leo and her assistance. Ayesha wants to be rid of Ustane but Billali advises her that should be Leo's decision, as a test of his love for Ayesha. Ayesha reveals to Leo she has the secret of eternal life and has waited 2000 years for Killikrates to be reborn. Leo is unsure he is Killikrates reincarnated but Ayesha makes him experience a vision of Ayesha killing Killikrates for being unfaithful.For disobeying her orders when trying to sacrifice Leo, Ayesha orders the fifteen natives to be thrown into a pit of fire. Leo and Holly are disgusted at the execution but Ayesha argues her power comes from fear and terror and in their world in current times, millions of people are being killed in the name of peace. She wants to rebuild an empire with her as queen. She was banished 2000 years ago for killing Killikrates and has since tried to rebuild an empire in Kuma.Ayesha shows Leo the flame of eternal life. When the time is right, he can pass through it to receive everlasting life and the two of them will be together forever.Leo is now seriously considering joining Ayesha in eternal life but Ustane expresses her love to him. They embrace and kiss but are seen by Ayesha. Ayesha orders Ustane to be thrown into the pit of fire but Holly and Leo argue to save her. Ayesha forces Leo to choose between her and Ustane by handing Leo the only dagger which can kill her. Leo realises his love for Ayesha and concedes to her. Ayesha shows him the final proof: Killikrates body which looks exactly like Leo.Haumeid is handed an urn containing Ustane's ashes. In his anger, Haumeid orders his men to attack Ayesha. The battle between his natives and Ayesha's soldiers coincides with the flame of the eternal life becoming ready, turning from orange to blue. As Leo is about to enter the flame Billali stops them, insisting he deserves eternal life instead for his lifelong devotion to Ayesha. A sword fight breaks out between Leo and Billali. Billali overpowers Leo but as he is about to enter the flame he is killed by Ayesha. Leo and Ayesha enter the flame together but as it gives Leo eternal life, it has the reverse effect on Ayesha and takes her eternal life away because she has entered the flame for a second time. She ages rapidly and dies. Leo is distraught but before he can re-enter the flame it changes back and he is condemned to an eternal life alone. He vows to wait, however long it takes.
