A Duke's son leads desert warriors against the galactic emperor and his father's evil nemesis when they assassinate his father and free their desert world from the emperor's rule.
In the distant year of 10191, all the planets of the known Universe are under the control of Padishah Emperor Shaddam IV and the most important commodity in the Universe is a substance called the spice "MELANGE" which is said to have the power of extending life, expanding the consciousness and even to "fold space" ; being able to travel to any distance without physically moving. This spice "MELANGE" is said to only be produced in the desert planet of Arrakis, where the FREMEN people have the prophecy of a man who will lead them to true freedom. This "desert planet"of Arrakis is also known as DUNE. A secret report of the space "GUILD" talks about some circumstances and plans that could jeopardize the production of "SPICE" with four planets involved: ARRAKIS, CALADAN, GIEDI PRIME and KAITAIN, a world at least visually very alike to Earth and house of the Emperor of the known Universe. The "GUILD" sends a third stage navigator to KAITAIN to ask details from the Emperor and to demand him the killing of young Paul Atreides, son of the Duke Leto Atreides of CALADAN.
In the far future, a duke and his family are sent by the Emperor to a sand world from which comes a spice that is essential for interstellar travel. The move is designed to destroy the duke and his family, but his son escapes and seeks revenge as he uses the world's ecology as one of his weapons.
It is a distant galaxy, in the far future year, 10191. Arrakis is a desert planet and the only source of Melange, a vital drug used by Guild Navigators for space travel from star system to star system. Two families, the Atreides and the Harkonnens, fight one another for sole control of the Melange mining operations on Arrakis. When Duke Leto Atreides is assassinated by the evil Baron Harkonnen, Duke Leto's son, Paul, and Paul's mother, the Lady Jessica, flee deep into the desert of Arrakis. There, they are befriended by the Fremen, natives of Arrakis. Under the influence of Melange, Paul learns he has special powers and, that he can see into the future. Paul unites the Freman under his leadership, forms an army of warriors, and leads them into battle against Baron Harkonnen and the corrupt Padishah Emperor, Shaddam IV, who is in league with the Harkonnens. Paul vows to avenge his father's murder, and sets out to liberate Arrakis and its people from the Emperor's rule, and to fulfill his destiny.
The desert planet Arrakis - we enter the year 10191 and the whole universe depends on the spice Melange which exists only on this dry and desolate planet. The natives of this planet await the arrival of their Messiah who will lead them into a holy war against the evil Harkonnen empire. This is the film adaptation based on Frank Herbert's cult novel.
Set in a distant future where life in the universe and space travel is dependent upon a spice found only on the planet Dune, this film tracks the rise of young Paul Atreides, son of noble Duke Leto, from the time of his father's betrayal and murder by the evil Baron Harkonnen, to his discovery of the great secret behind the planet Dune and his own destiny, which is to free the planet and its denizens of the cruel rule of the Emperor.
In the opening monologue, Princess Irulan (Virginia Madsen) explains that after the fall of the machine titans and the reclaiming of the universe by humans, the people established training programs to gain knowledge they had lost in their apathy. The two training regimens, each gender specific, enabled humans to establish knowledge in math and psychic abilities. The universe is dominated politically and economically by the spice melange, which extends life and enhances certain psychic powers. The Galactic Spacing Guild and its prescient alien navigators use the spice to "fold space" and safely guide interstellar ships to any part of the universe instantaneously. Melange can be obtained in only one place: the desert planet of Arrakis, also known as Dune. The inhabitants of Dune, the nomadic people called the Fremen, have a legend that tells of the coming of a messiah from another world.The year is 10,191. The Guild sends a navigator emissary to the planet Kaitain to discuss a threat to spice production with the emperor of the known universe, Shaddam IV (José Ferrer). The emperor confidentially shares his plans to destroy one of the noble houses, the Atreides. The popularity of Duke Leto Atreides (Jürgen Prochnow) has grown, and he is suspected of amassing a secret army wielding sonic weapons called weirding modules, making him a threat to the emperor. Shaddam's plan is to give the Atreides control of the planet Arrakis to mine the spice, then have them ambushed by their longtime enemies, the Harkonnens. The navigator commands the emperor to kill the duke's son, Paul Atreides (Kyle MacLachlan), a young man who dreams prophetic visions of his purpose. The order draws the attention of the Bene Gesserit sisterhood (a training institution for women), as Paul is a product of their centuries-long breeding program which seeks to produce the superhuman Kwisatz Haderach. Gaius Helen Mohiam (Siân Phillips), a Bene Gesserit reverend mother who serves as an adviser to the emperor, plans a visit to meet with Paul.On the planet Caladan, watery homeworld of House Atreides, Paul cannot understand why the Harkonnens would give up their hold on Arrakis to the Atreides, but understands that the family must go there. Thufir Hawat (Freddie Jones), a mentat (a human computer trained in pure mathematics), tells Paul they are going because of the promise of a new army. Paul's tutor and mentor, Gurney Halleck (Patrick Stewart), tests him in the limits of hand-to-hand fighting in preparation for his manhood trials and discusses Paul's amazing abilities with Thufir.Paul's mother, Lady Jessica (Francesca Annis), is also a member of the Bene Gesserit, and serves as Duke Leto's concubine. The reverend mother arrives on Caladan to test Paul. Jessica is worried that her son may not live through the test. Mohiam tells Paul about the Water of Life, bile from the giant Arrakis worms, which no man has ever drunk and survived. Only the Kwisatz Haderach, the true messiah in whom the Fremen inhabitants have prophesied will lead them out of oppression, can drink it. With a deadly gom jabbar at his throat, Paul is forced to place his hand in a box which subjects him to excruciating pain, but he resists the urge to withdraw his hand (which would result in death) and passes the test to Mohiam's satisfaction.Meanwhile, on Giedi Prime, the industrial homeworld of House Harkonnen, the physically sick, deformed, and sadistic Baron Vladimir Harkonnen (Kenneth McMillan) plans his personal revenge by finding a traitor within House Atreides who will kill the Duke. He assigns his nephews Glossu Rabban (Paul L. Smith) and Feyd-Rautha (Sting) the task of crushing House Atreides after they have assumed control of the planet.Upon arriving on Arrakis, Leto is informed by one of his right-hand men, Duncan Idaho (Richard Jordan), that the Fremen have been underestimated; they exist in vast numbers and could prove to be powerful allies. Paul and Leto meet with Dr. Kynes (Max von Sydow) a spice mining leader who takes them by aircraft to a remote area where they witness a giant worm attacking a spice mining ship, a "crawler". Faced with the destruction of the mining facilities, Duke Leto orders the giant crawler evacuated rather than risking lives by trying to save the precious spice ore, and even saves many of the workers by bringing them on his shuttle before the facility is destroyed, earning him the trust and recognition of Dr. Kynes and the rest of the Fremen workers. But before the Duke can establish an alliance with them, the Harkonnens launch their attack on Arrakis and House Atreides.While the Atreides had anticipated a trap, they are unable to withstand the Harkonnen attack, which is aided by the Emperor's elite troops, the much-feared Sardaukar, and by the Baron's traitor within House Atreides itself, Dr. Wellington Yueh (Dean Stockwell). Yueh plans revenge on Baron Harkonnen for the death of his wife. Captured, Leto dies in a failed attempt to assassinate the Baron using a poison gas capsule planted in his tooth by Dr. Yueh; with his vision fogged by drugs, Leto kills the baron's aide Piter De Vries (Brad Dourif) instead. With Piter dead, Captain Iakin Nefud (Jack Nance), the baron's head of security, takes over Piter's duties as the baron's valet and aide. Dr. Kynes is captured and abandoned in the desert to die. Thufir is forced to take over as director of spice mining for the Harkonnens, while Rabban becomes de facto governor of Arrakis.Paul and Jessica, who is pregnant by Duke Leto, escape into the deep desert, where they manage to join a band of Fremen led by Stilgar (Everett McGill). Paul adopts the title of Muad'Dib, and the Fremen suspect he is the leader they have been waiting for. Paul teaches the Fremen (who are formidable warriors) how to fight using the weirding modules and begins targeting mining production of spice to stop its flow. Stilgar trains Paul in Fremen traditions, and Paul rides his first sandworm. The Fremen's Bene Gesserit reverend mother has aged and Jessica drinks the Water of Life to replace her. The poisonous water causes her to go into convulsions and premature labor, her eyes bleed, and the transmutation of the sacred water awakens her knowledge. Jessica's daughter Alia (Alicia Witt) is born prematurely, but has blue-tinted eyes because of the spice and the knowledge imparted by the Water of Life. Within two years she grows rapidly into a young girl with great powers.During the war against the Spacing Guild, the Fremen, with Paul as their leader, effectively halt spice production on Arrakis. The Guild warns the emperor that he must intervene; they fear Paul will take the Water of Life. During a skirmish, Paul meets his former mentor Gurney Halleck, now a smuggler, who surrenders and immediately joins Paul and the Fremen to continue the war and maintain the strangle-hold on spice production. Paul begins a romance with Chani (Sean Young), the daughter of the leader Dr. Kynes (known to the Fremen as Liet). After a vision, Paul can no longer see his future and decides to drink the Water of Life.Paul goes into the desert with Chani and a cadre of bodyguards, drinks the Water of Life, and enters a coma-like state. Awakening literally and figuratively, he is transformed and gains control of the sandworms of Arrakis and the secret of the spice. He has discovered that water kept hidden in huge caches by the Fremen can be used to permanently destroy the spice. Paul also possesses the ability to see the future and, more importantly, the present when he gazes into space and sees the Emperor's plan; a huge invasion fleet above Arrakis has been amassed to regain control of the planet and the spice.When the emperor arrives on Arrakis, he executes the incompetent Rabban for failing to remedy the spice situation. Alia is brought in as a hostage, and she delivers a message: Paul is coming for them. Paul launches a final attack against the Harkonnens and the emperor at the capital city of Arrakeen, using atomics to blast out a wide section of the shield wall protecting the city from the ravages of the desert. Paul leads the raid, riding through the breech with the Fremen on sandworms. After a climactic and fierce battle, where casualties are heavy on both sides, Paul and the Fremen warriors defeat the emperor's legions of Sardaukar, while Alia slashes the Baron with her gom jabbar and sends him into the jaws of a sandworm.Afterward, Paul, Stilgar, Gurney, Alia, Jessica, and their army confront the captive emperor, Princess Irulan, and their staff. Paul is challenged to a duel with daggers by the psychotic Feyd. After a short but brutal fight, Paul stabs Feyd in the neck and uses his vocal powers to explode his internal organs, killing him. Paul faces the defeated emperor, relieves him of power, and announces an era of peace for all of humanity. Storm clouds gather and it begins raining on Arrakis for the first time in the planet's existence. Alia declares, "And how can this be? For he is the Kwisatz Haderach!"
