A man and his wife have a less-than-enjoyable time at the movies.
A husband and wife decide to go to the movies and check the ads in the newspaper. They discover that every theatre in town is running a double feature and one-or-the-other has already seen one of the films. They go anyway since Hubby has free tickets. But he leaves them in the car and uses his parking tickets at the theatre. It takes the entire staff to iron out the problem. Once Hubby is seated he gets a coughing fit, upsets all the audience before he goes to the lobby. He returns through the wrong door and finds himself on stage with a group of chorus girls doing a live-bit between films.
A husband and wife's plan to spend a relaxing evening at the movies ends up being anything but. Although they do make it to the movies, one thing after another wrecks specifically the husband's enjoyment of the evening. They can't figure out which movie to go see since either one or the other has already seen everything playing. They ultimately decide to watch something he's already seen and enjoyed, about which he is all right. Arriving at the packed cinema, they purchase their tickets but are then given free raffle tickets for a draw for a new car. He promptly deposits the movie tickets into the raffle box, holding on to the raffle tickets which leads to problems getting into the cinema itself. When they eventually do make it in, their first set of seats in the middle of the cinema end up being less than perfect. A rather large and tall man who likes to shift in his seat ends up sitting directly in front of the husband, leading to the husband needing to shift every time the man in front of him shifts position, which leads to the man behind the husband getting annoyed since he also needs to shift. And the person sitting next to the husband seems to be more enthralled with watching him than the movie. Deciding to move, they end up sitting in the front corner of the cinema, distorting the view of the picture. The husband then gets a coughing fit, so steps outside until it subsides, not realizing that he is outside the actual building and locked out. He does manage to make it back in, but he and his embarrassed wife may have wished he had stayed outside instead.

