A gangster hires an ex-football player to find his girlfriend. When he finds her, they fall in love, and the twists start to appear.
Reluctantly, the penniless, injured, and down-on-his-luck former football player, Terry Brogan, accepts to track down Jessie Wyler: the ex-girlfriend of the old friend and shady nightclub owner, Jake Wise. Now, on the sun-kissed beaches of picturesque Cozumel, Terry not only finds the elusive woman but also, unexpectedly, falls head-over-heels for Jessie, against the backdrop of suspicion and betrayal. More and more, Terry finds himself trapped in an intricate web of passion, intrigue, and murder, as Jessie starts to feel the burden of choice in this dangerous love triangle. Can there be a future?
Terry Brogan, an aging football player in L.A., is cut early in the season; he needs money, so he takes a job from a shady friend of his, Jake Wise, to track down Wise's girlfriend, Jessie, who's somewhere in Mexico. She's also the daughter of a very wealthy land developer, who owns Terry's team. He heads for Cozumel, finds Jessie, and promptly falls in love with her. He thinks it's mutual, then without warning, she heads back to L.A. and Jake. What's going on with her, and what's the connection between Jake's hold on Jessie and the various politicians, lawyers, and environmentalists who seem to be converging on some sort of land deal? Terry keeps looking for answers.
Los Angeles Outlaws receiver Terry Brogan is cut from the team because of a shoulder injury. Needing work, money and a sense of purpose, Terry gets a lucrative short term job with an old acquaintance, nightclub owner Jake Wise. The job is to locate his girlfriend who is hiding out somewhere in the Mayan Riviera. The girlfriend, Jessie Wyler, just happens to be the adoptive daughter of the Outlaws' ruthless owner, Grace Wyler. Jessie doesn't much like her mother, who in turn doesn't like that Jessie's in a relationship with Jake, a man known to be on the wrong side of the law. Once Terry finds Jessie, she is waiting for him, or at least someone sent by Jake. But without telling Jake, Terry decides to quit his job as he is falling in love with Jessie, who seems also to be falling in love with him. But it isn't until they get back to Los Angeles that Terry slowly sees the big picture of where he fits into Jake's life and to what extent Jake will go to get Jessie back.

