A man and his adult son are caught smuggling by a customs officer, who dies in the ensuing struggle. The arrival of the dead officer's son sets a whole new chain of events in motion.
Robert Green, son of a poor fisherman living on the banks of the Southampton waters, and Eleanor, the ship owner's daughter, are desperately in love with each other. The ship owner, discovering the real state of affairs, and desiring to part the lovers for reasons of his own, persuades Robert to sign for a six months' cruise aboard his vessel, the "Venus." After the ship has been out for several weeks, it is reported lost with all hands on board. The ship owner is pressed by Mr. Johnstone, his principal creditor, for a bill for $10,000, which Johnstone offers to cancel if Eleanor will marry his son. Eleanor is coerced into this alliance, and she, believing Robert dead, and anxious to save her father from ruin, accepts the proposal. Meanwhile, Benjamin, the only survivor on board the "Venus," is discovered in a dying condition by smugglers, who ransacked the vessel for plunder, and he is taken to their cave in a desolate island, resuscitated and made one of them against his will. One day the yacht of Mr. Clark, multi-millionaire, approaches the island, and to please the whims of his little son, a rowing boat is sent to the shore where the smugglers surprise the party and kidnap the child. While the terms of ransom are being made, Robert manages to send word to the yacht that he will save the boy and himself as well, which he successfully does, and, as reward, receives from Mr. Clark, a check for $10,000. Robert arrives home the day before the marriage of Eleanor to Johnstone's son. At the church door next morning, Eleanor recognizes Robert in the crowd, a scene ensues, and she is taken home ill, before the wedding takes place. Robert then demonstrates that the power of money is at least as great as the power of love, and pulling out of his pocket the check for $10,000, hands it to the ship owner and asks him to discharge his indebtedness to Johnstone out of it and he released of any obligation in regards to his daughter. All obstacles removed, Robert and Eleanor are happily married.

