Barbara gets secret plastic surgery in Switzerland in an attempt to save her marriage to Mark, but he doesn't seem interested in meeting her. She checks in to a ski resort to wait for Mark, and begins getting attention from young men. Her daughter tries to warn her that even though she has had the surgery it might be too late for her marriage, but she clings to the hope that Mark will come back once he sees her new look. Meanwhile, she must decide whether or not have an affair with a young man she's met.
At a private Swiss medical clinic, middle-aged Barbara Sawyer (Elizabeth Taylor) briefly reconsiders her decision to have plastic surgery to smooth out her puffy, wrinkled features and restore her trim figure. Considering her husband of 30 years, Mark (Henry Fonda), Barbara proceeds with the excruciating procedures (long, difficult to watch scenes of actually plastic surgeries).During the long recovery period, Barbara grows friendly with fellow patient David Carrington (Keith Baxter), a fashion photographer who admits that he has had numerous procedures over the years to maintain the ageless appearance necessary in his field. Although Barbara confesses she does not believe she could endure the experience again, David assures her she will return regularly. As Barbara begins healing, she tells David about Mark and expresses concern that she is unable to contact him at their home just outside of Detroit. When David asks where Mark believes she is, Barbara admits she told him she needed a rest cure, and frets about her dishonesty.As the six-week recovery period ends, Barbara agrees to undertake a regimen of cell treatments and commits to a healthier lifestyle in order to allow the treatments the best possibility of working. Awed by Barbara's restored beauty, David laughs at her matronly wardrobe and gives it to the delighted nurse before taking Barbara shopping.On David's advice, she makes plans to meet Mark at a resort in Cortina, Italy. On the drive to the resort, Barbara picks up two young, stranded Italian men going to the same resort and is pleased when they compliment her looks. With Mark scheduled to arrive on the following weekend, Barbara spends the first days at the resort alone. While walking around the hotel and shopping in the village, Barbara is continually taken aback upon seeing her own reflection in windows and mirrors, then gradually grows accustomed to the return of her beauty.At dinner one evening, a handsome young man looks admiringly at Barbara as she sits alone. Later, when the young man and his date quarrel and the woman walks out, he and Barbara exchange a brief laugh. The next day, Barbara receives a telephone call from Mark, explaining that business has delayed him in Washington, D.C. With a poor long-distance connection, Barbara is unable to learn exactly when Mark will be arriving. Disappointed, Barbara continues her solitary holiday, then telephones her daughter Kate (Margaret Blye), who lives in Paris, to invite her to join her in Cortina. Kate declines and encourages her mother to enjoy her trip.The next night at dinner, the handsome young man, Erich (Helmut Berger), introduces himself and asks to join Barbara. Initially hesitant, Barbara agrees and the couple enjoys a long, amiable meal. When the check arrives, however, Barbara is offended when Erich pointedly ignores it, and after signing for the bill, she departs, irritated. The following day, while departing a church service, Barbara runs into David, who is on a fashion-shoot. Determined to lift Barbara's spirits, David takes her to a dance club that evening and the next day photographs her using a ski race as the background.At a private party the next night, Barbara notices Erich, whom David describes as a failed competitive skier. Abruptly annoyed by David's catty observations, Barbara approaches Erich and the two spend the evening dancing and talking. Later, they kiss passionately outside under a gazebo, but Barbara refuses to allow Erich to come to her room.The next morning, as David teases Barbara for refusing Erich, she receives a telegram from Kate announcing her change of plans and intention to join her mother. Advising Barbara that an adult daughter will ruin her holiday, David sends Barbara to the airport to intercept Kate. At the airport, Barbara welcomes Kate, who responds enthusiastically to her mother's rejuvenated looks.At lunch, Barbara reassures Kate that she is not depressed and has made friends at the resort. Applauding her mother's uncharacteristic display of independence, Kate then reveals she learned from Mark about a longtime affair he has had with a younger woman, whom he wishes to marry. Unhappy that Mark has revealed this to Kate, Barbara admits she has never loved anyone but Mark and although she thought of sleeping with Erich, she felt nothing for him. Kate encourages Barbara to make herself happy and, realizing that her company might interfere with her mother's burgeoning new life, Kate decides on her own to return to Paris.Back at the resort, Barbara attends another party with David and again, spends the evening with Erich, this time allowing him to spend the night in her room. The next morning, Barbara shyly admits she has not had sex in a very long time, which amazes Erich. When Barbara asks if he cares for her, Erich tells her that she is married and clearly still in love with her husband. Having received notice from Mark of his arrival at last, Barbara eagerly meets him at the train station. Revealing that she was uncertain if he would ever return to her, Barbara welcomes him warmly and asks for his reaction to her surgery. Although complimentary and flattered when, at dinner, Barbara presents him with a platinum watch, Mark remains polite and distant.The next night at a party at the resort, Barbara and Mark dance together affectionately. Later, after chatting briefly with Erich, Barbara asks Mark if he would believe she had slept with Erich, and he laughs and admits he would not. Walking back to their room, Barbara asks Mark to join her singing, and he reluctantly agrees.At the hotel, Mark takes a phone call from work, but does not provide Barbara much detail. When she observes that he has always been uncommunicative, he abruptly states that they cannot live in the past. Mark then calls everything in his current life a charade and reveals his law firm has lost a large account and he does not care. He declares that after working for thirty years he wants to live and asks Barbara if she believes he deserves that. Confessing she only wants his happiness, Barbara is distressed when Mark says that they have changed and no longer fulfill each other's needs and asks for a divorce. Deeply hurt, Barbara accuses him of only wanting a younger woman and points out her surgical scars, insisting that she only underwent the experience for him. Assuring her that she is always beautiful to him, Mark tells Barbara that she is strong enough to build a new life without him and he will always be there for her. Devastated to realize she has genuinely lost Mark, Barbara weeps.The next day, Barbara bids Mark farewell at the train station and, after wishing him happiness, turns and walks away.
