While attending a retrospective of his work, a filmmaker recalls his life and his loves: the inspirations for his films.
Renowned filmmaker Sandy Bates is in a professional transition, directing largely comedies early in his career now wanting to direct more serious movies so that he can explore the meaning of life, most specifically his own. Most are fighting him all along the way, including the movie going public, who continually tell him that they love his movies especially the earlier funny ones, to studio executives who are trying to insert comic elements wherever possible into his current movie in production. He reluctantly agrees to attend a weekend long film festival of his movies. Despite the throng of requests for his time, he is further able to reflect on his life as he addresses the questions at the post screening Q&amp;A sessions. He also reflects specifically on his love life as his current girlfriend, married Isobel, shows up unexpectedly, and as he starts to fall for festival attendee Daisy - at the festival with her Columbia professor boyfriend, Jack Abel - who reminds him of Dorrie, a neurotic former girlfriend who he probably considers the one that unfortunately got away.
The film's story focuses on harried movie director Sandy Bates, who attends of retrospective of his work while suffering from a major case of writer's block. During his retrospective, Sandy is overwhelmed to find himself constantly bombarded by an endless amount of fans, friends, love interests and studio execs. Loosely based on Federico Fellini's 1963 film, 8½, and beautifully shot in black and white.
Sandy Bates, a successful filmmaker, attends a festival conducted to honor his work. During the course of the weekend he reconsiders his cinematic accomplishments as well as his past relationships.
A director named Sandy Bates is a man who simply doesn't want to make goofball comedies anymore, and it seems that the comedies are all that society wants from him. He's unhappy at the moment because his first "serious" film isn't well received by the public. He decides to stay a weekend at a hotel to reflect upon his life, body of work, and relationships of the past while a festival showcasing his films is occurring. Meanwhile, he encounters groups of his fans who ask for autographs, compliment him on his "early funnies", his style of filmmaking, and he encounters a beautiful woman named Dorrie, with whom he falls in love.

