A young man in love with a girl from a rich family finds his unorthodox plan to go on holiday for the early years of his life met with skepticism by everyone except for his fiancée's eccentric sister and long-suffering brother.
Free-thinking Johnny Case finds himself betrothed to a millionaire's daughter. When her family, with the exception of black-sheep Linda and drunken Ned, want Johnny to settle down to big business, he rebels, wishing instead to spend the early years of his life on "holiday." With the help of his friends Nick and Susan Potter, he makes up his mind as to which is the better course, and the better mate.
While each is on a respective vacation in Lake Placid, New Yorkers Johnny Case and Julia Seton meet, fall in love and decide to get married as soon as possible. Johnny, a happy-go-lucky working stiff who has worked most of his life to gain modest financial success, had no idea that Julia came from an extremely wealthy banking family, which ends up being solely an unexpected surprise, no more, no less. For them to get married, they will have to work hard to get the blessing of Julia's father, Edward Seton, who ultimately does give his approval, as he sees in Johnny what Julia sees: a man with potential. Johnny doesn't need to work hard to impress Julia's free-thinking sister, Linda Seton, who sees Johnny as a breath of fresh air into the Seton home and into Julia's life. Linda is truly happy for Julia to have met Johnny. What Linda is aware of but which Johnny has yet to tell Julia is that Johnny, who doesn't want to live on the Seton's money, plans on quitting work when he is financially able to do so, so that he can take a holiday to find out where he fits in life. Linda admires both his plan and his conviction in what he wants. He may be able to achieve his goal sooner than planned as a financial deal pays off. Julia, who doesn't agree with or understand this plan, doesn't believe Johnny will go through with it, but Linda tries to convince her that he will and should and that she should go with him. Johnny may come to his own realizations concerning if and if so where he really does fit within the Seton family.

