An abrasive Las Vegas newspaper reporter investigates a series of murders committed by a vampire.
Carl Kolchak is a newspaper reporter with an abrasive personality that has gotten him fired ten times from various big-city papers. Now he's reduced to reporting for a relatively small-time paper in Las Vegas. It's here he gets the story of his life. But will the local sheriff, or the D.A., or even his own boss, let him print it? He has an ally in the FBI agent brought in to investigate this strange case. It seems someone is biting the necks of young girls and draining their blood. Can this killer with supernormal powers really be a 70-year-old Romanian millionaire? Can he really be a vampire? And can an aging reporter do anything to stop him?
Wisecracking reporter Carl Kolchak, investigating a string of gruesome murders in Las Vegas in which the victims are drained of blood, concludes that a vampire is on the loose. Since the mayor, the police chief and his own editor think he's off his rocker, it's up to Kolchak to stop the bloodsucker himself.
Dogged reporter Carl Kolchak sets in on the scent of a series of strange murders in Las Vegas. It seems that each victim has been bitten in the neck and drained of all their blood, and Kolchak is sure that it is a vampire. He is hard pressed, however, to convince the Las Vegas police and soon realizes that he must stop the killer himself.
A vampire is loose in Las Vegas, stalking unsuspecting victims. Reporter Carl Kolchak is hot on his trail, but nobody believes him. His editor thinks he's nuts, the police think he's a hindrance in the investigation, so Kolchak takes matters into his own hands to rid Vegas of the blood sucking menace.
From a tape made by reporter Carl Kolchak Darren McGavin]. "This is the story behind one of the greatest manhunts in history. Maybe you read about it--or rather what they let you read about it probably in some minor item buried somewhere on the back page. However, what happened in Las Vegas between May 16 and May 28 of this year was so incredible that, to this day, the facts have been suppressed in a massive effort to save certain political careers from disaster and law enforcement officials from embarrassment. This will be the last time I will ever discuss these events with anyone. So, when you have finished this bizarre account, judge for yourself its believability. And then try to tell yourself, wherever you may be, it couldn't happen here."LAS VEGAS
Sunday May 16
ITEM 2:30 am: Body of Cheryl Hughes found in a garbage can; cause of death officially undetermined.Tuesday May 18
ITEM: Reporter Carl Kolchak (Daily News) called back from vacation and assigned to story.
ITEM: Doctor at County General Hospital informs Kolchak that Hughes died of massive blood loss.
ITEM: Gail Foster [Carol Lynley] informs Kolchak that Hughes had brown belt in karate.Thursday May 20
ITEM 7:02 am: Body of Bonnie Reynolds, with throat wounds and large blood loss, found lying 22 feet into a ditch; no footsteps or blood visible.
ITEM: Kolchak reports that Hughes and Reynolds died of massive blood loss; concludes that a 'super powerful madman' is running around Las Vegas, killing young girl.
ITEM: Kolchak reprimanded by the managing editor, Anthony Vincenzo [Simon Oakland].Friday May 21
ITEM 8:06 am: Body of Carol Hanaschek, drained of blood and with throat wounds, found at the back door of her apartment.
ITEM: Parkway Hospital knocked over for its blood supply.
ITEM: Clark County courthouse meeting; Coroner Robert Makurji [Larry Linville] reveals that throat wounds of all victims showed traces of human saliva; reporters warned to keep 'vampire' references out of newspaper.Saturday May 22
ITEM: Daily News headline: 'Vampire Killer in Las Vegas?' written by C. Kolchak.
ITEM: Kolchak reprimanded by editor for using the word 'vampire'.Sunday May 23
ITEM: Body of Mary Brandon found drained of blood and with throat wounds; her mother provides description of assailant and car (maroon coupe).
ITEM: Shelly Forbes reported missing; her doberman pinscher is found with its neck broken.Monday May 24
ITEM: Daily News prints drawing of suspect.Tuesday May 25
ITEM 7:30 pm: Used car salesman questioned about sale of maroon coupe to one Martin Luther, name and address phony.Wednesday May 26
ITEM PM: Old Town Hospital robbed of blood; police (and Kolchak) arrive in time to shoot at suspect but bullets don't stop him.Thursday May 27
ITEM 8:20 am: Press conference at Clark county courthouse; suspect identified as Janos Skorzeny [Barry Atwater], born 1899 in Krisda, Romania; father died 1923 leaving $75-100 million. Skorzeny reported just before German Blitz in England as Dr Paul Velasco, specialist in hematology; research involved freshly-killed air raid victims, sumps, tubs and large meat locker. Reported 1948 in Canada as Dr Velasco; seen repeatedly along US/Can border. Left Canada April 19 for Las Vegas as Detective Constable Alan Hansley. Considered British fugitive. NOTE: All Skorzeny sightings accompanied also by reports of unexplained deaths due to blood loss.
ITEM PM: Skorzeny spotted in green unpaneled station wagon; pursued unsuccessfully on foot by Kolchak and police.Friday May 28
ITEM 3:17 am: Skorzeny still at large; Kolchak advises officials to carry crosses, stakes and mallets.
ITEM: Kolchak locates Skorzeny's house; search reveals refrigerator filled with blood, dirt-filled coffin, drawer of disguises, and Shelly Forbes lashed to bed as a 'private blood bank'.
ITEM: Skorzeny returns, finds Kolchak hiding in closet; Kolchak holds up cross and backs away from Skorzeny but falls downstairs; Skorzeny leaps on Kolchak as Bernie Jenks [Ralph Meeker] arrives; fight ensues.
ITEM DAWN: Kolchak pulls down curtains; sunlight weakens Skorzeny; Skorzeny staked by Kolchak as police arrive.
ITEM: Carl Kolchak arrested for murder and warned by D.A. to leave Las Vegas and to never speak of the vampire incident or be put away forever."So that's it. The book's finished, and now you'll have to judge for yourself. I must warn you, however, if you try to verify this account, you will find it quite impossible. ITEM: In Washington DC, there is no longer a file listing the suspect under his true name or any of his aliases. In Las Vegas, all of those who were involved have either left town, aren't talking, or are dead. I haven't had a decent night's sleep since all this happened, and now you might find it difficult, too, because there is still one fact that cannot be buried: after the death of Janos Skorzeny, he and all of his victims were immediately cremated. Why? Remember the legend: all those who die from the bite of a vampire will return as a vampire unless destroyed first. So, think about it and try to tell yourself, wherever you may be--in the quiet of your home, in the safety of your bed--try to tell yourself it couldn't happen here." [Full Synopsis by bj_kuehl.]
