A free-spirited single mother forms a connection with the wed headmaster of an Episcopal boarding school in California.
Twenty-something Laura Reynolds is a free spirit who questions social conventions, laws and regulations. A struggling artist, she lives in a secluded beach-side cabin in Big Sur with her nine year old illegitimate son, Danny, on who she has instilled her values. Because of this questioning of convention, Laura has decided to home school Danny. Also because of this questioning of the law, Danny runs into some legal problems, and as such is court ordered to be sent to San Simeon, a Christian school in Monterey. This order is against Laura's wishes. The school's headmaster is Dr. Rev. Edward Hewitt, who tries to convince Laura that San Simeon is not the prison she probably believes it to be. Married for twenty-one years to his faithful wife Claire, Edward has become more a fund-raiser at all cost (for a new chapel) rather than an educator or priest. Despite their differences, Laura and Edward begin to fall for each other. Both but especially Edward have to reconcile their feelings for each other to their beliefs, which they learn are closer to each other than what may appear on the surface. Their feelings also bring to the forefront what each really wants in life beyond their current lot.
Young Danny Reynolds and his mother Laura live an idyllic life near California's Big Sur. Laura teaches Danny at home. After Danny shoots a deer, authorities take the boy away to live and study in a parochial orphanage/school. The unwed mother is distraught. At first, the school administrator, Episcopalian Priest Dr. Hewitt, finds the free-spirited Laura to be morally bereft and without redeeming value. Eventually, Laura and Dr. Hewitt fall in love and begin an illicit affair.
Laura Reynolds (Elizabeth Taylor) is a free-spirited, unwed single mother living with her young son Danny (Morgan Mason) in an isolated California beach house near Big Sur. She makes a modest living as an artist and home-schools her son out of concern that he will be compelled to follow detrimental conventional social norms in a regular public school. Danny has gotten into some trouble with the law through two minor incidents (including shooting a deer), in her eyes innocent expressions of his natural curiosity and conscience rather than delinquency. Now with a third incident a judge orders her to send the boy to an Episcopal boarding school where Dr. Edward Hewitt (Richard Burton) is headmaster, and his wife Claire (Eva Marie Saint) teaches.At an initial interview, there is a momentary immediate attraction between Laura and Edward, but this quickly turns into tension brought on by their greatly differing world views and Laura's dislike of religion. Finally she storms out. She attempts to flee the area with her son but they are quickly picked up by police who take Danny to the school. He initially has trouble fitting in because his mother's home schooling has left him far in advance of boys his age in several subjects; the standard course of instruction at Edward's school leaves him restless and bored. At Claire's suggestion, Edward visits Laura to learn more about Danny and his upbringing.Laura's unconventional morals initially disturb Edward (such as modeling topless for an artist friend), as they conflict with his religious training. After visiting her several more times he finds that he wants her very much and cannot get her out of his mind. The two begin a torrid extramarital affair. Edward struggles with the guilt this produces while Laura encourages him to accept their love as right. Meanwhile, Danny flourishes after Edward relaxes school rules and allows the boy to choose more advanced classes.But one evening, the secret love affair is eventually exposed by a remark made to Edward in the presence of Claire by a jealous former lover of Laura's, and Edward is forced to confess all to his wife. At first Claire is distraught, but later they quietly discuss it in the light of how their lives have diverged from the idealistic religious fervor of the first years of their marriage. He says that he still loves her and that he will end the affair. They decide to separate for a while. When Edward tells Laura that he told his wife about their affair, she too gets angry over being the second woman in his life and tells them that their relationship is over too.A few days later, with the school year over, Laura tells Danny that they can move away for she has made enough money from her painting sales for them to leave. But Danny refuses for he has put down roots at the school and wants to stay there. She has a moment of pain but realizes her son's need to be free and agrees to stay where they are for now.Laura attends the school's year-end celibration where Edward announces that he has decided to resign his position at the school and decides to travel to find himself.In the final scene, on Edward's way out of town, he stops at her place for a silent farewell; Laura and her son down on the beach, Edward high up on the bluff above looking down at them. He waves goodbye and drives away, with a saddened Laura looking on.
