After being released from prison, notorious thief Roy Earle is hired by his old boss to help a group of inexperienced criminals plan and carry out the robbery of a California resort.
Roy 'Mad Dog' Earle is broken out of prison by an old associate who wants him to help with an upcoming robbery. When the robbery goes wrong and a man is shot and killed Earle is forced to go on the run, and with the police and an angry press hot on his tail he eventually takes refuge among the peaks of the Sierra Nevadas, where a tense siege ensues. But will the Police make him regret the attachments he formed with two women during the brief planning of the robbery.
Soon after getting a pardon, notorious bank robber Roy Earle hooks up with two men, Red and Babe, to rob a hotel. He also finds that they've picked up a woman along the way, Marie, a former dance-hall girl. Along the way, he also becomes friendly with a poor family who have traveled too California with their granddaughter, Velma, in whom he takes more than a passing interest. While Marie falls in love with Roy, he's fallen for Velma, but no one will find happiness. When the robbery goes wrong, Roy and Marie find themselves on the run. Roy is eventually forced to flee into the Sierra Mountains where he readies himself for one last shoot-out with the police.
See Bogie at his best as world weary "Mad Dog Roy Earle" Given a pardon from jail he gets back into the swing of things as he robs a swanky resort. Which results in a botched caper. Bogie takes it on the lam with the always underated Ida Lupino and meets his destiny from a snipers bullet in the mountain tops. Arthur Kennedy in a good early role. Bogart had suffered many years at the hands of Warner brothers short sightedness. In this movie he got a chance to sink his teeth into it. Filled with classic noir elements as the doomed criminal who would rather be a farmer but must pull one last job. It's all there, the loping gait, thumbs shoved into his belt loops. Here is a man who must remain true to his inner convictions no matter how many coppers try to chase him down.
