In Sweden at the turn of the century, members of the upper class and their servants find themselves in a romantic tangle that they try to work out amidst jealousy and heartbreak.
It's late nineteenth century Sweden. Middle aged lawyer Fredrik Egerman and his nineteen year old current wife Anne Egerman's two-year marriage has not yet been consummated. Fredrik wants to give Anne as much time as she needs to feel comfortable before losing her virginity. Although she loved Fredrik when they got married, Anne realizes she is attracted to Fredrik's adult son, Henrik Egerman, a brooding seminary student who is home following his most recent exams. Also a virgin, Henrik has been in an awkward flirtation with the Egermans' sexually experienced maid, Petra, in an effort to lose his virginity. When she first sees actress Desirée Armfeldt, Anne, without Fredrik telling her, knows that Desirée and Fredrik used to be lovers, the two who still have feelings for each other. Desirée currently is having an affair with married Count Carl-Magnus Malcolm. While he is jealous of any man who Desirée shows any attention to such as Fredrik, he is not the same with his young wife, the Countess Charlotte Malcolm, who he freely allows to have affairs of her own, or so he says. The Countess and Anne also happen to be friends. Largely orchestrated by Desirée, these interrelationships may play themselves out on one summer overnight social gathering at Desirée's mother's house, but not without the potential of some unforeseen tragic consequences.
In a story of mismatched couples. middle-aged lawyer Fredrik Egerman is married to the lovely 19 year-old Anne. The marriage has never been consummated however with Fredrik thinking she is still too young to truly enjoy marital life. Fredrik's feelings for a former lover, the actress Desiree Armfeldt, are rekindled however but he finds himself having to deal with Count Carl Magnus Malcolm, a predatory male who thinks he can conquer all women. When Desiree hosts a weekend party at her mother's estate she invites both of her admirers and their wives. Add Fredrik's son and his flirty maid to the mix and it's clear many lives will be changed.
In the beginning of the Twentieth Century, the successful fifty years old lawyer Fredrik Egerman has been married for three years with his naive nineteen years old wife Anne, who is still virgin. His adult son from his former marriage, Henrik, lives in celibate preparing to be a priest. Their servant is the young and futile Petra, who easily falls in love for every man. When Frederik goes to the theater with Anne, he sees the actress and his former mistress Desiree Armfeldt and he meets her alone in her dressing room after the performance. They go to her house, Frederik falls in one puddle and she gives the robe and the pajamas of her present lover, the military Count Carl Magnus Malcolm, who is married with Anne's friend Countess Charlotte Malcolm. However, Malcolm unexpectedly arrives and after the unpleasant encounter of the trio, Desiree ends their relationship. On the next morning, Desiree plots a weekend in her mother's summer real state with Frederik, Anne, Henrik, Malcolm and Charlotte, with the intention of seducing Frederik again. Along the night, with the three smiles of love, four couples are formed.
In the lat 19th-century, a slightly-aging and totally amoral actress invites to her country-house party two married men---a lawyer and a count---who have both been her lovers in the past. She also asks them to bring along their wives. She has plans on taking one of them away from his present wife, but also ensure that all her guests leave paired up. The math doesn't work out until an uninvited guest also shows up.

