A spaceship crashes upon an unexplored planet, and the rescuers sent to search for survivors discover that decades have passed due to time dilation.
A space ship crash lands on the third planet of a distant solar system, killing all hands except for a young boy named Tang. The rescue ship arrives some 20 years later. One of the crew, a girl named Linda meets Tang and falls in love with him. They are attacked by the native humanoids of the planet and many of them are killed off. Also, the crew encounters many strange beasts on this strange, but somewhat familiar world.
A spaceship called Cosmos. The crew is talking about the time travelling experience: one of the crew members says that, when he returns to Earth, his 3-year younger brother will be older than him. The captain, Admiral David King (Wendell Corey) says that it's one of the curious things about travelling almost at light speed. This is a rescue ship, who is in search of another spaceship which crashed into the third planet of a solar system similar to the Milky Way twenty years ago. King tells the communication officers to try and contact the spaceship.Lt Red Bradley (Paul Gilbert) goes to the cockpit when the spaceship starts slowing down. The second-in-charge, Commander Scott (Keith Larsen) is eager to find the ship, although he thinks that they will be death by now. Linda (Irene Tsu) overhears, and is worried about a friend of hers who was aboard Castle III, the disappeared spaceship. She asks Dr Farrell (John Agar) whether he thinks that they will be still alive, and he tries to be positive about it.What happened in the Castle 3 is that all Asian-looking performers are supposed to be Centaurians, an alien race which was rescued from their dying planet. Some of these Centurians did not accept the culture of the humans, so they mutinied against the Castle 3 crew. The Centurians prefer to die in the crash than to be the slaves of humanity. There is a fight on the space ship, and the ship gets marooned in a lake.Communications is carried out by women, like Lt Karen Lamont (Merry Anders) and Ens. Stevens (Suzie Kaye). Engineer Bradley appears and makes a pass at Lamont. When he is rejected by Karen, he says that she is treating her as though he is a Centaurian, which offends all three women and creates a weird moment, as Linda is a Centaurian. Linda wonders aloud if Centaurians would ever be accepted by humanity.The rescue ship reaches the planet. King consoles Linda.The crew from Castle III wanders around the prehistoric planet. Sally (Sally Frei) can't forgive Zenda (Joanne Miya), although she was not one of the rebels. Captain Ross (Glenn Langan) tries to make peace between the two of them and keep a positive attitude. First of all, before the rescue group arrives, they need to get out of the jungle. Lt. Charles Anderson (Todd Lasswell) is kind to Zenda. Jung (Kam Tong), the leader of the rebellious Centurians, attacks Ross. Zenda shoots Jung, even though he's her brother. Ross hugs Zenda.The rescue team is afraid that the planet is a dangerous one. This worries Linda even more. They land in the planet. King, Scott, Bradley are already in the planet. In the three months it has taken them to arrive to the planet, 18 years have gone by to the stranded people, and they wonder what could have happened to them in such a long time. They take samples of the planet. They return to the ship to get implements for the search and rescue mission. At that moment, Lamont says that Linda has disappeared and left for the planet. Lamont thinks that Linda will cause trouble to everybody, but King will feel guilty if anything happens to her.Linda is attacked by a poisonous snake. She falls to the water and faints. Somebody kills the snake with a crossbow: it is Tang (Roberto Ito). Soon afterwards, King and the rest get to that location, but neither Tang nor Linda are already there. King laughs about Bradley's lack of shape. He says that he's a karate expert. They talk about humanity trying to unify all alien races.Tang has taken Linda to his cave. He used to live with his monkey. Tang is the son of Zenda and Anderson, who are dead and kept frozen at the back of the cave. Tang will take Linda to the spaceship.King and the rest have to cross a boiling river of bad smell and poisonous fumes. One of the crewmembers falls to the river and dies. This creates tension within the group. They find the old ship. A huge spider kills another of the crew members.Tang offers Linda a new blue dress and a present. There are other people in the planet, but they would kill Tang if they caught him. Tang had undressed Linda, so they slap each other. They kiss.A storm breaks out. Bradley doubts that Linda or any of the crew members would be alive by now.Stevens is dancing and Bradley harasses her. Lamont prevents it from going further, although Stevens was going to kiss him. Scott appears and demands the situation with the fuel be solved. Neither Stevens nor Lamont speak out. King suspects that Tang killed Anderson with the crossbow.Tang and Linda fall in love and kiss. Linda wants to go back to her friends'. Tang is jealous and he pushes Linda. She pushes him to the water, and he does so to her. They kiss in the water in front of Tico (Monkey). Tang takes Linda to her spaceship. Linda wants to take Tang with her, but he feels the planet is his home now. Tang is convinced and will go with Linda, but they are attacked by a prehistoric gang who attacks them with spears. Tang defends her. King, Bradley and the rest appear. They shoot Tang and wound him in his arm. The doctor gives Linda in injection because she is hysterical.When Linda clarifies the situation, it's too late, and a volcano is about to go into eruption. This startles both Tang and the crew of the Cosmos. King wants to leave. Linda says that she hates them all. She leaves the starship. King tries to go after her, but the volcano makes it impossible to stay in the planet.Nevins (Ronald Lyon) insists that King returns to the ship, but he doesn't want to, because Linda is her daughter. Nevins punches him in the face and carries him to the ship. The spaceship leaves leaving Linda behind. She finally finds Tang. They kiss while the ship leaves for good. King will leave Linda and Tang to live happily in the planet. Lamont has fallen in love again.It so happens that the planet they are leaving is... EARTH!---written by KrystelClaire
