Sometime in the future, the Canadian Academy for Erotic Inquiry is investigating the theories of parapsychologist Luther Stringfellow. Seven young adults volunteer to submit to a form of brain surgery that removes their power of speech but increases their power for telepathic communication. An unseen group of students observes the results. As the experiment progresses, Stringfellow's theories come to fruition. Later, aphrodisiacs and various other drugs are introduced to the subjects to expose an inherent polymorphous perversity. In the end, they are isolated from each other, provoking antagonism and violence between them, which results in two suicides.
A helicopter lands in a courtyard outside a large postmodern office building. A man wearing a dark cloak emerges. There is no dialogue or soundtrack except for the voice-over of a narrator. The cloaked new arrival is one of eight "Category A subjects who underwent pattern brain surgery." A program developed within he Canadian Academy for Erotic Enquirey's "organic computer dialectic system." This confers telepathic ability b y a process of "biochmical induction"; the eight subjects have three months to prepare for their first group meeting. The architect of this experiment, the eminent aphrodisiast and therorist Dr. Luther Stringfellow, exponent of the existenial-organic approach to, the socio-chemisty of the erotic, is strangely apsent.The eight subjects walk or run down endless corridors of the building as well as stroll through sunlit gardens, and interact with each other without speaking. They form attachments to their researchers, a telepathic dependencey which is also "an extreme form of psychia addiction." If they are removed from the object of their dependencey for too long, severe psychic disorinentation manifests itself.In the meeting room, a man undresses a woman and caresses an anatomical model while she sits blindfolded. Two other subjects regard Tarot cards and contemplate symbols. The narrator further speaks of a dominant telepathic personality that must learn to give way to the conglomerate that runs the project. Others may try to avoid telepathic contact by "schizophrenetic partition"; conjuring up a false telepathic self that induces images of depravity and moral decay. The conglomerate is expected to displace the redundant nuclear family because of its adherence to principals of faith, love, and dependency.Over a slow-motion semi-orgy, the narrator admits that the subjects (strangers who have no telepathic flow) have denied their telepathic communication when EEG monitors proved a very strong connection. Also, two of the eight subjects have commited suicide and that Dr. Stringfellow's absence may be explained by psychic dependency being reciprocal between telepathists and non-paranormals. The final shot has the narrator stating that the data on the psychic interaction of the six remaining subjects has yet to be analized.
