Two disparate people have a wonderful romance, but their political views and convictions drive them apart.
The often unlikely joint lives of Katie Morosky and Hubbell Gardiner from the late 1930s to the late 1950s is presented, over which time, they are, in no particular order, strangers, acquaintances, friends, best friends, lovers and adversaries. The unlikely nature of their relationship is due to their fundamental differences, where she is Jewish and passionate about her political activism both in political freedoms and Marxism to an extreme where she takes life a little too seriously, while he is the golden boy WASP, being afforded the privileges in life because of his background but who on the most part is able to capitalize on those privileges. Their lives are shown in four general time periods, in chronological order when they attend the same college, their time in New York City during WWII, his life as a Hollywood screenwriter post-war, and his life as a writer for a New York based live television show. It is during college that Hubbell finds his voice in life as a writer, and that Katie sees beyond his good looks to find a person with substance who realizes his position in a life as something that does not give him an inherent right to those opportunities. External world events, such as the Spanish Civil War, WWII and the House Un-American Activities investigation, do affect their lives directly, but it is how they deal with these effects personally, largely in relation to personal relationships - such as with Hubbell's long term friends J.J. and Carol Ann, the latter his college girlfriend - that may dictate if Katie and Hubbell are able to make it in the long term as a couple.
Set in the period from the mid-1930s to the 1950s, a love story involving two markedly different people. Katie is an idealistic, uptight, Stalin-loving political activist. Hubbell is an easy-going, athletic, All American-type, and a talented writer. We see their different personalities affect their relationship and how they manage despite the differences...
Opposites attract when, during their college days, Katie Morosky, a politically active Jew, meets Hubbell Gardiner, a feckless WASP. Years later, in the wake of World War II, they meet again and, despite their obvious differences, marry. Hubbell wants to be a screenwriter, so the two move to California despite Katie's objections. They prosper there, but as the Hollywood blacklist looms, Katie's activism threatens her husband's reputation.
This classic film starts out with Katie and Hubbell meeting up after 20 years. There is a flashback showing you that they went to the same college and that they came from two different worlds. Kattie worked her way through as a speaker trying to show the world that there can be peace that we need to change ourselves and to help others in need. Hubbell on the other hand was a athlete who could do everything. But when Hubbell published a small book he then joined the military and went off to fight for his country. After 20 years fate throws them together again where he needs a place to sleep and she ends up making them both dinner the next night and then they become each other's best friend and soon their serious boy/girl friend. As Katie tries to push Hubbell to be his best and to write another book he then meets up with his old friend JJ. While Kattie is fine where she is, Hubbell wants to go to Hollywood and become a screen writer and they start to make a movie. But along the way a new surprise comes,(you will have to watch to find out). Causing a rift between them, that soon turns into a giant hole no one can repair. They drift apart but as time passes they meet again she is married and he is with another girl. It all worked out for the best they agreed and went their separate ways but not without saying goodbye.
Katie and Hubbell are students in the same college but with very different lives. She is a communist compromised against the civil war in Spain and the rise of Hitler in Europe, and has to work to pay her studies. He is more interested in sports a and sceptic about politics. However, Katie is impressed by his charm and she still is when they meet some years after.

