Winnie the Pooh and his friends experience high winds, heavy rains, and a flood in Hundred Acre Wood.
Pooh is back and this time he's gonna blow you away. Almost literally. When Pooh's friend Gopher warns him that it's Windsday, Pooh goes off to wish Piglet a Happy Windsday, but Piglet is lifted into the air by the strong winds, Pooh grabs Piglet's scarf, which unravels into a single string, and looks to be flying Piglet like a kite. They arrive at Owl's house, the wind blows it down and Owl inquires as to whether Pooh did it. Eeyore agrees to find a new house for Owl, but one night, Pooh gets a visit from an unusual new friend - Tigger, a rambunctious tiger who likes honey but hates it just the same, and warns Pooh about Heffalumps and Woozles, who steal honey. But Heffalumps and Woozles are only half of Pooh's worries now, for a huge rain storm has set on the Hundred Acre Wood. Everybody is swimming in their homes. Pooh inadvertently saves Piglet from a waterfall so they have a hero party. Eeyore then barges in and announces he has found a new home for Owl; unfortunately the house he found was Piglet's. But Piglet does a heroic thing and turns over his domicile to Owl, so they have a Two Hero Party and the storm dies down. At least until next Windsday.
On a very windy day, Winnie the Pooh visits his "thoughtful spot". As Pooh sits thinking, Gopher pops out of the ground and advises him to leave as it is a "Winds-day". Misunderstanding the warning, Pooh goes across the Hundred Acre Wood to wish everyone a happy Winds-day. He arrives at the beech tree home of his friend Piglet, who is nearly blown away while trying to rake leaves, but Pooh grabs him by his scarf, like the string of a kite. They pass by Kanga and Roo; Eeyore, whose stick house Pooh breaks as he passes; and Rabbit, whose carrots Pooh inadvertently helps harvest as he slides by.The wind blows Pooh and Piglet to Owl's treehouse, where he invites them in. Pooh wishes Owl a happy Winds-day, as he has everyone else, but Owl informs them that the wind is due to "a mild spring zephyr". As Owl recounts the adventures of various relatives, the strong wind causes his house to sway and eventually collapse, for which he initially blames Pooh. Christopher Robin and the others arrive; as the wrecked house cannot be repaired, Eeyore volunteers to seek out a new house for Owl, who proceeds to tell more stories for quite some time; talking from page 41 to page 62.On page 62, the wind is still blowing as night falls, and Pooh is kept awake by noises outside and opens his door for a visitor: Tigger, who introduces himself with his signature song ("The Wonderful Thing About Tiggers") and informs Pooh that he has come looking for something to eat. Disgusted by the taste of Pooh's honey, Tigger tells him that there are Heffalumps and Woozles in the forest that steal honey, and departs. Frightened, Pooh stays up to guard his honey but falls asleep. After a nightmare about Heffalumps and Woozles stealing his honey and chasing him around, he wakes up in a flood-inducing rainstorm.In the flood, Piglet is washed away from his home, writing a message in a bottle for help just before the waters carry him off in a floating chair. Pooh manages to reach higher ground with only ten honey pots, but the rising waters carry him away. Kanga, Roo, Rabbit, and Tigger gather at Christopher Robin's house on the highest ground, while Eeyore continues house hunting for Owl. Roo finds Piglet's bottle, and Owl flies off to tell Piglet that help is on the way.Owl reaches Piglet and Pooh, but before he can inform them of the impending rescue - and tell another boring story - a waterfall threatens to carry them all over the side. Pooh switches places with Piglet as they take the plunge, and the waterfall washes them right into Christopher Robin's yard. Thinking that Pooh has rescued Piglet, Christopher Robin throws a party to celebrate Pooh's heroic deed, where Eeyore announces he has found a new home for Owl. He leads everyone to his discovery which, known to everyone except Owl and Eeyore, is Piglet's beech tree. Owl is impressed, and Piglet generously decides that Owl should have the house. Pooh invites Piglet to move into his home and, impressed by Piglet's selflessness, asks Christopher Robin to make the party for two heroes instead of one.
