Chan is faced with suspects in a stolen atomic bomb formula case, that are being killed with bullets that are not fired from a gun.
Synopsis - The Red Dragon, Released 2-2-46
Delightful music plays as the camera pans the outside of the U.S. Embassy in Mexico City. Walter Dorn enters Mr. Prentiss' embassy office; Prentiss keeps the intercom open. He tells Dorn the ambassador is out of the city, but Dorn insists his message must be sent to Washington, because last night was the second attempt to steal Mr. Wyans' papers. Prentiss quips, he heard Wyans stole the papers himself. Dorn explains Charlie Chan is the only person who can handle this matter, before it is too late. Dorn makes Prentiss know he is aware the intercom key is open for others to hear. Inspector Luis Carvero listened to Walter Dorn's conversation over the intercom before entering the embassy office. The Inspector tells Prentiss he will be at the Wyans' reception at his penthouse tomorrow; adding, he will be an unexpected guest.The camera scans the Hotel Miramar, and moves into an office where Dorn is fixing a typewriter ribbon. Dorn gets up to greet a departing Joseph Bradish, who says it was a fine luncheon, but he has to leave. He walks him to the door and returns to his desk. Bradish meets Carvero at the elevator, explaining he has to leave early. A gunshot is heard from Dorn's office, revealing Walter collapsing from an apparent wound. There are five people, two women and three men, entering the area coming from the luncheon, watching Dorn clutch his chest. The Inspector and Bradish follow the sound into the office, and before falling to the floor, Dorn was able to strike a few typewriter keys.A plane taxies to a stop, seen are Charlie Chan, son Tommy and Chattanooga Brown, all coming from the plane. Chan exchanges greetings with Luis Carvero, introduces number three son and Birmingham's cousin, Chattanooga. Chan mentions he was to be met by Walter Dorn. Carvero explains he was killed an hour ago, murdered. The six people at the luncheon are all at headquarters waiting to be questioned from both detectives. Marguerite Fontan was the woman nearest the victim when Carvero entered the room. No gun was found and no gun was on anyone at time of shooting. Chan says most mysterious.The four enter the penthouse dining area, find nothing. They enter the reception area at Dorn's desk, Tommy lifts up a bottle of red dragon Chinese ink from Dorn's desktop, showing it to his father. Charlie requests the two check in at the hotel, and meet him later at police headquarters. Chan asks Carvero to verify where Dorn fell. Carvero shows him where the second bullet entered the wall behind the desk. It is agreed everyone else heard only one shot. Chan summarizes one shot heard, two bullets fired and no gun found; murderer was very clever. Carvero shows Chan the typing Dorn entered before his death. Chan says at the moment the message makes no sense; the message read TH E$M OST. Carvero tells Chan they searched the entire apartment, the Wyans' papers were not found, and they were the cause for murder. Chan declares the papers must be found, they contain the notes and formula for the atomic bomb. Chan continues to expound on the bomb secrets where the formula contains information making the bomb even more deadly than previously tested. It is crucial the papers be found, Carvero says, falling into the wrong hands hastens the search. Chan mentions to Carvero the red ink found on the desk. Chan suggests the appropriate items, i.e. typewriter and ribbon, be brought to the police lab for analysis; Carvero complies by directing his men to follow through with the request.Chan and Carvero reminisce about a past case from years ago. Carvero admits he fancies Marguerite Fontan, the only person Chan has not been briefed from the US State Department. Chan adds, even detectives fall in love. Carvero tells Charlie he has known the woman for three years. In the Inspector's office, the group from the luncheon is seated and being questioned by the Inspector. Carvero turns the meeting over Chan, giving him the authority to conduct the meeting and assume powers alongside Carvero. Chan recognizes Edmond Slade and Alfred Wyans. Chan says Dorn was a detective. Wyans says he would have discharged him, if he knew he was a detective. Chan to Wyans, very easy for foreign agent to forge passport. Chan confronts Slade, who claims he is an agent for a farm machinery firm. Chan to Slade, he is a known gunrunner, he escaped one country because he was suspected of murder. Chan to Bradish, claiming he is an oil salesman, Chan contradicts him, known as international smuggler. Chan to Countess Irena, claiming to be an entertainer at the Capitol Night Club. Chan to Masack, who claims to be an importer, but Chan says he is an importer of defeated Nazi propaganda. Chan to Marguerite Fontan, you are listed as tourist in Mexico City, she agrees, she has been living in the city since her father died. Chan whispers to Carvero, then Carvero dismisses everyone and directs an order, nobody is to leave Mexico City. The group leaves quietly, except Wyans, who questions why his typewriter is in the police Inspector's office. Carvero says we hope to find the murderer's fingerprints on it. Wyans understands and exits. Chan quips, Mr. Wyans seemed quite worried for a moment. The phone rings, summoning the group to the police laboratory. The police scientist acknowledges to Chan the findings are from Dorn's pockets. Chan holds something up, questioning its origin. The police scientist says whatever it is, it was destroyed by the bullet killing Mr. Dorn. The police scientist shows Charlie the microscope slide of the bullet killing Dorn. The bullet has no rifling marks on it, nor any such marks found on the bullet found in the wall. Carvero asks the scientist confirmation that neither bullet was fired from a gun. The police scientist confirms neither was fired from a gun. Carvero states, one shot heard, two bullets fired, but none from a gun. Chan says he is mystified and would like to examine the other bullet. Carvero gets a call. Wyans typewriter was stolen, having been returned to him recently, yielding no fingerprints.Alfred Wyans catches Marguerite Fontan looking through Dorn's desk drawer contents, when Carvero enters the office with Chan. Wyans says his guests are out on the terrace, claiming he likes having his enemies together where he can keep an eye on them. Chan stops at the Countess's chair, stating the Countess is a clever lady, but her title is a fraud. She feigns to be insulted, Chan says the State Department says she is a married woman, husband is a secret agent of several different countries. Her husband is unknown at moment, Chan response to Masack's inquiry on Fontan's spouse. Chan walks over to Marguerite Fontan, stating this young lady also is very clever, saying nothing about her connections in Europe, especially Czechoslovakia, where papers now in Wyans possession were stolen from allied government. Chan says to Miss Fontan, we know you have never been to Czechoslovakia. Chan dismisses the group of guests. Chan suggests to Carvero, killer perhaps hide unknown weapon in hotel room. Tonight, when all suspects are at dinner, Carvero says we search all their rooms. Chans offers his thanks in Spanish to Carvero. They stop short before Dorn's area, eyeing Masack picking up the Countesses gloves she forgot.Carvero and Chan exit Fontan's room, as Josephine, personal maid to Miss Fontan, enters. Carvero mentions they have searched each suspect's room, no murder weapon. Chan states the most important question unanswered is where Mr. Wyans hid his papers. Carvero and Chan search for Wyans baggage in the hotel cellar as Marguerite Fontan comes downstairs to look for something. Masack follows, coming down to look for something, too. Carvero and Chan have ducked out of sight, after they heard Marguerite coming. Next comes Irena, calling for Charles. Masack hears her voice, they meet, Irena discards her cigarette into the hamper Chattanooga Brown is hiding. She and Charles exit into the warehouse room when she says Bradish is coming down the stairs. Bradish goes into the same room where Masack was fumbling with luggage. Carvero and Chan watch Bradish move about as does Marguerite. The suspects scare one another off with their noise, Chattanooga's hamper cover is smoldering, and Carvero opens the trunk everyone was trying to open. He and Chan find Wyans typewriter. Chan says Wyans steal it himself.Brown's hamper is smoldering as Jimmy looks on from the next hamper. Jimmy douses the fire, pointing the way for Carvero and Chan to chase suspects. Carvero and Chan hear someone going up in freight elevator, then they hear Wyans ask Masack what he was doing with the Countess down there. Masack says he was looking for the typewriter. Masack comments further, after all, I make my living keeping my back to the wall. Suddenly, an inspired Wyans says he now knows how Dorn was shot and is calling Chan. Wyans is shot calling from the cellar phone, he falls down the stairs to Carvero and Chan. Masack is seen running away at the top of the stairs. Carvero and Chan are in pursuit up the stairs. Masack is seen in a speeding cab, followed by sirens, pleading with the driver to drive faster. The driver says when the police want you to stop, you stop.Carvero and Chan are questioning Masack, accusing him of shooting Wyans, and throwing away his gun. Masack counters saying he never owned a gun. A bullet comes from nowhere, kills Alfred Wyans, so I got frightened and I ran, says Masack. The detectives enter the lab, as Charlie tells Luis, another murder will occur again, it is in the offing, because the killer has not found Wyans' papers. They look through microscope at the bullet killing Wyans, and see no rifling on bullet, indicating it too, was not fired from a gun. The police scientist says there were also two bullets found at the scene of Wyans' murder, one in nearby wall, near the telephone. Charlie shows Luis a metal object found in the victim's pocket, which fired the bullet, the same object found in Dorn's pocket; one bullet shot into victim, one bullet shot into wall. An effort to determine just what these metal objects were from and how they fired the bullets is part of the mission of the detectives. Luis says the metal objects appear to be a part of a dry cell battery, but what fired the bullets is still a mystery, as is the message Dorn typed before he died.The Capitol night club is busy, the band is playing on stage, the patrons at their tables appear pleased, as the bandleader introduces Countess Irena. Masack is at a table tipping his glass toward the Countess, Marguerite Fontan and Joseph Bradish are at another table across the room, looking at Chan, Jimmy and Luis entering the club ballroom. Irena starts singing, Luis leans to Charlie saying they are all here, except Slade. Masack notices the detectives' presence, as Slade shows, with Charlie greeting him and receiving a cold reception. Slade is seated by the captain, and Masack notices Slade. Irena finishes her number and departs to her dressing room. Luis says the dressing room is down there, as the detectives move to the room, with all suspects watching, as Marguerite and Joseph get up and go to the same door. Luis and Charlie ask Irena why she was in the hotel basement last night? She denies it at first, then says we had nothing to do with that, referring to the killing. Marguerite and Joseph are coming down the steps toward the dressing room, followed by Slade and Masack, with Jimmy standing guard. Jimmy refuses entry from the four suspects. Chan and Luis know Irena and Masack are married, selling secrets to highest bidder years ago in Europe. Six years ago, in Berlin you married Charles Masack. Irena says she will prove she and Charles are innocent, as she pulls from her purse a written statement pledging their innocence, but the real murderer's identity is on a missing second page. Suddenly, from her purse, she is shot, the shot is heard, Chan looks around, goes to the door, informs all others, the Countess Irena is dead, murdered. Masack admits she was his wife, Charlie acknowledges the fact, nonetheless, everyone here will have to be searched, as Luis escorts the people away from the door. Chan tells Miss Fontan she will also be searched, he instructs Tommy to get the powder room girl. The medical examiner arrives, Chan points to the body on the floor, as Charlie inspects Irena's purse. The powder room attendant informs Luis that Miss Fontan had no gun on her person. Chan asks the remainder of suspects, all of you came here tonight for pleasure. Bradish hands Chan a note from Irena to meet him at the Club tonight at ten thirty for some valuable information. Chan dismisses them, inviting Masack to visit his slain wife in her dressing room. Tommy reviews the particulars, all were murdered with no gun found, two bullets, and no weapon found.Charlie and Luis review notes in hotel room. Charlie pulls the bullet he found lodged in some wood from Irena's purse. The one clue Tommy did provide was the bottle of Chinese Red Dragon Ink. Another gun shot is fired, Chattanooga's cigar is blown off, Chan and company go out into the hall finding the remaining four suspects. Chan tells them someone tried to kill Charlie Chan. They are dismissed. Charlie reiterates how important it is to find Wyans' papers. The only clue is the ink bottle. The ink bottle is the subject at hand with Luis mentioning a certain Iris Ling, a Chinese artist, only in Mexico City for three weeks and may have met Wyans in his hotel. Luis says his men have been working on the significance of the ink bottle. Chan tells Luis how important it is to find Miss Ling. Luis tells them she travels to different nightclubs each night seeking customers. Charlie says tonight we visit every night club until they find Iris Ling.After several nightclubs, Chan and Carvero find what they seek, Tommy has beat them to her, as Masack walks in and by the detectives. Perhaps Masack followed the detectives to the club, nonetheless, Chan asks Luis to remain, while he attends to business. Charlie cuts in Tommy's dance effort with Miss Ling, the rumba commences with the two on the dance floor. Tommy and Luis are watching the couple rumba, while they are being watched by Masack off to the side at the hat check stand. Iris knows he is Charlie Chan. Charlie asks her to show no surprise as they are being watched, Charlie asks if she knew Alfred Wyans. She says yes. She sold him a bottle of ink but did no work for him. He said he wanted for his banderíllas, the pennants seen earlier on his hotel-office wall. Charlie returns to Luis and Tommy, saying Miss Ling has important clue regarding whereabouts of Wyans' papers. We must return to his office, gather all the banderíllas and bring them to the police laboratory for tests. Tommy picks up Iris, telling her she will be needed on this case, escorting her out of the club.In the police lab, the scientist says there are no signs of secret writings on the pennants. Luis says there are nothing but ribbons, Charlie says Luis I think we have a clue to the location of the papers. They go to Dorn's desk, pulling all the used typewriter ribbons from the drawer. Chan says follow me back to the lab. The scientist finds very important information on the typewriter-ribbon, indicating Wyans' papers were on that ribbon after all. Charlie requests Luis put police guarding all entrances and exits of the hotel, because tonight we are going to find murderer. Chan knocks on Marguerite Fontan's hotel door, with Luis inquiring why she was seeking Wyans' papers. Chan explains the papers rightfully belong to her. The man who discovered the 95th element and the formula for the atomic bomb, who also died preventing the Nazis from using his discovery was Joseph Fontan, Marguerite's uncle. Chan says we now locate murderer.Walter Dorn died trying to tell us the name of the mysterious weapon. Charlie holds the typing Dorn created before his death. The one character was an error striking the wrong key when typing. The dollar sign was struck accidently, instead of the correct key, an R. The word he meant to type was thermostat. A thermostat containing a radio signal was placed on wall to fire the bullet each time and was concealed in the purse or the clothing of the victim, the same thermostat was removed when nobody was looking. Chan says he removed the false thermostat from the wall after the attempt was made on his life, he points to the pointed item used for thrusting into a wall. A push button sends out a radio-electric signal activating bullet contained in purse or pocket of victim. Marguerite says there was such a device right by her door. Chan invites everyone to the floor below, the fifth floor. Three suspects have rooms on this floor he says. One of the suspects is the murderer and we will find the person by pressing the button on this thermostat. Charlie presses the button and shots ring out, the detectives run to the apartment door where the shots were heard. More shots are fired, Luis goes in to find the person and he is gone, getting away through the other door, as the lights go out in the hall. Coming down the stairs, more shots are heard, Luis says the suspect is in the trunk room. Chan asks the ladies to remain upstairs, Tommy and Chattanooga are to watch the stairs, and not let anyone pass.Charlie and Luis enter the trunk room, shots continue to be fired, a pistol is seen being held from behind storage items. Luis returns fire, he and Chan move and duck. Luis and the suspect return more fire, he and Charlie continue to move about as the murderer can be seen from behind. Crates are tipped over toward Charlie, Tommy yells look out Pop. The pushed crates harmlessly fall between the men. They split up, Luis is followed by Chattanooga and Tommy, Charlie heads away from them, as Luis moves toward the freight elevator. Suspect is seen limping up the stairs, Chan appears at the top of the stairway, saying you are caught at last Mr. Bradish, as he pulls his gun to fire at Chan, Luis shoots Bradish from behind. Bradish skirmishes while ascending, but is subdued by the police on the stairs. Charlie greets the ladies, waiting safely away from the action. As Charlie summarizes their accomplishment, Luis is busy kissing Marguerite, his love interest all along.
