Two American soldiers are captured by the Germans on the Western Front during World War One and escape a POW camp only to stumble into further life-threatening adventures when they come across an Arabian king's daughter while on the lam.
Americans Sgt. Peter O'Gaffney and one of his soldiers, privileged "pretty boy" W. Daingerfield Phelps III (who is always drawing caricatures), are captured and interred at a POW camp in Northern Germany near the end of WWI. Their relationship has always been an antagonistic one based on what Phelps sees as O'Gaffney pushing him around. O'Gaffney's rank is despite being wanted by the police back home as a con man. It is because of these differences that their resulting friendship at camp is so unlikely, the friendship based on both having the nerve to attempt to escape. On a snow covered day, they do manage to escape, in part by stealing white robes to camouflage themselves against the snow. In their adventures and misadventures on the outside in trying to get to safety, those adventures which include being mistaken for Arab prisoners, they find themselves as stowaways on board a cargo ship headed to Arabia. It is there that they meet a beautiful Arab woman named Mirza, who they save from drowning. They are both immediately smitten by her, which is why they are so disappointed to learn that she is betrothed in an arranged marriage to the ruthless Shevket Ben Ali. As the two try to reach the safety of an American consulate, they also decide to try and liberate Mirza, which may be more dangerous than fighting in the trenches in the battlefields of France.
An American soldier, W. Dangerfield Phelps and his detested sergeant, company top kick Peter McGaffney, are captured by the Germans while engaged in a bitter fist fight inside a shell-hole on the Western front. The two bond in the German POW camp and escape into the snow outside the perimeter, dressed in white burnooses they have purloined from Arab POWs, which render them virtually invisible in the snow. Recaptured, and mistaken for Arabs by their garb, they are sent to Turkey aboard a German prisoner train, from which they escape. Accidentally finding themselves on a Russian freighter, Phelps and McGaffney save an Arabian princess, the daughter of the Emir of Jaffa, from drowning. The amorous ship's captain, who has been competing with the two Americans for the woman's affection, demands fare from the damsel in distress. Phelps -- penniless after he and McGaffney earlier had bribed the captain to stay out of the ship's brig -- offers to pay for her as he has fallen in love with her. (Phelps takes the liberty of kissing her, for which she has removed her veil, an act witnessed by one of her retainers.) The captain responds that they must pay him tomorrow, or he will put them in irons. McGaffney gets the money by mugging the ship's purser and locking him up in a berth, and the grateful princess tells the two that her father will repay them. McGaffney, much to Phelps' objection, insists she write out an I.O.U. Shortly thereafter, the princess is taken from the ship by an Arabian official, the Shevket, as it anchors off her homeland, and before departing tells the disappointed Phelps that she is to marry Shevket per her father's orders. After she leaves, the two Yanks abandon ship ahead of the now-freed purser and the angered crew. The two soldiers swim to shore, and the hungry McGaffney demands that they go see the princess' father to get their money back in order to get something to eat. Phelps convinces McGaffney to accompany him to the U.S. Consulate for aid, but they are thwarted when they spy the ship's captain and purser talking to the consul. It is time for Plan B. -- go to the Emir and ask for their money back. Little do they know that Phelps' transgression with the princess has been reported, shaming the Emir and Shevket, whom both have sent men to track down the unwitting pair and kill them.

