A young hoodlum decides to work for a criminal organization that is tearing itself apart.
In Yukosuka, many are able to benefit financially, legally and illegally, by the presence of the American naval base established after the war. Kinta, who is low level thug within the Himori yakuza, takes care of the yakuza's pig farm but provides some muscle in shaking down among others shopkeepers who cater and this benefit from the lucrative American military trade. Kinta is often asked to sacrifice himself for the yakuza, the promise being that the yakuza will ultimately recognize the sacrifice with bonuses and promotion within the organization. Kinta's girlfriend, Haruko, a barmaid, doesn't like his life and would prefer that they escape Yukosuka to Kawasaki where they could get jobs in her uncle's factory, something that Kinta continually resists in not wanting to be a "wage slave". Haruko is also continually pressured by her mother to prostitute herself, Mr. Gordon who is willing to pay top dollar to be his kept mistress. Kinta and Haruko's fates will be partly affected by the power struggle within the yakuza, Kinta's cohorts who may be willing to give him up for their own benefit, his boss, Tetsuji, who believes he is dying, and Himori who will do whatever necessary to retain control.
In post-war Japan, people are working hard, but never so much more than the Yakuza. In the city of Yokosuka, Kinta and his lover Haruko brave the post-occupation period with a goal to be together... too bad her family has agreed to sell her to the highest bidding Yank in Japan.While Kinta deals with his relationship with Haruko, his Yakuza clan is faced with a serious problem. Sakiyama, a Hawaii-born Japanese ex-naval officer, is providing the clan with the scraps they need to feed their pigs... but with strings and dollars attached. As the gang shells out more and more money, Sakiyama begins to move his alliances..and so do the members of the gang.With the big boss in the hospital and the gang falling to pieces, only the pigs remain a constant occurrence in the life of Kinta. However, he doesn't realize what he has until it's too late.
