A man meets the daughter of his lover and they begin to fall in love.
Famous actress Helen Walbridge gives her lover, Stuart McAllister, the key to her apartment intending to meet him there after a party celebrating her latest success. Stuart finds Helen's daughter, Lois Johnson, when he gets there, waiting for her mother. Lois has been hidden in a school by Helen so it will not be known she has a 19-year-old daughter, which may interfere with her career. Stuart and Lois become great friends, causing Helen to become jealous enough to convince Lois she's in love with upper crust society bachelor Russell Gray when they meet at a party and he proposes. But when Lois meets Russell's family at their estate she feels totally out of place, and calls Stuart to come and take her home. The engagement is broken, but Helen resorts to other tactics to try to wrest Lois away from Stuart.
In Lady Surrenders, famed actress Helen Walbridge looks to have another Broadway success. In she having specialized in portraying the ingénue, every young woman in the audience wants to be like her. As the play goes into its regular run, Helen can once again entertain the romantic intentions of Madison Avenue advertising executive Stuart McAllister - Mac to his friends - who wants to make each and every night with her special in those nights being few and far between in her commitments to work. Their time is interrupted with the unexpected arrival of Lois Johnson. What not many people are aware of including Mac, Helen is both a widow and a mother, nineteen year old Lois her daughter who Helen has hidden away at boarding school - even after Lois had graduated - in an effort to maintain her public persona of the ingénue. In eventually accepting the fact of Lois in her life, Helen ends up exposing Lois, who has been sheltered, to everything that a young woman of stature can experience in New York. In the process, Helen, Lois and Mac have to find their place in life and with each other. While Helen wants Lois to find some young man from a good family to marry, Russell Gray who could be such a man, Mac secretly has fallen in love with Lois himself, he who has instead become her best friend and confidante.

