Two highway patrolmen think they are working on the side repossessing cars. But eventually, they realize that they have been tricked and are actually stealing the cars.
In California, two highway patrol cops, Smokey and Ed are enforcing the speed limit on the Pacific Coast Highway. Sometimes they race one another, in their police cruisers, to the nearest donuts and coffee restaurant. They also like to give speeding teenagers a break, especially to Cool Breeze and Silver Fox who like to buzz the highway in their customized and tuned-up mini-vans. On their spare time, Smokey and Ed are romancing waitresses from various roadside diners. Their routine existence changes when they stop repo-man George Daniels for speeding. They give him a break and, in return, George offers to take them as partners for his repossession business. Smokey and Ed start their new, after-hours, career repossessing luxury cars with George who teaches them the trade. Things go well and the two cops make extra money from their new job. However, they must avoid the city police because highway patrolmen like Smokey and Ed are not allowed by the regulations to also work as repo-men. One day, George accidentally finds out that the 'financial institution' ordering the repossessions is, in fact, a front for a car-theft ring. George warns Smokey and Ed about this and together they must find a way to destroy the car-theft ring.
Smokey (Jack Vacek) is a highway patrolman who patrols the Pacific Coast Highway day after day with his partner/friend Ed (Ed Abrams). Smokey is known to have a mischievous side as he plays cat-and-mouse games with the local sheriff (Butch Stockton) on a regular basis. One day, Smokey and Ed pull over auto repossession agent George Daniels (George Cole) and his partner Mick (Michael Brennan) for speeding, but when they explain the situation, they let them go. To repay them, they offer them a job to work for them. At the same time, Smokey also gains a new girlfriend Jordan (Patrice Schubert), during a routine traffic stop.However, Smokey and Ed do not know that the cars they are assigned to take are actually stolen, which results in a tip-off from the cops for every vehicle. They explain to George and Mick about it and they tell them that it is a front for local crime boss Lewis Sloan (Tex Taylor). To get even, the gang plans to steal Sloan's Corvette from his house and Smokey and Jordan escape in it, but are immediately chased after Sloan and his bodyguard (Norman Schubert). They eventually ditch the Corvette and steal a brown Chevelle from a nearby gas station and Sloan and his bodyguard steal a white Lincoln Continental from a unsuspecting station customer. The chase destroys a neighborhood swap meet, as well as a fireworks stand. Ed calls for reinforcements over the CB radio, as well as a group of teenagers who use their vans to create a roadblock. Sloan smashes into the van head on and the cops, as well as the kids, move in to arrest the two men, while Smokey and Jordan happily watch from a hill above.
