Story of small-town life in turn-of-the-century America, and a young boy's problems facing adolescence.
Young idealist Richard Miller is selected as valedictorian for his New England high school commencement class of 1906 and intends to inject modern anti-capitalistic ideas into his speech. His father, Nat Miller, accidentally learns of it and interrupts Richard's speech before he can make a fool of himself. The small town later celebrates the Fourth of July with customary fireworks, picnics and the like, with Richard spending time with his girl, Muriel McComber, who promises she will allow him to kiss her one day. When Richard sends poems of love to Muriel, quoting the likes of Omar Khayyám and Swinburne, her father prevents her from ever seeing him again and forces her to write a letter denouncing him. Heartbroken, Richard drowns his sorrow in a local bar, drinking and smoking with a vamp called Belle, and comes home drunk. Alcoholic uncle Sid, who is used to the effects of liquor, nurses Richard back to sobriety, but Richard still must face the uncertain punishment of his father as he worries about his future with Muriel.
It's the summer of 1906 in New England. The Miller family consists of father Nat, the practical owner of the local newspaper, loving but always worried mother Essie, and their four children, Yale student Arthur who is home for the summer, just graduated from high school and class valedictorian Richard who is also heading to Yale in the fall, and precocious teenagers Tommy and Mildred. They lead a generally trouble-free life. The largest problem they have concerns Essie's brother, Sid, who lives with them. His constant drinking has caused many problems in him being able to lead a productive life, and to marry the woman he has always loved, Nat's sister Lily, who also lives with them and who won't marry him unless he stops imbibing. He has just taken a job in Waterbury to prove himself capable without this family support, as he has always worked for Nat as a reporter. One area of growing concern is idealistic Richard, who has of late started espousing the beliefs of many who are considered anarchists. He believes he can fix all the problems of the world through such ideas. He loves Muriel, the daughter of the Miller's narrow minded next door neighbor, Mr. McComber. In Richard's eyes, Muriel is always afraid of rocking the boat, which is why Mr. McComber disapproves of Richard, who he sees as trying to corrupt his impressionable daughter. What happens to Sid and Richard independently at the July 4th celebrations ultimately affects Sid's personal future with Lily, and Richard's view of the world and his life as he becomes a man.

