The Jeffersons are the ideal picture-perfect all-American family in a small town, but their eldest son John returns home after a long absence spouting views that cause them to worry he may be a Communist.
John Jefferson comes home from a trip overseas a strangely changed man. His already nervous wreck of a mother is distraught by the way he seems to be feigning feelings for her and his father that he no longer has. Plus, his odd refusal to accompany the family to church on Sunday not only disturbs her but their priest as well. He also seems to be making fun of and smirking at his father's jubilant expressions of patriotism. His poor mother cannot imagine what could have caused such a change in her favorite son, who used to be loving and church-going and now seems remote from both. He also gets strange calls and goes off to strange "meetings" with no explanation. He is also being watched by an FBI agent who comes to the home and greatly disturbs John's mother with his odd questions about him. Eventually the horrible truth comes out: John is a Communist spy! No wonder he has no real feelings for his family and shuns the church he once loved!During a high-speed chase, John is killed, but he had previously recorded an address to the graduating class of his alma mater, warning them of the temptations of Communist recruiters, which his mother and father listen to fondly as the leave the graduation, hoping that the students he posthumously addressed will take heed of his warning.
Son John misses the farewell dinner at home for his two brothers who are shipping off for the Korean war. The following weekend, however, he makes it home from Washington D.C. where he works. His relationship with his patriotic father is strained and he has little regard for church and pastor, but his mother gets along with him well. A fender-bender brings a stranger into the story, increasing John's annoyance and arousing Mom's curiosity. When her son returns to D.C. Mom learns the stranger is an FBI agent with an interest in John, who suddenly needs the pants he left at home, and Mom quickly learns why. She flies to D.C. to confront her son and shortly learns more than either of them had hoped. By evening all are back home, Dad deciding to apologize to his son, John wanting the evidence Mom holds, the FBI agent seeking testimony to arrest the young man and Mom wishing it wasn't all in her hands. John escapes, and the next day, back in D.C., he prepares a taped confession before being silenced by his cohorts.

