An American painter has an affair with a bar owner in a French village and agrees to help her murderer husband escape from a prison for the criminally insane.
Kerwin Matthews, playing a dissolute drifter down on his luck, Jeff Farrell, is stranded in a cheap bar in France where he falls for Annette, the proprietor's pretty stepdaughter, played by Liliane Brousse. Annette's stepmother Eve, played by Nadia Gray, gradually shifts the young man's attentions to herself, rather than her stepdaughter, and together Eve and Jeff concoct a plot to help free Eve's estranged husband from the institution in which he's been confined as a homicidal maniac these past four years after committing the so-called "Acetylene Murder", when he killed with a blowtorch the man who raped Annette. The idea is that Georges, the husband, will leave the country, but, unknown to Jeff, it's not Georges who escapes but Henri, the guard who has become Eve's lover . . .
When the American painter Jeff Farrell dumps his girlfriend in Camarga, France, he meets the eighteen year-old waitress Annette Beynat in a bar and decides to stay in the town on vacation at a bed and breakfast owned by her stepmother Eve Beynat. Jeff feels a great attraction for Annette but soon he is seduced by Eve and has a love affair with her. He learns that three years ago Annette was raped by a man called Janiello and her father Henri, who is locked in an asylum, killed the man using an acetylene torch. After visiting Henri, Eve tells to Jeff that he accepts to let her go with him provided they help him to escape from the asylum driving a runaway car to the harbor. Jeff decides to help Henri but soon he is visited by Inspector Etienne and discovers dark secrets.
While traveling through Europe, American painter Jeff Farrell makes an unexpected extended stay in Saint-Jérôme, close to the Camargue tidal flats in the Provence region of France. He is a man that easily falls in and out of love. His stay in Saint-Jérôme is because of that issue, he wanting to ditch his privileged girlfriend Grace, with who he was traveling, in falling out of love with her. It is because of that issue that he is immediately attracted to Annette Beynat, the nineteen year old who works at the bar and pensione where he is staying. And that's why he is easily seduced by Annette's stepmother, Eve Beynat, whose incarcerated husband owns the establishments. In the course of their relationship, Jeff and Eve fall in love. Declared insane, Eve's husband, Georges Beynat, has been in an insane asylum for four years since he brutally killed a man who raped Annette on her way home from school. Eve knows that Georges is not insane, and he planning to escape rather than be sent to prison if his true mental state were to be discovered, Eve wants Jeff to help on the outside portion of the escape so that her and Georges' life can truly be over in settling their affairs, they who will sell the establishment splitting the proceeds with Georges subsequently to "disappear" somewhere away from Saint-Jérôme with Annette, and she and Jeff able to ride off in the proverbial sunset together in bliss. The escape does not occur quite according to the plan, which ends up placing Jeff's life at risk in one of the other players having a grand scheme for his/her own other end goal.
A man being lost in love with the owner of a lodging house would do anything to satisfy her wishes. In order to proof his love for her she makes him free a dangerous maniac from the psychatric hospital.
Jeff Farrell, a worthless drifter down on his luck, becomes entangled with Eve Beynat and her stepdaughter Annette, who run a small hotel in Southern France. Georges Beynat, Eve's husband, has been in an insane asylum for the past four years for blow-torching to death a man who raped his daughter, Annette. At first, Paul is interested in Annette, but Eve easily manipulates Paul into helping her husband Georges escape from the insane asylum by pretending that she loves Paul and wants to go away with him. With Paul and Eve's help, Georges escapes -- or the man Jeff assumes is Georges -- but instead of leaving the country as he had promised he plans to murder Jeff and be with Eve. As Inspector Etienne becomes suspicious, we discover that the man who escaped is not Georges Beynat at all, but rather Henri, a male nurse at the asylum, who has fallen in love with Eve Beynat during her visits to her husband. Henri has killed Georges Beynat, and now plans to kill Annette, who wants to tell the cops everything she knows. Eve lures Annette to a rock quarry, where Henri waits for her.

