With the outbreak of WWII, the sudden call to arms will send the men of a family's estate to the front, leaving a curious adolescent alone with the remaining women of the house, in need of a warm embrace and, possibly, a daring kiss.
Summer 1939 in the Provence, France: the 14 years old Julien has a crush on his cousin Julia, who lives together with his family in their small hotel. Unfortunately she ignores him, because she's several years older. Then the hotel guest Charles enters the competition, a slimy twenty-something who lusts for the girl, despite the fact that he's engaged.
On the eve of World war II, adolescent Julian's family enjoys life on its southern French state to the fullest, blissfully unaware of the apocalyptic future. Adult relatives, staff and boarders, in part refugees from Nazi territories, indulge in French cuisine and libertine love. When Hitler's invasion of Poland causes France to mobilize, only youngster, seniors and females remain to run the estate. Julien is now the man of the house, and the most desirable sex partner.
Just before the outbreak of WWII, during the deceptively peaceful summer of 1939, nearly fifteen-year-old Julien arrives at the family's estate in provincial France, smitten with his older cousin Julia. But inevitably, as the war breaks out and the sudden call to arms will send both the unsuspecting lodgers and the blissful relatives to the front, the unripe Julien will become the man of the house and the object of desire for the remaining women. Now, the curious and restless adolescent needs a warm embrace and a daring kiss; by the end of summer when the world will be forever changed, Julien will receive both.
Summer 1939. Julien (Thierry Tevini) is in love with his cousin Julia (Anja Schute). He sees her every year during the long holidays in the family country house. But this summer, she does not pay any attention to him. She grew up faster than our schoolboy. She is interested only in horses, lipstick and especially to Charles, a handsome and young career officer who has to marry Claire, his elder sister. Julien tries to be brilliant, but so clumsy that he never manages to move his cousin. He remains alone with his dreams and disillusions and does not even notice the interest that Poune, Julia's little sister, brings to him. Poune is 12 years old. But here is the war. All men leave for the front, except Julien. And he will discover that love is not just a college student's dream. He even learns to be the only man in the whole house. Even Julia is looking at him now with different eyes. She would like to know in turn what Julien has just learned and now makes him so cheerful, so sure of him. When Julia understands, everything will be fine between them that summer.

