Private investigator Philip Marlowe helps a friend out of a jam then gets implicated in his wife's murder.
In the middle of the night, private eye Philip Marlowe drives his friend Terry Lennox to the Mexican border. When Marlowe returns home police are waiting for him and learns that Terry's wife Sylvia has been killed. He's arrested as an accessory but released after a few days and is told the case is closed since Terry Lennox has seemingly committed suicide in Mexico. Marlowe is visited by mobster Marty Augustine who wants to know what happened to the $350,000 Lennox was supposed to deliver for him. Meanwhile, Marlowe is hired by Eileen Wade to find her husband Roger who has a habit of disappearing when he wants to dry out but she can't find him in any any of his usual haunts. He finds him at Dr. Veringer's clinic and brings him. It soon becomes obvious to Marlowe that Terry's death, the Wades and Augustine are all somehow interconnected. Figuring out just what those connections are however will be anything but easy.
Philip Marlowe is a chain smoking Los Angeles private investigator, quick with a one liner, and fiercely loyal to his friends. It is that loyalty which makes Philip grant the request of his long time friend Terry Lennox when Terry shows up on his doorstep late one evening: immediately drive him to the US-Mexico border into Tijuana. The next morning, Philip learns from LAPD that Terry's wife, Sylvia, has been murdered, Terry the primary suspect. Held in jail as an accessory to murder as he does not tell the police anything about his and Terry's latest encounter, Philip is released three days later as the police further tell him that Terry is dead by an apparent suicide in Mexico. Philip neither believes Terry murdered Sylvia or committed suicide. Not fully by his own choice, Philip gets further embroiled in Terry's story. Philip is visited by gangster Marty Augustine and his associates, who believe Philip has or knows where "his" money is that Terry had. Before that visit, Philip is hired by Eileen Wade to locate her husband, author Roger Wade, who has been missing for a week, who has a penchant for over-imbibing, and who has a violent streak when he's drunk as witnessed by the bruise on Mrs. Wade's face. As she believed, Philip is able to locate him in one of the region's many high end private detox clinics, those where he often frequents after especially destructive drunken sprees. It's the casual acquaintanceship the Wades had with the Lennoxes about which Eileen admits to Philip that Philip later learns is much more that makes Philip believe the Wades are also tied into the death of the Lennoxes in some manner, either directly or indirectly. Philip has to tie the pieces together, including discovering what happened to Augustine's money, before Augustine makes good on his threat against him.
Private investigator Philip Marlowe is approached by a friend, Terry Lennox, who is in a bit of a jam. Marlowe helps him get to Mexico but the next day his friend's wife turns up dead. The police hold Marlowe but then release him once Terry Lennox is found dead in Mexico - suicide. To the cops it is an open-and-shut case of murder-suicide but Marlowe doesn't believe that to be the case. Marlowe then is hired by the wife of wealthy author Roger Wade to find her husband. The Wades were neighbours of the Lennoxes. A powerful mob boss also leans on him to find the large sum of money Terry Lennox was transporting for him. Could all these events be connected?
Chain-smoking, wisecracking private eye Philip Marlowe drives a buddy from LA to the Tijuana border and returns home to an apartment full of cops who arrest him for abetting the murder of his friend's wife. After Marlowe's release, following the reported suicide in Mexico of his friend, a beautiful woman hires him to locate her alcoholic and mercurial husband. Then, a hoodlum and his muscle visit to tell Marlowe that he owes $350,000, mob money the dead friend took to Mexico. Marlowe tails the hood, who goes to the house of the woman with the temperamental husband. As Marlowe pulls these threads together, his values emerge from beneath the cavalier wisecracking.

