The world is destroyed in a nuclear holocaust. Only five Americans survive, including a pregnant woman, a neo-Nazi, a black man and a bank clerk.
Five people are miraculously spared when the fall-out from a super-atomic bomb eventually kills all of the rest of humanity on earth. They are Roseanne Rogers, a pregnant woman who was in an X-ray room; Michael, a sensitive young poet and philosopher; Charles, a black man; Mr. Barnstaple, a banker; and Eric, a cosmopolitan Alpinist who was saved from the radio-active dust because he was climbing Mt. Everest at the time of the explosion and fall-out. Eventually, they all wind up in a Frank Lloyd Wright-designed house on a California mountaintop. There is a lot of symbolism, especially with the mountain climber, who represents decadent and alien fascism and the banker who brings greed and arrogance to this new Eden on Earth. Soon, only two are left.
Five people are spared when a blast from a super nuclear device kills all of humanity on earth. They are Roseanne Rogers, a married pregnant woman, who was shielded in a x-ray room; Michael, ex-GI College grad and everyman; Charles, a black security guard &amp; poet; Mr. Peters, the aging bank manager (Charles and Mr. Peters were in the bank's vault when the blast hit); and Eric, the spoiled, elite, cosmopolitan foreigner--saved by chance as a solo climber on Mt. Everest at the time of the blast. One by one, they end up in the cabin--a lot of symbolism: Eric, the decadent European/racist who represents the snake; Charles, the bank guard, who is the sensitive poet and philosopher; the bank manager, Mr Peters, who brings the memories of the past; Roseanne, the virgin mother searching for a missing husband; and Michael, the everyman--a hard-working, no nonsense guy. Soon after Mr. Peters' death, the small group Eric's evil ways bring hell to the Eden--with murder, greed, arrogance and death in their small world, killing Charles and exposing the newborn baby to the toxins of the dead city. By the end of the movie only Micheal and Roseanne are left, on a small plot of land, facing the sunset--the final survivors as Adam and eve.
Five people are miraculously spared when the fall-out from a super-atomic bomb eventually kills all of the rest of humanity on earth. They are Roseanne Rogers, a pregnant woman who was in an ex-ray room; Michael, a sensitive young poet and philosopher; Charles, a black man; Mr. Barnstaple, a banker; and Eric, a cosmopolitan Alpinist who was saved from the radio-active dust because he was climbing Mt. Everest at the time of the explosion and fall-out. Eventually, they all wind up in a Frank Lloyd Wright-designed house on a California mountaintop. Oboler, whose movies sounded like his radio programs with added visual symbolism, tosses a lot of that around, especially with the mountain climber, who represents decadent and alien fascism. Soon, all that are left are the poet and the Rosanne, facing the sunset as the new Adam and Eve.Written by Les Adams and corrected by SBL (I just saw the movie and corrected a few names. Mr. Barnstaple, the banker, was a man who finally was able to live his dreams. Rosanne was no longer pregnant at the end of the film.
