Dracula conspires with a mad doctor to resurrect the Frankenstein Monster.
Judith Fontaine (Regina Carrol) is looking for her sister Joanie, who has disappeared into the hippie community of Venice, California. It turns out Joanie has become the victim of Groton (Lon Chaney Jr.), an axe-wielding homicidal maniac working for Dr. Durray (J. Carrol Naish), who is really the last of the Frankensteins and is now running a house of horrors by the beach and is performing experiments on Gorton's victims. One night Count Dracula (Zandor Vorkov) visits the doctor, showing him the original Frankenstein creation that was buried in a nearby graveyard. The doctor revives it and uses it to take revenge on his professional rivals.
During the day, Doctor Duryea [J Carroll Naish] runs the Creature Emporium [a sideshow
in an amusement park near the beach in Venice, California] from his
wheelchair but, by night, Duryea is a mad scientist working on some sort
of blood serum. For this serum he needs the blood of women who were scared to
death, as it is their fear that "energizes the molecular structure of
their blood". To do this, he has his zombie Groton [Lon Chaney Jr] behead girls with an
axe and then bring him their bodies. Duryea then rejunvenates them so that
he can harvest their blood.One day Dr Duryea is visited by Count Dracula [Zandor Vorkov] who has found the
remains of the original Frankenstein monster. In exchange for some of
Duryea's serum (which will make Dracula invincable), Dracula offers the
doctor the use of the Frankenstein monster [John Bloom] in order to get revenge on
Duryea's adversary, Dr Beaumont [Forrest J Ackerman]. Together, they reanimate the monster and
he does eventually kill Beaumont.Meanwhile, Las Vegas showgirl Judith Fontaine [Regina Carrol] is searching for her
sister Joanie, who disappeared after joining a group of hippies who hang
near the Creature Emporium. Police Sgt Martin [Jim Davis] has been of no help, so
Judith goes to the local hippie hangout and shows around a photo of her
sister. No one has seen her. When someone slips some LSD into her coffee,
Judith winds up on the couch of aging hippie Mike Howard[Anthony Eisley], who offers his
help (along with a few kisses). When they learn that Joanie was last seen
at the Creature Emporium, they pay a visit to Dr Duryea, but he claims to
have never seen Joanie.Meanwhile, more girls have turned up missing and a few male bodies
have been found chopped to bits on the beach. When friend Samantha [Anne Morrell] is
carried through a trapdoor under the Creature Emporium, Mike and Judith
break in and discover, to their horror, the undead bodies of all the
girls, including Joanie [Marie Lease], that the doctor has been using. In the fight that
ensues, Dr Duryea is beheaded in his guillotine and Groton is shot by Sgt
Martin. Judith is carried off by Dracula. Mike frees Judith but, as they
run away, Dracula zaps Mike with his ring of fire, burning him to a crisp.
Dracula and the Frankenstein monster carry Judith to an old abandoned
church where Dracula ties her to a chair and prepares to make her
immortal, but the Frankenstein monster has a sudden change of heart and
protects her.Dracula and the Frankenstein monster duke it out. Their fight carries
them outside into the surrounding woods. Dracula bests the Frankenstein
monster by pulling off his arms and head. But the sun is rising, and
Dracula must get back to his coffin. He makes a dash for the church door
but collapses on the stairs and burns up in the morning sun. Judith unties
her binds and gets away. [Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.]
