After a cavalry patrol is ambushed by the Cheyenne, the two survivors, a soldier and a woman, must reach the safety of the nearest fort.
After a cavalry group is massacred by the Cheyenne, only two survivors remain: Honus, a naive private devoted to his duty, and Cresta, a young woman who had lived with the Cheyenne two years and whose sympathies lie more with them than with the US government. Together, they must try to reach the cavalry's main base camp. As they travel onward, Honus is torn between his growing affection for Cresta, and his disgust for her anti-American beliefs. They reach the cavalry campsite on the eve of an attack on a Cheyenne village, where Honus will learn which side has really been telling him the truth.
Marooned in the middle of the hostile Cheyenne territory after surviving a brutal slaughter on a U.S. Cavalry unit, the sole survivors--the young and guileless, Private Honus Gent, and the strong New Yorker, Cresta Lee--try to walk to Fort Reunion. Now--up against marauding bands of Kiowa Indians, and nature's irrepressible elements--Honus and Cresta must learn how to trust each other to get out of the unforgiving region in one piece, as unforeseen complications in the form of perplexing contrasting emotions make the already difficult journey even harder. Under those circumstances, will Private Gent discover the truth about the atrocities done in the name of justice? Is Soldier Blue equally responsible for the blood-soaked 1864 Sand Creek massacre in Colorado?
While riding through the Cheyenne territory transporting a safe to Fort Reunion and protecting the white woman Cresta Marybelle Lee, who had lived in a Cheyenne village for two years and sympathize with them, the twenty-two men of the cavalry are attacked by the Indians. Only Cresta and the naive, idealistic and clumsy private Honus Gent survive, and together they walk to Fort Reunion, where Cresta is supposed to meet her fiancé Lieutenant McNair. Along their journey, Honus protects Cresta against Kiowa Indians, destroys the shipment of a trader of weapons and falls in love for Cresta, but he does not believe in Cresta words that the Cheyenne village is peaceful. When the cavalry attacks, he witnesses the hideous massacre of five hundred peaceful Cheyenne, more than half composed of women and children, and realizes that Cresta was telling the truth.

