After her businessman father moves her family from Kansas City to New York, a woman falls in love with an engaged man.
In self-made becoming the third wealthiest merchant in the world through a five-and-dime empire, John Rarick, from a humble background, moves his family - wife Jenny, and young adult offspring Jennifer and Avery - from their happy home in Kansas City to New York City. In his quest for more and more money, John ends up neglecting the family without realizing it. Lonely, Jenny ends up embarking on an affair. Jennifer is shunned by the old money social class in being nouveau riche, especially with the money coming from something as sordid as a five-and-dime business. Jennifer tries to buy her way in wanting to make friends with these people. The one person who does notice Jennifer in a romantic sense is up and coming architect Berry Rhodes, who is already engaged to Muriel Preston, a childhood friend who is the chief person keeping Jennifer out of their social circle. Trying to buy her way in may not sit well with any of them if they do find out, especially Berry in wanting their love to be pure and not something bought. And Avery is working in the company, starting at the bottom working his way up in being the heir apparent. Avery hates everything about the business, and in combination with seeing what his father's neglect is doing to his mother and sister, turns to the bottle to cope. The question then becomes if a happy ending is possible for them, either individually or as a family collective.
John owns the largest chain of five and ten cent stores in the country. He moves his family to New York from Kansas City and their life, though grand, is falling apart due to his constant working. Wife and mother Jenny is lonely. Son Avery hates his job. Daughter Jennifer is snubbed by classmate Muriel and her friends. At a charity bazaar, Jennifer meets Berry and sparks are evident. However, he is engaged to Muriel and Muriel will make sure that she, and only she, marries Berry. After the marriage, Berry still thinks of Jennifer as Jennifer thinks of Berry. Avery laments about the state of his family since they were happy in Kansas City.

