Four kids travel through a wardrobe to the land of Narnia and learn of their destiny to free it with the guidance of a lion messiah.
Four children, Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy are evacuated to the country in World War 2. They stay in a large house owned by an old Professor. First Lucy, then Edmund, then all four children find their way through an old wardrobe into Narnia, a magical land with talking animals and mythical creatures such as fauns and dwarves. But Narnia is held under a magical spell by the evil White Witch to ensure it's always winter but never Christmas. The children have to battle evil creatures and deal with betrayal and treachery but make many good friends as well. Finally, with the help of Aslan (The Lion) they defeat the evil witch and spring and freedom come back to Narnia.
Four children, Peter, Susan, Edmund and Lucy Pevensie are evacuated to the country of London during World War 2. They stay in a large house owned by an old professor named Professor Digory Kirke. First Lucy, then Edmund, then all four children travel through a wardrobe and finds it to a snow-covered magical land of kingdom known as Narnia a land filled with talking animals and mythical creatures such as fauns and dwarves. But Narnia is held under a magical spell by a evil witch known as The White Witch to ensure it's always winter but never ever Christmas! The children have no other choice but to battle evil creatures and deal with betrayal and treachery but make many good friends as well. Finally, with the help of a huge noble lion known as Aslan they defeat the evil witch and spring and freedom come back to Narnia.
The beloved fantasy tale by C.S. Lewis is given the animated treatment in this adaptation. After four orphaned British siblings find a passageway at the back of a wardrobe to the magical world of Narnia, they embark on an exciting journey, encountering talking animals and mythical creatures. Ultimately, the children get caught up in an epic conflict between a heroic lion and a sinister witch. Amidst the battle between good and evil, the kids wonder if they'll ever return home.
This emmy award winner for Best Animated Special is based on the first tale of C.S. Lewis' acclaimed children's books, "The Chronicles of Narnia." When four children pass through a special wardrobe closet, they discover the kingdom of Narnia, a land of talking animals and mythical creatures. But an evil witch's spell has cast Narnia into eternal winter. Fearing that an ancient prophecy has come true, and that the children are Narnia's chosen rulers, the witch tricks their youngest brother into betraying his family. Now, only Aslan, noble lion and King of the Woods, can help them defeat the witch, restore springtime to Narnia... and claim their rightful places on the throne.

