In a repressive boarding school with rigid rules of behavior, four boys decide to rebel against the direction on a celebration day.
Bruel, Caussat and Colin are three students at a boarding school. There is a continual battle between the school's authority figures and students. The teachers and monitors are always giving the three in particular "zero for conduct" and Sunday detention for their behavior. Conversely, most of the students believe the headmaster, teachers and monitors are a combination of authoritarian, inept, and/or corrupt. The one exception among the teachers is Huguet, newly arrived to the school, he who has a penchant for imitating Charles Chaplin as the Little Tramp, and to do handstands whenever the mood suits him, which includes in class. The boys are always doing whatever it takes to amuse themselves, which if it causes the teachers grief, so much the better. The three are the masterminds of a plot to overtake the school's Commemoration Day celebrations. The one student not involved is Tabard, who is seen as a sissy among the student body. Bruel believes Tabard should be involved. An act by Tabard may show them if he can be counted amongst one on their side.
Subtitled "Little Devils at School" this film follows the antics of four older boys - Caussat, Bruel, Colin and Tabard - at a French boarding school. Most of the boys in the school are rowdy but these boys go out of their way to make life difficult for the principal, their house master and their dormitory supervisor. The only member of staff they like is the teacher, Hughet. Fed up with the silly and rigid rules they lead a revolt starting with ransacking their dormitory, then raising their flag - the skull and crossbones - and barricading themselves in the attic. From there they have a surprise for guests and dignitaries during their open house.
Fed up with the authoritarian rules of their strict boarding school, the friends and rebellious classmates--Caussat, Bruel, and Colin--return to school after the holidays, only to receive "zero for conduct", and an unpleasant Sunday detention. Intent on taking matters into their own hands, the boys concoct an audacious plot of childhood rebellion to revolt during the upcoming Commemoration Day ceremony--and with this in mind--they recruit the equally defiant pupil, Tabard, to lend them a hand. Do the youthful rebels think they can get away with sedition so easily?

