Eva has just gotten married to an older gentleman, but discovers that he is obsessed with order in his life and doesn't have much room for passion. She becomes despondent and leaves him, returning to her father's house. One day while bathing in the lake she meets a young man and they fall in love. The husband has become grief stricken at the loss of his young bride, and fate brings him together with the young lover that has taken Eva from him.
The story begins with apparent love and optimism as the groom, Emile, carries his young bride, Eva, over the threshold of his home. But, being considerably older, he becomes obsessed with his routine and falls asleep in the bathroom, while his bride lies awake in the bed on their wedding night.His lack of passion and her dreams of a happy married life dashed, young Eva turns to her father and asks to come home. Her father asks, "What happened?", to which she replies, "Nothing!". Eva files for divorce citing that there is nothing in common.Once back on the opulent family farm, she regains the joy of her youth. She awakes one morning and while wearing her nightgown, rides her horse to a pond where she swims. Her horse runs off in search of her mate with the nightgown on its back and Eva chases it, naked, in the fields.The horse runs through a work camp where a handsome young engineer, Adam, captures the horse and returns it to the fair maiden. They sit and enjoy the landscape and beautiful day and fall in love.Later that evening, during a stormy night, she walks to his humble house and they make passionate love during which she breaks her pearl necklace. She has found her passion.The next morning, she returns home to confront her estranged spouse who wants her back; however, she explains that it is too late. Despondent, he departs. Driving through the work site, he runs across Eva's new love who wants a ride to town so that he can have Eva's necklace repaired. Emile sees the pearls in Adam's hand and realizes that Eva has found someone else and has a breakdown. Adam takes Emile to a hotel and has Eva meet him there, not knowing he has brought her husband, Emile to that same hotel.Despite dreams of happiness, they all experience the tragic repercussions of the sad situation.
