Raffaele, a Neapolitan student, get the news that his beloved grandmother Sabella is dying. He immediately goes to Pollena to be beside her.
Raffaele returns to Pollena answering to a call from his dying grandmother. But when he arrives he finds out everything is a trick to make him return and marry Pollena's wealthiest girl. He prefers his childhood friend Lucia but it will not be easy work to convince Sabela. While trying to do so, Raffaele helps his aunt to get married.
Raffaele returns to Pollena after receiving a letter from home saying his grandmother is dying. But when he arrives soon discovers this has only been a trick from his nonna to make him return and marry the richest girl in town. This way, they will be rich enough to keep on paying his studies in Naples and nonna Sabella will be able to accomplish her dream of visiting Rome. The problem is Raffaele has already fallen in love with Lucia, his friend from childhood who he has just met at the train station when he is trying to arrive to the village. Lucia works as the local mail woman and refuses to bring him with her. She is angry with Raffaele because he has not recognized her but finally she ends up confessing she is in love with him. Only she is not convinced he refuses to marry the rich girl. While trying to engage Lucia, Raffaele finds out that his aunt is willing to marry her fiancee for twenty years. So when his aunt's fiancee asks him to help them, he decides to do so and tells him to do something right away. So aunt's fiancee decides to give aunt an ultimatum: she must decide to get married with him or not the following day. After that, the richest girl's grandfather dies and at the funeral procession, after seeing her fiancee flirting with another woman, aunt decides to finally marry him. But nonna Sabela must know nothing about this marriage or she will spoil it. So one night she has gone out, Raffaele and Lucia prepare a secret wedding for his aunt and her fiancee. However, after their marriage there is still the question about who will tell Sabela. Also Raffaele wants to marry Lucia. At last minute, the grandfather of the wealthy girl (who was in love with Sabella when they were young) dies and leaves his fortune to his granddaughter only if she marries Raffaele.
