When a conservative middle-aged professor engages in a minor dalliance with a femme fatale, he is plunged into a nightmarish quicksand of blackmail and murder.
Gotham College professor Wanley and his friends become obsessed with the portrait of a woman in the window next to the men's club. Wanley happens to meet the woman while admiring her portrait, and ends up in her apartment for talk and a bit of champagne. Her boyfriend bursts in and misinterprets Wanley's presence, whereupon a scuffle ensues and the boyfriend gets killed. In order to protect his reputation, the professor agrees to dump the body and help cover up the killing, but becomes increasingly suspect as the police uncover more and more clues and a blackmailer begins leaning on the woman.
Having waved his holidaying family off to Maine and after having a couple of drinks at the private men's club, the middle-aged and very composed psychology professor, Richard Wanley, stops to admire once again Alice Reed's mysteriously alluring portrait in the store-front window of the adjacent art gallery. Suddenly, Wanley sees the same woman in the flesh--and as one drink leads to another in the charming lady's apartment--an unforeseen act of blind jealousy combined with a brief moment of weakness will result in a hideous murder committed in self-defence. Has the esteemed friend and unimpeachable academic the courage to call the police or will he do anything for the cruelly beautiful woman in the window?
When the family of Gotham College Professor Richard Wanley travels, he meets with his close friends Dr. Michael Barkstane and District Attorney Frank Lalor in a club for talking. Wanley is fascinated with the portrait of a young woman in the next door window, and they discuss about affairs and middle-age crisis while drinking. When Wanley leaves the club, he walks to the window to admire the picture once more and he meets Alice Reed, who was the model of the painting. She invites him for a drink and they end the night in her apartment for seeing sketches of Alice made by the same artist. While drinking champagne, her temperable lover arrives and misunderstands the presence of Richard, hitting and suffocating him. In self-defense, Richard stabs the man with a pair of scissors on the back and kills him. They decide to get rid off the body, dumping the body in the woods and destroying the evidences, but when they are blackmailed by the scum Heidt, Professor Wanley tells Alice that there are only three ways to deal with a blackmailer, all of them with a high price.
Professor Richard Wanley, at the university's psychology department, lectures about the homicidal impulse. But the subject is about to become closer to him than he could have imagined. Standing before a display window and admiring a painting of a beautiful woman leads him to meet the subject of the artwork. Wanley's dull life is about to take a turn toward the adventure he craves--or thinks he craves until he gets it. In the woman's apartment, a man suddenly storms in and attacks him. The woman hands Wanley a pair of scissors to defend himself. And suddenly Wanley has a body to dispose of. Meanwhile, Wanley's two friends prove to be fateful. One is a doctor who can prescribe him a sleeping potion. The other is the district attorney investigating a man's disappearance. And a stranger with a penchant for blackmail may seal his fate.

