Two orphans, Romulus and Remus, are raised by CIA handler John Eliot to be the best in the cloak and dagger game. Decades later, he turns on them and orders their elimination. They decide to fight back and track him down to learn why.
Romulus and Remus are two CIA agents, their direct instructor is John Elliott. They both were picked up at an orphanage by Elliott at the age of about eight, raised together as brothers and specially trained to supersede every other agent in the service. This is what they know. What they do not know is that they are part of a system Elliott had invented to build up his own private army of pros which can be assigned to any job he wishes. One day Romulus takes over a job in the course of which he and his team blow up a house and about half a dozen civilians with it. After that Romulus feels he is being chased by both men of the CIA and the Mossad. He has to find out that Elliott betrayed both him and Remus from the start. Elliott used them and others, which were recruited and raised the same way Romulus and Remus were, to support a secret agreement that was constituted between top secret service leaders of England, France, Russia, Germany and the USA after the second world war. To its effect it says that no nation shall make greater progress in any field than all the others are. The conspirators intend to preserve the status quo in both economical and political aspects. As Romulus, now joined by Remus and a female Mossad- executive he was romantically involved with years ago, finds out about all of this he wants to take revenge on Elliott who in his opinion stole not only their lives, but also many more and destroyed thousands of others.
Saul and Chris are orphans who at a young age were adopted by a man named Elliot, who's a top CIA operative. They would also join the CIA and become exceptional agents. Today, Saul's a little burned out, cause he has not succeeded in his past few assignments. And Chris feeling the need for absolution has spent the last six years in a monastery. Elliot gives Saul and Chris new assignments, Saul's suppose to take out five men, while Chris is suppose to sek out and kill someone. Saul does his job, while Chris doesn't, he then seeks refuge at the Abelard sanction, a safehouse where anyone in the spy business can go to and be safe, cause anyone who kills anyone while within their walls will be terminated. Saul later learns that the men he killed are peace makers and he is being hunted. And Elliot has denounced Saul as a rogue agent. Saul manages to evade his pursuers. Elliot who needs to find him, finds Chris who left the safehouse, after a friend of his kills the man that Chris was sent to kill, only Chris is the one who has been pegged as the killer, and according to Abelard sanction rules, all violators must the hunted down and terminated. Elliot tells Chris that he wants to help Saul, so Chris finds him but Saul has a backdoor to where they were and watch as Elliot's people blows the place up. They then hook up with Erica, an Israeli agent and Saul's former love. They discover that Elliot "adopted" 18 other boys and made them agents too. Looking back on their lives they realize that everything they did in their youth was to prepare them for being spies. They now have to find out what Elliot is up to, at the same time Elliot has to find them before anyone else does.

