Molly, former prostitute, has managed to leave her street life with help from Lt. Andrews. She studies law and leads a normal life. When Andrews is killed by a brutal gang, she returns to the streets as Angel to find his killers.
Molly, former baby prostitute "Angel" from Sunset Boulevard, has managed to leave her street life with help of Lt. Andrews. She studies law at an university and aims to become attorney. When she learns that Andrews was shot during a failed observation by brutal gangsters, she returns downtown to take revenge. She frees Kit Carson from the old people's home and together with the other old friends she tracks down the bad guys.
Set a few years after the first 'Angel' film, teenage prostitute Molly Stewart (Betsy Russell) is off the streets and studying to become a lawyer at UCLA.Molly learns that Lt. Andrews (Robert F. Lyons), the person who helped her leave her past life, is murdered after witnessing a mob-related killing of a drug dealer. When Molly learns of his death, she goes back out on the streets to avenge his killing. She seeks to track down the only witness, a street performer named Johnny Glitter. Molly (as her street persona Angel) meets with her old street friend Yo-Yo Charlie for help who puts him in contact with her old landlady Solly (Susan Tyrrell). There, Molly learns that Kit Carson (Rory Calhoun) has had a nervous breakdown and is committed to the state mental hospital.The next evening, with the assistance of Charlie, Angel and Solly break Kit out of the sanitarium after a harrowing and funny chase through the building. Angel and her group find Johnny at his flophouse home right as the thugs who killed Andrews find him. Kit and Angel save Johnny in a shoot-out.Meanwhile, Angel discovers a scheme to buy up Hollywood Boulevard by intimidation and violence that a gangster named Gerrard is perpetrating. Gerrard's men corner Kit, Solly, Angel and Johnny in an alley. Kit shoots the car, causing it to crash, and they capture Gerrard's son. The son gets loose and threatens them with a gun, but the phone rings and Kit shoots him to death.The caller is Gerrard, who has kidnapped Solly's adopted baby, Little Buck, and offers to trade Buck for his son. They attempt to make the trade anyway. Upon discovering that the son is dead, a shootout ensues with Gerrard taking the baby. Kit takes out one thug and Johnny Glitter, shooting blindly, shoots the other and also himself.Angel confronts Gerrard on the top floor and Gerrard threatens to throw the baby down. Angel surrenders and Gerrard puts the baby down. But the baby is crawling to the edge, and Gerrard will not allow Angel to move. Solly sees what is happening and goes up to shoot Gerrard. Angel tries to get to the baby but the baby falls. Kit sees the baby fall and catches him. Angel and Solly come down with the baby safely wrapped in Kit's jacket. Angel, Kit, Solly, and the group then walks out of the building and into the night as the end credits roll.
