A local politician in Scotland tries to break the reporter who wrote a negative story about him, and who is also in love with his daughter.
Frank Burdon (Sir Rex Harrison) is a new reporter on a small-town Scottish paper. He's told to interview local politician William Gow (Cecil Parker), then left in charge of the paper overnight. He sees Gow being high-handed to a woman who can't afford to license her dog, and decides to run that story instead of the expected puff piece. Both are decent men, but a little too proud to back down, and the battle escalates into a criminal case. But at the same time, Burdon and Gow's daughter Victoria (Vivien Leigh) are falling in love.
Reporter Frank Burdon (Sir Rex Harrison) gets a job on the only newspaper in the Scottish town of Baikie. He is assigned to interview the local Provost, William Gow (Cecil Parker), who is running for Parliament, and comes away unimpressed and indignant at the way Gow refuses to talk to Honoria Hegarty (Sara Allgood), a destitute ice cream vendor who has had her dog taken away from her by the local authorities because of her inability to pay the license fee. Burdon also dislikes Gow's arrogant and doctoral manner in dealing with other citizens with issues. The newspaper's owner leaves town on a short trip, and Burdon re-plates the whole front page with a scathing editorial about Gow that raises a furore in the town. Victoria Gow (Vivien Leigh), William's daughter, has met Burdon and they are mutually impressed with each other, and she understands his reasons for attacking her father. At a big election rally the next night. Gow is booed off the platform, and word of the trouble in Baikie has reached London, and the town is soon overrun by reporters and photographers. The leader of the Scottish party backing Gow arrives for a dinner at Gow's, but the dinner is broken up by the news that Honoria's impounded dog has been stolen along with many others, and a pack of dogs are soon running loose in Gow's home. Gow has Burden arrested, but his daughter, when summoned as a witness for the prosecution, announces she has married Burdon and can't testify against her husband. Gow has had enough and calls off the trial, restores her dog to Honoria, and regains his popularity.
Young Englishman Frank Burdon (Sir Rex Harrison) has just arrived in the western Scottish town of Baikie, where he has been hired as a reporter for the Baikie Advertiser by its owner, Horace Skirving (Gus McNaughton), who never prints anything scandalous. Upon his arrival in town, Frank falls in love at first sight with a young woman who he will eventually learn is Victoria Gow (Vivien Leigh), just arrived home after a stint in Paris at school, and the daughter of Baikie's well respected Provost, William Gow (Cecil Parker). Victoria learns on her arrival home that her father is going-on with Horace's wife, Lisbet Skirving (Ursula Jeans), who ultimately wants to be seen as the woman behind the powerful political man. The Provost is to be Frank's first interview as he is running for a new party's nomination for Scottish Parliament under a "Scotland for the Scottish" platform. The resulting article is merely to be a vanity piece, a recount of the Provost's principled beliefs. However, without Horace's knowledge, Frank's printed article, which he knows will cost him his job, is critical of the Provost for his hard nosed handling of the case of poor Honoria Hegarty (Sara Allgood), the town's ice cream cart vendor whose beloved mongrel, Patsy (Scruffy), was confiscated for failure to pay the five pounds sterling fine for non-payment of dog license fees, with Patsy scheduled to be put down because of it. Mrs. Hegarty could ill afford either the license fees or the fine. Frank wrote the story not because he has a dislike for the Provost, but merely to point out an injustice, which goes against for what the Provost stands. The story ends up causing a national sensation, with certain people trying to exploit the situation for their own benefit. Caught in the middle is Victoria who wants to stand by her father, but who is falling for Frank whose principles as written in the piece with which she agrees.

