A man's simple lie to secure his job escalates into more complex lies when his orthodox boss gets suspicious.
Ramprasad is a recent college graduate who finds a job with a finicky man, Bhavani Shankar, who believes that a man without a mustache is a man without a character. Bhavani Shankar is also against any of his employees indulging in recreation of any kind. When Ramprasad is caught by his boss at a hockey match, he has to invent a twin brother, the clean-shaven Laxman Prasad, to save his job. When Bhavani's daughter falls in love with the clean-shaven Laxman Prasad, and insists on marrying him, and Bhavani insists she should marry Ramprasad, things take a whacky turn. A fake mother and a hilarious chase are other enjoyable features involved in this comedy.
Ram Prasad (Amol Palekar), a young chartered accountant and his sister Ratna, are orphans living in Bombay. One morning, an old family friend, Dr. Kedar, comes to visit him with information about a very well-paid job being advertised by Bhavani Shankar (Utpal Dutt), the owner of Urmila Trading Corporation, who happens to be Dr. Kedar's personal friend also. Bhavani approves of Ram Prasad Dashrath Prasad Sharma's moustache, oily hair and (short) kurta-pajama, and hires him. Bhavani Shankar is a bit nutty and feels young people should have no interests other than work, so when Ram Prasad wants to watch a hockey test, Ram Prasad tells him that his mother is sick to get leave. Of course, Bhavani goes to the same hockey test and spots Ram Prasad. When confronted at work, Ram Prasad tells him that he has a twin, who is good-for-nothing, who wears loud clothes and is clean-shaven and westernized. Turns out the twin knows music, so to rehabilitate him, Bhavani offers him a job teaching music to his daughter. Complications follow...
Unemployed Ramprasad Sharma is told by Doctor Mama that if he alters his manner of speaking, and wearing clothes, he could land himself a job. Ramprasad does so, and gets employed in a firm run by traditional and orthodox Bhavani Shankar. Problems crop up for Ramprasad when Bhavani finds out that he is leaving a double life, so Ramprasad creates a fictional brother named Laxman. The problem does not get resolved, as Bhavani's daughter falls in love with Laxman, and Bhavani wants her to marry Ramprasad. In order to finalize this marriage, Bhavani goes to visit Ramprasad's residence, and meets his mother and sister, and that's when the fun begins for Ramprasad lives with his sister only, leaving the hapless and confused Bhavani, to even more haplessness and confusion.
Ramprasad Dashrathprasad Sharma (Amol Palekar), a qualified CA, is looking for a job. He and his sister Ratna (Manju Singh) have no relatives or acquaintances except Dr. Kedar (David). Dr. Kedar tells him about Bhavani Shankar's (Utpal Dutt) firm known as Urmila Traders. Ramprasad is shown to possess many qualities. He is very good in accounting, is fond of sports and music, is a very good singer and also a very good actor (which he uses to get the job at Shankar's office).Shankar is a man of traditional values: He hates youth wearing modern clothes. He is a sports fan, but thinks lowly of youth knowing anything about sports. But his weirdest trait is hatred towards men without mustaches. He thinks they are characterless.Ramprasad has a mustache. He takes care of other problems by wearing a kurta and feigning ignorance about sports. Bhavani hires him immediately. Ram is a hardworking guy, so Bhavani (and Ram) have no problems. However, one day Ram takes leave by pretending that his mother (who died many years ago) has taken ill and goes to watch a hockey match. Bhavani Shankar, who attends the match, sees him there.The next day Bhavani summons Ramprasad to his office and asks him about the hockey match. Remembering the plot of a movie a friend of his is shooting, Ram convinces Bhavani Shankar that he had seen his "mustache-less" identical twin Lucky (alias Lakshmanprasad Dashrathprasad Sharma) at the stadium.Bhavani Shankar buys his argument and feels bad about accusing him. He makes amends by hiring Lucky to teach his daughter Urmila (Bindiya Goswami) music. Ramprasad reluctantly shaves his mustache to become Lucky and starts to teach Urmila. He is helped by his actor friend Deven Verma (playing himself).Urmila (aka Urmi) is the exact opposite of her father. She takes an immediate liking to Lucky, while Ram is barely noticed by her. Bhavani notices this and gives Ram another job to tutor on the pretext of her exams. Meanwhile, Mrs. Srivastav (Dina Pathak), a socialite, is roped to play the part of Ram, "Lakshman" and Ratna's mother. Like Ram, she also ends up playing her own twin in front of Bhavani.Ram tells Urmila the truth. Urmila tells him to tell the truth to Bhavani as well. Ram goes to Bhavani to tell the truth, but Bhavani sees Ram's mustache giving away. Bhavani exposes Ram but ends up thinking that Lucky murdered Ram and impersonated him to marry Urmila.In a hilarious chase that follows, Bhavani ends up totaling a police jeep. The senior inspector (Om Prakash) mistakes him for a thug named Pascal D'Costa and is about to lock him up in the jail. Only when his inspector identifies Bhavani Shankar by his real identity is he freed. By now, a harried Bhavani has developed a hatred for twins as well.On coming home, he finds that Urmila and Lucky are married. He refuses to give them blessings, until Dr. Kedar comes to the scene and explains the situation. Bhavani becomes even more furious but, on everybody's insistence, relents. The film ends with a family photo of Mrs. Srivastav, Ratna, Urmila, Ram, Dr. Kedar, Bhavani's sister Kalindi (Shubha Khote) and Bhavani (who is shown without a mustache).
