An English village is occupied by disguised German paratroopers as an advance post for a planned invasion.
The residents of a British village during WWII welcome a platoon of soldiers who are to be billeted with them. The trusting residents then discover that the soldiers are Germans who proceed to hold the village captive.
May 1942. The small English village of Bramley End is visited by a detachment of about 60 Royal Engineers. They are ostensibly there on an exercise but are in actual fact a detachment of German paratroopers, the advance guard of Hitler's invasion of England. Some of the villagers figure out their true identities but before they can do anything all the villagers are held prisoner by the Germans. Will the villagers be able to get word out of the threat? The fate of England depends on them.
The time for this sleepy village to awake and face its demons has firmly landed on its doorstep. The transformation of idyllic rural Englishness has to be tested to its limits, on their own and with time running out, even the softest of hearts have to learn the hardest rule; in order to survive, this little village of Bramley End must, with shocking and disturbing new qualities', adapt to their new surroundings. Frank and hard-hitting World War II cinema.
Just before a German Invasion of England during World War 2, a group of German Paratroopers are sent to a small English village to set up a signaling device to aid in this invasion.They are disguised as British soldiers and for the most part their disguise works, but begins to unwind as one of the villagers discovers a Viennese Chocolate bar with chocolate spelled in German. This, coupled with the accidental discovery of a piece of paper used by these false troops used to score a card game as they wait to fulfill their missions causes further suspicions as the scoring contains certain indications of Continental script (the number seven written with a line through it) leads to serious suspicions regarding the nature of these "British" troops.The chief liaison with the undercover German Troops in this quiet English Village is a well respected member of the community and the people turn to this traitor to outline their suspicions. He then takes them directly to the head of German invaders who immediately opts for plan B, namely forcefully taking over the English village.They move the townspeople into various locations to control their movements and the remaining story becomes how the townspeople can alert the proper authorities to their current circumstance. As the Germans want to keep as low key as possible, they want to preserve a business as usual atmosphere during the following day so that they may complete their mission without resistance.The villagers stage various attempts to get the word out, one being writing a message on an hen's egg that is given to the paper boy (he being from another town). They hand him the eggs trying not to alert the Germans of the message written on one of them. Unfortunately, the eggs get broken by a visiting friend when she accidentally drives the paper boy and his bike off the road.A further attempt to give this visitor a note as she leaves from her apparently normal visit fails when she uses the paper that has been slipped into her pocket as a wedge for her car window that rattles.Eventually there is an uprising in the phone/telegraph office where the lady that runs the office (where she has been held prisoner so as to keep up appearances by taking in-coming calls) murders the German guard with an axe and tries to get the word out to the next town. While she is frantically calling the next village, and being ignored by that village operator another German discovers her crime and bayonets her.Finally the townspeople begin to rise up and a sailor on leave and other men begin to kill off the Germans and steal their weapons and gradually start to take back the town.Meanwhile one of the children has managed to escape the previous night, and although wounded in the leg makes it to the next village but is in a delirium and has trouble communicating the message that his town has fallen to German infiltrators. However, the doctor is called, the boy is stabilized and the message is delivered.As the British Home Guard and Army are being mobilized, further confirmation reaches the village as the sailor and his father manage to take back the telegraph shop and phone the same people that took in the boy who raised the alarm to confirm that they are indeed coming to help defeat the Germans.The resisters make their way to the Manor to defend the children who are about to be murdered by the Germans as revenge for a failed escape attempt of the previous night, sabotaged by the undercover village man who is a traitor. His identity is finally revealed to the two ladies of the manor as they overhear him talking to the chief German about the events that are occurring.As they hunker down in the Manor waiting for the Army, the traitor is also there and is trying to disassemble the barricades so that the Germans can enter the manor and defeat the British that are there. He is discovered by one of the ladies of the manor who knows his true identity and catches him in the act. She is in possession of a German Luger that she has been given by the sailor and confronts the traitor as he is trying to tear down the barricade.She shoots him on the spot. The remaining minutes are about the defeat of the Germans and the brief battle that ensues, along with numerous acts of sacrifice (the other woman of the manor sacrificing herself to a German grenade to save the children).The end begins as the beginning with a narrator, an English gentleman in the future pointing to the grave stones of the German invaders pointing out as he did in the beginning that the only territory that the Germans took was the small amount of real estate used to bury them in the small English church yard.
