During the 1950s Madrid, an American veteran pilot with a gambling problem is forced to accept a high-paying dangerous smuggling job.
An expatriate American living in Madrid, former Air Force pilot Lloyd Tredman (Robert Taylor) is haunted by his memories of the Korean War and refuses to fly. So when he loses his last dollar on a horse race fixed by a smuggler, he forces himself to accept a $25,000 offer to transport a box of contraband currency from Egypt to Spain. But as Tredman makes the return flight home, he discovers his cargo also includes heroin as he races across the Mediterranean with Interpol hot on his trail.
After the Korean War where he served as a pilot for the US Air Force - much as he did during WWII - Lloyd Tredman has asked his wife Phyllis Tredman for a divorce, he moving to Madrid after being decommissioned without even seeing her. Phyllis still loves Lloyd, but admits they don't really know each other as they have been geographically apart more than they have been together in their marriage due to Lloyd's war service. Despite there being no legal grounds for divorce such as adultery or abuse on either side, Phyllis grants Lloyd the divorce. However, she decides to go to Madrid to see him to ask him directly why he wants the divorce. Beyond Lloyd's cryptic talk about the war which to Phyllis still doesn't make sense in terms of wanting the divorce, all Phyllis can see is that Lloyd is a changed man, living an irresponsible life of not working, having sunk his savings into one-third a race horse, and gambling being the way he plans on living. Phyllis hopes to see if any of Lloyd's friends in Madrid can provide any information, they including his best friend in the military Jimmy Heldon, Jimmy's wife Paquita Heldon who they met in the war where she served as a UN nurse, and Toto del Aro, the boarder in Lloyd's rented villa. What Lloyd has not told Phyllis is that he can no longer fly, his experience in the war having scarred him psychologically. It has taken a broader toll on his life in no longer feeling like he can be responsible, not for himself and thus not for anyone else like a wife. Lloyd's life has the potential to change in many different facets when he is approached by a man calling himself Bert Smith, who offers him a lucrative deal to fly a plane in a one time only minor smuggling operation of British currency notes from Egypt to Madrid for a third party. This smuggling operation, which if he accepts, would not only get him out of his gambling debts and get him back in the cockpit - something he thought he would never do again - but make him examine his friendships and his marriage.

