Tough Miami P.I., Tony Rome's hired by a millionaire to find jewelry stolen from his daughter. In the search, he has several encounters with local hoods as well as the Miami's police
Ex-cop turned private eye, Tony Rome lives and works in Miami. For $200, he returns a young woman to her father's house after she passes out in a seedy hotel, and he keeps the hotel's name out of it. Trouble is, she's missing a diamond pin, When the pin does turn up, it's fake. The girl's wealthy father hires Tony to find out what happened to the real stones. Bodies pile up,
Rome is hired by his ex-partner on the police force Ralph Turpin, they are now both private dicks, to remove a drunk girl, Diana, from his hotel and keep the hotel's name out of it. Tony takes the girl home for $200 where he meets the entire Kosterman family including her husband Donald Pines, and Ann Archer, a party guest from the previous night's party.Tony finds the ironically named Jules Langley and his thug aboard the boat Tony lives on, they are looking for a jeweled pin, but he is unaware of any such item, so they knock him out and tear up the place looking for it. The next day Diana shows up at Tony's boat asking for the pin herself. Diana's father Rudy Kosterman calls, interrupting the conversation, saying he is worried about her, she seems upset and has disappeared again. He hires Tony who agrees to help. Tony then offers Diana to find her pin for a 10% finders fee. Figuring his old partner for the theft he offers Turpin $100 to send him the pin. They see someone casing the hotel and Tony gives chase but is blocked by a man with a limp. Diana shows up at Tony's office early and when he doesn't answer the door she leaves and he follows her to a rundown mansion where Adam and Lorna, Diana's actual mother and stepdad thank her for the money she leaves them.Later Turpin turns up dead at Tony's office, although he got a shot off at his killer. Tony calls his friend Lt. Dave Santini from the police to investigate. Tony asks Mr. Kosterman to use his influence to get the police to back off while he investigates. Tony, who is running on little sleep arrives at Ann's in the early morning to ask if the pin left with Diana that night. Ann continues to express interest in Tony, who falls asleep on her couch. Ann admits she was coming onto Diana's husband the night Diana stormed off.The pin shows up in the mail, apparently sent by Turpin before he was killed. Tony takes it to get it appraised and it is made of glass. Tony is sleeping in his office when someone comes in saying her pussy is scared and she wants to hire him to protect it, he turns down the case as Diana shows up asking if he found her pin yet. He asks who insures her jewelry. He takes the pin to several jewelers who might have traded out the diamonds for glass until he finds one who acts guilty. After he pretends to leave, he listens in to the panicked call the jeweler makes to Jules Langley the same guys who turned over his boat looking for the pin.When Tony arrives, they have already killed the jeweler, drowned in the tub. Tony is next after they get the pin from him, but he manages to kill them instead. Another call to Lt. Santini to have him investigate the deaths. When Tony gets back home Diana is waiting, he drives her home where Tony and Mr. Kosterman talk over who could be involved, turns out he has heard the name Nimmo, one of the henchmen Langley hired, they met at a party when Ann brought him as a guest. Tony asks Ann where he may be, they go looking and find a stripper who grew up with Nimmo.When Tony goes to question Kosterman about who has a motive, coming down to just his current wife, Kosterman storms off but gets shot in a drive-by just as Tony knocks him to the ground to protect him. In the hospital, Tony continues to investigate and finds the connection between Kosterman's wife and the henchman Nimmo. Tony has the Lt. check in on Nimmo's family to get a local address. After looking thru mug shots Tony finds Catleg, the guy with a limp, who shot Kosterman.The Lt. lets Tony know that they found out Mrs. Kosterman is still married to the thug Nimmo. Searching hotels Tony finds Sally Bullock, Catleg's girl, and follows her to Vic Rood, the pusher, there he sees Catleg. There is a shootout and car wreck where Sally is killed. Tony finds Mrs. Kosterman, Diana's stepmom, on her boat and he approaches her. She explains Nimmo is blackmailing her. She had been selling her diamonds so should wouldn't have to explain to her new husband that she is a bigamist. She reveals that Nimmo might know Diana's stepdad is a doctor, Tony puts it together and arrives at Lorna's run-down mansion just as they are going to bury Nimmo's body, shot while killing Turpin he has finally died. Diana's stepdad had found out her stepmom was not legally married to her dad so if they offed Kosterman Diana would inherit her father's estate. He hired Catleg who did the drive-by shooting.With Nimmo gone, the Kostermans can now be legally married, they pay Tony a bonus for figuring it all out. Ann Archer arrives only to say she has patched things up with her husband so she will no longer be chasing Tony, now that he has time for her. He calls this a Smart Move, while the newlyweds on the next boat continue the running gag of continuous honeymoon sex. "Malcolm... Malcolm!"
