A saboteur posing as a scientist strives to destroy the world's first space station.
In the not-too-distant future of 1970, the United States is considering building bases on the Moon, and send a female colonel and two men to investigate. One of the men turns out to be a foreign spy, and the entire operation--and the future of the free world--is in danger.
It's the future - in 1970 :-) - and the first moon base has been in existence for a little while. The "enemies of freedom", including a Minister, need to destroy the base in two months' time. They are going to exchange one of scientists for a look-alike. Finally, Doctor Wernher (Larry Johns) is replaced at a hotel in San Francisco. They put a hidden microphone in the room of Doctor Wernher. Mr. Roundtree (Herb Jacobs) talks to him and tells Doctor Wernher's body double to destroy the station. Wernher asks for a car to leave the hotel and asks for a bellboy (Robert Paltz) to take his luggage out. The bellboy hits him in the nape of his head. He's paid on the spot. When the real bellboy arrives, the change has already taken place.Back at USSF SPACOM, the army good guys discuss the convenience of taking a civilian with them, as they could take the photographs they need, but it's about the politics, says Gen. Pappy Greene (Hayden Rorke). The White House tells Colonel Briteis (Donna Bartell) to check everything around the base. Maj. Bill Moore (Ross Ford) will begrudgingly be the pilot of the flight to the base. Donna and Polly Prattles (Barbara Morrison) enter the office. Donna will be the pilot, but Bill will be her co-pilot. She tries to avoid it, as Bill is jealous of her. [It's nice how her boss calls him spoiled and threatens to spank her if she does misbehave.] Polly is a journalist who wants to understand why the base and making photographs of the surrounding area. The space station Doctor Wernher wants to destroy will be the first step to build the base, essential for our future peace and democracy. Polly gets excited when she learns that she will weigh nothing because of the lack of gravity.The rocket is finally sent to space. Bill wants to hear a baseball match, and Donna mocks him. Donna wants to try to land on the Moon, not just going round the dark side with Dr Wernher. Preparing for the visit, Donna goes through some corridors with "PLEASE, DO NOT WALK ON THE WALLS" caption written on. Donna, Bill and Wernher leave the space station in a probe. Donna explains to Wernher about a button which overrides the automatic pilot. Bill overhears them. With his appearance, it looks like he's prevented Wernher to accomplish his mission. Bill realises that Wernher is part of the enemies, and Wernher overhears them. Although Donna doesn't believe Bill, Wernher attacks him. In the fight, the probe travels through space without direction. They have to land on the Moon, and Donna panics because they haven't got enough fuel to come back to Earth. Donna says she's sorry, because she didn't believe Bill before. Wernher remains tied up. Using some magnetic boots, they can walk normally without gravity. Bill releases Wernher because both of them are needed to walk on the moon and try to return home. Wernher will help him because "he was forced" to accept the job. Bill is the only one who returns to the probe: Wernher died establishing communications with Earth. They finally contact Earth: she explains that Wernher is dead and that they are on the Moon. The General tells them to stay there - they have become Moonbase 1 - because they have enough water, food and air for ten days. The President has devised this plan. Donna is told to leave the bridge, and Bill admits that he doesn't hate Donna anymore. Because of public pressure, - an unmarried man living with an unmarried woman is scandalous - it'd be better if Donna and Bill would marry, or at least that's what General Greene says. Donna overhears and is happy about it, but Bill doesn't pop the question to her.A shuttle finally arrives, but kind of landcrashes on the Moon: it's not a rescue mission, it's only a missile-looking devise with food, water... in a huge box. Donna talks to General Greene, and he's the one who marries them by videoconference. The President (Ernestine Barrier) says that their mission will keep people free. Bill and Donna kiss. ---written by KrystelClaire
