Based on a true story, this film depicts the life of Theodore Robert Bundy, the serial killer. In 1974, after having murdered several young women, he leaves Seattle for Utah, where he is a law student and where other girls disappear. It takes the cooperation of a number of police forces to work efficiently on this case. Soon, but not soon enough, the police eliminate endless possibilities and close in on him. Bundy is tried in the media and his good-boy attitude brings him sympathy but also the hatred of many.
From his curriculum vitae, Theodore "Ted" Robert Bundy (born Cowell) was ambitious and resourceful. Born in November, 1946 Vermont, Ted was reared for three years in Philadelphia before moving to Tacoma, Washington with Louise Cowell. Ted went to college in Washington; without even graduating, Ted was able to obtain letters of reference sufficient for his entry into law school at University of Utah. So, it was obvious Ted had powers of persuasion and charm in his arsenal. Republican politics interested Ted and he was very involved in presidential and gubernatorial races. He was handsome and exuded personality and purpose. A good skier, but a terrible driver, Ted tooled the roads between WA and Utah in his orange VW Bug, carefree as the wind. But, just like everyone, Ted had secrets. He had big secrets: the people he thought were his sister and parents were his mother and grandparents; Ted may have been three when he learned this truth. When he was about five, Louise Cowell married Johnny Bundy; Ted was adopted by Bundy. The couple had more sons and Bundy tried to be a father, but Ted never felt part of this family. Ted had smaller secrets like his habit of collecting nude female photos. Ted had several misdemeanor convictions for petty theft on his juvenile record which the state expunged when he turned 18. But, Ted had more than childhood demons in his closet: at least 36 young women and girls, mostly brunette and with long straight hair, would never live to tell the tale: Ted Bundy was an abductor, rapist, sadist, torturer and brutal murderer. Ted Bundy was a serial killer.

