A con man from the city dupes a wealthy country girl into marriage.
Charlie talks wealthy farmer's daughter Tillie into eloping with him (and taking her father's money). In the city Tillie gets drunk and lands in jail while Charlie runs off with her money and his old girlfriend Mabel. Later Charlie reads that Tillie (now working as a waitress) has inherited the estate of her multi-millionaire uncle. Charlie dumps Mabel and talks Tillie into moving into her uncle's villa, and Mabel arranges to become a housemaid there. The uncle (never really dead) returns and summons the police to have them all thrown out.
Tillie, a country maiden, is throwing blocks of wood for her dog to fetch to her. Charlie, a city chap, wanders into range and receives an unusually large block in the middle of his face. Tillie, seeing the stranger is in distress, drags him to her home. Here the stranger discovers that Tillie's father has a bank roll. With threats and promises, he induces her to get the money and go to the city with him. Their first stop is at a cabaret, where Tillie takes the first drink of her young life. Things go along smoothly until they are disturbed by a pretty young damsel, named Mabel, who has followed them since their arrival in the big city. She turns out to be Charlie's city girl, and he, on getting hold of the money that Tillie kept on her person, leaves with her. Tillie imbibed too freely and was put out into the street. She was then arrested and thrown into jail. Her jailers, discovering her name to be Tillie Banks, telephone to the big millionaire of the city, Douglass Banks, and find that she is his niece whom he has never seen. She is escorted to her uncle's beautiful mansion and here creates such a scene that her uncle disowns her and orders her from the house. No place to go, she looks for a job and secures one as a waitress. Her uncle, being much distressed by the incident, goes away to do some mountain climbing to forget it. Here he takes a terrible fall and his guide, thinking he is dead, telephones to Mr. Banks' secretary, who immediately goes looking for Tillie, who is the only known living relative. In the meantime, Charlie has made use of the bankroll by dolling up Mabel and himself and they are taking life easy. He and Mabel one day wander into the restaurant where Tillie is working and Tillie, meeting the one who is the cause of her downfall, faints. Charlie and Mabel make their escape, and sitting down in the park to rest, Charlie buys a newspaper, which tells him of the hunt that is on for the missing heiress, Tillie Banks. He immediately sneaks away from Mabel and goes back to the restaurant and explains matters to Tillie's satisfaction and drags her off to a minister, where they are married. On going back to the restaurant they are met by the late millionaire's secretary, who makes known to Tillie that she is an heiress. The heiress and her newly-acquired husband proceed to their new home, the Banks' mansion. Here they entertain lavishly and a few days later give a grand ball. This ended in a frightful fracas, through the machinations of Mabel, who has managed to secure a position as maid in the household. In the midst of the melee the uncle, who was found to be only slightly injured, returns and has the whole party thrown out into the street. Charlie, discovering that Tillie has nothing in the way of worldly goods, renounces her, and grabbing Mabel's hand, off they go pursued by the now vengeful Tillie. In the excitement that ensues the police of the city are called out as well as the river police, as Tillie has pursued the recreants to the water front, and here in the midst of all the excitement Tillie is struck by an automobile loaded with policemen and she, automobile and load take an awful drop into the river below. Here Tillie is finally rescued and Mabel, seeing the destruction the conscienceless Charlie has wrought, falls into Tillie's arms, imploring her forgiveness, and they both renounce Charlie, as he is dragged away by the police.

