An ex-Confederate and his sons plan to use stolen money as a way to revive the Confederacy.
The Civil War has ended, but not for Jonas, a ruthless Confederate officer who wants to continue the fight by reorganizing Confederate troops in the Southwest with the support of a large sum of stolen money. He devises an elaborate ruse to allow his small party to travel with minimal scrutiny through hostile territory, for the money is hidden in a coffin said to contain the body of his dead son. Jonas' other sons travel with him along with a hired "widow", as they proceed to what they hope to be a new start to the War between the States. However, while en route, they face severe, ongoing strife among themselves and successive threats from Union soldiers, a posse of cowboys, and an Indian war party.
Aggrieved at the outcome of the senseless American Civil War, Colonel Jonas, the impenitent and war-seasoned Confederate commander of the Hellbenders battalion, envisions of reviving the Confederacy to be finally victorious. To fund his audacious plan, the Colonel along with his three sons manages to massacre an entire regiment of unsuspecting Union Soldiers who transport millions in banknotes and crams the cash in a wooden coffin. With the intention of riding all the way to Hondo River without raising suspicion, Jonas hires Claire, an alcoholic dance-hall girl, to pose as the widow of the deceased man in the coffin, however, the road is long and perilous, and there's already a warning about the cruel gang who slaughtered the soldiers. Do the remaining Hellbenders have a chance of reaching their goal?
Texas, 1865Colonel Jonas (Joseph Cotton) is a fanatical and unrepentant Confederate who led a regiment called the Hellbenders in the recently ended Civil War. He is determined to reorganize the Southern Army and defeat the Union. With his sons Ben (Julian Mateos), greedy Nat (Angel Aranda), and rapist Jeff (Gino Pernice), he massacres a group of Union soldiers transporting a consignment of banknotes and conceals the loot in a coffin supposedly belonging to a deceased Confederate officer, Captain Ambrose who was killed in the Battle of Nashville in December 1864.A alcoholic prostitute, Kitty (Maria Martin), pretends to be the officer's widow. When Kitty is killed attempting a double-cross, Ben persuades Claire (Norma Bengell), a combination saloon hostess and professional gambler, to take Kitty's place - they fall in love. They consummate their love during a gunfight between Jonas and a local bounty hunter.The cool Claire proves her worth when feigning grief to a sheriff's posse who stop the wagon and wish to search the coffin suspecting the party may have been responsible for the theft and massacre. The party has another close shave when they stop in a town where the local minister who knew the late Captain Ambrose forces the party to stay for a memorial service where the town can pay their respects.Later the party is attacked by Mexican bandidos but is rescued by the American Cavalry who capture several of the Bandidos. Heeding Claire's wishes, the soldiers escort the wagon to the fort where Captain Ambrose was a former commander.Claire, resentful of Jonas' fanaticism, arranges for the coffin to be buried in 'her' husband's fort. Jonas orders his sons to sneak back into the Union fort, dig up the coffin, and return the money to the buckboard; in the meantime, he whips Claire and makes her stay outside of the cave where the group takes shelter in a rainstorm, leading Claire to become deathly ill from pneumonia.The group moves on, but their horses are killed what appears to be a mad beggar but is a thief who wishes to rob them. They later fall afoul of Indians who were thought to be 'friendly' and would be agreeable to selling horses to the Hellbenders. The chief demands that Jeff (who raped and murdered his daughter with a bayonet when he should have been buying horses) be handed over to him. Ben denounces his family's fanaticism and offers the Indians all the money in the coffin, only to be caught in the crossfire between his arguing brothers, who shoot each other over the money; satisfied, the Indians ride away.In the final scene, the mortally wounded Jonas discovers, in a twist of fate, that he has dug up the wrong coffin that contains the remains of the Chief Bandido who promised Jonas they would meet again. Jones crawls away like a real hell bender dragging the coffin which falls into the river, as the flag of the Hellbenders regiment floats down the river to the Jonas ranch.
