In what is considered to be the first remake in the history of cinema, the grand French director, Georges Méliès, directs his very first short film, influenced by the Lumière Brothers' original story in "Partie d'écarté (1896)".
Three friends are playing cards in a beer garden. One of them orders drinks. The waitress comes back with a bottle of wine and three glasses on a tray. The man serves his friends. They clink glasses and drink. Then the man asks for a newspaper. He reads a funny story in it and the three friends burst out laughing while the waitress merely smiles.
In what is considered to be the first remake in the history of cinema, the grand French director, the prolific Georges Méliès, directs his very first short film in his long and enviable list of movies. Influenced by the Lumière Brothers' original story in "Partie d'écarté (1896)", Méliès reinterprets the storyline by reenacting an outdoor scene, this time, of two men playing cards and a third watching them. By bringing the centre of attention to the spectator (played by himself) and his mannerisms while reading the newspaper, the director depicts a delightful easy afternoon and the leisure activities of three men enjoying the sun and their friendship over a refreshing glass of sparkling beer. Who cares who's winning the game.
The first short ever directed by early film director Georges Méliès, "Card Party" or "Playing Cards" depicts a carefree afternoon between three gentleman seated at a table at an outdoor restaurant. While the two men on the right and left of the screen are playing a game of cards, the third character, seated in the middle, calls over a little girl to place an order for a bottle of wine/beer. Returning shortly thereafter is an older woman who stands at the table as the game progresses, watching and observing while the middle gentleman pours the drinks she has provided. Finally, as the short ends, the man in the middle reads a funny story in the newspaper, which he has been so intent upon reading all this time, and all three of them burst into laughter.

