In the peaceful countryside, Vassily opposes the rich kulaks over the coming of collective farming.
Dovzhenko's "film poem" style brings to life the collective experience of life for the Ukranian proles, examining natural cycles through his epic montage. He explores life, death, violence, sex, and other issues as they relate to the collective farms. An idealistic vision of the possibilities of Communism made just before Stalinism set in and the Kulack class was liquidated, "Earth" was viewed negatively by many Soviets because of its exploration of death and other dark issues that come with revolution.
Dovzhenko's landmark 'film poem' style bring to life the collective experience of life for the Ukrainian workers, examining natural cycles through his epic montage. The story tells of a group of farmers in a Ukrainian village, who unite to purchase a tractor. The leader of the peasants is later killed by a kulak, or landowner, who dislikes any form of united front that might pose a threat to his long-established authority. The events fade into memory, but the long-ranging effects of the peasant revolt--like the Earth itself--last forever.
A strong wind blows in the wheat field and Fruit details alternate with close-ups and half-lengths. One farmer says to another: " Go ahead, Simon, and after you' re dead, let me know where you are over there- in heaven or hell." For 75 years he plowed the earth with oxen. The elderly farmer eats something, greets everyone, stretches himself and dies. The family mourns the dead. The film highlights the machinization of the peasants in the collectivization against the landowners(kulaks). The farmers think that when they have the cars they will take away the land. The arrival of a tractor attracts, intrigues and upsets the farmers whistling as if they were to move the oxen. The tractor stops and everyone is disappointed .After the tractor starts again and a waiting crowd is added to the group of farmers. Vasil, a farmer, happy with the progress made with the tractor, only dances on the street until he is shot. Numerous young sing new song for the new life of Vasil. There are no priests at the funeral and the kulak, Choma moves with agitation in the fields, confessing that he was the one who murdered Vasil. Vasil's blood is commemorated at his funeral and he is glorified while nobody thinks of the kulak in delirium.

