Two friends, one northern and one southern, struggle to maintain their friendship as events build towards the American Civil War.
1842, a special summer day at the huge plantation of Mont Royal. A South Carolinian young man, Orry Maine, leaves his rich home for West Point Academy. On his way northwards, in very strange circumstances, he meets two people who will play a decisive role in his life: beautiful lady Madeleine Fabray whom Orry helps and with whom he falls in love and a "Yankee", George Hazard, by whom Orry is helped, and who is also on his way to West Point Academy. From that time, Orry and George are best friends and help each other at every moment, they fight for the U.S. in the Mexican War at Churubusco, where George saves Orry's life. A few years later, the friendship of Orry and George spread to the friendship of their families, the Maines from South Carolina and the Hazards from Pennsylvania. Yet, the love of Orry's life, Madeleine gets married to Justin LaMotte, a rich cruel owner of nearby plantation in South Carolina. Their love cannot be fulfilled and they only meet in secret. Years pass by and the relations between north and south are not that calm as in the past. Northern abolitionists demand the end of slavery while the south demands secession and separation from the "damn Yankees". Although George and Orry badly want peace between north and south, there is no escape from the inescapable fate. April 12, 1861, and the attack on the northern fortress Fort Sumter done by the southerners means the beginning of war. These who fought together at Churubusco will have to fight against each other. Friends will have to become enemies. Will war be stronger than peace of mind? May the storm and noise of canons, rifles and bullets destroy honor, respect, and true friendship?
Based on John Jakes best selling novel, this is the story of the friendship between two boys, George Hazard and Orry Main, that meet at West Point. George is from a wealthy Pennsylvania steel family and Orry is from a Southern plantation where his family keeps slaves. In the years leading up to the Civil War, their friendship is tested as their families interact and hostilities between the North and South increase. Notes: In the book, Orry loses an arm during the Mexican War, where he and George fight together, but the in the television version, his injury was re-written as a limp.
This sweeping, star-studded epic about two powerful families before and during the Civil War is based on John Jakes' popular novels. The show tells the saga of the Hazards of Pennsylvania and the Mains of South Carolina and their loves, hatreds, jealousies, and robust rivalry. Book II opens in 1861 and continues the families story against the dramatic backdrop of the war. The carefully filmed battle scenes are sure to please Civil War buffs.
Two teenage boys; Orry Main from South Carolina and George Hazard from Pennsylvania, meet on their way to West Point Military Academy. Very soon, they become the best friends ever. In the Academy, they spend lots of time together and together make the biggest enemy; Elkanah Bent. After graduation, they go for a war with Mexico, where Orry gets hurt really bad, but is saved by George. When they return home, they don't give up on their friendship, their families spend summer together, their siblings falls in love, they become business partners, et cetera. But the situation in the country is not getting better, also not all the family members and neighbors like the idea of people from North and South being friends. In December 1860, South Carolina leaves the Union. The war is much closer then it has ever been. It starts in Spring 1861. George and Orry must fight against each other.

