While travelling in continental Europe, a rich young playgirl realizes that an elderly lady seems to have disappeared from the train.
Passengers on a scheduled train out of the mountainous European country of Mandrika are delayed by a day due to an avalanche, and thus get up close and personal with each other out of necessity in the only and what becomes an overcrowded inn in the area. Once the train departs, the one person who it is uncertain is on the train is a middle aged English governess named Miss Froy (Dame May Whitty). Iris Henderson (Margaret Lockwood), who was vacationing in Mandrika with girlfriends before heading back to England to get married, is certain that Miss Froy was on the train as they were in the same compartment and they had tea together in the dining car, but all those people who can corroborate her story don't seem to want to do so. Iris' thoughts are easily dismissed as a possible concussion as Iris was hit over the head just before boarding the train. Iris will take anyone's help in finding Miss Froy, even that of an Englishman named Gilbert (Sir Michael Redgrave), a musicologist with whom she had a not so pleasant encounter at the inn the evening before. As Iris and Gilbert go on their quest throughout the train, they believe there is a conspiracy amongst many of the passengers against the validity of there being a Miss Froy. But if there is a conspiracy, Iris and Gilbert still have to find Miss Froy and find out why anyone would want to kidnap a middle aged English governess.
Iris Henderson (Margaret Lockwood) has been vacationing in Mandrika, a small European country, and decides to return to London. Just prior to her departure, she meets and befriend the elderly Miss Froy (Dame May Whitty), a governess who will be travelling on the same train. Once aboard, they share the same compartment, and go to the dining car for tea. A short later while however, Iris is not only unable to locate Miss Froy, but no one will even admit to having seen her. She's convinced there is a conspiracy, but Dr. Hartz (Paul Lukas) suggests she may be delusional owing to a bump on the head she received just before their departure. She does have one ally in the form of a musician, Gilbert (Sir Michael Redgrave), and work together to resolve the mystery.
Travellers on a trans-European train are delayed for a night due to bad weather in a small fictional country called Mandrika. The passengers cram into the small village hotel where socialite Iris Henderson (Margaret Lockwood) meets an old governess called Miss Froy (Dame May Whitty). Shortly after the journey restarts, Miss Froy disappears.
Travellers on a trans-European train are stopped for the night due to bad weather and are hosted by a local hotel. Iris Henderson (Margaret Lockwood) meets an old woman, Miss Froy (Dame May Whitty) who disappears as the journey begins again. Iris, helped by the musician, Gilbert (Sir Michael Redgrave), decides to find her.
On a train through Europe, Iris Henderson (Margaret Lockwood) meets the kindly old woman Miss Froy (Dame May Whitty), and they meet several other passengers over the course of their conversation. Iris later wakes up from a nap to discover that Miss Froy is nowhere to be found, and none of the people they met seem to have any recollection of her. Psychiatrist Dr. Hartz (Paul Lukas), who is on the train, suggests that Miss Froy never existed: Iris was bumped on the head before boarding, and the conversation may have only taken place in her head. However, Iris is certain that something more sinister is going on, and teams up with another acquaintance, the musician Gilbert (Sir Michael Redgrave), to find her before the train reaches its destination.
In a fictional country in a highly mountainous region of Europe, a motley group of travelers is delayed by an avalanche that has blocked the railway tracks. The passengers cram into a small village hotel for the night. Among the hotel guests eager to return to England are two British gentlemen, Caldicott and Charters, who are worried about missing the upcoming cricket Test match. The only room left for them is the maid's room. Other Britons are Iris (Margaret Lockwood), a young woman of independent means who has spent a holiday with some friends, now returning home to be married, Miss Froy (May Whitty), an elderly lady who has worked some years abroad as a governess and music teacher, Gilbert (Michael Redgrave), a young musicologist who has been studying the folk songs of the region, and a secretive couple Mr. and Mrs. Todhunter (Cecil Parker and Linden Travers) who are having a clandestine affair. Folk dancers stomp loudly in Gilbert's room just above Iris, making it impossible for Miss Froy to properly hear a musician singing a haunting melody out in the street. Iris bribes the manager to throw Gilbert out of his room. Gilbert retaliates by barging into Iris's room and refusing to leave. Miss Froy seems to particularly enjoy the musician in the street below, and she throws a coin out her window. The music stops, as a murderous hand is seen to strangle the balladeer, but no one seems to notice anything wrong.The next morning, as the passengers are leaving the hotel to board the train, Miss Froy asks Iris for help in finding her luggage. They huddle around a pile of baggage, and just then a flowerpot is pushed off a window ledge from an upper floor. The pot appears meant for Miss Froy, but it knocks Iris on the head, instead. She says she is all right and gets on the train, but drops unconscious once aboard. When she recovers, she finds herself seated in a compartment across from Miss Froy, who has evidently helped her. In the compartment are other passengers who appear not to understand English.Iris and Miss Froy strike up a conversation. They leave the compartment together to go to the dining car for tea. On route to the dining car, Miss Froy stumbles into the compartment of the English couple the Todhunters and proffers her excuses. In the dining car, the pair are seated by a waiter and Miss Froy provides a supply of her own tea, Harriman's Herbal Tea. While in the dining car, Miss Froy writes her name in the dust of the window after Iris mishears it as Freud when the noise of another train drowns out their conversation. During tea, Miss Froy annoys the two English gentlemen returning to England for the test match by asking for their sugar cubes, which are being used to illustrate a cricket match. Miss Froy tells Iris about her job as a children's governess and music teacher. They reserve two places for the first sitting of lunch. After returning to the compartment, encouraged by Miss Froy, Iris drops off into a heavy nap.When she reawakens, the governess has vanished. Iris is shocked when the other passengers in the compartment, the Baroness (Mary Clare), and a grinning Italian (Philip Leaver), claim "the English lady" never existed. Even the other English travelers deny ever seeing her, for their own reasons: the Todhunters for fear of drawing attention to their affair, and the cricket fans Caldicott and Charters because they are worried about missing the cricket Test match if confirming the disappearance causes delays.A reknowned "brain specialist" on the train, Dr. Egon Hartz (Paul Lukas), suggests that Miss Froy never existed: Iris was bumped on the head before boarding, and the conversation may have only taken place in her mind. Dr. Hartz, declares that she must be hallucinating due to her accident. However, Iris is certain that something more sinister is going on and continues to investigate,.As she searches the second class carriages looking for Miss Froy, Iris meets Gilbert. Their earlier interactions back at the hotel had not been good, but he believes she is sincerely distressed and offers to help. Since the train had not stopped anywhere during her nap, Iris is convinced Miss Froy is somewhere in the train.At the first stop the train picks up a heavily bandaged brain tumor patient, carried on a gurney (a patient of Dr. Hartz) who is being transported to a hospital for surgery. Iris watches carefully on one side of the train, Gilbert on the other, and they see no one get off the train.After the train starts off again, Gilbert and Iris question all the people who should have seen Miss Froy, but they draw a blank until Mrs. Todhunter comes forward to say she has seen Miss Froy. She hopes that having her name made public will trigger a scandal, which would result in divorces for herself and her paramour. After this, the Italian from Iris's compartment appears and says that Miss Froy has returned. Iris and Gilbert return to the compartment to find someone dressed like Miss Froy seated there, however when her face is seen it is not Miss Froy. This lady is Madame Kummer (Josephine Wilson). The Baroness says she did not equate Iris's English nanny with this German lady. Gilbert announces that he can dispel the confusion as there is someone else on the train who has seen Miss Froy/Madame Kummer. Unfortunately while this has been going on, Mrs. Todhunter has told her lover what she has done. Mr. Todhunter says that while her husband would divorce her, his wife will never divorce him. With this in her mind, Mrs. Todhunter now identifies Madame Kummer as the same woman she saw wearing oatmeal tweeds early on.Feeling dejected, Iris takes Gilbert to the dining car. Gilbert tells Iris bits about his life. During this conversation, Iris notices Miss Froy's name fingered on the dust of the window just as they enter a tunnel. By the time they come out into the open, the name has disappeared. Iris becomes annoyed and frustrated at Gilbert's disbelief as she tells him about the Harriman's Herbal Tea package. Iris storms out of the dining car and pulls the emergency cord in desperation.After the train has restarted, and under the threat of being put off the train at the next stop, Iris returns to her compartment alone. Meanwhile, some rubbish has been thrown out of the dining car and a gaudy tea label for Harriman's Herbal sticks briefly to the window in front of Gilbert. This is enough to make him believe Iris and he rushes back to her. They embrace in the corridor. After this, they search the train and end up in the baggage car, where they find the broken glasses of Miss Froy among items that identify the Italian as "The Great Doppo," a professional magician on tour, adept at making people disappear. The magician appears and he takes the glasses from Gilbert. A struggle ensues, and the magician even draws a switchblade. But with some help from Iris, they knock the magician unconscious and put him in a trunk, and tie a rope around it. Unbeknownst to them, the trunk is a magician's trick trunk and the Italian makes his escape.After this, they head off to tell all of this to the one person they think they can trust, Dr Hartz. They open the door of his compartment but he is not there, only the heavily bandaged patient and the nun nurse.Iris notices that the nun with the patient is wearing high heels, which means she is in disguise. Iris surmises that Miss Froy was lured to the baggage car and held captive. Madame Kummer, who wasn't seen boarding the train, must have come aboard disguised as the patient, dressed in clothes like Miss Froy's, with Miss Froy becoming the bandaged patient. Dr. Hartz returns and tells them to wait in the next compartment while he orders the nun to arrange for drinks to be drugged, as one waiter is an accomplice. He takes them to the dining car, and urges them to drink the brandies he has ordered to calm their nerves. When they return to the compartment, he tells them the patient is Miss Froy and she will be taken off the train at the next station. She will be taken to a hospital, where he will perform an operation from which she will not recover. He also tells them that the drinks they have just had have been drugged. Iris and Gilbert then seem to go to sleep due to the drug.Dr. Hartz leaves the compartment to get ready to get off at the next station. But the drug hasn't taken full effect yet, and Gilbert and Iris have heard that they can fight this particular drug's drowsiness by a lot of physical activity. Gilbert climbs out of the window and into the compartment where the nun and Miss Froy are. The nun speaks perfect English and tells Gilbert that she was hired to play a part but is unwilling to help in a murder. They unwrap Miss Froy from her constraining bandages. At this point Madame Kummer enters, so they bandage her up in Miss Froy's place against her will. Gilbert and Miss Froy return to the next compartment and pretend to be still asleep because of the drug.At the following stop, Dr Hartz, the patient, and the Baroness leave the train and board a waiting ambulance. With the train still at the station, the identity of the patient is discovered. Dr Hartz arranges for a station worker to uncouple the rear cars, so when the engine starts off again, only the first class car and the dining car are pulled out and they are diverted away from the border. After the train pulls off, pleased that they will soon be over an international border, Gilbert notices that the back of the train has been uncoupled and goes back to tell the others. They agree that there is only the carriage they are in and the dining car between them and the engine but that there wouldn't be anyone there right now. Gilbert points out that it is teatime so all the English people will be there. The three of them go to the dining car. At first no one believes that the train has been uncoupled. Just as they confirm this, the train stops in a wood, and they see cars waiting, uniformed people in them. Dr. Hartz and the Baroness (she is wife to the Minister of Propaganda) are seen with the cars.A military officer approaches the train and politely tells the English group to get off the train so they can be escorted to safety. The nun warns Gilbert of a trap and he clobbers the officer with a chair, and he falls unconscious. Charters thinks this is very rash, and says he is going to go out to apologize and "put things right." But a dining car steward has already told the officials of the attack. The Baroness gives an order and one of the soldiers shoots Charters in the hand. Gilbert takes the officer's revolver, and challenges the approaching officials. Mr. Todhunter also has a pistol. Gilbert and Caldicott (who Charters says is "a damn good shot") start firing, in response to attacking shots. Mr. Todhunter goes outside waiving a white handkerchief in truce and is shot by the attackers. While this is going on, Miss Froy reveals to Iris and Gilbert that she is taking a message: a tune to take to a Mr. Callender at the Foreign Office. Gilbert promises that he can memorize Miss Froy's tune quickly because of his musical training. Miss Froy leaves and is seen in the distance dropping behind a rise after a shot is fired towards her.When they run out of ammunition, Gilbert decides that they need to get the train started, head back to the junction, switch the points, and get across the border. He and Caldicott head to the engine while Charters will, at the right moment, jump down and switch the points. They force the engine crew to start the train and head back to the junction. Both crew are shot by the soldiers, but luckily Gilbert once "ran a miniature engine on the Dymchurch line." The unconscious officer has recovered, and is holding the passengers at gunpoint, but the nun manages to sneak out to change the points. After she throws the switch, and is scooped up by Gilbert in the nick of time, she is shot in the leg by Dr. Hartz, who has pursued them in one of the cars from the woods.On arrival at Victoria station, London, they all go their separate ways. Sadly for Caldicott and Charters, the Test match has been abandoned due to flooding. On seeing her fiancé coming to greet her, Iris hides in a cab, pulls Gilbert in with her, and says she wants to marry Gilbert instead. They continue on to the Foreign Office. On arriving there, in the excitement of their feelings for each other, Gilbert has forgotten the tune. After a few unsuccessful attempts to refresh his memory they hear the tune being played on a piano, and walk into the next room to see Miss Froy playing it. It is the same tune the balladeer strangled at the hotel had been playing. Iris and Gilbert approach Miss Froy. She looks up to see them both, and grasps their hands joyfully.
