King Henry VIII marries five more times after his divorce from his first wife Catherine of Aragon.
This movie tells the story of King Henry VIII and the last five of his six wives. Set almost entirely within the royal castle, it begins just before the death of his second wife (Anne Boleyn) and ends just after his sixth wedding (to Catherine or Katherine Parr).
English king Henry VIII has over-ambitious, son-less second wife Anne Boleyn beheaded so he can marry sweet Jane Seymour. Alas, heir Edward's birth proves fatal for her. Next Anne of Cleves, a diplomatic choice from Germany, proves romantically unacceptable, but agrees to a divorce. Katherine Howard seduces Henry, who considered n longer remarrying, but is caught out adulteress. In his old age, Henry weds bossy Katherine Parr.
Renowned for his excess, King Henry VIII goes through a series of wives during his rule. With Anne Boleyn, his second wife, executed on charges of treason, King Henry weds maid Jane Seymour, but that marriage also ends in tragedy. Not one to be single for long, the king picks German-born Anne of Cleves as his bride, but their union lasts only months before an annulment is granted, and King Henry continues his string of spouses.
One of the first movies to place British cinema firmly on the international map, "The Private Life of Henry VIII" is a comedy of manners loosely based on the matrimonial adventures of a sixteenth-century English king who was married six times. The story begins in 1536 when the beautiful and ambitious Queen Anne Boleyn (Merle Oberon) is preparing for her execution on false charges of adultery so that her husband King Henry (Charles Laughton) can marry his empty-headed mistress (Wendy Barrie.) After the end of that marriage, Henry embarks on an arranged match with a German princess (Elsa Lanchester) who struggles to escape their marriage, pushing him into the arms of the seductive Lady Catherine Howard (Binnie Barnes), who promises to make Henry happy. However, her dangerous love for a handsome courtier (Robert Donat) ends in tragedy and Henry spends the rest of his life in marriage to a middle-aged widow who promises to take care of him, Lady Catherine Parr (Everley Gregg.)
