After he gets blinded by a German sniper's bullet in 1943, Sergeant Larry Nevins begins the long and painful road to recovery.
In North Africa during World War II, Sergeant Larry Nevins is blinded by a German sniper's bullet. Rehabilitation at the military hospital presents many challenges, but accepting his disability also proves to be difficult for others.
1943. US Army Sgt. Larry Nevins, an only child and thus the person on who his parents' hopes and dreams rest, is in active duty in North Africa. Besides his parents, Larry leaves behind in his hometown of Seminola, Florida his fiancée, Chris Paterson, in whose father's barrel factory Larry expects to work after the war and after he and Chris get married. It is in active duty that Larry is seriously injured. After an initial assessment of his injuries in a military hospital in Iran, Larry is transferred to Valley Forge Hospital in Pennsylvania where there is a special ward to deal with his specific injury: loss of sight. There, Larry is to learn all the skills needed to live independently as a blind man. News of being blind hits Larry hard, he not only not wanting to tell any of his loved ones back home, but believing that death is a preferable option to being permanently blind. The process back to the living and coping with his disability is a slow but hard won success for Larry. A consequence of his physical blindness is that he may also become color blind, his racist attitude, which was passed down to him through generations of such beliefs within his family, may disappear if he can't see the color of the skin of the people who he befriends. It is during one of his trips into nearby Phoenixville that he meets kind-hearted Judy Greene, who over time falls in love with him. Although having feelings for Judy, Larry still intends on eventually moving back to Seminola and marrying Chris. His first trip home on furlough may show Larry where his future lies or doesn't lie as he begins to believe that his disability can't and shouldn't stop him from reaching for the moon in all aspects of his life.

