Fearing she will die, a physicist's wife hopes her husband will be consoled by the orphan she adopts.
Physicist Bill Beck meets and marries doctor's receptionist Julie. Five happy years later, she develops a heart condition. Afraid of leaving Bill alone by her premature demise, Julie adopts a sirupy, fantasizing orphan, Hitty. It's an uphill battle forging a relationship between the equally self-absorbed physicist and child: will she have time?
Julie and Bill Beck marry after a whirlwind courtship and she gives up her job as a doctor's receptionist. The Becks purchase a large house and Bill who is a physicist, sets up his laboratory on the top floor. Soon they will celebrate their fifth wedding anniversary. While carrying Bill's lunch up the three flights of stairs, Julie is suddenly out of breath and dizzy. She falls down a flight of stairs and the noise alerts Bill. He assumes she slipped and fell. While consulting her doctor, who is also her former employer, Julie learns she has severe heart damage from a childhood bout of rheumatic fever. Dr. Miller recommends six weeks of bed rest and then taking it easy. He cannot predict how long she will live. Julie doesn't want to tell Bill the truth, so Dr. Miller decides to put a cast on her leg, giving her the perfect reason to stay in bed.The Becks do not have children and while she is recuperating, Julie starts thinking about adoption. Not an infant, but an older child who could be a companion for Bill in case she were to die. She expects that Bill won't go for the idea,especially since he doesn't know the real reason, but to her surprise he agrees. He tells her to look for a boy who can play baseball.HItty, a little girl starved for love, is on her way back to the orphanage. This is the third time she has been rejected by potentially adoptive parents after spending a month in their home. Mrs. McMasters, the director, assures Hitty that it is not her fault. The problem seems to be Hitty's overactive imagination. She doesn't seem upset, but after returning to her old room, she crawls into a cupboard and cries.Julie runs into Hitty when she visits the orphanage. While she is not thinking about adopting a girl, something about Hitty appeals to her. A child psychiatrist has been called in to examine Hitty after she pretends to be a horse for two days straight. She runs away from him and Julie catches up with her, eventually persuading her to be herself again and let the doctor help.The Becks invite Hitty to visit for an afternoon and Mrs. McMasters brings her. The child is very anxious to be back at the orphanage by dinner time,as her favorite foods are being served. She assumes the Becks will reject her just like everyone else, but Julie finds her delightful. She talks to Hitty about how, if she comes to live with them permanently, she will need to help take care of Bill. He is very absent-minded and often pays no attention to what is going on around him. Julie shows Hitty the "Bill pull" at the bottom of the stairs. It rings in Bill's laboratory as a signal that he is wanted downstairs, but often he does not hear it. Hitty asks what she should call them and Julie tells her to use their first names.When the adoption is finalized, the Becks' friends throw them a party to celebrate. After seeing the gifts they have brought for Hitty, Bill drives into town and buys her a toy horse and a child-size microscope. Hitty barely looks at the microscope but she is enchanted by the horse, which she names Ralph.Several months pass and Hitty isn't settling in as well as Julie expected. The child seems to get on Bill's nerves. While they are out in a boat, she accidentally drops Ralph overboard. Bill is irritated by her hysteria and assures her the horse will float. Later, Hitty tries to be helpful by cleaning all the blackboards in Bill's lab. Unfortunately she erases several months of work. Bill realizes she didn't do it on purpose but is still angry at having to start all over.Hitty comes down with flu on the night Julie and Bill are going to a dinner and lecture. While Dr. Miller assures Julie that Hitty will be fine, she doesn't feel right about going out and leaving Hitty with Sarah, the maid. She insists that Bill go without her and he does, obviously angry. After he is gone, Julie confides in Dr. Miller that the two simply aren't getting along. The doctor recommends returning Hitty to the orphanage. A horrified Julie at first rejects the idea, but seems to consider it after Dr. Miller reminds her that she can still visit the child.Several days later, Hitty is over the flu and begs Julie to take her swimming. Julie is re-shelving books, but puts them aside to have a talk with Hitty. Taking the child's hands, she begins to talk about people being selfish and wanting too much. Suddenly she becomes weak and dizzy. Hitty runs for Bill and Sarah, and Dr. Miller is called. Bill carries Julie to their bedroom and tucks her in. She confesses that she has a heart condition that she should have told him about, but that everything will be all right. He begs her to stop talking and rest.The next scene shows a disheveled Bill standing over a grave. His friend Grant arrives and tries to take him home, pointing out that it's been three days since Julie's funeral and he needs to pull himself together. After a struggle, Grant succeeds in forcing Bill into his car.Hitty tries to take Julie's place around the house, but her efforts fail. Eventually she decides that Bill doesn't want her and asks to be returned to the orphanage. Bill can't help but feel guilty, and on an impulse telephones Mrs. McMasters to check on the child. Unknown to either of them, Hitty had slipped out of bed and asked her toy horse to take her to Julie. She runs to the spot on the beach where they first met. But a storm is brewing. Hitty slips and falls, hitting her head and losing consciousness. She is in danger of being washed into the ocean.When Hitty's absence is discovered, the police are notified. They believe Hitty has run away to the last home she was in. Bill gets Grant to drive him to the orphanage, leaving Grant's wife at the house in case the child shows up there. Hitty, now conscious, cannot make anyone hear her cries for help. On an impulse, one of the policemen asks Bill where Hitty had first encountered Julie. They rush to the beach and Bill plunges into the waves to rescue her. He realizes that he loves her and wants her to come home. The ghost of Julie appears, smiling and happy as Bill takes his daughter home.
