An alien arrives on Earth looking to take human blood in an attempt to preserve his dying planet.
A science fiction vampire movie. The Vampire is an emissary from an embattled world near destruction who teleports to Earth to see if they can live here. He finds that our blood is nourishing and that at least one source of it is a steady stream of transfusions. He hypnotizes a Dr. to provide them and has his blond nurse move in to administer them.
A mysterious stranger known only as Mr. Johnson turns up and demands a blood transfusion. Dr. Rochelle grants him the blood, and sends his nurse Nadine Story to stay with him, in order for him to get his daily transfusion. Dr. Rochelle becomes interested in Mr. Johnson's blood, especially when it turns out to be nothing like normal human blood. It gets even weirder, when Mr. Johnsons servant, Jeremy notices people entering the house and not leaving. Nadine decides that she must search the house in order to find out the truth about Mr. Johnson.
A nurse is assigned to help a strange man requiring regular blood transfusions at his home. He is really an alien checking out humans for harvesting their blood, since his race is dying out because of intergalactic nuclear wars. An assistant joins him as the final studies of blood are being completed, but the nurse, her boyfriend, and a local doctor begin figuring it out and resist.
During one Los Angeles, California night, a humanoid alien (Arthur Roberts) from the planet Davanna leaves his spaceship wearing a dark suit, sunglasses, and carrying an aluminum briefcase. He walks to a parked car where a man and woman are on a date. Killing the man by strangling him, the alien removes his sunglasses, revealing two bright blue lights in place of his eyes. As he stares into the woman's eyes, she dies. Opening the briefcase, the alien attaches a device into the woman's neck to extract blood.Days later, the alien arrives at a medical clinic. He introduces himself to attending nurse, Nadine Story (Traci Lords), as "Mr. Paul Johnson" and tells her he needs a blood transfusion. Nadine informs him he needs to take a blood test, but the alien refuses. One of the clinic's doctors, Dr. Rochelle (Ace Mask), ushers Johnson into his office. Johnson tells the doctor he is dying and shows his body's lack of blood by cutting his wrist. Shocked, Dr. Rochelle insists he is unable to perform a transfusion without a blood test. Johnson hypnotizes Dr. Rochelle and telepathically tells him he may perform the test, but is forbidden to share the results with anyone. After Dr. Rochelle obtains a blood sample, he orders Nadine to begin Johnson's transfusion. Afterward, the doctor informs Nadine she will move into Johnson's house and assist him with daily transfusions.Nadine walks Johnson to his car and sees a police officer writing a parking ticket. Recognizing the officer as her boyfriend, Harry (Roger Lodge), she convinces him not to give Johnson a ticket. Harry asks her out for a date later in the week, to which Nadine tells him maybe. Johnson arrives at his mansion and informs his chauffeur and bodyguard, Jeremy (Lenny Juliano), that Nadine will be moving in. In the kitchen, Johnson removes a bottle of blood from his briefcase and puts the bottle inside a cellar freezer.Later, as Nadine arrives and settles upstairs, Johnson goes to his study and activates a transport machine hidden behind the paneling. From beams of light, another alien from Davanna appears. Conversing telepathically, Johnson is informed his mission is in five phases: study the Earth humans; transport quantities of blood to Davanna; transport an Earth human to Davanna as a living specimen for research and vivisection; observe the effects of human blood circulating in his own body; and if he survives, the Earth will be conquered to supply blood to save the beings of Davanna.After Nadine assists Johnson with his transfusion the following day, she goes outside to relax by the pool. At the front door, a man selling vacuum cleaners (Michael Delano) rings the doorbell. Johnson invites the salesman inside and leads him to the cellar. Downstairs, Johnson removes his sunglasses and kills the salesman by looking into his eyes. Afterward, Johnson disposes of the body in the furnace and returns upstairs.Outside, Nadine sees smoke coming from the chimney and goes to the cellar. Before opening the furnace, she hears a car horn and runs upstairs to see her boyfriend, Harry, and Dr. Rochelle arrive. Harry sees Jeremy and recognizes the chauffeur as a local petty criminal. In the study, Dr. Rochelle informs Johnson that his blood is breaking down and evaporating, and offers to continue to look for a cure.In the dining room, Harry tells Nadine he will come back that evening for their date and leaves with the doctor. Jeremy drives Johnson around town, and honks the car horn at a trio of prostitutes. Irritated by the high decibel level, Johnson reminds Jeremy not to make loud noises around him. Seeing the women, he orders Jeremy to invite them to the mansion. After returning, Johnson orders Jeremy to go to bed and leads the women to the cellar, where he removes his glasses, killing them with his light infused eyes, and draining their bodies of blood. Afterward in the study, Johnson transports a case of the prostitutes' blood to Davanna. Later at the station, the police chief reports to his force that another body has been found drained of blood, making a total of eight victims.At the mansion, Johnson opens the door to a woman introducing herself as his "Birthday Girl," (Becky LaBeau) and wearing a sash with "Happy Birthday" written on it. Johnson informs her she is at the wrong house, but he hypnotizes her to follow him to his study and transports her to Davanna as a live specimen.The following morning, Nadine sees Jeremy with Johnson's breakfast tray and notices the water in the drinking glass is red. Jeremy confides to her that three prostitutes came to the mansion last night, but never left. Worried, Nadine goes to the clinic to test the red liquid. Harry calls Nadine and asks her out for dinner that evening. After she agrees, Dr. Rochelle tells her he will have the test results that night.At Johnson's mansion, a female alien (Rebecca Perle) wearing sunglasses arrives in the study. Johnson asks about the Earth woman he transported. She informs him that she was crushed to death by the planet's gravity upon arrival. Telling him she needs blood to survive, they break into the clinic.That evening, Dr. Rochelle interrupts Nadine and Harry's date with the test results, revealing it contains a large number of unknown vitamins. Nadine tells Dr. Rochelle she took the substance from Johnson and asks about his condition. However, under Johnson's hypnotic spell, Dr. Rochelle is unable to tell Nadine anything.At the clinic, Johnson hooks up a large bottle of blood to the female alien. However, the blood in the bottle is infected with rabies. Afterward, he tells her to hide at a hotel. Weakened by the tainted blood, she stumbles into four punk rockers in an alleyway. As the punks threaten her, the blood causes her face to breakout with blisters and her mouth to foam. After she attacks the men, she makes her way back to the clinic and passes out in the waiting room. Dr. Rochelle returns and orders nurse Mary Oxford, to carry the woman into his office. When he pronounces her dead, he removes her sunglasses and notices her eyes are hollow. He instructs Mary to call the police.Nadine returns to the mansion and receives a telephone call from Harry. He tells her he is at the clinic, and a woman died there wearing one of Nadine's dresses. Believing Johnson is behind the woman's death, Harry suggests Nadine leave. However, she and Jeremy decide to stay and search the mansion. They find the red vitamin supplement and transportation portal in the study. Nadine orders Jeremy to search the cellar. Downstairs, Jeremy finds human remains in the furnace.Upstairs, Nadine picks up the ringing telephone. On the line, Dr. Rochelle informs her the dead woman's blood had been evaporating, but her death was caused by rabies. He continues that the reason her blood was vanishing was due to living in an environment experiencing extreme nuclear warfare. When Nadine asks if Johnson has the same blood ailment, the doctor is unable to respond due to Johnson's mind control. After hanging up, Johnson appears and attempts to hypnotize Nadine. Jeremy fires a gun at him, but Johnson removes his sunglasses and stares at Jeremy, killing him.Nadine runs away and calls Harry from a telephone booth in a park. Harry sets out on his police motorcycle. Johnson catches up to Nadine and telepathically orders her to return to the mansion and enter the transportation portal, as she will be the new research specimen. After she walks away, Johnson gets into his car and drives away to kill Harry. On Sea Cove Bridge, Harry turns on his motorcycle siren. The high-pitched noise causes Johnson to drive off the bridge. The car explodes, and Johnson is killed. As he dies, Nadine and Dr. Rochelle are released from his mind control.Later at a cemetery, Nadine and Harry stand by Johnson's gravestone, which is inscribed, "HERE LIES A MAN WHO WAS NOT OF THIS EARTH." As they leave the grave site, a man wearing a dark suit and sunglasses, walks towards the grave carrying an aluminum briefcase.
