A bankrupt entrepreneur attempts to recoup some of her losses by getting a washed-out boxer she picked up as a tax loss back into the ring - an idea her protégé isn't fond of.
Hillary Kramer, successful Perfume magnate awakes one morning to find that her accountant has robbed her blind and left for South America. Going through all of her remaining assets she finds a boxer, purchased as a tax write off. She decides to take Kid Natural, (Eddie Scanlon) who is much more at home giving driving lessons, into the ring and use him as her key to riches. Eddie thinks this will only get him killed and resists.
Already successful and wealthy Beverly Hills perfumer Hillary Kramer believes she will become even more so with the development of the first ever unisex fragrance. Her fortunes turn in the opposite direction when she learns that her business manager has legally absconded with all her money. After liquidating all her liquidatable assets, including selling her business to a competitor under the stipulation that she stay out of the business for two years, and paying off all her debts, all she is left with is a Long Beach boxer named Eddie Scanlon - Kid Natural - with who she has a contract to sponsor. Hillary soon learns that the Kid as an investment was a tax shelter, he designed to lose money for her. As such, he has not fought in four years, the $15,000 annual sponsorship which he has funneled into opening a fledgling driving school business. While she wants him to fight again to earn her back some money, he has no intention to do so, in part not wanting to damage his pretty boy face, the means to which he lures most of his female clients into the school. On the flip side, Hillary knows nothing about boxing, it a sport, with its inherent violence, which is against her sensibilities. Thus, the question becomes whether there can ever be a true connection between the two in either a professional or personal sense. She may convince him to get back into boxing as she thinks they could make money finally to go through with "the match that never was" with Hector Mantilla. They were both disqualified four years ago as amateurs at the Pan Am Games for an altercation outside the ring before their scheduled bout. Hector has since moved onto a successful professional boxing career, but in the back of his mind, the Kid still believes he could have beat him that day...

