A team of international scientists and engineers attempts to build a tunnel under the ocean.
Engineers Richard McAllan and Frederick Robinson manage to get financial backing for a gigantic project to build a tunnel from England to America. His biggest supporter is Varlia Lloyd, daughter of one of the backers, and she uses her influence more than once to keep the project going. Mack's wife Ruth is also supportive, although his constantly being away on the tunnel project strains their marriage, and affects his relationship with their son. After years of financial skulduggery and physical obstacles under the ocean floor, the tunnel proceeds as Mack's marriage and his friendship with Robbie deteriorate.
It's sometime in the near future. Elderly and wealthy Mr. Lloyd is able to convince his fellow captains of industry to finance the proposal of engineer Richard "Mac" McAllan: a transatlantic tunnel between England and the United States. Mac not only has the technological expertise to accomplish the project in his vision, but believes the tunnel would benefit the world in so many different ways, including ensuring world peace. Standing by Mac in what is anticipated as a several decades long project is his best friend and fellow engineer, Frederick "Robbie" Robbins. Mac needs to spend as much time in the tunnel on the construction and engineering aspects as he does above ground placating the investors and assuring the public that things below ground are going smoothly. They run into a few issues underground, some so severe that could destroy the entire project and the lives of the construction crew. But there are also some above ground who are working for their own self-interest, often at the expense of the project as a whole. In addition, Mac's time away negatively affects his marriage to Ruth, who doesn't feel that Mac is there for her and for their infant son Geoffrey. Their marriage may not survive not only this issue, but an issue faced solely by Ruth, and some manoeuvrings by someone who has a vested interested in not seeing Mac and Ruth together.

