A married college professor begins a torrid affair with her failing student, who secretly moonlights as a late-night strip-club dancer.
Faye Hanlon is a prim and practical woman with a NASA engineer husband and a career as a professor at a small Florida college. Among her least favorite students is cocky Rick Monroe who is secretly paying his tuition as male stripper "Ricky the Rocket". When Faye is brought to a sweaty disco full of sweaty housewives, she is shocked to become a front-row witness to - and reluctant participant in - Ricky's explosive performance. Now each kiss has its result of actions, every lie will take its toll. And two desperate lovers will pay the ultimate price for a night in "Heaven".
Faye Hanlon is a community-college professor with an emotionally depressed husband and an abundance of sexual frustration. Her sister drags her to a male strip-club for a girl's night out, where she discovers that one of the dancers is her failing student Rick Monroe, a.k.a. "Ricky the Rocket". A heated affair between teacher and student ensues, as Faye struggles to reconcile her emotions and make consequential life choices: Continue her lustful sessions with the studly-but-shallow teen stripper? Or break it off with Ricky and work to salvage her marriage to the loving-but-distant husband?
Outspoken and overconfident Rick Monroe (Christopher Atkins) is a jock and a popular guy in college in Titusville, Florida. At the end of his final report for his class, Rick cracks a joke and his prim and proper speech professor, Faye Hanlon (Lesley Ann Warren), is not amused. After chiding him for his joke, she decides to fail him and make him take the course over again.Faye is going through a slump in her marriage to Whitney Hanlon (Robert Logan), a rocket scientist who has just been laid off from NASA. Visiting from Chicago, Faye's free-spirited sister Patsy (Deborah Rush) takes her to a strip club to cheer her up. The show features a performer called "Ricky the Rocket", who is none other than Faye's student Rick. When he notices Faye in the crowd, he gives her a very special lap dance, kissing her in the process.The next day, Faye and Rick run into each other at a school function. Initially, Rick is interested only in convincing Faye to allow him another chance at his final and is rebuffed. He realizes that she is attractive and begins flirting. Faye arranges to meet Patsy near the hotel, only to discover that she has been deceived into seeing another performance by "Ricky the Rocket".Since Patsy has to return home a day early, she turns over use of her hotel room to Faye, who calls Whitney and lies that she and Patsy are staying at Patsy's hotel room together. Coincidentally, Rick's mother works in the same hotel, and while visiting his mother, Rick runs into Faye again; they return to Faye's room and make love. Faye must leave and in her absence, Rick invites his girlfriend Slick to the room where she makes love with him as well. Humiliated, Faye catches them in the shower and flees; she realizes that she has been deceived.Returning home from an unsuccessful job interview, Whitney discovers that Patsy has gone home. Whitney travels to the hotel, where he catches Rick at the latter is exiting. He kidnaps Rick at gunpoint, takes Rick to a boat at a small dock, and forces him to strip. Sobbing, Rick complies. Whitney threatens Rick repeatedly, but ultimately only shoots holes in the boat, leaving Rick naked and aboard as it sinks. Faye returns home and finds Whitney waiting for her; she apologizes and he forgives her. In the end, they talk about their problems and resolves them.
