The classic Disney animated characters play the roles in this animated retelling of the Charles Dickens masterpiece.
It's the same old classic Charles Dickens story with an all star Disney cast. Uncle Scrooge McDuck is appropriately enough Scrooge and is visited by his dead partner and 3 spirits one night to remember the joys of Christmas.
Based on the Charles Dickens novel, only with a Disney twist.In dreary London, on Christmas Eve, miserly Scrooge goes to work in his counting house, where also resides his only employee, Bob Cratchit.Through the course of the cold workday, Scrooge is visited by several people. The first is his nephew Fred, bring joyous tidings of the season, which warms Cratchit's heart, but infuriates Scrooge. Fred has come to invite Scrooge for Christmas dinner, but Scrooge declines. The next visitors are two gentlemen collecting funds to help the poor. Scrooge verily turns them away without any generosity.As the day ends, Scrooge allows Cratchit's wish to have half of Christmas day off, but demands that he be on time the day after. After closing the counting house, Scrooge heads to his own home.At the front door to his home, he is shocked when the doorknocker seems to take on the form of his former partner, Jacob Marley. Scrooge is later shocked when upon entering his bed chambers, the spirit of his long-dead partner appears before him, wrapped in chains as punishment for robbing widows and swindling the poor during his life. Marley cautions Scrooge that this same fate awaits him, and that he will then be visited later that night by three spirits.Scrooge cautiously goes to bed, and is soon awoken by the first spirit, The Ghost of Christmas Past. The spirit takes Scrooge back to happier times, when he was employed by a man named Fezziwig. The spirit shows Scrooge a glimpse of a once happy Christmas party, where he was introduced to a lovely young woman named Isabelle. The scene then dissolves to Scrooge's counting house, where 10 years after the meeting of Isabelle, Scrooge has grown to care more for money than her, and after foreclosing on Isabelle's cottage, she leaves him forever.Scrooge is returned to his bed chambers to ponder this, when he is then visited upon by The Ghost of Christmas Present, who then shows Scrooge a vision of Bob Cratchit's family sitting down to a small Christmas dinner. Of the family, Scrooge is drawn to Cratchit's son, Tiny Tim, who relies on a crutch to walk. Even though the meal is meager, Tim still sees no reason why they should not thanks Scrooge for the meal, since he is Bob's employer. The spirit then cautions Scrooge that Tim is ill, and that if things do not get better, he will die.Scrooge is then confronted by The Ghost of Christmas Future, who takes him to a graveyard, where the Cratchit's have come to visit Tiny Tim's grave. Scrooge is incensed by this, but then grows even more shocked when he finds his own grave, freshly dug. The spirit then proceeds to throw Scrooge into the grave, as the old miser promises to change.Scrooge then wakes up in his bed chambers, and finds that Christmas day has come. Rushing out into the streets, Scrooge encounters the two men from the day before, and eagerly donates 100 gold pieces to their charity. Scrooge also find his nephew Fred, and tells him that he'll be joining him for Christmas dinner, to the shock and delight of the young man.Scrooge then finally pays a visit to Cratchit, arriving with a sack of toys for the children, and the promise of making Bob a partner in his business, and increasing his salary.
