A rich young kleptomaniac and a deaf store worker form a relationship after an ordeal with a stolen mannequin.
A rich but slightly odd teenager has various adventures with his older brother who leads him astray. One day whilst stealing a mannequin from a clothes store he meets a deaf girl who works at the store and is attracted to her. The story follows their relationship as each of them learn from the others strengths and weaknesses.
Teenaged Brooks lives in Montréal with his divorced wealthy father Alec and his older brother Cleveland. Brooks and Cleveland's mother left the family when they were infants, she who is never mentioned and who Brooks doesn't remember. However, Brooks has kept a photograph of her about which he has not told anyone. Alec wants to portray the family as being outwardly perfect solely for perception sake, he not really caring if it's perfect or not. Because of the family situation including Alec having had a parade of girlfriends - the current, Mimi, who Brooks does not much like - Brooks beats to his own drummer, in part to irk his father. While some of Brooks' peccadilloes are just not typical to a boy his age, such as his love of big band music and pop standards, he more often than not looking like he just stepped out of a 1940s Manhattan drawing room, others are to get that reaction, such as his predilection to do things with certain organic matter. Because of the way Brooks is, Cleveland is able to take advantage for his own benefit, while harboring a secret of his own. Brooks' life opens up when he is attracted to a young woman he sees working as a window dresser in a clothing store. In striking up a friendship with her, he learns that her name is Anne and has been deaf since birth, she who is confident in herself except in her ability to talk. Anne's priority in life is to travel to Europe on her own largely to prove to herself that she can be self sufficient in a strange environment. Brooks and Anne end up falling for each other, each who wants to do things to explore the other's fundamental world of the hearing and the deaf respectively. The questions become how each will affect the other's life, and if there is a long term future for them, the obstacles being their fundamental differences with relation to hearing.

