Chance events trap hitch-hiker Al Roberts in a tightening net of film noir trouble.
In flashback, New York nightclub pianist Al Roberts hitchhikes to Hollywood to join his girl Sue. On a rainy night, the sleazy gambler he's riding with mysteriously dies; afraid of the police, Roberts takes the man's identity. But thanks to a blackmailing dame, Roberts' every move plunges him deeper into trouble...
While in a highway restaurant, the bitter pianist Al Roberts listens to a song and recalls his recent past. In New York, he played piano in a dump night-club where his beloved girlfriend Sue Harvey was the singer. Sue decides to move to Los Angeles, expecting to have an opportunity in the cinema industry. She is not well succeeded and Al decides to travel to LA to meet her. Without money, he hitchhikes and he meets Charles Haskell Jr., who is heading directly to Los Angeles. When Charles unexpectedly dies, Al decides to assume his identity since the police would never believe in the truth about his death. In a gas station, he gives a lift to Vera, a woman that knew Charles and blackmails Al with tragic consequences.
After his girlfriend Sue leaves New York to advance her career in Hollywood, piano player Al Roberts decides to join her. Not having much money, he decides to hitchhike across the country. In Arizona, he gets a ride from a man named Charles Haskell, a gambler and a bookie who happens to been headed to L.A. himself. When Haskell dies of natural causes, Al decides to take his identity. His bigger mistake is giving a ride to another hitchhiker, Vera, a pretty tough cookie who had previously encountered the real Haskell when he gave her a ride. She draws him into a crazy scheme.
After his girlfriend Sue has left for the West Coast, Al Roberts decides to join her and starts a journey hitchhiking westwards. When he finds a driver who'd given him a lift dead, he decides to get rid of the body and take the man's identity, fearing he'd be accused of murder if he would go to the police. However, Vera, a hitchhiking girl Al picks up, sees through him and starts blackmailing him into going along with her schemes which get him deeper and deeper into trouble.
Edgar G. Ulmer's Detour begins in a diner somewhere in the middle of nowhere as Al Roberts (Tom Neal) ruminates in voice over about his life and what has lead him to this place in time. Hes got a tale to tell and theres a reason because it has taught Al something about Fate. His experiences have left Al irascible and he argues sullenly with the waitress, the diner manager and a trucker who drops a nickel in a juke box and plays the song that Al and his girlfriend called their song. Als problem becomes more apparent as he explains the events that have brought him here. In flashback he talks about his relationship with his singer girlfriend Sue (Claudia Drake) as he accompanied her on piano in a New York club. When she leaves for fame and fortune in Los Angeles Al is lonely and decides to hitch hike to the coast to be with her. He accepts a ride from good-time-Charlie Charles Haskell Jr. (Edmund MacDonald). During their drive Haskell tells Al a little about himself, relating a story about deep scratches he has on his hand that he received when he picked up a woman who shunned his advances. When Haskell suffers an attack and dies, Roberts, fearing that he will be accused of the death takes on the man's identification and begins driving the car himself. At a gas station Al picks up Vera (Ann Savage), who blurts out, "What did you do with the body?" It turns out that Vera had accepted a ride from Haskell earlier and she is the one who has given him the scratches on his hand. Threatening to summon the police Vera forces Al to pose as Haskell in order to collect an inheritance from the man's millionaire father. During their time together Vera causes another problem to befall Al and Fate to intervene.
