A chorus girl's career is ruined and her brother is driven to suicide when she starts smoking marijuana.
Fade in to female fingers with carefully painted nails caressing a large cigarette. Then a man is seen lighting a joint and smoking, then this written prologue rolls against a backdrop of smoke:"We wish to publicly acknowledge the splendid cooperation of several of the nation's Narcotic experts and Government departments, who aided in various ways the success of this production.This is the story of 'tea' -- or 'tomatoes' -- the kind millions thru (sic) ignorance, have been induced to smoke.We are proud to bring to the screen this timely, new film about Marihuana. It enables all to see, hear and learn the truths.If its presentation saves but one young girl or boy from becoming a 'dope fiend' -- then its story has been well told."A male voice-over narration describes life in Los Angeles, and the fact that although the city is a fine place to live, the drug culture of marijuana users has infiltrated the scene. The narration points to the efforts of the Los Angeles Police Narcotic Division, where Police Captain Hayes (Lyle Talbot) plans his attack on the evil of marijuana. The Captain sits at his desk at the Police Station, studying case histories of lives wrecked by this scourge on society. On his desk sits a tin canister of dark thick cigarettes, one of which he picks up and examines in his fingers.The upstanding Los Angeles Police Captain Hayes remembers that marijuana gets trafficked in various ways. He thinks of a male hand, bearing a large rink on the pinkie finger, exchanging marijuana cigarettes for cash by sneaking them into customer's hands or into their belongings. The voice-over narration warns of how drug habits always escalate and inevitably and totally destroy the lives of every user.The slick and smartly-dressed Markey (Alan Baxter), a marijuana dealer, hangs out at the counter of a local malt shop, a huge ring on his pinkie finger. He sips his Coca-Cola, before heading into a telephone booth only for a moment. A table with two young couples is nearby, and one of the young men gets up to greet Markey. When the young man calls Markey by name, Markey chides him for doing so in public. Markey persuades the young man to give him his last five dollars for his product, and Markey takes the money and exits. The young man then approaches the telephone booth, and finds three marijuana cigarettes in the coin return slot.Now during the dark of night, the two young couples sit in a convertible, all of them smoking marijuana, speaking incoherently and laughing loudly. Moments later, this convertible races down a suburban avenue and attempts to beat another car through an intersection. Both girls can be heard screaming, followed by the sound of a crash. The headlines read that three of them are killed in the collision. The subhead informs that one of the girls survived, but has lost her legs. Now her middle-aged and elegantly attired mother wails in despair when she touches the spot on her daughter's bed where her legs should be.Captain Hayes next sits in conference in his office with two of his best men, Lieutenant Mason (Robert Kent) and Lieutenant Tyne (Don C. Harvey). He decides to place the two narcotics department officers undercover at the malt shop, Tyne as a "jive" talking patron, Mason as a soda jerk. They successfully blend in with the various elements in the malt shop, and generate no suspicion. Handsome Lt. Mason demonstrates his ease behind the counter as he services the customers with his likable grin and easy manner.Meanwhile, Markey visits backstage at the swank night spot Club St. Pierre where a rehearsal of the floor show has just ended. He is quickly approached by a pretty but nervous showgirl who begs Markey for something to help her calm down, but he will not give her anything because her account remains in arrears. Markey approaches the door to the dressing room of the showgirls, and hard-boiled showgirl Rita (Mary Ellen Popel) gets up to talk with him. She tells him she wants something to make her relax, but Markey is evasive and much more interested in the beautiful blond showgirl still sitting at the dressing table. He expresses his interest in her to Rita who tries to warn him off by insisting that this blond, Anne Lester (Lila Leeds) is a nice hard-working chorus girl. Rita relates that Anne pays for her younger brother to attend college. Markey tells Rita that she must plan a party for that very evening, and make certain that Anne will attend. After Markey walks away, Rita discovers that a marijuana cigarette has been placed behind her ear.Rita asks Anne to attend her party, but Anne declines since her brother Bob may return home from college this evening. Rita tells Anne that then the party will be moved to Anne's place, so she may stay home and greet her brother. Anne reluctantly agrees.Five people attend the party at Anne's place. Rita laughs hysterically and she sits on the sofa between two men, kissing each in turn. Anne sits on a nearby chair, and Markey is gently playing the piano. He soon approaches Anne, and convinces her to try a marijuana cigarette. Ann looks at Rita and her boyfriends smoking and laughing on the sofa. Rita and the guys soon teach Ann how to smoke reefer, cupping their hands around the cigarette, inhaling deeply and holding the smoke in. Anne soon begins to giggle, and fails in an attempt to rise out of her chair. Markey sits on the arm of Anne's chair, and puts his arm around her. Rita goes into a wild and uncontrollable dance, as Markey embraces and then kisses Anne.The following morning young college student Bob Lester (David Holt) returns home, and discovers that his sister had left the house a mess. He awakens a sleeping man on the sofa and angrily escorts him out. Bob walks up the stairs to his sister's bedroom and enters to see Anne sleeping. He examines the disarray of the room, with clothes strewn about. Anne begins talking in her sleep and refers to Markey and drug use. Bob listens carefully, and then awakens Anne and they have a cheerful reunion. Anne asks Bob to make her coffee, and he complies and brings it to her dressing table, where they embrace.Bob and Anne move to a sitting area off her bedroom, and smoke cigarettes while discussing Bob's future in college. He confesses that he feels guilty letting her foot the bill, and he'd like to drop out. In her mind, Anne hears Markey's voice, promising her a huge income. Anne adamantly informs Bob that he must not drop out of college and that she will continue to pay for it. Bob starts to ask Anne about Markey, but thinks better of it, and goes to unpack.Later, Bob interrogates Rita about Anne's circumstances, and the identities of the men that Anne socializes with. Rita remains tight-lipped, and attempts to assuage Bob's concerns. Bob expresses worry about Anne's finances, and Rita tells him that Anne has a new act that brings in more money. Rita tries to convince Bob that Markey is just a friend of his sister's and nothing more.Meanwhile, Markey presses the buzzer to Jonathan Treanor's (Michael Whalen) apartments, and Treanor's sleazy and imposing henchman Raymond (Jack Elam) allows him in. After a nasty exchange of words, Raymond shows Markey into Treanor's office. Sitting behind his desk in a smoking jacket, Treanor appears suave and very seasoned. He sports a thin moustache, and has dark, slicked-back hair giving him the appearance of a faded gigolo.Treanor hands Markey a newspaper article about the three teenagers who died in the crash, and also the now-legless girl. He warns Markey that if he makes another deal like that one, he'll have narcotics agents after him with a vengeance. Markey refuses to worry about it. Treanor tells him that the prices will now go up, because of the heat of the publicity. His telephone rings and Treanor takes a phone call from one of his gang telling him that a shipment of his has been stolen. After Treanor rings off, Markey suggests that it was "Miller" who took it. Treanor buzzes for Raymond and tells him to go visit "Miller." Five days later there is an article in the newspaper stating that "Butch Miller's" body was found in Santa Monica Bay with three bullet holes in his head.A lengthy series of slow dissolves shows Anne continuing to work at Club St. Pierre, but in her off-hours continue to smoke marijuana and attend dope parties. Marijuana cigarettes arrive in canisters labeled "Solid Pack Red Ripe Aztec Tomatoes." These large tin cans are now pictured in a montage of shots also depicting the wild and exuberant behavior of various marijuana users. Money flies through the air, and marijuana pours from tomato cans.The two strung-out showgirls participate in a marijuana party at an unknown locale. All types of aberrant behavior is on display from the dozen-or-so party goers, many of whom seem to be off in their own distorted worlds. Some seem to be talking to themselves. One handsome young man is paranoid and trembling, expressing his belief that he is going to die presently. A nearby woman laughs hysterically at him, then forces him to inhale more marijuana smoke from the joint she holds.Ann saunters over to a man gently playing a piano, and sways to the music. The piano player soon stops, and asks to be alone, so Anne leaves him. He begins playing "Chopsticks," and soon (in an extended sequence) believes himself to been playing at the Hollywood Bowl in front of a complete orchestra. He finishes and bows to a non-existent audience. Only Anne sarcastically applauds.Meanwhile the young paranoid man is gasping for air in a panic. He runs to open a many-paned window, but even pulling as hard as he could, the window refuses to budge. Now becoming even more panicked, he quickly punches out two of the panes with his fist. The others nearby immediately respond with the raucous amusement and hilarity.. The paranoid young man's right hand now drips blood. The others toss him down onto a chair and attempt to give him more marijuana as he hides his head in his arm, and weeps uncontrollably.Soon in the dressing room at the Club St. Pierre, Anne and Rita talk about the difficult rehearsal and about Markey. Hugo the French-accented manger (Henry Corden) of the Club enters, asking to see them. The two showgirls next arrive at the manager's office, where he berates them on their performances at rehearsal. He abruptly fires them, and Rita storms out leaving Anne behind. She pleads with Hugo for her job, but he tells her that she's out, and he is wary of having Markey around the scene. Anne defiantly exits with her head held high.Markey waits outside and Anne leaves with him in his car, and then soon agrees to go on his payroll.Then back at Anne's house, she puts her hands on Markey as he plays the piano, and kisses him. The scene opens up to reveal a "petting party" with kissing couples all over. At Markey's urging, Anne gets up and begins to peddle her marijuana cigarettes. She begins making some outlandish statements, and proceeds -- after Markey's prodding --- to collect money for her marijuana sticks. She's charging two dollars a stick, and splitting the profit right down the middle with Markey. Anne impulsively announces to everyone that her peddling marijuana is affording her brother a college education. Right at the moment when Anne loudly references this fact, her brother Bob comes through the door and hears her say it. Rita quickly tries to reign Anne in, but she's defiant, and continues making transactions. Bob suddenly rushes over to Anne, and knocks the marijuana stick from her mouth and dumps the canister of marijuana sticks onto the floor. Bob berates his sister, telling her he knows about Markey too. Ann protests weakly, and Markey approaches and offers Bob some money to leave.The next morning a fashionable Anne leaves her house, and walks to open the garage door. She takes a few steps before she notices a figure hanging in front of her, its feet dangling next to her automobile. Shocked beyond belief, Anne screams in agony, her eyes squeezed shut as both her hands cover her mouth.One of the afternoon newspaper headlines read: "Night Club Dancer's Brother Commits Suicide." The subhead explains: "Robert Lester, brother of attractive night club dancer, was found hanging in his sister's garage early this morning." Upon learning of his sister's fall from grace and the financial source of his tuition, Bob was so distraught that he committed suicide. This causes Anne's life to spiral even deeper into darkness.Hugo, the club manager of Club St. Pierre, reads about Bob Lester, and visits Captain Hayes and his men, where he picks out a mug shot of Markey for them. Lts. Mason and Tyne trail Markey constantly, observing his every move. They confer with Capt. Hayes, and reveal that they entered Markey's apartment and found marijuana, but they don't know where it came from, since the label was torn off the can. The lieutenants also speak about Anne Lester, telling the captain that she openly blamed herself for Bob's death at the inquest. They also say that she's now using heavily. Hayes becomes concerned, and tells his men to "put the bite on" Markey.Rita and two of her boyfriends plan to visit Anne's house to both console her and get high on marijuana.A nervous Anne telephones Markey, and persuades him to come to her house. He leaves his dwelling only to be met outside by henchman Raymond, as Lt. Mason watches intently from inside a nearby car. Raymond gets into Markey's automobile without an invitation, and forces Markey to drive to Treanor's office. Lt. Mason follows in his unmarked sedan. Markey's car moves quickly down the suburban streets. Suddenly, the front driver's tire on Lt. Mason's automobile blows out, and he's forced to pull to the curb. He sees Markey's car speeding away, and runs to phone Captain Hayes. Hypothesizing that Markey and Raymond are destined for Anne Lester's house, Mason makes plans to intercept them there.Raymond leads Markey into Jonathan Treanor's office, where the two marijuana dealers discuss a future drug deal. Treanor orders Markey to drive out to a specific gas station and ask to have his spare tire fixed. He says that the gas station attendant there will know what to do. They share a chuckle together over the genius of their plan.Meanwhile, Mason and Tyne are arriving at Anne's house. They approach the front entrance, but first Mason decides to look in the window. Inside, Anne's friends are dancing while Frank plays the piano. Anne wonders after Markey, and when her doorbell buzzes, she assumes that it's him and rushes to the door. A rude awakening is delivered by Lieutenants Mason and Tyne, who grab Anne and arrest her. Rita tries to run to another room, but is easily caught by Tyne who collects her marijuana cigarette. Anne and her friends are all corralled into the center of her parlor, and informed that they're under arrest. The policemen question Anne about Markey, but she denies knowing him.In the office at the police station, Anne remains defiant and hostile and refuses to answer any police inquiries. Then she gets a "Scared Straight" lecture from the crusading Captain Hayes. This starts with the introduction of a "lost cause" female marijuana user who is ushered into the office in the custody of a dour prison matron.. Clothed in a drab prison frock, the poor wretch is now totally catatonic and exhibits dark circles beneath her expressionless eyes, her skin sallow and pasty. This unforunate victim of marijuana use stares blankly off into space, her parched lips trembling. The police captain tries to shock Anne by showing her a "before" photograph of this woman. The mug sheet states that this now pathetic woman originally hailed from Poland, and it provides two headshots of the once attractive and now doomed marijuana addict. The photographs show a fashionable, if somewhat stuffy, upper-class lady sporting an extremely stylish chapeau.Captain Hayes then calls for a car and transports Anne, along with Lt. Mason, to a woman's prison to meet the unkempt and hostile inmate Gladys, a one-time "syringe user." Lt. Mason encourages Gladys to show Anne her arm, which she grudgingly does, after she utters a few words of contempt. The welts and bruises on Gladys's arm repulse Anne, and she diverts her eyes. Next the trio visit the former flophouse room of the imprisoned "syringe user" Gladys. It's small and dark as a cave, with an unmade bed and clothes thrown about.Then the trio stop by the Psychiatric Prison Ward, and Captain Hayes asks Anne to look into a shuttered cell window that he opens for her. Anne is shocked and appalled to see a hysterical woman confined in a straight-jacket writhing about on a cot. The deranged woman mumbles incoherently as she struggles, screams and cries out in desperation. This hideous and lurid display of obvious insanity has Anne taken aback, although she quickly regains her composure facing Captain Hayes. Anne manages to appear unmoved and unconcerned. The still determined Captain Hayes tops off his vile tour with a visit to the to the city morgue to view the chilled corpse of a young female suicide victim, who coincidentally had involved herself with a man very similar to Anne's supplier, Markey. But stubborn Anne takes refuge in denial, and frustrates Captain Hayes' valiant efforts by remaining firmly convinced that this tragic fate could never ever happen to her.Upon returning to the Station House, Anne remains uncooperative with the officers who try to pump her for information about Markey. They tell her that they keenly desire to apprehend -- not only Markey -- but the dealer who supplies him. Anne will offer them nothing, so the Captain has a matron take Anne and lock her in her cell. She soon receives a 60-day jail sentence where Anne is driven to the brink of insanity by guilt over her brother's death. Her mind is soon haunted by the phrase "kid killer" and she hears it spoken repeatedly in various voices, one day finally driving her to hysteria. A matron warns her to calm down, so she struggles to compose herself.Anne has another episode while washing the prison floor, which results with her screaming denials at a prison matron who stands nearby. Anne apologizes to the matron and hangs her head weeping over the bucket and rag she was using. Then back in her cell, she hears the same accusation made over and over again, with every drip of a leaky faucet. Her once-pretty face not dripping with sweat and twisted by guilt and fear, she rushes to the faucet to try to make it stop dripping. She looks up into the mirror above the sink, and visualizes herself becoming even more hardened looking and unkempt. Then suddenly her face in the mirror dissolves into the handsome but unsmiling face of her deceased brother. Anne screams in terror and confusion and covers her face with her hands, but then looks back to the mirror and snatches it off the wall and flings it onto the floor, smashing it. She grabs the prison bars on her cells and screams until a matron approaches to unlock her cell, just as Anne crumples to the floor in tears.Soon Anne wakes in the jail's infirmary, a kindly nurse watching closely over her. The nurse give Anne a soft-spoken but dire warning of what has happened to other girls like her. Anne begins to hear voices from the past in her mind, such as Captain Hayes and Markey. Her countenance is disconcerted, confused, and worried.A prison matron unlocks Anne's jail cell, where Anne is attired in her street clothes. The two women refer to Anne being released 10 days early for good behavior, and they discuss her future plans. Anne seems bitter and defiant, and speaks of her desire to quickly wash off the smell of the jail with a bath. Seemingly, right after Anne's walks from the prison, Markey is walking next to her, and takes her by the arm. Now back on the outside, Anne reconnects with Markey, and says she is now in business for herself. Soon they are back at Anne's house, where she tells him of meeting a woman in jail who spoke about a big drug deal. The idea of some competition concerns Markey. He decides he wants at least part of this action, so he tells Anne to call her contacts to set up a meeting between her fellow former prisoner's supplier and Jonathan Treanor. She sets up a deal for Markey and his supplier to make a big buy from a drug connection she made while in jail.A short while later, Markey, Anne, and the big out-of-town marijuana supplier, "Mr. Gabriel" are meeting in Treanor's office. "Mister Gabriel's" face is hidden by the shadow from the brow of his hat at the start of the meeting as he lights a cigarette. After taking a drag he looks up to Markey and Treanor, and reveals himself to be Lieutenant Mason in another undercover assignment. Lt. Mason as "Mr Gabriel" soon pulls out a wad of $75,000 and throws it across the desk to Treanor, who seems cautious, and "Gabriel" tries to put him at ease. The telephone rings, and Treanor answers it, as Anne and Lt. Mason listen intently. Treanor becomes perturbed by the conversation, and soon rings off. He explains that it was Raymond on the telephone, and they have discovered that they do not have enough stock to take care of "Mr. Gabriel's" order. Treanor asks for twelve to eighteen hours to deliver, and "Mr. Gabriel" agrees. They decide to go together to pick up the order, and "Mr. Gabriel" exits, taking his cash with him. Treanor wants to speak with Markey alone, so Markey tells Anne to leave, which she does.Soon Anne and Markey leave Treanor's apartment building, with Lt. Mason watching from across the street. They drive away, and Anne needles Markey a bit. He tells Anne that they're going to Arizona, and they confirm the fact that they are now partners.Meanwhile, Raymond walks down a darkened street, and stops to light a cigarette. From the darkness behind him emerges Lt. Mason, who greets him ominously before disarming him of his revolver. Mason forces Raymond into the nearby warehouse used by Treanor. Then Mason forces Raymond at gunpoint to telephone Treanor, and put him off but telling him that there is a problem with the stock because some of the cans of tomatoes actually had real tomatoes in them. He tells Treanor that he will have to stay at the warehouse to sort thing out. Lt. Mason mocks Raymond, and takes him off to the StationAnne and Markey continue their extended road trip, all the while being tracked by the police. It comes across the ticker that "California car license N six seven eight four three crossed border into Arizona three twenty a.m." and then next, "gas station at Gila Bend raided. Car checked into California. License number n six seven eight four three. Occupants man and female blond." Markey continues his drive.Jonathan Treanor and "Mr. Gabriel" arrive at Treanor's darkened warehouse, where they find a folded note from Raymond atop the telephone which reads, "Went out to eat. Be back in time for Markey. Raymond." Treanor folds the note back up, and slides it into the inside pocket of his suit coat. Markey and Anne enter the room, and Treanor is not happy to see the blond, but Markey insists he better get used to having her around.Suddenly, the telephone rings, and Treanor answers. He thanks the caller and rings off. Treanor turns to "Mr. Gabriel" pointing a revolver at his chest. He explains that the call was from "Mr. Romero" who doesn't know a "Mr. Gabriel," and it was Anne Lester that dreamed him up. This last second phone call alerts the drug dealers that they have been set up by Anne. Markey becomes angered, and delivers a backhanded slap across the face to Anne. But Lt. Mason quickly takes advantage of the situation, and rushes Treanor and grapples for his gun. Markey looks around and decides to make a run for it up a flight of stairs, just as Lt. Mason has wrestled the revolver away from Treanor. Mason jumps to his feet, and hands the gun over to Anne, telling her to keep it on Treanor.Lt. Mason races up the stairs after Markey, and catches him by his ankles. Mason grabs Markey and punches him in the face, sending him falling down the stairs. Markey tries to make a run for another exit, but Lt. Mason jumps off the side from the top of the stairs to block his progress. The two men have a fist fight, where many punches are thrown in the dimly lit warehouse. Markey again tries to make his way up the stairs to escape, but Lt. Mason is right on his heels, and they continue their fisticuffs at the landing at the top of the stairs. Finally, Lt. Mason deliver an especially hard-hitting blow, which causes Markey to crash through the wooden safety railing on the landing. He unfortuantely lands on an old receiving desk below, and then bounces off onto the floor. Lt. Mason rushes down the stairs to retrieve his suspect. Anne continues to threaten Jonathan Treanor with a gun pointed at his midsection. Then the warehouse door opens and Lt. Tyne and another officer run into the room and collect the two suspects from Lt. Mason and Anne. The undercover cop had managed to disarm and capture the crooks.Back at the Police Station, Captain Hayes somberly thanks Anne Lester for her help, and expresses his belief that there won't be any need for another mug shot of her ever. Lt. Mason sits on the Captain's desk, while Lt. Tyne stands nearby, with all eyes focused on Anne as she too thanks the Captain and both Leiutanents.The final scene features a scrolling message warning the viewers that ignorance of the evils of marijuana has led to the creation of 200 million "dope addicts" (approximately 10% of the world population), and that it is everyone's responsibility to help educate others about the dangers of marijuana.It reads as follows:"Millions have lived this story, but, unlike Anne Lester, most of them ended up mental and physical wrecks.It is high time the public -- old and young alike -- know the whole Truth... the full Truth, about Marihuana (sometimes spelled marijuana).Ignorance is a sin. Knowledge is power! Only boys and girls who are fully informed can be expected to resist the Markeys of today -- and tomorrow.Best authorities estimate the world has over 200,000,000 'dope addicts' today -- boys and girls, men and women -- who are victims of their own ignorance. Government narcotic experts reveal that over 75 percent of all new Marihuana smokers are 'Teen-agers'.Tomorrow's list could include your youngster!No one seeing this film could be easily tempted to so-wreck their mind and body. But millions won't see it. To enlighten them -- is your job.Cooperate fully with government authorities in stamping out ignorance. Make your nation a better place in which to live -- and raise a family."
