While fleeing across the Irish countryside, two orphans are pursued by their villainous uncle, a master of disguises.
After the death of their mother, two children in Liverpool run away from home to escape their cruel uncle who treats them harshly. They flee to Ireland in hopes of finding love and safety with their kindly grandmother. However, their uncle is a failed actor who is a master of disguise. He uses his skill to pursue them in hopes of finding them for his own financial gain. The children must rely on their wits and the kindness of strangers to stay ahead of him or their lives will be in mortal jeopardy.
Following the passing of their mother, thirteen year old Finn Dove and seven year old Derval Dove become the ward of their cruel stepfather, Tobias Cromwell, who only wants what menial labor the children can provide for his home, rather than their loving maternal grandmother, Mary Magdalene St. Bridget O'Flaherty, the English court ruling largely due to the fact of the children already living with "Uncle Toby" in Liverpool, while Granny O'Flaherty lives in rural County Galway, Ireland. Dreaming of living with Granny, the children decide to run away to Galway County to be with her. The start of their journey is before they are able to discover that they are heirs to an estate, that substantial amount of money which will otherwise go to their maternal Uncle John Cyril Dove - an actor with the stage name Hawk Dove due to the hawk tattooed on his right inner wrist - if the children cannot be found. Learning that he will control the money until the children reach an age of majority, Uncle Toby enlists the assistance of a detective to get the children back, he in turn offering a small fraction of the inheritance as a reward. As mean as Uncle Toby is, Uncle Hawk is even worse as he is willing to kill the children to get the inheritance if he can find them. What is working in Uncle Hawk's favor is that he, as an actor, is a master of disguise, the only thing that may give him away under any of those disguises being the tattoo. Through it all, Granny hopes and prays the children make it to her loving home. The children get into one misadventure after another as they try to make their way Granny, while trying to evade the police, Uncle Toby and his detective, and Uncle Hawk. The children have to learn who to trust and not to trust, especially as they, without much money, have to learn how to survive on the road. Even if they can make it to Galway County, their story may not have a happy ending as they are still legally a ward of Uncle Toby in the eyes of the law, and as Finn states they may never be rid of potentially murderous Uncle Hawk, even if they are attending his funeral.

