Younger generation vs. "older" folks on vacation at an Italian villa.
Wealthy industrialist Robert Talbot arrives early for his annual vacation at his luxurious Italian villa to find three problems lying in wait for him. Firstly, his long-time girlfriend Lisa Fellini has given up waiting for him to pop the question and has decided to marry another man. Secondly, the major domo of his villa, Maurice Clavell, has turned the estate into a posh hotel to make some easy money while the boss isn't around. And, finally, the current guests of the "hotel" are a group of young American girls trying to fend off a gang of oversexed boys, led by Tony, who are 'laying siege' at the outer walls of the villa. Talbot, to his own surprise, finds himself becoming an overprotective chaperone.
The wealthy American executive Robert Talbot comes to Italy in a business trip and anticipates his annual vacation a couple of months before the usual month of September. He invites his Italian girlfriend Lisa Helena Fellini, who had decided to get married with her British fiancé Spencer, to go with him to his villa and she immediately calls off her engagement with Spencer. When Robert arrives in his villa with Lisa, he learns that his butler Maurice Clavell has been using his property as a hotel for six years while Robert is in the United States. Further, the "hotel" is booked with six female teenage students that are controlled by the tough Margaret Allison. Robert fires Maurice and asks him to send the tourists away. However, Margaret slips on a champagne cork and the girls are forced to stay a little longer. When four American male students arrive in Robert's villa, they flirt with the girls. However Robert protects them and advises one of them, Sandy Stevens, telling that easy women do not get married since men do not take them seriously. Sandy tells Lisa what Robert told her and Lisa changes her behavior and leaves Robert alone.
Wealthy New York based businessman Robert Talbot owns a villa in Italy where he has spent every September since the war with his Italian girlfriend, Lisa Fellini. But the people associated with the villa feel Robert has taken them for granted. Lisa would really like to marry Robert, but he seems content to continue with these annual month long trysts, as he has never even broached the subject of marrying her. As such, she has accepted the marriage proposal of a staid Brit named Spencer, which she plans to tell Robert on his next September visit simply by being a newly married woman. And his villa servants, led by his majordomo, Maurice Clavell, believe he thinks the villa is up kept by magic. What they have done for the past six years without his knowledge is to open up the villa as a four star hotel for the eleven months he isn't there, using the money to make improvements to the villa, and pocketing the rest. Complications ensue when Robert unexpectedly comes to Italy in July for a business trip, which catches both Lisa and Maurice by surprise. Although Robert does find out about the hotel, it is more difficult both to fire Maurice and the servants, and get rid of the current guests than he would like, those guests which include Margaret Allison and her six American charges. Margaret, with who Maurice is mutually smitten as she is under the impression that he owns the hotel, has regularly chaperoned a group of American teenaged girls to Italy. And Lisa decides to spend this one last year with Robert before getting married to and without telling him about Spencer. Out of this situation erupts a battle of the sexes and of the generations as Robert, while Margaret is incapacitated and while they are all on his property, feels he needs to protect the girls, especially from a group of four brash American college boys who have also come to stay, he telling the girls one thing while dealing with Lisa in a whole different manner. And the boys feel they need to use their youth to outlast Robert in his games of protecting the girls from them.

