Bugs Bunny retaliates against the pompous opera star who does him violence.
Opera star Giovanni Jones is trying to rehearse but Bugs is singing another tune while playing his banjo, then his harp, then his tuba. Jones destroys the instruments over Bugs' head, and, of course, "this means war." Revenge takes place when Bugs, as white-maned "Leopold", conducts Jones' Hollywood Bowl concert.
Bugs loves music. He's just out in the meadow, minding his own business, playing "A Rainy Night in Rio" on his banjo like any other fun-loving rabbit. But who should come outside but the great big pompous opera star, Giovanni Jones, needing quiet for his own rehearsal. After Jones smashes Bugs's banjo over his furry head, Bugs shrugs it off. "Music-hater," he concludes. He shrugs off the next attack with, "Rabbit-hater." The third attack? "Of course you know, this means war." Later, during the star's performance at the Hollywood Bowl, Bugs sneaks in and finds devious uses for alum; a mallet; a bobby-soxer disguise; a pen that looks suspiciously like a stick of dynamite; and finally a long-haired white wig that will convince everyone he's Leopold Stokowski. The great "Leopold" will demand a performance from Jones that he'll never forget.
World-famous opera singer Giovanni Jones is trying to rehearse for his upcoming concert. However, Bugs Bunny's singing bothers Giovanni, who's trying to concentrate. But instead of asking Bugs -- who had been minding his own business -- to desist stop until the rehearsal ended, the ill-tempered Giovanni destroys the bunny's instruments as a banjo and harp (and injures Bugs in the process). Bugs eventually has had enough and gets his revenge ... during Giovanni's concert at the Hollywood Bowl. After using a variety of means to soften the opera singer up, Bugs pulls out the coup de gras: dressed as world-renowned conductor Leopold, the bunny makes Giovanni sing an insipid song (basically to make him look foolish) before forcing him to hold a high note, which causes the amphitheater to crumble on top on the singer. But Bugs (who has since ordered earmuffs, rush-delivered thanks to some very express delivery) isn't through yet: "Leopold" --having spotted a huge boulder teetering perilously above where Giovanni is standing -- gets the singer to blare out his high note once more. The boulder tips over and crushes Giovanni. Bugs' banjo solo "Good Evening, Folks" ties up the bunny's satisfying revenge (and the cartoon).
One day, Bugs is sitting outside his hole, playing a banjo and singing "A Rainy Night in Rio". Nearby, in a luxurious house, a famous opera singer named Giovanni Jones is rehearsing "Largo al factotum" from The Barber of Seville. However, Jones is distracted by Bugs' singing, and goes over and smashes his banjo over his head in a fit of anger. Bugs remarks, "Music hater."Later, Jones is rehearsing again, but is again distracted by Bugs playing the harp and singing "My Gal is a High Born Lady" (with re-written lyrics). Jones destroys the harp and jams Bugs' head in it, causing him to remark, "Also a rabbit hater. Oh, well." Bugs then decides to loudly play the tuba, but this does not impress Jones any more than previously. He ties Bugs' ears to a tree and beats his head against the branch. Fed up, Bugs makes his trademark Groucho Marx comment: "Of course you know, dis means war!"That night, Jones is performing a concert at the Hollywood Bowl, and begins by singing "Chi mi frena in tal momento". Bugs is sitting on top of the large stadium, and taps it with his fingers, the reverberation causing Jones to tremble slightly when he hits a certain note in the song. Bugs remarks, "Acoustically perfect," and bangs on the stadium with a mallet, resulting in a much more violent reverberation &amp; causing Jones to wildly shake and move around the stage, until he falls into a tuba player's instrument. Bugs takes Jones back stage, informing the audience of an interruption in the program, and orders the maestro to play a vamp. Bugs fixes Jones up backstage, and sprays liquid alum into his mouth. Jones goes back on stage and proceeds to sing the "Figaro" section of "Largo al factotum". With each singing of "Figaro", his head shrinks to an extremely small size and his voice grows extremely high in pitch.Later, Jones is due to go on stage again, but Bugs, dressed in a bobby soxer outfit, begs him to stop. Bugs showers Jones with praise, and asks for his autograph, giving him a pen which turns out to be a stick of dynamite. It explodes as Bugs sneaks away, and Jones steps onto stage, bows and faints.Finally, Bugs enters disguised as famous conductor Leopold Stokowski. Greatly in awe, all the orchestra members, Jones and the conductor immediately stop what they are doing, so Bugs can take over. He snaps the conductor's baton in half, and proceeds to conduct first the orchestra and then Jones through a bizarre performance with his hands. He receives rapturous applause, but Bugs is not finished. He then persuades Jones to hold a high note for an extremely long period of time. While Jones is holding the note, his clothes unravel and his face changes from one colour to another. Bugs slips his hand out of his glove for a brief period, and steps outside to order a pair of earmuffs, which he puts on to block out the noise. He returns to find Jones still holding the high note and pounding on the floor, but continues to have him hold the note. Eventually, this causes the Hollywood Bowl's dome to crack and fall apart. The debris crashes onto the stage, burying Jones.Bugs receives massive applause, and bows to the audience. The ravaged Jones also emerges from the rubble and bows. Just then, Bugs notices a large boulder suspended on a rafter. He gets Jones to hold the high note again, as the boulder tumbles off the rafter and hits Jones, finishing him off. Bugs then pulls out his repaired banjo, and plays "Good Evening, Friends". Iris out.
