While vacationing on a remote Scandanavian island with his younger pregnant wife, an artist has an emotional breakdown while confronting his repressed desires.
An artist in crisis is haunted by nightmares from the past in Ingmar Bergman's only horror film, which takes place on a windy island. During "the hour of the wolf" - between midnight and dawn - he tells his wife about his most painful memories.
Johan Borg and his pregnant wife Alma arrive on a remote island to spend the summer. Johan, an artist by profession, is uninspired and restless of late. One day an old woman approaches Alma telling her to read Johan's diary, which he keeps in a black bag under the bed. As Johan's mental state continues to deteriorate, Alma becomes increasingly frightened. Unable to sleep at night for some time now, Johann tells Alma of events from his youth and eventually of Veronica, the woman he lived with for 5 years. Eventually, Johan walks off into the woods, never to be seen again. Even Alma isn't sure what was real and what was imagined.
Alma Borg tells the story of the recent life of and with her husband of seven years, Johan Borg, an artist with some renown. They live most summers in a modest cabin on the relatively isolated Frisian island of Baltrum, which he likes in not wanting to see people. The island is owned by Baron von Merkens, who lives in the big castle on the island with his wife, Corinne. Although the von Merkens don't know the Borgs personally, they know of him and his art. Johan and Alma love each other, but their relationship is somewhat clinical - they rarely, if ever, kiss - unlike the passion that he shared with a former love, Veronica Vogler, about who Alma knows. Johan suffers both from insomnia and nyctophobia, both in combination which are causing problems for him. Rather than confide in Alma those problems, Johan instead writes them all down in his diary. What happens to Johan and what Johan does in light of these problems is affected by Alma getting a hold of his diary and wanting to help him through these issues, and their joint and individual encounters with the von Merkens and their social circle, which includes a person from Johan's past.
Starring the renowned actor Max Von Sydow (Beyond Dreams, The Exorcist), this is a horror film in which the protagonist is a prisoner of his position as an artist. "The time of the wolf is the time between night and dawn, it is the time when most people die, when the dream is deepest, when nightmares feel more real." It is the hour when the demons are most powerful The time of the wolf is also the time when children are born "- THE HOUR OF THE WOLF, Ingmar Bergman: On an island the Borg live: Johan, who is a painter, and his wife Alma, whose neighbors, the sinister Von Merken, own A circle of friends so chilling that Johan begins to obsess over the idea that demons lurk.

