A New York detective investigates a series of murders committed by random New Yorkers who claim that "God told them to."
The storyline of this movie involves a series of motiveless murders committed by various New York residents: a sniper shoots people from a water tower; a father murders his entire family; and a cop opens fire during a St. Patrick's Day parade. The only consistent pattern to the crimes involves the perpetrators calm admissions of guilt, explaining, "God told me to." While investigating the murders, catholic police detective Peter Nicholas is increasingly troubled by evidence of a Christ-like figure named Bernard Phillips who appeared to each of the killers and can't seem to shake the feeling that his own fate is somewhat linked to this mysterious being. As he comes closer to the truth, his worst fears are confirmed.
Perched atop a water tower high above New York City, a sniper, using a cheap uncalibrated rifle, is able to shoot with amazing accuracy and distance despite the equipment, killing several innocent people at street level below. Despite being only one of several first responders on the scene, NYPD Detective Peter Nicholas feels compelled to climb the water tower to try to talk the sniper down peacefully. Peter will discover the man's name is Harold Gorman, and has no history of mental illness or crime. So in the important question of "why", Harold answers, "God told me to", before he jumps to his death. This case is only the first of several similar ones that Peter encounters, where seemingly normal people are compelled to commit acts of mass murder in the name of God, most killing themselves or dying some mysterious death immediately after this declaration. In the course of his investigation, Peter believes the so-called divine power directing these people to commit these heinous acts is a "man" named Bernard Phillips. As Peter finds out more and more about Bernard and his life, all in trying to discover the answer of how he is able to compel his followers, Peter is faced with issues about his own life in relation: growing up in the Catholic foster care system not knowing the identity of his birth parents; still being a devout Catholic; why he and his long suffering wife Martha never had children; and why he and Martha will not get a divorce despite they long having ceased being a couple except in name only, and despite he long having had a serious cohabitating relationship with teacher Casey Forster with who he also balks at the notion of having children.

