Summer of 1963. Carson is getting married to her boyfriend so her friends Melaina, Pudge and Luanne take her to Myrtle Beach for one last irresponsible weekend.
In 1963 Spartanburg, South Carolina, recent high school graduates Luanne Clatterbuck (Page Hannah), Caroline "Pudge" Carmichael (Annabeth Gish), and Melaina Buller (Bridget Fonda) pick up their friend Carson McBride (Phoebe Cates) for a summer weekend getaway. Carson, who is engaged to her high school beau, Harley Ralston (Tyrone Power Jr.), panics when she hears the girls are taking her to Myrtle Beach instead of Fort Sumter, where they told their parents they were going. Although Carson claims she is not allowed to go to Myrtle Beach, her friends are set on showing her a good time before her wedding.At Myrtle Beach, they see a banner for the Sun Fun Festival that weekend, and an advertisement for a "shag" dance contest at The Pavilion. This piques the interest of Pudge, who loves to dance the shag. Arriving at the beach house owned by Luanne's father, Senator Clatterbuck (Donald Craig), she gives everyone strict rules not to sit on the furniture, use the telephone, or open her father's liquor cabinet.That evening, Carson bursts into tears, worried that the girls will forget her when they go to college and questioning her decision to marry Harley. The girls assure Carson she will be okay and take her dancing at The Pavilion. There, Buzz Ravenal (Robert Rusler) and Chip Guillyard (Scott Coffey), two local boys who taunted the girls in traffic earlier, sit down with Carson and Pudge. Carson tells Buzz she is engaged, but he persuades her to dance with him anyway. Desperate for a shag partner, Pudge asks Chip to dance, but he tells her he does not know how.Melaina attracts the attention of a local named "Big Bob," (Jay Baker) but two local girls, Suette (Leilani Sarelle) and Nadine (Carrie Hamilton), antagonize her. In the ladies room, Melaina overhears Suette discussing plans with Nadine to compete in the Miss Sun Queen Pageant the next day. Melaina emerges from a bathroom stall and vows to beat Suette.Meanwhile, Chip tries to make conversation with Pudge, asking if she knows any elephant jokes. She prickles, assuming he is making fun of her weight. Chip assures her he doesn't think she has a weight problem. Buzz asks Carson to go "parking" with him, but she refuses. However, he lures her to a boardwalk amusement park with Pudge and Chip. Melaina leaves The Pavilion with Big Bob, and Luanne is outraged that all her friends have abandoned her.At a secluded parking spot, Big Bob tries to have sex with Melaina, who is still a virgin. She fights him off and receives unexpected help when Suette and Nadine appear, pulling her out of the car. After reprimanding Big Bob, the girls spray Melaina with shaving cream, cover her in feathers, force alcohol down her throat, and leave her lying on the ground. Luanne comes in search of Melaina and rescues her.Meanwhile, Pudge, Chip, Carson and Buzz go to a drive-in restaurant. Pudge gives Chip dance lessons, while Buzz offends Carson by calling her uptight and conventional. She argues that she doesn't believe in "free love" like Buzz, but cannot resist him when he kisses her. Later that night, Carson calls Harley and informs her fiancé she is in Myrtle Beach, not Fort Sumter. Harley encourages her to come home, but Carson insists on staying.In the morning, Chip and Buzz arrive at the beach house. Pudge gives Chip dance lessons, while Carson and Buzz go fishing. Luanne finds Melaina practicing a dance routine in her bikini. She forbids her friend from degrading herself at the Miss Sun Queen Pageant, demanding that she wear a ladylike one-piece bathing suit and perform a dramatic monologue from 'Gone with the Wind', instead. Melaina does not believe the understated approach will help her win. She reminds Luanne that she has no plans for college and needs to make something of herself, but Luanne stands her ground.Pudge and Chip go to the beach, and Chip embarrasses Pudge by reading a questionnaire about sexual experience. Pudge says she is inexperienced because boys do not see her "that way," and Chip reveals he is also a virgin. On a dock, Carson tells Buzz that her fiancée, Harley, plans to work for his father's tobacco company. Unimpressed, Buzz, who will be attending Yale University in the fall, says he plans to travel to Italy.Popular singer Jimmy Valentine (Jeff Yagher) arrives as the celebrity guest judge at the Miss Sun Queen Pageant. Clad in Luanne's one-piece bathing suit, Melaina watches in agony as Suette performs a provocative dance to the strains of "Dixie," clad in a Confederate flag bikini. Harley shows up in search of Carson, and Luanne distracts him as Carson and Buzz flee. Melaina's dramatic monologue draws some snickers from Jimmy Valentine, and Suette is crowned Miss Sun Queen.Backstage, Melaina blames Luanne for her loss, and orders Luanne to invite Valentine back to the beach house for a party. Luanne uses her father's name to convince Valentine to come to the house. Wearing Luanne's mother's clothes, Melaina holds Jimmy Valentine's attention for a while, but he becomes bored and threatens to leave. Chip asks Pudge to dance with him in the shag contest the next day, and she excitedly agrees. Melaina begs Chip to invite more friends over to keep Valentine's interest. Carson and Buzz sneak out of the house to avoid Harley, who bonds with Luanne as droves of locals show up at the house. Luanne tries to control the chaos as the party rages out of control but finally gives up and gets drunk.Buzz takes Carson to a yacht owned by Luanne's father and convinces her to sleep with him. At the party, Chip drunkenly offends Pudge by saying he considers her a friend. The next day, Elvira (Pearl Jones), the Clatterbucks' maid, arrives to find Luanne and Harley passed out on the front lawn. Elvira informs Luanne that her parents are set to arrive at noon. Luanne panics. Jimmy Valentine's manager shows up to retrieve his client, and tells Melaina he would never allow his client's career to be derailed by a low-class Southern girl.On the yacht, Buzz suggests Carson break up with Harley and attend college near Yale. Carson returns to the house and tells the other girls she lost her virginity. Luanne guesses Carson must love Buzz, but Carson says she hates him. She says that she is wild, and wonders if she should break off her engagement. Malaina steals one of Mrs. Clatterbuck's dresses, with plans to dress up as a sophisticated starlet and impress Jimmy Valentine's manager. Pudge laments her unrequited love for Chip, and Melaina advises her to make herself look irresistible and act dismissive. Luanne gives Chip the task of picking up her parents at the airport and taking them directly to The Pavilion, where the Clatterbucks are set to judge the shag contest. She tells him that Pudge must go back to Spartanburg with her and will therefore miss the contest.Driving the Clatterbucks into town, Chip bemoans his missed opportunity with Pudge, and Senator Clatterbuck takes a liking to him when he realizes Chip is headed to his alma mater, the Naval Academy at Annapolis. Pudge gives Melaina a ride to The Pavilion, and goes inside herself when she discovers that Melaina left her bag in the car. Pudge runs into Chip, and they enter the contest.Arriving at The Pavilion in search of the other girls, Luanne concocts a story to tell her parents, but Carson urges her to tell them the truth about their weekend. Luanne responds that Carson should tell Harley the truth, prompting Carson to confess that she has fallen in love with Buzz. Chip and Pudge dance the shag to the song "Stagger Lee," and embrace when they win the contest. Jimmy Valentine's manager tells Melaina she has potential, and they discuss her future in Hollywood.Later, the Clatterbucks host a lawn party at the beach house. Harley and Luanne flirt (implying that they might hook up with each other). Nearby, Buzz tells Carson she should buy a winter coat so she can visit him at Yale. Melaina decides not to return home to her "holly roller" tyrant of a father and travel right away to California. Carson and Buzz are seen happy together. Chip tells Pudge that he will keep in touch with her after he leaves town and joins the US Navy. The film ends with the four girlfriends, Carson, Luanne, Melaina and Pudge, entertaining the party goers with a performance of their school song, "Hail Spartanburg High."
