In Paris, a former policeman falls in love with a prostitute, and tries to get her out of that life by paying for all of her time.
Naive, by the book French police officer Nester Patou, is transferred to the Red Light district. Upon witnessing what must be a brothel, he calls the station and organizes a raid, transporting all the 'ladies' to the jail. This unfortunately disrupts the well organized system of the police and the Pimps union. Not to mention inadvertently netting his station superior at the brothel. Fired, he goes to a bar to drink, is befriended by Irma, beats up her pimp, and finds he is now Irma's new pimp. Nester's doesn't like the thought of his girl seeing other men, so comes up with a plan.
Disgraced former police officer Nestor Patou falling for beautiful Parisian prostitute Irma La Douce. Though Nestor becomes Irma's pimp, he can't stand the idea of her being with clients, so he devises a way to keep her all to himself. This scheme leads to plenty of trouble, however, and soon Nestor is forced to avoid his old law-enforcement peers in an attempt to stay with Irma and out of jail.
In the vibrant Les Halles food-market, at the bustling red-light district of rue Casanova, business is booming for the delicate Parisian streetwalker, Irma. Infatuated with her, the zealous but penniless former police officer, Nestor Patou, will soon find himself dragged in an unknown world when he accepts Irma's generous invitation to move into her apartment. Little by little--as the young gendarme learns the tricks of the trade, first by becoming Irma's procurer, and then, by becoming the king of the block's pimps--an unexpected love affair will begin; however, Nestor's justifiable jealousy gets the best of him. Now, Irma thinks that Nestor is cheating on her. To what extremes would Nestor have to go, to prove his love for sweet Irma?
Comedy about a Parisian policeman who becomes the lover (and unwilling pimp) of a carefree street-walker. After falling in love with her, the officer conspires to limit her occupation by taking on an alter-ego, "Lord X", to serve as her sole client. Adapted from a successful musical.
In Paris, after six months working with children, the decorated rookie policeman Nestor Patou is assigned to work in the red light district on the Casanova Street, a place crowded of streetwalkers, pimps and corrupt police officers. The honest Nestor, who is naive and strictly by the book, notes the movement of couples in the Casanova Hotel and befriends the prostitute Irma La Douce (believing that she is a lady. When he discovers that she is also a streetwalker, he calls the central station for a raid in the hotel. However, among the arrested costumers is the corrupt Chief of Police Lefevre that has a scheme with the pimps union. Nestor is fired with a dirty record and has difficulties to find a new job; he goes to the bistro of the versatile and experienced Moustache to drink, and he starts a conversation with Irma La Douce. However, her bully pimp Hippolyte fights against Nestor, but he beats him up. Irma brings Nestor home and he becomes Irma's pimp. However he falls in love for her and he is jealous when she meets a client. He decides to create the wealthy British Lord X to be the only regular client of Irma. But things go wrong when Nestor is jealous of Lord X and decides to end his character.

