Bill and Robin, helped by their childhood friend, Lena, develop a "reproducer" which can exactly duplicate any object. Bill, crushed when Lena marries Robin, convinces her to allow him to duplicate her, so that he may have a copy of her for himself. The experiment, at first deemed a success, seems to have worked only too well as the duplicate, Helen, is such an exact copy that she also loves Robin, not Bill. Bill hopes to rectify the situation with another radical experiment.
We open with title and credits shown over a high shot of the quaint English village of Howdean. The story is told by Dr. Harvey. He introduces us to the small village and the local townsfolk, both common and high born. We see Sir Walter Grant (Percy Marmont) out pheasant hunting on his estate. Dr. Harvey (James Hayter) is the village doctor and waxes philosophical on life and death. He quotes an old philosopher, "That life is neither a feast nor a spectacle, but a predicament." He shows us a burnt out old barn and explains, "Yet it all began here, as it ended." The doctor's recollection is of three children playing. The queen, as a girl of 11, is Lena as a child (Jennifer Dearman). Her two knights were, Sir Robin as a child (Sean Barrett) holding the garbage can lid as a shield, and Sir Bill as a child (Glyn Dearman). Sir Bill is defeated. The queen presents both with presents, but Bill runs off. The doctor explains, "That was my first glimpse of the three of them, of the material from which fate fashioned the four sided triangle." Bill stopped to see the doctor that evening to examine his hand and wrist. Bill showed a remarkable knowledge of his medical condition. His father was killed in a tavern brawl. The doctor took it upon himself to be his guardian after the boy's mother died.As adults, Lena moved to America with her mother and the boys went off to University. One evening Lena (Barbara Payton) returned to the village a self-confessed failure. She tried art, music and writing, all without success. She was weary and cynical. She told the doctor she came back to sell her mother's very modest estate, and boldly, but calmly stated, "...and after that I shall die in some reasonably unmessy fashion." She verbally sparred with the doctor about her life. Seeking a remedy for her dark mood, the doctor mentioned that Bill and Robin have also returned to the village, and perhaps a visit would be good for her. She takes the bait and says, "You're so transparent. Of course, let's go see genius at work." Robin and Bill bought the old barn that they played in as children. They are working on a project. Bill (Stephen Murray) managed to shock himself. Robin (John Van Eyssen) just tried to ignore the outburst. Both responded when Lena asked for a cigarette. They were pleased and excited to see her return to town. Lena notices the place is a mess and the doctor wisely entices her to help them out, but she turns him down flat and leaves the barn. "But, of course, she changed her mind. That's a woman's privilege. She became cook, nurse, confessor, chief bottle washer, and occasional mechanic to those two conspirators. She became one of them - Sharing their disappointments - Getting on the right side of Sir Walter, who was beginning to worry over his investment in a mysterious scheme," the doctor explains. Sir Walter is Robin's father.One evening the doctor was invited to the Grant Estate. Sir Walter was not interested in shelling out any further money on his son's project. So far it had cost him a thousand pounds and after eighteen months was dubious about any return. Dr. Harvey promised Robin he would provide financing, but was unsure where hed get the money. Harvey met with his solicitor, Simpson (John Stuart) and sold his practice to gain the necessary funds to complete the project. With money in hand, he gave Bill and Robin the check to complete their work. They worked around the clock. Lena stopped into see Dr. Harvey to solicit a stimulant, stronger than coffee. A phone call came for Lena. It was Bill and Robin calling her to say, "Lena, weve got it licked. Were ready for the first demonstration." Lena takes Dr. Harvey back with her to the barn.In the barn, two pieces of equipment are covered by sheets. The scientists remove the sheets to reveal clear plastic hemispheres covering metal boxes. Harvey asks, "But what are they?" "We call it a reproducer," Robin proudly states. Bill chimes in, "You might also call it a duplicator." The doctor asks how does it work? What does it do? Bill and Robin try to explain, but to simplify things they do a demonstration. Dr. Harvey supplies his watch for the demonstration. Bill places the watch and chain in one machine. The equipment is fired up and in the other box a duplicate is produced. In a spontaneous moment of joy, Lena hugs Robin, but only shakes Bills hand as she exclaims, "Oh, we've done it. It works. Robin isn't it wonderful. Bill it works, it works!" Bill hands Harvey the duplicate watch to examine, then the original. Bill explains that they are able to make matter from energy. They decide to tell Robin's father. Sir Walter signs a check, drawn against his bank, for the next demonstration. Bill puts the check in one container and an exact replica is produced in the other. Sir Walter compares the two checks and demands to know that it is not some trick. Impressed by what he's witnessed, Sir Walter asks Bill, "And you say you can reproduce anything?" He is reassured that as long as it can fit into the domes, yes. Sir Walter grasps the enormity of this discovery. He demands absolute secrecy. Robin tells his father what they want two things, "Security, so our work shouldn't be disturbed...and a new place with a larger source of power." Sir Walter suggests he handle the details on what the next steps should be. He wants his brother, Henry, a government official to be consulted. Bill expresses reservations about his invention being owned by just one country. Robin agrees with Bill, but proposes that a compromise can satisfy all concerned. Dr. Harvey and Bill sit at home and talk; Bill drinking heavily admits his desire for Lena. He asks Dr. Harvey to intercede, but only when the time is right.At the Grant Estate, Robin and Bill discuss the possibilities for their invention, but Bill does express a desire to move on to a new challenge. Sir Walter introduces his brother, Lord Henry Grant (Kynaston Reeves) during dinner. Sitting next to his father, Robin is paying more attention to Lena than the speech. Henry discusses the plan for government implementation, but the project is to be moved to London. He wants all the blueprints and formulae transferred immediately and the inventors to join the new team in London. At that Robin and Lena bounce into the room with an announcement -- They are to be married. While all congratulate the couple, Bill is crushed and humiliated. He is somewhat relieved that Lena wasn't informed of his interest in her by Dr. Harvey.Robin and Lena exit the church and go on their honeymoon. Dr. Henry visits the barn and hears Bill outside. He was burying something. The pair walk back inside and Bill explains the next logical step was the duplication of living matter. Unfortunately, while the process worked, the duplicate was not alive. Bill asks Dr. Harvey to help him solve the problem to get the heart started and the circulation working. He needs the medical expertise only Dr. Harvey can supply. Bill admits, "I haven't got much time left. Not much time." Dr. Harvey hadn't yet agreed, but he admitted to apprehension and would probably regret his assistance. Bill finalized his experimental equipment and prepared a rabbit for duplication. When done he took the duplicate rabbit and attached a device on its head and neck to stimulate the nervous system to restore life. It worked. Dr. Harvey warned, "Bill, I beg of you. Now that you've got it don't do anything hasty. It's a terrible secret. An immense responsibility. No one really should know about it. I, myself, don't want to know what modifications you've made to your original alter-jector." Bill tells Dr. Harvey, "I think you know why I've done all this. I think you know. And you'll help me, wont you?" Harvey does know and tells him, "No!"Robin and Lena return from their honeymoon. Robin went to London to brief the government, but Bill refused to join him. Bill and Lena go for a walk. Bill wanted to explain his plan for modifications to the machine, and how it involved Lena. He planned to make another Lena. Dr. Harvey explains that the process is safe, but makes it clear he doesn't not act as an advocate for the duplication. He leaves the decision to Lena. Lena and Dr. Harvey arrive at the barn and Lena agrees to the process. She is duplicated and revived. The revisal process does leave two puncture marks on the neck, but otherwise original and duplicate are exactly the same -- Even the memories. Bill fails to take this into account in his eagerness to possess his own Lena, which he now calls Helen.Dr. Harvey and Lena return to the barn later. Lena is curious to see her duplicate. Bill and Helen went off on a fortnight's holiday by the seaside. All seems happy and normal at first, but Helen was having strange thoughts that culminated in a suicide attempt by drowning. In her memory, she still knows shes married to Robin. Bill sends Dr. Harvey a telegram to come to Maidenhead at once. When Harvey arrives, Bill admits to being frightened. He tells the doctor of the suicide attempt. He asks the doctor to find out why. Helen tells Dr. Harvey that all she thinks about is Robin. She doesn't blame Bill, but she can't go on like a different person -- she is Lena.Sometime later, Lena arrives at the barn to help Bill with his final scheme. He enlists her help to erase Helen's memory clean, so she can start a new life without the impediment of Lena's memory. Lena controls the high voltage equipment while Bill oversees the process. Bill explains to Helen that the equipment is safe and effective. Helen agrees, "Yes Bill, you're right. An empty mind and a new beginning." Robin returns to Howdean and meets with Dr. Harvey. He explains he came to fetch Bill. Too many technical details were beyond his knowledge. Dr. Harvey explains the Bill/Lena/Helen story. The memory erasure seems to have worked, but a piece of equipment overheated, caught fire, and then exploded. The barn catches fire amid multiple explosions. Robin and Dr. Harvey race to assist but the barn is fully engulfed. Robin ran in and pulled out a woman over his shoulder. He attempted to return to the burning structure, but was stopped.At the hospital, Robin waits for Dr. Harvey to exit Lean's hospital room. Dr. Harvey explains that she has lost her memory, and can't remember anything. Robin thinks he saved Helen from the fire, but the only way to differentiate the pair is to examine for marks on her neck. They return to her room and examine her neck. Robin calls the woman Lena. We close with a shot of the church, then a panning shot up to the sky and a quote by Emerson. "You shall have joy or you shall have power, said God; You shall not have both." The Players credit rolls.
