Racing across the country from L.A. to New York, a plethora of exotic cars carry contestants hoping to win a very large sum.
Coy "Cannonball" Buckman (David Carradine) is a race driver-turned paroled ex-con who signs on to compete in the Trans-Continental Road Race, a cross-country journey starting at the Santa Monica Pier and ending at a garage in the lower east side of New York City. This does not sit well with Coy's parole officer girlfriend Linda Maxwell (Veronica Hamel), who is legally responsible for him and he could go back to prison for violating his parole. Fixing up Coy's red Pontiac Trans Am is his loyal pal Zippo Friedman (Archie Hahn), who decides to enter the race himself in a identical Trans Am and even dressing up like Coy to fool the cops. Coy's rival happens to be Cade Redman (Bill McKinney), a unpleasant human being who is also tasked to take no-talent country singer Perman Waters (Gerrit Graham) and his overbearing mother Sharma Capri (Judy Canova) to New York to jump-start Perman's stalled career.Other participants in the race is eccentric European racing champ Wolfe Messer (James Keach), who's driving a yellow DeTomaso Pantera, Jim and Maryann Crandell (Robert Carradine &amp; Belinda Balaski), a surfer couple who are racing in a silver Corvette owned by Maryann's father. Terry McMillan (Carl Gottlieb), who sheepishly uses sneak tactics to make it to New York without driving his orange Chevorlet Blazer, Beutell Morris (Stanley Clay), who uses the race as a ruse to help a rich couple deliver their Lincoln Continental to New York without a single scratch, and Sandy (Mary Woronov), who's driving a custom blue van with her two waitress friends Judy (Diane Lee Hart) and Ginny (Glynn Rubin). What Coy does not know is that his brother Benny (Dick Miller) made a deal with mob boss Lester Marks (Paul Bartel) to make sure Coy wins the race as Benny is in debt to them. Linda has no choice but to accompany Coy in the race, but eventually he decides to leave her in Zippo's company when Redman starts trying to run him off the road.Not long after, the dirty tricks begin to come into play. Benny, with the help of his prison escapee friend Sharpe (John Herzfeld) secretly planted a bomb under Messer's Pantera, which explodes during a police pursuit in the desert and Redman shoots out a tire in Coy's Trans Am. A TV news crew is also doing a story on the race, much to the disdain of the other racers, as the journey is supposed to be a secret. Coy later beats up Sharpe, posing as a motorcycle cop pretending to stop Coy on a routine traffic stop and eventually confronts Redman at a roadside grocery store, where they manage to wreck the entire establishment. Redman escapes the melee and shatters the headlights on Coy's car before taking off. That night, Coy notices the broken headlights and winds up totaling the car on a winding mountain road, but not after he is loaned a green Ford Mustang. by a pair of rural auto mechanics, who happen to be big fans of him.Redman gets word that Coy is still in the race and is forced to call in more reinforcements to stop him. They mistake Zippo as Coy and beat him up, but Linda defeats most of the men martial arts-style. Coy shows up in the Mustang and learns from Linda that Zippo was actually driving the car that night when a young girl died, resulting in Coy's prosecution. Coy tells Linda that he took the fall for it because Zippo would have never survived in prison. Linda wants to ride with Coy again, for fear of her safety, but Coy says the race is almost over and they will be together soon. Other sub-plots include Jim's Corvette suffering from a damaged fan belt and after unsuccessful attempts to repair it, they try to steal one from a supermarket parking lot, only to be chased away by a nosy cop and Sandy and her friends duping a pair of handsome cops by having sex with them to avoid a speeding ticket.At this point, a near-psychotic Redman notices Coy driving into the construction site of an unfinished bridge. He dumps Perman and Sharma out of the car and goes after him. Coy manages to jump the bridge to the other side, but Redman is not so lucky as his brakes give out and pummels down to a fiery death below. Meanwhile, Sharpe plans to assassinate Coy using a sniper rifle, not knowing it is actually Zippo driving the car. Sharpe shoots Zippo through the head and loses control of the Trans Am, ejecting Linda from it and the car lands upside down and explodes. Beutell, distracted by the explosion, accidentally knocks down the car Sharpe was laying under during the assassination attempt and it fatally crushes him. Jim and Maryann spot Linda laying on the road and decide to take her to a nearby hospital, but not after causing a multi-car pile-up. At the hospital, the doctor tells them she will be okay, but suggests they leave as nothing more can be done by them. Jim thinks they should forget about the race and go home, but Maryann wants to push forward, even though they might not get first place.As the race reaches the finish line, Terry and his secret girlfriend (Louisa Moritz) are the first ones to arrive, but are immediately disqualified when the girlfriend blabs that they left their celebratory champagne on the plane. The second one to arrive is Coy, who is greeted by Benny, but the celebration is cut short when a TV cameraman tells Coy about the pile-up and the other red Trans Am destroyed in the explosion and that Linda was taken to the hospital. Coy learns the truth about the plan Benny had, rips up his race ticket and heads for the hospital. A disappointed Lester and his henchman take Benny to his limo, who is subsequently killed. Coy goes to Linda's hospital room and is relieved to see her, badly injured, but alive and the two lovingly embrace. Beutell eventually delivers the Lincoln to the couple outside the downtown Mayflower Hotel, though it's completely totaled.
