An escaped convict uses miniaturized humans to wreak vengeance on those that framed him.
Paul Lavond was a respected banker in Paris when he was framed for robbery and murder by crooked associates and sent to prison. Years later, he escapes with a friend, a scientist who was working on a method to reduce humans to a height of mere inches (all for the good of humanity, of course). Lavond however is consumed with hatred for the men who betrayed him, and takes the scientist's methods back to Paris to exact painful revenge.
After seventeen years in prison, the former respected Parisian banker Paul Lavond flees with his friend, the lunatic scientist Marcel that is researching with his wife Malita the miniaturization of animals and human beings to improve the resources of mankind. Paul Lavond was framed for robbery by his scoundrel associates Emil Coulvet, Charles Matin and Victor Radin that had stolen his business while his family was doomed to shame, poverty and tragedy. When Marcel reduces the retarded servant Lachna, he learns that the woman is motionless and only responds to the control of his brain and has a heart attack. After the death of Marcel, Paul Lavond sees the chance to use the miniaturization process as instrument of vengeance and he travels to Paris with the insane Malita disguised of Madame Mandilip, a nice old lady and owner of a dolls store. Paul Lavond, using the identity of Madame Mandilip, befriends his resented and estranged daughter Lorraine Lavond and plots a scheme to revenge and vindicate his family name.
After two men, Marcel and Lavond, escape from prison they make their way to Marcel's home where his wife Malita has continued his experiments in miniaturizing living creatures. Lavond was a successful Paris banker and was falsely imprisoned after his partners accused him of theft. He has no intention of staying as he wishes to seek his revenge. When Marcel dies suddenly of a heart attack, Malita urges Paul to work with her and seek his revenge using their miniaturization technique. As Madame Mandlip, he opens a toy shop in Paris and visits his daughter Lorraine, who despises her father for what he's done to them. His revenge attained, Lavond wants to leave everything behind but Malita has other plans.

