A washed-up movie queen finds romance, but still desires a comeback.
Middle-aged Oscar winning actress Margaret Elliot - Maggie to those that know her - is a Hollywood has-been. Her life is in shambles. She clings to the hope of resurrecting her past movie stardom as a leading ingénue. No one will hire her, she's penniless with creditors selling off anything that she owns that is of monetary value, and she has no one to turn to that can see her through financially. She has in the past supported her sister and brother-in-law, who still want to use her as their meal ticket. Divorced from her actor husband, she shares joint custody of their teen-aged daughter Gretchen, from who Maggie tries to hide her problems. When it looks as if Maggie has hit rock bottom, Jim Johannsen re-enters her life. Jim, who once had the stage name Barry Lester, got his big break in Hollywood movies by Maggie. He came to the quick realization that he was neither good as an actor or that he wanted to do it as a profession. He now works as a boat parts supplier and mechanic. Jim tries to help her come to the realization of the stage of life that she is in to help her reinvent herself. But Maggie wants to regain her star status on her own terms, and does whatever she needs to for that great ingénue role that has eluded her for so many years.
Oscar-winning Movie queen Margaret Elliot's popularity and wealth have both gone bankrupt, Yet she is sure she can somehow jump-start her declining career. "One good picture is all I need," she says. She manages to get a screen test for a part in a film she always wanted to do. Offered to be tested for a supporting role in the film, she accepts, believing that if she plays the character woman as a sexy young girl she will be awarded the top role.
Margaret Elliot is a bankrupted washed-up Hollywood Oscar winning star living in the past and not accepting the reality. After another great deception trying to get her career back, she gets drunken and is jailed. She is bailed out by Jim Johannson, a young actor promoted by her that gave up the career to buy a repair shipyard. Jim loved her and tries with Margaret's daughter Gretchen to make Margaret see that her glorious days of Hollywood star are over, and she shall live in the real world like a common human being.

