A Manhattan single meets a man through her Jewish grandmother's matchmaker.
Isabelle's life revolves around the New York bookshop she works in and the intellectual friends of both sexes she meets there. Her grandmother remains less than impressed and decides to hire a good old-fashioned Jewish matchmaker to help Isabelle's love-life along. Enter pickle-maker Sam who immediately takes to Isabelle. She however is irritated by the whole business, at least to start with.
Isabelle (Amy Irving) is a young independent woman who works in a bookstore. She meets regularly with her friends, and often goes to visit and spends time with her Jewish grandmother (wonderfully played by Reizl Bozyk), or bubbie as she calls her, who thinks its sad that she doesn't have a man in her life. Trying to do something about that, her grandmother hires a marriage broker, and Isabelle ends up getting fixed up with a guy who sells pickles, Sam Posner (Peter Riegert). Isabelle is not very happy about it to begin with, since she is interested in the writer Anton Maes (Jeroen Krabbé), who does readings at the bookstore she works in. She is not very interested in Sam to begin with, and declines his offer to take her out when they meet for the first time at her grandmothers apartment. Sam is very persistent though, and Isabelle starts to warm up to him slowly as he woos his way into her heart. Still being very interested in Anton Maes, she fixes Sam up with her best friend Ricky. A good idea to begin with, but as Isabelle starts to like Sam more and more and discovers that maybe Anton Maes isn't that great, she starts spending more time with Sam.
Thirty-three year old single Isabelle Grossman, who works at a small but prestigious Manhattan bookstore, is a modern, emancipated woman who doesn't need a career or a man to fulfill or define her as a person. If a man does enter her life, she will let it happen. Such is the case with "very separated" Anton Maes, a celebrated local writer whose outward bohemian attitude toward life she isn't sure is actually a come-on or just the way he is as a person with everyone. She would like it to be the former. To the contrary, being emancipated and modern is the reason that she rebels against the move by her Lower East Side grandmother - her "Bubbie" - to hire Hannah Mandelbaum, a matchmaker, to find a man for her. Who Hannah sets her up with is Sam Posner, a pickle maker and vendor. While Sam admits that he is attracted to Izzy and as such pursues her, she in turn can't see beyond the fact of he being a set-up and a pickle vendor truly to see him as a person for good or bad. When Izzy finally can see beyond those obstacles to find a cute, nice man she would like to get to know, it may be too late as Sam may be able to sense Izzy's apprehension to stick around for long. Izzy may also hedge her bets with Anton perhaps in the picture.

