A war pacifist is blackmailed to pose as an SS officer and to disable the scuttling explosives on freighter carrying rubber cargo to be captured by the Allies.
A German living in India during World War II is blackmailed by the English to impersonate an SS officer on board a cargo ship leaving Japan for Germany carrying a large supply of rubber for tyres. His mission is to disable the scuttling charges so the captain cannot sink the ship if they are stopped by English warships.
In 1942, a derelict German cargo ship, the Ingo, departs Tokyo headed for Nazi-occupied France, under the command of Captain Mueller, a merchant navy officer whose previous record has been marred by drunkenness. British intelligence learns that the ship is carrying a precious cargo of rubber, desperately needed by both sides. The British devise a daring plan to intercept the ship and capture its cargo. Colonel Statter coerces a German expatriate, Robert Crain, into impersonating an SS officer named Kyle. Crain/Kyle is placed aboard the Ingo under the guise of traveling to Europe on a secret mission. His true mission is to locate and disarm the scuttling charges in order to prevent the captain from scuttling the ship and its cargo upon interception by the British fleet. Crain's mission is made difficult because Captain Mueller mistrusts him and restricts his movements. However, he enlists the help of first officer Kruse, a committed Nazi who wants to ingratiate himself with the SS. When a German admiral visits the ship, he suspects Crain/Kyle and radios Berlin for confirmation of his identity. Crain now has only a few hours to take control of the ship, and tries to enlist the aid of a group of prisoners being held on board. He enlists the aid of a young Jewish prisoner, Esther to convince the prisoners to revolt.
In 1942, a derelict German cargo ship, the Ingo, departs Tokyo headed for Nazi-occupied France, under the command of Captain Mueller (Yul Brynner), a merchant navy officer whose previous record has been marred by drunkenness. British intelligence learns that the ship is carrying a precious cargo of rubber, desperately needed by both sides. The British devise a daring plan to intercept the ship and capture its cargo. Colonel Statter (Trevor Howard) coerces a German expatriate, Robert Crain (Marlon Brando), into impersonating an SS officer named Kyle. Crain/Kyle is placed aboard the Ingo under the guise of travelling to Europe on a secret mission. His true mission is to locate and disarm the scuttling charges in order to prevent the captain from scuttling the ship and its cargo upon interception by the British fleet. Crain's mission is made difficult because Captain Mueller mistrusts him and restricts his movements. However, he enlists the help of first officer Kruse (Martin Benrath), a committed Nazi who wants to ingratiate himself with the SS. When a German admiral visits the ship, he suspects Crain/Kyle and radios Berlin for confirmation of his identity. Crain now has only a few hours to take control of the ship, and tries to foment mutiny among a group of prisoners being held on board. He enlists the aid of a young Jewish prisoner, Esther (Janet Margolin), to convince the other prisoners to revolt.
