When Bugs calls a cab he doesn't know it's the getaway car for a couple of bankrobbers (he does know the capital of Nevada).
Bugs Bunny lives in the city, and is therefore safe from the hunters anxious to achieve success during rabbit season. He goes into a bank, and removes a carrot from a safe deposit box filled with them. He then hails a cab. The car that stops turns out to hold two gangsters-- Rocky and Mugsy. Rocky runs in and robs the bank, while Bugs steps into the car and is buried under the bags of money Rocky returns with.The car quickly departs the bank. When Rocky realizes they have an unwanted passenger, he trains his pistol on Bugs and asks him what he knows. Bugs responds by saying, "2 + 2 = 4, Carson City is the capital of Nevada, George Washington was the first president..." Rocky decides Bugs knows too much, and they decide to "take him for a ride."During the ride, Bugs requests Mugsy stop at a gas station, which he does. Bugs gets out, after getting a nickle from Mugsy, and phones the police station with info on the robbers. When Mugsy realizes what he's doing, he drags Bugs out of the phone booth with Bugs still holding the phone and relaying info. The car departs, tearing the police officer on the other line out of the phone booth, who is dragged behind the car for a while before coming to rest in the middle of the road. The dazed officer manages to say, "Operator, we've been disconnected..." before passing out.Later, the car encounters a train crossing that is signaling to stop. Rocky orders Bugs to get out and check for a train. He quickly assures them that all is well, and the car barely makes it across the tracks before being hit by a train. The two force Bugs to repair the smashed car at gunpoint, and when they discover one of the wheels is missing, they force Bugs to hold the car up as they drive it.The gangsters make it back to their hideout on the edge of a cliff. Rocky gives Mugsy a gun and tells him to let Bugs have it. Mugsy takes Bugs into another room, and Bugs requests that Mugsy let him have it (that is, to give him the gun). A hesitant Mugsy gives Bugs the gun, who promptly shoots him with it. A dazed Mugsy staggers out of the room and falls limp.Rocky is about to go in and shoot Bugs himself when Bugs simulates a police raid on the house. Rocky and Mugsy hide in an oven, while Bugs imitates a police officer and pretends to argue with him. This conversation culminates in Bugs turning on the gas oven (where the gangsters are hiding) and throwing a lit match inside, causing an explosion, and convincing the "police officer" to look for the two elsewhere. Just then, however, the real police arrive, and the whole process starts all over again. Before Bugs can throw a lit match into the oven, though, Rocky and Mugsy run out of the oven and beg the police to arrest them.Later, Bugs has become a successful private detective for his efforts. He reports to his superior on the telephone: "Thugs thwarted, arsonists arrested, bandits booked, forgers found, counterfeiters caught and chiselers chiseled." Iris out.
