Encouraged by her idealistic if luckless father, a bright and imaginative young woman comes of age in a Brooklyn tenement during the early 1900s.
In Brooklyn circa 1900, the Nolans manage to enjoy life on pennies despite great poverty and Papa's alcoholism. We come to know these people well through big and little troubles: Aunt Sissy's scandalous succession of "husbands"; the removal of the one tree visible from their tenement; and young Francie's desire to transfer to a better school...if irresponsible Papa can get his act together.
Brooklyn, New York, early 1900s. The Nolans are a poor working class family. Father Johnny is a singing waiter, working whenever he can, though his alcoholism often depletes their meager finances. Mother Katie is a maid. Street-smart children Francie and Neeley do what they can to help out. Francie's intelligence and talents as a writer are her and her family's way out of poverty, but the sacrifices required may be great.
The trials and tribulations within the poor Nolan family - parents Katie and Johnny, and their two preteen children Francie and Neeley - living in Brooklyn in the early twentieth century are presented. From Katie's perspective, their problems are exacerbated by two people. One is her older sister Sissy, who she feels is a bad influence on the children, who Katie is determined will make something of their lives despite their poverty. The issue with Sissy is her dealings with men, her first husband who deserted her, and she seemingly set to repeat history in hooking up with another man. The other, and arguably more direct and severe problem, is Johnny. Johnny works only sporadically as a singing waiter, mostly at special functions. Beyond the sporadic nature of the work, a large reason for Johnny's frequent unemployment is that he is an alcoholic. As such, Katie has to do much of the heavy lifting to bring money into their house, she doing the budgeting as well as working in their tenement building scrubbing floors. Katie knew that Johnny would not be a stable provider when she married him, she succumbing to his good-hearted nature which draws people to him. However, Katie is beginning to wonder if she and the children are better off without him. Within this situation is the special relationship that exists between Johnny and Francie, who adores her father as he constantly feeds into her pipe dreams. He fuels those dreams by stating something he knows will never happen, namely that an impresario will eventually discover him at one of his singing waiter jobs. Although she loves her mother and follows her directions, Francie receiving this constant support from her father places her at odds with her mother, who has to play the bad cop to Johnny's good cop.
In pre-WWI Brooklyn, young Francie struggles to keep her idealism alive in the face of grinding poverty and the comedies and tragedies of ordinary life. Very close to the spirit of the Betty Smith novel.

