A young blind woman is pursued by a maniac while staying with family in their country manor.
Sarah is a blind girl who has returned to her home, a country manor in which all of the occupants are dead. She unknowingly sleeps overnight, among a houseful of corpses, arising the next morning to quietly creep out of bed, in order not to awaken the other members of the household.
In the countryside of England, Sarah returns to Manor Farm to live with her uncle George Rexton, her aunt Sandy Rexton and her cousin Betty Rexton after an accident with her horse where she was blind. Sarah knows the interior of the house by heart so she can independently move by herself. When her former boyfriend Steve Reding invites her to visit his horse farm, George and Sandy tell that they are going to visit a friend and Betty tells that she has a date so she will be alone for a couple of hours when she returns to the house. Steve still loves Sarah and they ride together in the fields. When Sarah returns, a maniac has killed her family and the gardener Barker but she cannot see them dead. On the next morning, Steve gives a horse to Sarah and she leaves the animal in the stable. When she returns to the manor, she finds that her family was murdered and Barker that is still alive shows her a silver bracelet on the floor with the name of the killer. He tells that she is in danger since the killer will return to the manor to retrieve the bracelet. Barker dies and the killer comes back to the house. Will the frightened Sarah flee from him?
After being blinded in a horseback-riding accident, Sarah (Mia Farrow) moves in with her aunt, uncle and cousin (Dorothy Alison, Robin Bailey, and Diane Grayson) while she recovers and learns to deal with her blindness. She goes on a brief visit with her boyfriend (Norman Eshley) and during her absence the entire family is murdered. She is unaware of this horror until she finds the bodies one by one and then realizes that she, too, may be in danger. Sarah is trapped in the remote farmhouse and must fight for her life when the killer returns...
