Quarry is a mysterious, articulate stranger who draws a cult like following of local hippies. Rather than showing them peace and love, he has more sinister plans for them, as he is a vampire.
On a deserted beach somewhere near Topanga Canyon in southern California,
a surfer comes upon a coffin-shaped box that has just washed ashore. When he
opens the box, he is aghast at what he sees. He doesn't have time to
contemplate it, however, before he is strangled by a tall, zombielike man with
a misshapen face and an afro hairdo. Barbado [La Sesne Hilton] wordlessly drags the coffin to a
pickup truck, loads it in the bed, and drives into Topanga. Meanwhile, Monk
Reynolds [William Jordan], his girlfriend Esslin [Betty Anne Rees], and the half dozen members of his motorcycle
gang are also tooling into Topanga on their motorbikes. Watching them are
hippies Rona Ashby [Brenda Dickson-Weinberg] and her boyfriend, Pico [Bill Ewing].When Monk starts hassling Pop [John Fiedler], a serape-clad, aging hippie over the price
of his necklaces at his sidewalk display, Pico comes between Pop and Monk. A
few kung fu chops later, and it is obvious that Pico has the upper hand...until
the "heat" suddenly appears. Monk and Pico run for the trees, Esslin and Rona
right behind them. Now partners in crime, Pico and Rona invite Monk and Esslin
to come home with them for dinner. Home is an enormous house on a cliff
overlooking the beach. A dozen or so hippies live there, communal style, where
they indulge in the arts, smoke a lot of pot, and sing angstful folk songs
about how a man without a dream is like a willow floating on a stream or a
piece of driftwood rotting on a lonely shore. After an evening of drinking wine
and passing the bong, Monk goes outside to take a whizz and comes upon an empty
coffin hidden in the trees. When he comes face-to-face with Barbado, he takes a
few steps backwards and falls down the hill.A storm suddenly erupts, and the lights go off in the house. A window
blows open, and the wind extinguishes all the candles. By the time the candles
are relit, a stranger has joined them. He sits in the shadows, but it is easy
to see that he is tall, bearded, with long dark hair and piercing eyes. He is
wearing sandals and is dressed like a maharishi. He speaks with an air of
authority about "being alive" and finding "a spark to ignite the fuel within."
When he claps his hands and the lights come back on, everyone is dually
impressed. The stranger introduces himself as Khorda. When invited to stay for
dinner, Khorda admonishes the unwholesomeness of their food, the filthy
condition of their house, and the importance of cleansing their blood and
eating living food. Only then, he says, will they come alive and be deserving
of their purpose. When Khorda rises to leave, the hippies beg him to stay
because they dig what he has to say and want to hear more. When he finally does
take his leave, Khorda walks toward the door but, rather than go through it,
his body simply fades into nothingness. Groovy, man!The next day, the hippies clean house and stock up on bottled water and
organic food. In the evening, they sit around the fireplace and listen
spellbound to Khorda speak about flowers and eternity. The only one not
grooving on Khorda is Monk. He tells Khorda pointblank that he doesn't buy his
sweet talk and the way he has moved in and taken over the commune. Furthermore,
he's going into town to buy some steak and whiskey, he says, and he wants
Esslin to be ready to split when he gets back. They're going to cut out and
blow this joint, he says. Esslin, however, has no desire to leave. When Khorda
asks to speak to her alone, she willingly goes to him. When Khorda challenges
her to settle for more in her life, she asks him to show her. When Khorda
kisses her, she kisses him back. Then she notices that Khorda is not reflected
in her bedroom mirror and starts to freak out. When Khorda sinks his fangs in
her neck, she begins to scream. By the time Monk gets back to pick up Esslin,
it's too late. Khorda attacks Monk, too.Meanwhile, Esslin's and Monk's screams have carried to the bathrooms where
the hippies are getting ready for bed. When they try to leave the bathrooms to
investigate, they find that they are locked in. When the doors finally unlock
and they amass in the hallway wondering what happened, they see Esslin dancing
to Barbado's conga drum while Khorda watches. Silence overtakes them and, like
zombies, they are drawn into the dance...all except for Pico and Rona. Pico has
realized that something strange is going on. He convinces Rona that they have
to leave. Best to leave separately, he says, so that they are not noticed.
Slowly, they make their way upstairs to get their stuff, but Kirk [Bobby "Boris" Pickett] intercepts
Rona and tries to put the bite on her, and Esslin intercepts Pico. When Esslin
bares her fangs at Pico, he runs away, ending up in a cavern of underground
tunnels where he is apprehended by Barbado and chained by the wrists to the
ceiling. Rona also makes it into the tunnels, but when she tries to free Pico,
she is carried away by Barbado.Khorda joins Pico and attempts to talk him into joining with the secret of
eternity, that is, after giving him a pep talk about the things he has seen in
his long life -- the Aramaeans, Julius Csesar, the Crusades, Attila, Bonaparte,
Stalin, Hitler. Pico refuses and, when Khorda walks away, Pico works his wrists
free of the chains and attempts to make his way out of the tunnels. He ends up
in a room containing a coffin in which he is horrifed to find Khorda. Pico
slams the lid closed and backs up, his hand landing in a bowl of leeches which
he has to pry off before he is confronted again by Barbado. Pico draws a cross
on Barbado's cheek using the blood from his hands, Barbado sinks to the ground
in pain, and Pico runs out the door, making his way to Pop's. When he asks Pop
for help, however, Pop doesn't believe a word Pico says and merely gives him a
tranquilizer and tells him to sleep it off.Pop changes his mind, however, when he finds that his dog has been
vampirized, Monk's body is discovered on the bluff overlooking the beach, and
two of the girls from the commune are seen walking zombielike down the street
and wearing necklaces that Pop recognizes as being Druid blood ritual designs
worn for protection by novice vampires who must venture out during the
daylight. That night, Pico and Pop, accompanied by a policeman and a homocide
detective, pay a visit to the commune to ask questions about Monk's death. Of
course, Khorda denies knowing anything about it. When the detective asks
whether Rona is being held against her will, Rona appears and denies it. When
Pico tells how Barbado tied him up and then tries to show the bruises on his
wrists, Khorda's gaze makes them mysteriously disappear.Pico and Pop return to Pop's house and scour his library for information
about vampires. Pop finds a book that talks about an "incubation period"
between the time a person is bitten by a vampire and actually turns into one.
Because it doesn't say how long the incubation is, Pop agrees that they have to
act immediately before it's too late. They sneak into the commune via the
underground tunnels. As they get closer to the interior, they hear chanting.
Some sort of ritual is taking place, and it looks like Rona is entranced and
about to be sacrificed to the Unholy. As Pico and Pop watch from a balcony,
Khorda bites Rona's neck and fills a cup with her blood, which he then proceeds
to drink.Just then, Pico and Pop are grabbed by Barbado, but Pico breaks free and
leaps over the balcony. He tries to wake up Rona, but she is unresponsive. Once
again, Khorda extends a welcome to Pico and asks him to join the group in
eternity. Once again, Pico refuses, so Khorda sics the vampire hippies on him.
Suddenly, a clock is heard chiming 5 AM, and Khorda heads for his coffin,
leaving Pico to the vampires. Pico eludes them and runs back down into the
tunnels, Barbado in pursuit. Pico grabs a knife from a pile of tools and ropes
it to a door handle. When Barbado comes running after him, Pico slams the door
shut, and the knife impales Barbado. Next, he fashions a stake from a pole of
wood and goes looking for Khorda's coffin.Pico finds the room that holds Khorda's coffin and thrusts the stake right
through the top. A groan is heard. When Pico opens the coffin to peek at his
handiwork, horror of horrors, he has staked Pop through the heart. Khorda steps
out of the shadows, laughing maniacally. Pico tosses the bowl of leeches at
Khorda, and a half dozen or so leeches attach themselves to Khorda's face.
Khorda pulls them off, his face now dripping with blood. Khorda advances on
Pico but, instead, falls on the stake and is destroyed. PIco races upstairs to
save Rona, and finds that all of the vampire hippies have turned to dust,
leaving Rona lying alone on the altar. As Pico leans over Rona, telling her
that she is going to be alright, Rona also crumbles to dust. Pico screams.
