James Bond (George Lazenby) woos a mob boss' daughter and goes undercover to uncover the true reason for Ernst Stavro Blofeld's (Telly Savalas') allergy research in the Swiss Alps that involves beautiful women from around the world.
George Lazenby steps into the role of James Bond and is sent on his first mission. For help with Marc-Ange Draco (Gabriele Ferzetti), he must become very close friends with his daughter, Teresa "Tracy" (Dame Diana Rigg), and heads off to hunt down Ernst Stavro Blofeld (Telly Savalas) one more time. This takes him to Switzerland, where he must pose as Sir Hilary Bray to find out the secret plan of Blofeld. The facility is covered with Blofeld's guards, as well as his henchwoman, Irma Bunt (Ilse Steppat). What does Blofeld have in mind this time? Can Bond keep up this act for much longer? Are any Bond Girls safe?
While on leave, British Agent James Bond 007 prevents a young woman, Teresa "Tracy" Draco (Dame Diana Rigg), from committing suicide. Her father is Marc-Ange Draco (Gabriele Ferzetti), the head of a powerful crime syndicate who is impressed by Bond and wants him to protect his daughter by marrying her. In exchange, he offers Bond information which will lead him to his archenemy Ernst Stavro Blofeld (Telly Savalas). At first, Bond agrees to the deal purely to fulfil his objective to kill Blofeld, but later he grows to love Tracy, but when the British learn that Blofeld plans to destroy mankind with a deadly virus, 007 is torn between his loyalty to his country and his intent to marry Tracy.
George Lazenby's sole appearance as James Bond features some of the most exciting sequences than in the any other Bond movie. Bond's on the trail of S.P.E.C.T.R.E.'s leader, Ernst Stavro Blofeld (Telly Savalas). Blofeld's alpine headquarters is the setting of fantastic action and, ironically, where Bond is tempted by more lovely women than in any other Bond movie.
James Bond (George Lazenby) continues his mission to track down Ernst Stavro Blofeld (Telly Savalas), head of S.P.E.C.T.R.E. When Blofeld develops a lethal virus and threatens to unleash it upon the world unless he receives a pardon for all of his previous crimes, Bond needs to find a way to reach him and fast. He intends to marry into the biggest crime syndicate in the west in order to get information on Blofeld's whereabouts, and the trail eventually leads to a remote alpine institute in Switzerland. Blofeld's not as easy to kill as it might seem, and he has ways of dealing with people who cross him.
The most emotional adventure of his career begins for James Bond (George Lazenby) on a deserted beach where a young woman tries to drown herself. He rescues the girl and for his trouble, is attacked by two toughs, the women's bodyguards. It soon becomes much bigger for 007. The woman is Teresa "Tracy" Draco (Dame Diana Rigg); daughter of crime boss Marc-Ange Draco (Gabriele Ferzetti), who wants James to marry his wayward daughter, and in return, he can provide 007 with information on an even more dangerous criminal leader, Ernst Stavro Blofeld (Telly Savalas) of S.P.E.C.T.R.E. But James and Tracy find more than they bargained for when their paths collide in a vicious pursuit in the snow-capped mountains of Switzerland, an enormous avalanche, and a smuggling ring for germ warfare against the West by Blofeld, who proves to be most difficult to kill, and who exacts a revenge on Bond which he can never forget, nor forgive.
The film opens with Miss Moneypenny and M at MI6 headquarters in London, under the shell corporation known as 'Universal Exports', discussing the whereabouts of MI6's best "00" agent, James Bond. Bond happens to be driving on a country coastal road in Portugal in his Aston-Martin when he's passed by a woman driving a Mercury Cougar. The woman drives to a nearby beach and tries to drown herself in the surf. When Bond drags her back, he is attacked by several thugs, whom he is able to beat in hand-to-hand combat. When he turns his attention back to the mysterious woman, he sees her driving off in her Cougar. Bond, puzzled by the turn of events, says "This never happened to the other fellow!", (presumably a reference to the departure of Sean Connery from the series).Later, at a casino, the same woman Bond found on the beach, Contessa Teresa "Tracy" di Vicenzo, is gambling and finds herself unable to pay her debt. Bond pays the tab for her and she invites him to her room to "repay" him. Bond is again attacked by another man, whom he beats. When he returns to his own room, Tracy is there waiting, steals Bond's pistol and threatens to kill him "for a thrill". Bond disarms her and demands to know about the man in her room; Tracy has no answer. Tracy leaves the hotel the next morning and when James tries to trail her, he is apprehended by several more men who take him to Tracy's father, Marc-Ange Draco, head of a powerful European crime organization which is called Union Course. The gangster offers Bond a sizable dowry if he'll marry his troubled daughter after he tells Bond about Tracy's suicial depression since her mother's death. Bond turns down the offer but agrees to continue dating Tracy if Draco will help him find SPECTRE's sinister leader, Ernst Stavro Blofeld, whom Bond has been unsuccessfully tracking for the past two years.When he returns to MI6 in London, M tells Bond that his obsession with finding Blofeld must end. Bitter, James gives Miss Moneypenny his resignation and cleans out his office. Moneypenny, however, subverts Bond's wishes and enters a request for two weeks leave, a change both James and M realize is for the better. Now able to pursue Blofeld on his own time, James first goes back to Portugal for a birthday party being thrown for Draco. While there, Tracy reveals that she knows about the deal her father struck with Bond; she does not want to be used this way and demands her father help Bond. Draco relents and tells Bond to check out a lead in Bern, Switzerland. Tracy and Bond officially begin their courtship.In Bern, Bond infiltrates the law firm of a man named Gebruder Gumbol and finds letters from Blofeld to the London College of Arms. Returning to London and meeting with an expert at the College (who shows the agent the Bond family coat-of-arms) he informs Bond that Blofeld is attempting to claim the title of the Comte Balthazar de Bleuchamp of Switzerland. Bond assumes the identity of an Arms delegate, Sir Hilary Bray, to investigate further. When he reports to M with his new leads, he is given permission to take up the case once again.Acting as Bray, Bond travels back to Switzerland to Blofeld's latest compound at the top of Piz Gloria, a peak in the Swiss Alps. The location is accessible only by cable car or helicopter. There he finds Blofeld who has taken up the identity of an epidemiologist who specializes in allergy research. Bond finds that Blofeld's guests are about 10 beautiful women, all allergy sufferers, whose illnesses have allegedly been cured. Though he is essentially imprisoned in his room at night, Bond figures a way to open the door and goes to the room of a woman, named Ruby, who surreptitiously gave him the number and has sex with her. While they lay together a strange light and sound treatment begins over the bed and the woman appears hypnotized. Blofeld's "treatment" involves cassette tapes that induce hypnotism. Bond leaves her room, returning to his own where he finds another one of the women, named Nancy, waiting. He seduces her as well. Bond later sneaks up on a meeting involving the girls; they are given Christmas presents that contain a communication device and a specialized deadly virus that each girl will release in a different region of the world unless Blofeld's demands are met that the United States gives him a pardon and recognizes him as a count.The next day Bond's cover is blown by Blofeld's assistant, Irma Bunt, when he sneaks out of his room to go into Ruby's room and finds Irma there. Bond is taken to Blofeld who identifies him (after Bond made a slip earlier to Blofeld that the real Bray wouldn't have made) and imprisons him in the cold gear room of the compound's cable-car. Bond is able to escape the room and steals a skiing uniform and skis rapidly down the mountain as Blofeld and several of his men give chase. Bond arrives in the village of Muren and meets Tracy and the two escape Bunt and several of Blofeld's henchmen in her car when they drive through a car race. Bond and Tracy find a secluded barn to hold up for the night; Bond proposes to Tracy and she accepts, but will not allow him to sleep together with her. She relents when Bond pulls her into his own bedding.In the morning, Tracy and Bond ski away from the barn, with Blofeld and a few of his men close behind. When it seems like Bond and Tracy will escape, Blofeld causes an avalanche that they are unable to stay ahead of and are buried. Blofeld has his men retrieve Tracy and leave Bond for dead. Bond returns to London, seeking a way to rescue Tracy and stop Blofeld's plan. M refuses to launch an assault on Piz Gloria for diplomatic reasons. Bond instead enlists the help of Draco, who provides helicopters and a strike team from Union Course.At the Piz Gloria, Blofeld keeps Tracy in his company and even proposes to her. Just then, Bond, Draco and their men attack the Piz Gloria and stop Blofeld from sending his orders to the women. Bond rescues Tracy and she flies off with her father. Bond finds Blofeld escaping in a bobsled and chases him in a second one, catching up and boarding Blofeld's sled. They tussle briefly until Bond is able to hold Blofeld up to catch a forked tree branch, leaving him there injured and unconscious. Bond gains control of the sled and stops it.A lavish wedding is thrown for Bond and Tracy and they are married. After the reception, Bond leaves with Tracy in his Aston-Martin. They travel a few miles and Bond stops to remove some of the flower chains decorating their car. Tracy reflects that Bond has given her more than a husband, she now has a future. Suddenly, a car driven by a very-much alive Blofeld (now wearing a neck brace) races by and Irma Bunt opens fire on Bond's car with an assault rifle. Bond survives the drive-by attack by ducking behind the car and recognizes Blofeld immediately and jumps back in the car with Tracy to give chase, but Tracy is dead; hit in the head by a bullet that went through the windshield killing her instantly. As Bond holds her, a policeman stops by after hearing the shooting. Bond tells him that there's "no hurry" and that they "have all the time in the world." On that sad note, 'On Her Majesty's Secret Service' comes to a close.
