Contaminated grain breeds overgrown, killer rats in this Golden Harvest production. Dachshunds were dressed up as rats for the special effects.
Corn grain contaminated with steroids produces large rats the size of small dogs who begin feeding on the residents of Toronto. Paul, a college basketball coach, teams up with Kelly, a local health inspector, to uncover the source of the mysterious rat attacks and they eventually try to prevent the opening of a new subway line as well as find the mutant rats nest quickly, or there will be a huge massacre of the entire city!
A customer is trying out clothes in the changing rooms and she is bitten by a hidden rat under her clothes. She says "Damn it" and leaves. Susan Costello is the operations manager of a department store called Garsons and she welcomes a royal lady, showing Sam Groom	Sam Groom	...	Paul Harris
Sara Botsford	Sara Botsford	...	Kelly Leonard
Scatman Crothers	Scatman Crothers	...	George Foskins
Cec Linder	Cec Linder	...	Dr. Louis Spenser
Lisa Langlois	Lisa Langlois	...	Trudy White
Lesleh Donaldson	Lesleh Donaldson	...	Martha
James B. Douglas	James B. Douglas	...	Mel Dederick
Lee-Max Walton	Lee-Max Walton	...	Tim Harris
Joseph Kelly	Joseph Kelly	...	Matt
Kevin Foxx	Kevin Foxx	...	Hoserman
Jon Wise	Jon Wise	...	Skip
Wendy Bushell	Wendy Bushell	...	Liz
Charles Jolliffe	Charles Jolliffe	...	Henry Younger
Dora Dainton	Dora Dainton	...	Mrs. Trumbull
Michael Fawkes	Michael Fawkes	...	Motorman
See full cast »
Edit
StorylineCorn grain contaminated with steroids produces large rats the size of small dogs who begin feeding on the residents of Toronto. Paul, a college basketball coach, teams up with Kelly, a local health inspector, to uncover the source of the mysterious rat attacks and they eventually try to prevent the opening of a new subway line as well as find the mutant rats nest quickly, or there will be a huge massacre of the entire city! Written by Matt PatayPlot Summary | Add Synopsis
Plot Keywords: rat | subway | mutant | steroids | city | See All (21) »
Taglines: Tonight they will rise from the darkness beneath the city... to feed!
Genres: Horror | Sci-Fi
Certificate: 18 | See all certifications »
Parents Guide: View content advisory »
Edit
DetailsCountry: Canada | Hong Kong
Language: English
Release Date: 23 October 1982 (Canada) See more »
Also Known As: The Rats See more »
Filming Locations: Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Box OfficeBudget: CAD 1,500,000 (estimated)
See more »
Company CreditsProduction Co: Golden Harvest Company, Filmtrust Productions, Northshore Investments Ltd. See more »
Show detailed company contact information on IMDbPro »
Technical SpecsRuntime: 87 min
Sound Mix: Mono
Color: Color
Aspect Ratio: 1.85 : 1
See full technical specs »
Edit
Did You Know?Trivia
Each dog had to be individually fitted for a rat costume. See more »
Goofs
When a man locks himself in the train car to get away from the rats, there is a faint dog barking sound. Dachshunds were used to play the rats and dressed in rat suits. See more »
Connections
Referenced in Video Nasties: Moral Panic, Censorship &amp; Videotape (2010) See more »
Soundtracks
Lolita
Written by Chuck McDermott
Performed by The Chuck McDermott Band
See more »
Frequently Asked QuestionsThis FAQ is empty. Add the first question.
User Reviews Daschunds in rat costumes
2 May 2011 | by Chris. (Australia) See all my reviews
Cat-sized rats, laced-up on steroid enriched grain apparently destined for starving kids in Africa, overrun the city as former chop-socky filmmaker Clouse applies his unique, high contact brand of action/horror. Breaking with convention early, his sewer mob spirit away a toddler from its high chair a trail of blood and an empty wonder suit greets the hysterical mother, a scene sure to disaffect plenty of parents so early in the piece, they may not stay for the blood bath still to come. Local teacher and single dad Groom investigates the strange goings on, while courting the attentions of Health official (Botsford) and attempting to dissuade those of an infatuated student (Langlois).The versatile vaudeville performer Crothers is wasted in a frivolous supporting role, while veteran Canadian actor Linder is also given little respect. Langlois is the most vivacious characterisation, giving conviction and dimension to the sexually confident and nubile young student, enamoured by the worldly but unattainable Groom. Clouse even manages to stage a rat attack during a Bruce Lee cinema retrospective at which his film "Game of Death" is played on the big screen, for those who might appreciate an in-joke.It's formula filmmaking and Clouse handles both the characterisations and action sequences with adept skill, albeit with little attention to detail or continuity. Groom is an affable leading man, Botsford a more attractive proposition (there's even a fire-lit love scene to really set the mood), and the daschunds dressed in sewer rat costumes, almost look cute in some scenes, as they scamper from one mark to the next below aerial shots that clearly display their canine features. Extremely bloody with plenty of limb gnawing, bone chewing gore, "Night Eyes" is the perfect late night viewing experience.
