A Native American travels around a resort town, murdering cops and rich people with a high-powered crossbow, while demanding that the town's richest residents pay him money to stop the killings.
In the town of Paradise, Arizona, shady land deals enrich a handful of select few. The town's mayor and sheriff are corrupt and aware of the land schemes. Incensed by this, native-American Victor plans to extort money from the rich as punishment for the land they stole. He starts by killing two local cops with his crossbow. He leaves a note claiming the rich must pay a ransom or die. He demands 1 million dollars to be delivered within 24 hours. The Chief of police, Haliburton, contacts local businessman William Whitaker and they decide to keep the whole thing confidential. They don't want the Press or the Feds involved since it could reveal the local land frauds. Instead, they hire private security investigator Nick McCormick, who advises them to pay out the ransom. The town boasts the largest number of millionaires in the country. Most of them agree with the plan to pay up the ransom and keep things under wraps. They are accused by the local media of being like a 'white-collar mafia'. Whitaker agrees to deliver the ransom money himself at Devil's Mountain, a large rock formation in the desert, but he secretly switches the money for packs of blank paper. During the drop, Whitaker attempts to kill Victor who escapes. Later, Victor retaliates by killing more wealthy citizens and by invading Whitaker's well-guarded mansion. After killing his guards one by one, Victor captures Whitaker and demands four million dollars to be delivered at a different time and place. The following day, at an old west themed parade, Victor kills the mayor using his crossbow outfitted with a scope. Policemen and locals give chase but Victor escapes. The ransom is taken by helicopter to the Devil's Mountain by Whitaker who is determined to kill Victor. Following close behind in a second helicopter, security man Nick McCormick and a hired Tracker, are prepared to provide back-up. The money drop doesn't go as planned.

