To the tune "I Would Like to Be a Bird," a young mouse fashions wings from a pair of leaves, to the great amusement of his brothers when his attempts to use them fail. When the butterfly he rescues from a spider proves to be a fairy, he wishes for wings. But his bat-like appearance doesn't fit in with either the birds or the other mice, and he finds himself friendless; even the bats make fun of him.
In this cartoon a family of mice, the mother mouse gives the sister mouse a bath, the 3 mouse brothers play on the mushroom but one boy mouse to the song of "I Would Like to Be a Bird" daydreams about having birds wings and flying around, he fashions a pair of leaves on his arms and shows off his three brother mice who laugh and make fun of him after he falls in the mud. The boy mouse gets back up and climbs the rose and tries to fly but the wind blows him backwards and his rear end gets poked by the thorn in the tree. He falls down in the tub just as his mother finishes putting on a dress for his sister and gets them both wet. His sisters dress shrinks and his mother gets mad at her son. The boy mouse feeling embarrassed, he tries to run away but his mother grabs his tail and spanks his exposed rear end with his tail until his bottom turns red. His mother lets him go and his brothers laugh at him again for getting a spanking. The boy mouse cries and walks away, but then the butterfly calls for help and the boy mouse attacks the spider and saves the butterfly from the spiders web and the fairy transforms into a beautiful blue fairy who grants the boy mouses wish that he wants to fly like the bird. She gives the boy mouse bat wings and he tries out his bat wing and has fun flying around. But when he shows off in front of the birds, the birds just fly away from him. He then flies down to his 3 mouse brothers and mother mouse but they get scared and they run and hide in the pumpkin house and they mistake him for a bat and attack him and the boy mouse flies into a bat cave where the bats make fun of the boy mouse for having bat wings and sing and dance "You're nothing but a nothing". The boy mouse gets scared and flies away from the bat cave, looks at his reflection and decides he doesn't want bat wings anymore but can't pull them off. He cries until the blue fairy shows up again and asks why he's crying. The boy mouse tells the blue fairy he's not a mouse and wishes he could die. But the blue fairy decides to remove the bat wings and the boy mouse is happy and he runs home to his mother and hugs and kisses her and his 3 mouse brothers dance around him.
