Ursula plots to murder 12 women with her supernatural powers.
Thirteen women who were schoolmates send to a swami for their horoscopes. Little do they realize that Ursula, a half-breed Asian, is using her hypnotic powers over the swami and them to lead them or their families to their deaths. It seems that she too went to their school, but was forced to leave by their bigotry, and is exacting revenge. Will she be stopped in time to save Laura's son, Bobby?
Twelve Anglo-Saxon women who were members of the same sorority at St. Alban's Seminary have remained friends long after their days at the seminary. One person who did not remain friends with this group is half-caste Hindu Ursula Georgi, a woman who wanted to pass as white but was shunned by the group for her ethnicity. To get back at the group, Ursula, now working as the secretary for the renowned astrologist Swami Yogadachi, manages to get the women, through a series of round-robin letters, to ask the Swami to send each of them their horoscope. Regardless of the Swami's horoscope for each, Ursula instead sends them one of doom, often predicting their death or that of a loved one. The doomed predictions start to become self-fulfilling prophecies primarily through the mere suggestion, although Ursula does have some strong mystical powers of her own. The woman deemed to be the strongest of the group, single mother and Beverly Hills society matron Laura Stanhope, decides to gather the remaining group together as an act of defiance against the doomed predictions. What Laura does not tell her friends is that she too has fears about her horoscope, predicting the death of her son Bobby before his upcoming birthday in three days, especially after the Swami's prediction of a death not among the group does also come to pass. Knowing Laura's inner strength, Ursula takes some more direct measures to ensure the Swami's prediction for Bobby's death does happen. When Laura begins to realize that someone other than the Swami is really trying to kill Bobby, she turns to the police. Sergeant Barry Clive, who investigated another death among the group, takes it upon himself to find out what's going on and stop it before Bobby's predicted end.
13 women who went to school together sent a round robin of letters to a Swami to seek their astrological predictions. Unbeknownst to them a half- breed woman named Ursula Georgi, who is a powerful hypnotist hired him. She destroys the Swami's original predictions and replaces them with her own as a means to seek revenge against the women and their families.

