Brazilian movie inspired by American westerns (but losing none of its cultural integrity) about Cangaceiro (bandit) Teodoro who falls in love with a small town school teacher who his gang has kidnapped.
In the times of the "cangaceiros" in the "sertão" (backcountry) in the North and Northeastern of Brazil, the cruel Capitão Galdino Ferreira and his band abduct the school teacher Olívia, expecting to receive a ransom for her. However, one of his men, Teodoro falls in love and flees with her through the arid backcountry chased by the brigands. Along their journey, Olívia also falls in love with Teodoro and proposes him to leave the countryside and move to the city. But Teodoro loves also his land and tells that he would like to die in the backcountry where he was born.
The Cangaceiros(Kan-ga-cero) are ruthless marauders who terrorized Brazil's northeastern plains for more than a century , until they were wiped out in what amounted to a military operation of the government of Brazil in 1938. The film is set in the 18th century when they kidnap a pretty school teacher, Olivia, during a savage raid on a small village that they loot and burn and murder the citizens. Teadora, a member of the band, is attracted to Olivia and he helps her escape. They are ruthlessly pursued by the Cangacieros, led by their chief, Captain Galdino Ferreira and his savage aide, Maria Clodia, a girl who shares the gang's desperate existence.
This film is not inspired by American westerns, but inspired by real stories of the northeastern Brazilian outback. It is absurd to make this placement and is an affront to our history and our culture. Who wrote, has no knowledge of Brazil and Ratings should consult the veracity of the text to then publish it on your website. I resent and repudiate this type of text, a lack of respect for the culture of a country other than his own, so Mr. Christian Redferne should recant and go, from now on, to speak only of their country and respect the countries of others.

