An American cowboy living in Mexico discovers his cattle are being eaten by a giant prehistoric dinosaur.
Title and credits roll over a desert vista and mountain range. Three cowboys or vaqueros approach working around cactus. They spot cattle tracks and follow. A narrator explains, "Deep in the back country of Mexico there rises a grim and mysterious mountain, which is said to be hollow. Its interior has never been explored because at its base lies an impassible swamp. The superstitious link the hollow mountain and the swamp and their folk legends as places of evil, great evil. They tell of the strange animal from the dawn of creation that inhabits the area, coming forth to prowl and pillage only in time of drought. They tell of men and cattle disappearing without trace. But perhaps these are only tales. Tales told by simple people." The three men continue to follow the cattle tracks. One cowboy voices his concern about the area, but is accused of being superstitious. Felipe Sanchez (Carlos Rivas) searches on foot in one direction, while his ranch partner, Jimmy Ryan (Guy Madison) in the other. The third man remains behind with the horses and is spooked by the strange animal noises. Felipe manages to get trapped in the swamp, but is rescued by Jimmy. Jimmy discovers one of his dead cows in the quicksand.Panchito (Mario Navarro) is waiting outside the town cantina. His very drunk father, Pancho (Pascual Garcia Pena) finally walks outside to greet his son. They mount the horse to ride home, but troublesome kids throw firecrackers spooking the horse which bucks the pair off. Unfortunately, Pancho still has a foot in one of the stirrups and is dragged down the street. Jimmy sees the commotion and stops the runaway horse. Sarita (Patricia Medina) comes to check on Pancho and the boy. Pancho works for her father. Jimmy and Sarita walk to the house.At Sarita's house, out on the patio, Margarita (Lupe Carriles) is serving Don Pedro (Julio Villarreal) refreshments when Jimmy and Sarita arrive. Jimmy tells Don Pedro that three times in the last month he has had cattle disappear or stolen. The only one found was drown in the swamp. Don Enrique Rios (Eduardo Noriega) pays a visit to see Don Pedro. Enrique tells Jimmy to go back to Texas. They get into a verbal exchange and are reminded by Don Pedro they are both guests.At Rancho Bonito, the spread owned jointly by Jimmy and Felipe, they rise to find their crew of men have quit. Pancho and Panchito have come to the ranch to offer their services. Jimmy and Felipe are not particularly anxious to have a drunk and a little boy as ranch hands, but they need the help and reluctantly agree. Sarita arrives and tries to convince Pancho and his son return to her employment, but she is unsuccessful. She rides out to apologize to Jimmy. She explains that she intends to marry Enrique. Sarita's horse escapes, so Jimmy insists on riding with her back to town on his horse. Enrique is in town and sees his betrothed with Jimmy. Enrique is enraged and jealous and attacks Jimmy. He pulls his gun, but Jimmy is faster on the draw. They agree to a fistfight to settle things. The street market is a mess when they finish, but Jimmy walks away the winner with a few cuts and bruises. He retrieves his telegram that had been knocked from his hand and is happy to read, "Price of your cattle agreeable to us. Arrange cattle delivery for June 10."Back at Rancho Bonito, Jimmy is tending to his wounds from the fight. Don Pedro stops by to tell Jimmy and Felipe that Enrique wants to buy their ranch, cattle and all, and before the June 10 delivery date. The pair tell Don Pedro the ranch is not for sale. Don Pedro is distressed, as he knows Enrique is not one to take a refusal graciously. Enrique stops by to see Sarita at her home to find out why she was with Jimmy. They reconcile and she reassures him she is still in love with him.Jimmy, Felipe, Pancho and Panchito are out riding and discover an abandoned ranch house near the swamp near Hollow Mountain. Pancho explains that the owner disappeared when the swamp started to dry up. Jimmy briefly explores the empty house and determines that it was abandoned. The three men leave the little boy, Panchito, to guard the horses at the abandoned ranch house. They walk into the swamp area and find another dead cow. Jimmy and Felipe ride into town and talk with a very friendly Sarita. Unfortunately, Enrique and Don Pedro are together and witness the encounter. Enrique states that Jimmy will be leaving soon. Enrique hires two thugs and gives them instructions, to which we are not privy. Jimmy goes to the bank for a loan, but since Enrique's influence is strong, the loan is refused. The banker does acknowledge that Enrique has a great influence and tells Jimmy, "You have made enemies." The two thugs have volunteered to work for Jimmy and Felipe for double payment after the cattle are sold.At their ranch, Jimmy is feeding an orphaned calf. He gets a note, "Must see you immediately. Meet me at the graveyard. Sarita." Pancho and his son go to the abandoned ranch house. Pancho goes off to the mountain to explore. He instructs Panchito to stay at the abandoned ranch house with the horses. Jimmy goes to the graveyard to see Sarita. She wants to know why he didn't sell to Enrique. She also tells Jimmy she is to be married the next day. Pancho explores the swamp area looking for Jimmy's cattle. He encounters something large and fires his gun at the menace. It bellows and roars at this annoyance. He is attacked, and the camera pans over to his hat. Panchito waits, as instructed, until the light on a pole casts a shadow like a sundial on a rock. He was to go get help if his father did not return by that time.Jimmy returns to his ranch and informs his partner that when the cattle are sold he intends to return to the United States, split the profits and leave the ranch to Felipe. Panchito arrives at the ranch in an agitated state with news that his father is missing in the swamp. Jimmy and Felipe return to the swamp and search, but only find Pancho's hat. They walk back to tell Panchito they didn't find his father. The next morning Jimmy stops Panchito from returning to the swamp to look for his father. Jimmy decides to bring Panchito back to the home of Don Pedro for safekeeping. He informs Don Pedro of the disappearance of the boy's father. He tells Don Pedro of his plans and demands that Felipe not be bothered. Don Pedro assures Jimmy this will be done.Wedding festivities are under way in town. Enrique confides to his ranch foreman that the two thugs have orders to create a stampede with Jimmy's cattle on the way to the station. Don Pedro meets with his daughter a few hours before the ceremony. While she professes happiness, it is clear she is having second thoughts about her impending wedding. Margarita tells Panchito that his father is dead when he tries to take a horse to look for him. The boy runs off. Sarita decides to postpone the wedding and look for the boy. The two thugs are having a drink when they are rudely interrupted by the eponymous star of the picture. [Note: we are a full hour into this movie before it makes an appearance.] The dinosaur is a very dark gray, and looks like a Theropod, possibly Allosaurus or Tyrannosaurus. After causing the cattle to stampede, it grabs one of the cows in its mouth and departs. Jimmy and Felipe witness the commotion. The cattle head for town and the unsuspecting wedding guests. Margarita tells Jimmy that Panchito has gone to the swamp and Sarita has gone after the little boy. Enrique and Don Pedro are approached by the Rios Ranch foreman who reminds Enquire why the stampede he planned was a bad idea. Don Pedro now knows what kind of son-in-law he will soon be gaining. Enrique grabs a horse and rides off to find his bride to be. At the swamp the beast hears Panchito calling for his father and comes to investigate. It finds and chases the little boy, but Panchito manages to elude the creature. Sarita arrives at the abandoned ranch house, sees the horse, and begins her search for the boy. He appears and hugs Sarita, but the beast appears almost immediately. Their horses flee so the pair take refuge in the house. The creature pulls a section of roof away to get at the pair. Jimmy, attracted by all the noise appears and fires at the creature with his revolver. He only manages to slightly wound the monster, but it does draw its attention allowing Sarita and Panchito to escape. Enrique shows up on his horse. Jimmy tries to warn his rival, but Enrique only wants revenge for Jimmy trying to steal away his girl. The beast approaches and spooks Enrique's horse, which throws him.Enrique, now being chased by the beast, dives into the water and tries to swim to his escape. Jimmy rides into the water to rescue his enemy. Soon Enquire reaches land and is running, followed closely by the creature. Jimmy gets to him first and pulls him up on his horse. They ride to a steep hill and are forced to ride down, but the horse loses its footing and throws the two riders. Jimmy and Enrique run for the safety of a cave with a narrow opening. The beast tries its best to get at them. Jimmy fights it off with a knife, but the monster manages to snag Enrique with its claws and drags him outside. Jimmy drags him back into the cave as a dozen of the ranch hands distract the beast. We don't know if Enrique is dead or alive. Jimmy has a plan for the menace. He runs into the swamp and the beast follows but stops at the water's edge. He tries to lure the beast into the swamp by swinging himself on a rope toward it. It works, and the dinosaur lunges for him and falls into the swamp. The quicksand draws the creature deeper and deeper. The doomed thing bellows as it is pulled under to its death. We close with Jimmy and Sarita embracing and Felipe and Panchito walking towards their horses and the ranch hands.
