Taking place almost entirely over the course of one stormy night, a woman is terrified when an accused murderer escapes from a mental hospital and seeks refuge in her home.
Dilip Roy is a painter who is accused of killing his wife during the court judgment the judge finds him insane and orders to put him in mental hospital.On a stormy night Dilip runs from the hospital and takes shelter in the house of a lonely woman Rekha whose husband Jagmohan is out of the house most of the time,Dilip takes Rekha at the gun point and asks her to be quiet and not to tell anyone about him.Dilip and Rekha find that they both are disturb in life and share their feelings.Rekha tries to escape from the house after putting Dilip to sleep,Dilip sleep breaks and he tries to find Rekha in the house to his surprise he finds the dead body of Jagmohan in the bathroom but Rekha denies any such thing and tells him it was just his assumption,The mystery revolves weather Dilip really killed his wife and is Jagmohan dead.
Dilip Roy is a Painter by profession and makes his living selling his paintings. He gets married to beautiful Sushma, who would like him to spend more with her than on paintings. When they get invited to their anniversary party, Sushma is all set, but Dilip must complete his painting, Sushma is displeased and snatches his paint brushes from his, an argument ensues, and Dilip grabs Sushma by the neck and chokes her to death. Sushma's sister, who witnesses this, calls the police, who arrive and arrest Dilip for murder. Dilip is produced before the courts, where he is sent for psychiatric evaluation to the care of Dr. Trivedi. However, Dilip escapes from this institute and breaks into a house with a lone married woman, Rekha, in it. Dilip decides to hole up here for sometime. Meanwhile the police have been informed, believing him a danger to others, they have launched a manhunt. Dilip decides to remain in Rekha's house for sometime until the police leave the area. What Dilip does not know that the police are already aware of his presence, and there is a dead body of the woman's husband in this very house.

