Sultan Almamud suddenly becomes powerless, unable to enjoy his beautiful Zumurud. The councillors then call people who can excite them by telling stories. At the end of their tales, he will finally be able to enjoy her.
Sultan Almamud, suddenly becomes powerless, can not enjoy the beautiful Zumurud. The councilors then call people who can excite them by telling stories. At the end of the stories he will finally be able to enjoy her. ***** 1st story: The Persian sultan Samandar has an argument with his friend Abuisè. He was considered a great womanizer and owner of all the girls in the area, Abuisè although married to only one woman, had very gracious and licentious relations with her. They make a bet on who would have raised the biggest and most exciting orgasm on one of the women. Apparently Abuisè is about to win, but then realizes that Samandar deceived him by going to bed with his woman. Therefore he finds himself cornified and won. ***** 2nd story: Aladdin, a poor street devil, secretly loves Princess Marian, but his is only a sad illusion. One day he finds a magic lamp from which, after being rubbed, a genius comes out and asks his new master his wishes. He thinks well to ask for a way to get to the heart of Marian. The genius, sensing his cravings, gives him a magic carpet and dresses him like a great prince, making him immediately fly to the palace by his beloved. Easily Marian lets herself be seduced by Aladdin and agrees to fly for a while over the rooftops of Baghdad with him. She wants to get off, but the genius whispers in Aladdin's ear to possess his beloved, only so the carpet would have let them down. So finally Aladdin's wish comes true and after the embrace, Marian will marry him. ***** 3rd story: Aziza is a bad and torturing princess, always dissatisfied spiritually and sexually. She claims that every super-gifted male in the area possesses it so that she can decide who will be the new king of the city. Various people present themselves to her, but after the embrace they are all always killed or castrated, because the girl claims to want to be loved numerous times after the first embrace. So it happens that seven twin brothers have it one after the other, managing to have thirteen continuous relationships with Aziza, satisfying his cravings. Just at that moment in the city comes an eighth twin brother of the others, emasculated as a child to perform the charge of eunuch, who is sent into the palace. Princess Aziza, who has not yet recovered from the various sexual relationships, takes him as her husband and will have a nasty surprise the night after the ceremony.

