A sheriff tries to stop the killing spree of a silent maniacal murderer who, as the result of secret genetic experimentation by an unethical scientist, has the ability to self-heal.
Dan Stevens is the sheriff of a small Texas town who checks out a disturbance which turns to murder. The killer is still in the house and he tries to kill Dan, but Dan stops him and arrests him. The killer attempts to flee, but is shot and killed and is taken to a medical institute. Three doctors, led by Dr. Philip Spires, operate on the killer and using a formula the doctors made, they bring him back to life. If that's not bad enough, the formula also made the killer indestructible. Dr. Tom Halman tries to stop the killer, but he and his wife are killed. After the two remaining doctors are killed, the killer goes after Dr. Halman's sister Alison, and it's up to Sheriff Dan Stevens to stop him.
In the hospital of a small town, three doctors experiment on a man called John Kirby. As a result, John becomes a mute maniacal murderer with the ability to heal automatically every time he gets injured, no matter how bad it is. When he starts killing everyone he crosses, the town's sheriff goes after him; but how can he stop someone who can't die, or even get hurt?
In a small Texas town, mentally ill Vietnam veteran John Kirby (Brian Libby) goes insane and kills two people of a family he was staying with. Sheriff Dan Stevens (Chuck Norris) and his deputy Charlie (Stephen Furst) responds and eventually arrests Kirby, but Kirby breaks out of the handcuffs, hits other officers and grabs one of their guns, forcing the officers to open fire and shoot Kirby. Kirby suffers severe gunshot wounds and is near death.Kirby is transported to an institute where his psychiatrist, Tom Halman (Ron Silver), works along with Medical Doctors Spires and Vaughn (Steven Keats and William Finley respectively), who are also genetic engineers. In an attempt to save Kirby, Dr. Spires suggests that they use the formula they created. However, Dr. Halman objects in light of Kirby's psychosis. Dr. Spires first decides that Halman is right, but then ignores the consequences and proceeds to use the formula once Dr. Halman leaves. The formula makes Kirby nearly invulnerable, leading to the deaths of many more people (which includes Halman and his wife, the two doctors who revived him and Charlie).Sheriff Stevens tracks down Kirby in the hope that he can put an end to the carnage. He finally finds Kirby and is able to throw him down a well. As Stevens leaves, however, Kirby's head comes out of the water, meaning he was not killed, at which point the film ends.
