After being mortally wounded and taken to the morgue, murderer Jason Voorhees spontaneously revives and embarks on a killing spree as he makes his way back to his home at Camp Crystal Lake.
After being stabbed in the head by Chris Higgins. Jason Vorhees is believed to be dead and is taken to a Hospital for an Autopsy. However, He is Alive and kills a Doctor and a Nurse and is loose once more. He Returns to Camp Crystal Lake where Young Boy Tommy Jarvis lives with his Mother and Older Sister. A Group of Teenagers move in to a House next door to the Jarvis House. Jason begins killing the Teenagers and kills Tommy's Mother. It's now up to Tommy and His Older Sister to kill Jason and end his murderous rampage once and for all.
Thought to be killed by the sole survivor of the last massacre at Camp Crystal Lake, Jason Voorhees kills his way back to the camp to once again murder its inhabitants. This time, has Jason met his match in the little boy Tommy Jarvis?
After the confrontation with Chris Higgins, Jason Voorhees, presumed dead, is taken to the Wessex County Morgue. There he escapes, killing an attendant and a nurse, and makes his way back to Camp Crystal Lake. Six teenagers rent a cabin next to the Jarvis' cabin in Camp Crystal Lake. Soon Jason finds his way to eliminate all who trespass his way, but not for long. There are two survivors left, a girl and her little brother, Tommy Jarvis. The final battle will define their destiny. Be prepared for the Final Chapter.
The day after the events of Friday the 13th Part III, police and paramedics are busy cleaning up the mess deformed mass murderer Jason Voorhees left at Higgins Haven, including the defeated hockey-masked killer himself. Two paramedics deliver Jason's corpse to the Wessex County morgue. But afterwords, it turns out that Jason is still alive. He rises, kills morgue doctor, Axel (Bruce Mahler), by slicing and breaking his neck with a hacksaw and then kills Nurse Morgan (Lisa Freeman) with a stomach stab, and heads back to Crystal Lake.Meanwhile, a group of friends named Paul (Alan Hayes), Samantha (Judie Aronson), Sara (Barbara Howard), Doug (Peter Barton), Ted (Lawrence Monoson), and Jimmy (Crispin Glover) have rented a house on Crystal Lake. On the way there, the group passes Mrs. Voorhees' tombstone and a female hitchhiker (Bonnie Hellman), after the group drives off the hitchhiker becomes Jason's next victim, stabbed in the throat while eating a banana.Next to the rental house is the Jarvis home. The group meets 17-year-old Trish Jarvis (Kimberly Beck) and her 11-year-old younger brother Tommy (Corey Feldman) when they arrive. The teenages have an evening and night of fun which nothing happens. Trish wants to go over to the house where the group is, but her mother (Joan Freeman) forbids her from doing so. Tommy, a video game addict, spends the evening in his room playing Atari games and making latex masks as his hobby.The next day, the group befriends two British-accented twin teenage girls Tina (Camilla More) and Terri (Carey More), who live in the area, and they all go skinny dipping at Crystal Point. Trish and Tommy, driving by, stop to see who's at Crystal Point and the group invites Trish to a party that night. Trish's car breaks down a bit further along the road, and they are helped by Rob (E.Erich Anderson), a hiker with mysterious reasons for visiting Crystal Lake, who soon becomes good friends with Trish and Tommy.Next door, the kids are enjoying themselves by dancing and listening to music. With four girls and four boys, each now has a date. However conflict ensues as some of the kids switch dates. These conflicts prove to be the least of their troubles as Jason predictably stalks and kills them one by one. Samantha goes out skinny-dipping and is impaled from under a raft. When Paul goes out to be with her, he finds her nude dead body in the raft and while swimming back to shore, he is stabbed in the groin with a spear.When it begins to rain, Terri decides to leave early and is about to get on her bicycle but has a spear rammed into her back.After having sex with Tina, Jimmy decides to celebrate with a carefree bottle of wine. While searching for a corkscrew in the kitchen, Jason emerges and slams the corkscrew into Jimmy's hand and then drives a meat cleaver into his face.Upstairs, Tina looks out the window where she is grabbed and thrown two stories down landing on the car.While a stoned Ted watches vintage 1910s stag films, he gets too close to the projector screen and is stabbed in the head with a kitchen knife though the screen from the other side.After Doug and Sara finish making love in the shower, Jason attacks Doug and crashes his head against the shower tile. He then kills Sara by driving an axe through the front door when she tries to escape.At the Jarvis house, Trish and Tommy find their mother missing, so Trish goes to Rob for help. Rob explains that he's looking to get revenge for the death of his sister, Sandra Dyer (killed by Jason in Part 2). Trish and Rob take Gordon (the Jarvis family dog) next door to see what's going on. Tommy is left at home, and finds Rob's newspaper articles about Jason.At the house, a frightened Gordon jumps though a second story window and flees. Jason kills Rob, and Trish flees back to her home intending to warn Tommy. After a long chase in and between the houses, Tommy shaves his head and makes himself up to look like Jason, which is effective in distracting Jason long enough for Trish to be able to attack him with his machete. She just misses him, but manages to knock the hockey mask off his face. Horrified by Jason's appearance, she drops the machete to the floor. Tommy picks it up and swings it at Jason's head. Jason then falls to the floor, causing the machete to dig further into his head. As he embraces his sister, Tommy sees Jason begin to move, loses control and, hacks Jason repeatedly with the machete, while Trish screams his name.The final scene of the film has Tommy visiting Trish in the hospital, and they embrace as they believe their nightmare is over, with a bizarre shot of Tommy psychotically looking towards the camera.
