A teen decides to go for a night on the town with his friends despite flunking his driver's test.
Les doesn't have a driving license yet, but to impress his gorgeous date Mercedes he borrows his grandpa's Cadillac for a night out... and has to witness the poor car going through more and more intense maltreatments.
The sixteen year-old Les Anderson has a crush on his schoolmate Mercedes Lane, but he is shy and she has a boyfriend, Paolo, who has a fancy car. Les and his twin sister Natalie Anderson are preparing to the driving test and while Natalie studies the questions, he does not pay attention to them. Les fails the test but is not brave enough to tell neither to his father Mr. Anderson nor to his pregnant mother Mrs. Andersonand his best friends Dean and the clumsy Charles. When Mercedes has an argument with Paolo, she invites Les to date her to make Paolo jealous. Meanwhile Les' parents discover that he has flunked his driver's test and they ground him. However, when Mercedes calls him asking if they are not going to date, Les sneaks away from his house and drives his grandfather's Cadillac that is parked in the garage to date Mercedes in the beginning of a nightmarish night of adventures.
Les Anderson (Corey Haim) is about to take his driving test. He has a few things planned, based on the presumption that he will pass. Not least is a date with the girl of his dreams, Mercedes Lane (Heather Graham). Then he fails, and his plans are shattered. He doesn't tell anyone that he has failed though and goes ahead with the date with Mercedes. Key to his night out is taking his grandfather's prized 16-year old low-mileage Cadillac, left in the care of his father. The car, and his attempts to keep it unharmed, are the source of many adventures that night. However, his friend, Dean (Corey Feldman), is the number 1 source, egging him on.
Les is a teenager attempting to learn how to drive, as well as catch the eye of a popular girl. He is able to secure a date with the girl, Mercedes, and it is assumed he will drive. But, he doesn't have his license yet. When it comes time for his driving test, he fails. He doesn't want to risk the chance at going out with Mercedes, so he decides to go anyway. Not only does he disobey his parents by going in the first place, but he takes his grandfather's prized possession - his Cadillac. Will he get through the night without wrecking the car, and get away with sneaking out, or will his plan collapse?
'An innocent girl. A harmless drive. What could possibly go wrong?' For sixteen year old Les Anderson, plenty can go wrong when you have a night like his. He's an adolescent American with dreams of getting his hands on his first driver's license, so he can hit the town cruising with his friends Dean and Charles, but ultimately to impress the girl of his dreams, Mercedes Lane. Unfortunately for Les, his worst nightmare hits home hard when he fails his driving exam and his parents put him on probation for trying to hide the truth, so now his chances of being able to drive are squashed badly. However, Mercedes, who has just broken up with her old boyfriend who's a rich snob, is bored and wants to keep the date that she promised with Les and the youngster's heart skips a beat when she calls him up asking to go out for a night on the town. Les knows he's risking big-time punishment, but he decides that if he's gonna go down, he may as well have some fun with the girl of his dreams. When he takes his grandfather's prized Cadillac on his date with Mercedes, hilarity ensues with him, his friends Dean and Charles and his drunken date as they do all they can to get the Caddy home in one piece as comical disaster roars down the fast lane.
Les Anderson (Corey Haim) is eagerly looking forward to getting his driver's license, freedom for a teenager who takes the bus to school, and a way to possibly pick up girls.One whom Les has his eye on, is Mercedes Lane (Heather Graham). However, she seems to already have a boyfriend, who drives a Ferrari.A few days later, Les is picked up by his friends Dean (Corey Feldman) and Charles (Michael Manasseri), and go to a party. While there, the trio see Mercedes getting into a heated argument with her boyfriend. Attempting to get out of the argument, she tells her boyfriend that she's going to go out with Les next Saturday.The next day, Les is picked up from school by his Dad (Richard Masur), who is driving their Grandpa's Cadillac (as Grandpa has taken Dad's BMW, not wanting to drive his own Caddy over long distances). Les is at first embarrassed, but grows excited when his Dad explains that he thought he can drive the Cadillac for a little bit (with his Dad supervising of course!).Reaching an upcoming corner, Les sees Mercedes wakling down the street, and begs his Dad to let him drive the car by himself, to impress her. Les' Dad gives in, but Les' plan to just drive Mercedes home takes another turn, when she tells how she's going across town to see a friend. Wanting to impress her, Les drives her there.On his way back home, Les comes across his Dad who is very upset that Les broke his word.The next day, Les and his twin sister Natalie (Nina Siemaszko) both take the driver's test via computer. Though Natalie finishes quickly, Les becomes flustered, and eventually fails. Angered, he 'boxes' the monitor, causing all the computers to shut down.As DMV attempts to recover the data, they allow Les to take a driving test, feeling that since his twin sister scored highly, he should also be good once the data is recovered.Natalie also takes a driving test, wherein the instructor is very calming. Les is given an instructor, who only has one stipulation: if Les can keep the cup of coffee he has from spilling, he passes.Les manages to make it through, and gets his license...but seconds later, the instructor in the computer room tells that after recovering the results, Les has failed, and tears up his license in front of him!Les comes home to an enthusiastic family, and lies to them, telling that he's 'a free man.' However, when his Mom (Carol Kane) does the laundry some time afterwards, she finds the 'Failed Test' paper in his pants pocket, and soon the entire family knows. Les' father even grounds Les for 2 weeks for lying to the family.Les' friends even try to get him to come out due to getting his license, but he lies, claiming he has other things to do. Later on that evening, Les gets a call from Mercedes, asking if he's still going to take her out. Les lies, claiming he's on his way (after making sure his parents are sound asleep!).Les manages to get his Grandpa's Cadillac out of the garage, and picks up Mercedes. They at first attempt to go to a club, but Les is refused entrance by the bouncer. Mercedes does get in, but upon seeing her boyfriend with another woman, quickly grabs a nearby bottle of champagne, and returns outside. However, Les' problems are increased when a tow-truck begins to tow away the Caddy. Les manages to get the car untowed, but ends up paying over all the money he has.Mercedes then requests that they go to a lookout point high above the city. However, during her time there, she ends up finishing off the bottle of champagne. She ends up dancing on the hood of the car, and caving in the hood when she causes Les and her to fall on it! Getting her back in the car, she ends up knocked out from her drinking escapade.Les then goes over to Dean's place, where Dean manages to take care of the dented hood, by banging it back into proper condition. Both Dean and Charles are eager to see Les' license, and claim that they should head to a place called Atomic Avenue. Les tries to convince them not to go there, but is coerced into it.After a harrowing incident on the freeway, the group ends up at Shakey's where they attempt to sober up Mercedes, but at the insistence of Dean, put her in the car trunk, and decide to head off to Atomic Avenue, where Dean is sure they can meet some more girls.They arrive, and the place seems exciting, but Charles accidentally ends up denting the door of a guy's Pontiac GTO. The man then attempts to smash the group's windshield with a crowbar, causing Les to quickly take off!They end up almost being found out when going by a protest area (where Les' sister and her boyfriend are!), before getting pulled over at a Police checkpoint. Les gives over his school bus pass, but the situation almost takes a turn for the worse when the officer finds a sleeping Mercedes in the car trunk!However, the police checkpoint is dismantled when word comes that the protest has become a riot! The boys then decide to head home, but are sidelined when a drunken driver gets into the Cadillac, and drives off! Luckily, they managed to get Mercedes out of the trunk before this, and all pile into the drunk's VW Bug.Les' night gets worse as the driver veers all over the road, scratching up the car, and causing severe damage to it! Les manages to get into the car and stops it, right before it almost flies into a pit.Les manages to get his friends home, and get Mercedes back to her place, who claims she had a nice time, and kisses him!Les gets the car into the garage, just as his parents come downstairs, as his pregnant mother has just gone into labor! Les' Dad is about to give Les a huge lecture, when the cries of his wife cause him to stop. Needing someone to drive, Dad relents and allows Les back behind the wheel.Arriving at a cross street, the family is thrown into turmoil when the forward drive on the car breaks, with the only option, to go in reverse. At the insistence of his family, Les throws the car in reverse, and manages to get his family to the hospital.Les' Dad is impressed by his son's driving skills...but the moment is ruined when a giant I-beam from a nearby construction site, crashes onto the Cadillac.Some time later, Grandpa comes back for his car. The family is ready for him to get angry, but are surprised when he starts laughing. Grandpa claims he had some problems driving Dad's car, and if on cue, a tow truck pulls up, with Dad's BMW smashed up!Dad then attempts to push the broken car on Les, when Mercedes pulls up in her car.Les responds to his Dad with, "I already have a Mercedes," hopping in her car, and driving off down the road with her.
