Three struggling theatrical performers meet a famous songwriter who is trying to convince a wealthy oilman to finance a musical he is scripting, promising them stardom if it comes to fruition.
Candy Williams is a struggling performer in a musical troupe, headed by Hap Schneider. Unfortunately, the troupe has fallen on hard times, forcing the members to get jobs cleaning hotel rooms. This all changes when one day Candy catches the eye of celebrity song writer, Dick Carson. Candy has no idea who he is, but, the rest of the troupe, especially Schneider, believes this is their lucky break. When Candy realizes who he really is, she's furious because he deceived her. By this time, Dick has "fallen head over heels" for Candy - this could be a problem, since he is currently dating another girl, Lorainne, the daughter of an oil tycoon. Dick secretly sits through one of Candy's performances, and is impressed, giving him a brilliant idea - Candy could perform the songs from the musical he has been preparing, and which he hopes Lorainne's father will finance. However, this is not going to be easy, since Lorainne has become very jealous, especially, when it comes to Candy getting closer to Dick.
The four-person theatrical troupe is working at the hotel because they went to the expensive restaurant in the hotel and had no money to pay the bill! They were forced to work in the kitchen. Nancy Walker is the only one who works as a maid, discovering Dick Carson in his suite and does an impromptu audition for him. He throws her out. They finally get to do a number for Carson and he falls in love with Candy. The whole point of the title is that Candy is totally superstitious and finds bad things all the time, hence she calls herself Lucky Me.
Candy Williams is an optimistic but superstitious young woman. Just starting her show business career, she is the fourth billed player of four in Hap Schneider's comedy/musical revue troupe currently performing in a second rate theater in Miami Beach. As the show isn't pulling in the audiences, the show is canceled. The four are forced to work in an upscale hotel to pay off a debt they incurred. Staying at the hotel is successful Broadway composer Dick Carson, who is for the first time self-producing his latest show. The father of Lorraine Thayer, Dick's casual girlfriend, is the only potential financier. Dick wants her father's money on merit, with no strings attached concerning Lorraine. When Candy meets Dick, he believes she is solely a hotel employee and she believes he's a blue collar mechanic. They soon fall in love. But when he sees Candy perform, he wants her for the lead. But what will Candy think when she learns the truth about her mechanic boyfriend's identity? The lead in the show may be a moot point when Lorraine sees the competition for Dick's affections, she who also controls daddy's purse strings.

