An Iowa family finds adventure, love, and heartbreak, when they spend a week at the state fair.
The Frake family attend the Iowa State Fair. Father Abel enters his Hampshire boar, Blue Boy, in the hog contents. Mother Melissa enters the mincemeat competition. And their children, Margy and Wayne, find love with newspaper reporter Pat Gilbert and trapeze artist Emily Joyce. But will everyone return home safe and happy or will hearts be broken?
The Frakes - father Abel Frake, mother Melissa Frake, and young adult children Wayne Frake and Margy Frake - are an Iowa farm family getting ready to go to the week-long Iowa State Fair taking place just over one hundred miles away. Wayne isn't looking forward to going as his girlfriend Eleanor won't being going as the two of them have just had an argument, and he is still stinging from being cheated at last year's fair by the ring toss booth operator. Margy, on the other hand, is secretly looking forward to getting away from Harry Ware to whom she is unofficially engaged, as boorish Harry has mapped out their entire lives without even asking her what she really wants. Melissa is confident about the pickles she will be entering for competition, but has to decide to go with or against her temperance mentality in adding brandy to her mincemeat, which she and Abel know deep in their hearts would make it taste better. And Abel may have some problems with his potentially prize winning boar, Blueboy, who seems lethargic for an unknown reason. At the fair, Melissa will learn if she - and behind the scenes Abel - made the right decision about the mincemeat. The cure to Blueboy's woes can be found at the fair, if Abel can just get Blueboy in the right position for that cure to work. And Wayne and Margy leave their romantic issues at home behind them as they fall for fair performer Emily Joyce and newspaper reporter Pat Gilbert respectively, Pat who is covering the fair for his paper, the Register. Can both the Frake offsprings' romances extend beyond the length of the fair, especially considering Emily and Pat's worldly versus Wayne and Margy's cloistered farm life differences?

