A man and a woman who share a party line cannot stand each other, but he has fun romancing her with his voice disguised.
In New York, the interior decorator Jan Morrow and the wolf composer Brad Allen share a party line, but Brad keeps it busy most of the time flirting with his girlfriends. They do not know each other but Jan hates Brads since she needs the telephone for her business and can not use it. Coincidently Jan's wealthy client Jonathan Forbes that woos her is the best friend of Brad and he comments with him that he feels an unrequited love for Jan, who is a gorgeous woman. When Brad meets Jan by chance in a restaurant, he poses as a naive tourist from Texas named Rex Stetson and seduces her. But Jonathan hires a private eye to find who Rex Stetson is.
In New York City, Brad Allen is a Lothario, a songwriter who casually strings along several women at one time, they who willingly follow. Jan Morrow is an interior designer, who is saving herself for Mr. Right. Although they have never met face to face, they know each other since they share a telephone party line. Jan is not only irked by Brad always seemingly being on the telephone when she needs it, but is also disgusted by his telephone conversations, which generally include serenading these unsuspecting women with the same original song, only changing the name to fit the woman in question. Brad, in turn, doesn't like what he sees as Jan meddling in his affairs, which he argues is because she is repressed sexually. There is a mutual attraction between the two upon a chance face to face meeting. While she does not know who he is, he knows who she is, and thus passes himself off as a chivalrous Texan named Rex Stetson instead of his true self. He is perpetuating this ruse in part to get to know her better, but also so that he as Brad Allen can taunt her over the telephone about her affairs about which he would have inside knowledge without her knowing it. It works as Jan falls for Rex. The situation is even more complicated in the form of millionaire Jonathan Forbes, one of Jan's clients who is in love with her, but she not with him. Jonathan also happens to be Brad's oldest and dearest friend, who has commissioned Brad to write songs for a Broadway show. The person who may be able to get them all out of this complicated situation is Jan's drunkard of a housekeeper, Alma, who is Brad's most devoted telephone eavesdropper, and who truly does live vicariously through Brad's telephone calls.
Playboy songwriter Brad Allen's succession of romances annoys his neighbor, interior designer Jan Morrow, who shares a telephone party line with him and hears all his breezy routines. After Jan unsuccessfully lodges a complaint against him, Brad sets about to seduce her in the guise of a sincere and upstanding Texas rancher. When mutual friend Jonathan discovers that his best friend is moving in on the girl he desires, however, sparks fly.
Interior decorator Jan Morrow and composer Brad Allen share a phone line. Brad keeps the line occupied all day talking to his girlfriends, which annoys Jan terribly and animosity between them builds up. They however have never met and when by chance Brad sees Jan, he decides to add her to his list of conquests. Knowing however how she feels about him, he poses as an innocent Texan country boy named Rex Stetson to win her, a plan which seems to work.
Brad Allen, a song writer, is being financed by Jonathan Forbes, millionaire Broadway producer who would like Jan Morrow to be his third wife. Brad doesn't know that the woman on his two-party phone line is Jan, an interior decorator who is irritated that every time she picks up the phone Brad is playing the same song to a different woman And then by chance Brad sees Jan. Jonathan has described her and he recognizes her voice in the next booth at a night club. He changes his name and accent to that of a visiting Texan. All pillow talk in the film, by the way, is over the phone.

