The life story of the famous pianist and band-leader of the 1930s and 1940s.
In the late 20's, the talkative newly graduated in pharmacy and aspirant piano player Eddy Duchin comes from Boston to New York expecting to play with the orchestra of Leo Reisman at fancy New York's Central Park Casino. However he had misunderstood the invitation of the maestro and while leaving the place, he meets the wealthy socialite Marjorie Oelrichs that asks Leo Reisman to give a chance to Eddy. He plays in the intermission and becomes a successful piano showman. Two years later, Marjorie and Eddy get married and in the Christmas, Marjorie has a baby, Peter, but she dies after the delivery. Eddy rejects Peter blaming him for the death of Marjorie and only five years later he meets his son. With the World War II, Eddy Duchin breaks up his band and enlists to fight in the war. With the end of the war, Eddy returns to New York with the intention of getting closer to Peter but he sees the boy connected to his friend Chiquita. When Eddy discovers that he has a terminal disease, he proposes Chiquita and they get married.
In the early 1930s, Bostonian Eddy Duchin, just having graduated from pharmacy school, decides instead to go to New York City to pursue his dream of becoming a rich and famous pianist, especially as he has a standing job offer from band leader Leo Reisman to play in his band which performs at the Central Park Casino. Reisman had heard Eddy's makeshift band play while Eddy was still in college. Despite Eddy's easy-going performing style and natural charisma on stage, the job offer is not as he believes. Eddy does, however, manage to rise to professional musical renown with the help of who becomes his biggest booster, New York socialite and interior designer Marjorie Oelrichs, who works because she does not want to be beholden to easy money. But Eddy's life in New York does not end up as he wants due primarily to a personal tragedy. He runs away from everything associated with that tragedy, which he believes was his own doing. It becomes easier to do so with the onset of WWII. But when Eddy decides to embrace life again - especially one specific outcome of that tragedy - Eddy finds that it is not as easy as he would like. He may be able to understand how to find that happiness he so desires the second time around with the help of Englishwoman, "Chiquita" Wynn, unless...

