A newspaper man, his ignored fiancée, and his former employee, a down on his luck reporter, hatch an elaborate scheme to turn a false news story into the truth in order to prevent a high-society woman from suing for libel.
Warren Haggerty is the chief editor of the New York Evening Star. He keeps on delaying his marriage with Gladys because of problems his newspapers must face. When a 5 million dollar lawsuit is filed by Connie Allenbury for falsely printing she is a marriage-breaker, he plans a marriage in words only between Gladys and the Don Juan Bill Chandler. The goal is to catch Connie alone with a married man.
Brash divorcée Gladys Benton and New York Evening Star managing editor Warren Haggerty are getting married imminently... still. Exasperated Gladys believes Warren doesn't want to marry her as one emergency after another pops up at the newspaper postponing their wedding, the latest emergency being a $5 million libel suit brought against the newspaper by socialite Connie Allenbury - daughter of wealthy financier James B. Allenbury - for an incorrect story the newspaper printed about her manhunting leading to the breakup of a marriage, the story's inaccuracy despite she having a reputation for being a playgirl. If Connie wins, the newspaper would be ruined financially. Warren believes the only person who can help him is long fired reporter Bill Chandler, a cutthroat cad who is not averse to anything to get what he needs. Despite their rocky history, Bill agrees to help Warren (for a price, the money which he needs to get out of a tight financial situation), the scheme Bill coming up with being that he will get married (the woman of their choosing who can get a quickie Reno divorce soon after), and then get into a position where Connie will break up his marriage, with Warren and his team being there to get all the necessary evidence in the form of photos. The only person who they can think of to be Bill's "wife" is Gladys, who eventually relents to the idea. The scheme should only take a few days to execute, but Bill finds that Connie is a tougher nut to crack than he anticipated. Complications ensue as between the real relationships and the fake relationships, love or the belief of love starts to emerge from each of the four, which in turn could jeopardize the original plan.

