On the Carolina coast, Godolphin College's new track coach lodges at Blackbeard's Inn, run by the Daughters of the Buccaneers, who claim to be descendants of the notorious pirate, and who risk losing their hotel to the local mobster.
In this comedy, Sir Peter Ustinov is the famous pirate's ghost that returns to our time. Blackbeard has been cursed by his last wife who was a notorious witch, so that he will never die. The only way to "break" the curse is to do (for once in his life) a good act. Is the famous pirate able to do something good?
Steve Walker (Dean Jones) arrives in a Maryland seacoast town to take the position of track coach at Godolphin, the local college. The night of his arrival coincides with a charity bazaar at the hotel where he will be boarding: Blackbeard's Inn, named after the notorious English pirate Captain Edward Teach, and now run by the elderly descendants of the pirate's crew. The owners are attempting to pay off their mortgage in order to keep the inn from being bought by the local crime boss, Silky Seymour (Joby Baker), who wants to build a casino on the land. In quick succession, Steve discovers his track team's shortcomings and runs afoul of the stiff dean of Godolphin College, its football coach, and Seymour; but he also makes the acquaintance of an attractive Godolphin professor, Jo Anne Baker (Suzanne Pleshette), who is anxious to help the elderly ladies save the Inn.A bidding war with the football coach at the charity auction nets Steve an antique bed warmer, once owned by Blackbeard's wife, Aldetha Teach, who - in addition to being a witch - is also the spitting image of Jo Anne. Inside this bed warmer is hidden a book of magic spells, that had once been the property of Aldetha. Steve recites one on a lark, unintentionally conjuring up the ghost of Captain Blackbeard (Peter Ustinov), who appears as a socially-inappropriate drunkard whose wife cursed him to an existence in limbo since his death in 1718 for all eternity unless he can perform one good deed.Steve and Captain Blackbeard soon learn that the two of them are bound to one another by the power of the spell and only the very reluctant and somewhat eccentric Steve can see or hear the ghost (whom is also coporial and can physically moves things with nobody seeing his physical image). As a result, the increasingly frustrated Steve must deal with the antics of the wayward pirate while attempting to revive Godolphin's track team and form a relationship with Jo Anne.The next evening, Steve gets arrested falsely for drunk driving in his automobile, which was in the control of Blackbeard, who was steering the steering wheel like a pirate ship. As a result of this, as well as causing the cop's motorcycle to crash into a tree, he spends a night in jail, while Blackbeard goes in and out of the cell creating havoc for Steve who begins to lose his sanity among all of this (Steve keeps forgeting that no one, except him, can see or hear Blackbeard and begins to increasingly talk to him in public with everyone around him thinking that Steve has finally lost his sanity... which is only half-true).While in jail, Steve tells Blackbeard what Mrs. Stowcroft mentioned that if Blackbeard did a good deed, the curse would be broken. However, when Steve asks for the treasure that would help save the Daughters of the Buccaneers, in keeping the inn, Blackbeard admits that his hidden treasure no longer exists for he had spent all of the money years before his death, therefore causing Steve to no longer trust Blackbeard.Steve gets released from jail the next day, but he's placed on probation with the college due to this mistaken drunk driving incident and rumors of mental incapacity. The hostile Dean tells Steve that his team has to win the Broxton relays, or he will be finished. Things get more complicated when the pirate steals one of the Inn's mortgage payments and bets it on Steve's track team. Blackbeard's intention is to use his ghostly powers to help Godolphin win the Broxton Relay track meet, and thereby pay the mortgage in full. Though Steve (who is an overly scrupulous man) is at first outraged over the pirate's interference, he eventually decides the greater good is to win the money for the sake of the Inn and help the old ladies, whom he also has grown fond of.During the Broxton Relays, Steve watches helpessly while Blackbeard uses his ghostly powers to help his team win and prevent the other team players from winning. Despite everyone around him thinking that Steve has gone insane (Steve keeps yelling to Blackbeard; telling him not to intervene with the relays when no one else can see or hear Blackbeard), the tean wins the relays. But when Steve goes to collect the winnings, Seymour is revealed to be a sore loser and refuses to pay out the winnings from the bet.The following evening, Steve, with Jo Anne in tow, as well as the unseen Blackbeard, go to Silky Seymour's casino to try to win the money made and Steve accepts the pirate's help in shaking down Seymour. With Blackbeard again using his ghostly powers, he manages to help Steve and Jo Anne with all of the money needed to save the Inn at the craps and roulette tables, and when Seymour's thugs attempt to steal the money rather then let them go, Blackbeard intervenes and beats up Seymour and his thugs allowing Steve and Jo Anne to escape.Finally, with the mortgage paid, Blackbeard has performed his good deed and is released from the curse. In the final scene, Steve finally reveals Blackbeard to the old ladies and Jo Anne on the beach by having them recite the incantation. Blackbeard bids them all a cordial goodbye and departs to join his former crew aboard his ship, leaving Steve and Jo Anne to pursue their future happily together.
