The wartime daily routine on a British bomber base in southeastern England is revealed through the eyes of newly arrived Flying Officer Peter Penrose (Sir John Mills).
Life on a British bomber base, and the surrounding towns, from the opening days of the Battle of Britain, to the arrival of the Americans, who join in the bomber offensive. This movie centers around Pilot Officer Peter Penrose (Sir John Mills), fresh out of a training unit, who joins the squadron, and quickly discovers about life during war time. He falls for Iris Winterton (Renée Asherson), a young girl who lives at the local hotel, but he becomes disillusioned about marriage when the squadron commander dies in a raid, and leaves his wife, the hotel manager, with a young son to bring up. As the war progresses, Penrose comes to terms that he has survived, while others have been killed.
In 1940, Flying Officer Peter Penrose (Sir John Mills) is attached to a Royal Air Force unit straight out off flight training, and a grand total of fifteen hours in the air. He's as green as you would expect, but finds his commanding officer, Flight Lieutenant David Archdale (Sir Michael Redgrave) to be understanding and supportive. He soon becomes a full-fledged member of the squadron, becoming a more than capable pilot and enjoying the camaraderie that comes from men who face death together. He also becomes interested in a young woman, Iris Winterton (Renée Asherson), who lives at the local hotel with her somewhat strict maiden aunt. Archdale gets married to the hotel's manager, but tragedy strikes when he is killed in an air raid. As a result, Penrose isn't sure he wants to make a commitment to Iris. Over the years, there are many changes. The U.S. Army Air Forces arrives in 1942 with the inevitable clash of cultures, and Penrose is taken off flying duties to become a controller. David Archdale's widow forms a close friendship with one of the Americans, and by 1944, the tide turns in favor of the allies leaving Penrose to re-evaluate his feelings.

