A malevolent rock star kidnaps a singer to force her to participate in the summoning of a demon, and her band must help her stop him.
Angel, a member of a punk rock band in the apocalyptic future, is kidnapped by Mok, a legendary superocker. Obsessed with a dark experiment, Mok plans to use Angel's voice to summon a demon from another dimension. The rest of the band follows Mok to Nuke York in an attempt to get her back.
Angel, a member of a punk rock band in the apocalyptic future, is kidnapped by Mok, a legendary super rocker. Obsessed with a dark experiment, Mok plans to use Angel's voice to summon a demon from another dimension. The rest of the band such as Omar, Dizzy, and Stretch follows Mok in a stolen police car to Nuke York in an attempt to get her friend back before Angel's voice is gone.
In the distant future, humans have died out, and animals have mutated into creatures with human characteristics. In this future world, an aging rock star named Mok has been toying with dark powers, and has found a possible way to unlock a doorway to Hell. To do so, he has to find a special voice.In Ohm-Town, Mok finds that voice in a girl named Angel. Mok requests that she meet him at his palatial estate, though Angel brings along her bandmates, included her hot-headed boyfriend Omar, and their bandmates Dizzy and Stretch. Omar has his assistants 'The Schlepper Brothers' (Toad, Sleazy and Zip) occupy the Angel's bandmates while he attempts to get her to assist him. Angel refuses to leave her bandmates, and Mok ends up drugging her, before placing her, himself, and the Schlepper Brothers in his personal dirigible, that takes off for Nuke York.Omar assumes that Angel has abandoned the band, but the others convince him to go after her. Taking Police Car, the three journey to Nuke York, where they visit Dizzy's Aunt Edith. Asking for information about Mok and the Schlepper Brothers, Edith recommends they seek out the Brother's sister, Cindy.It just so happens that Cindy is also in the same building where Angel is being held, and upon finding Angel, simply assumes she's one of 'Mok's girls.' Cindy is planning to sneak out to a local club, and Angel convinces her to take her along. While crawling through the building's duct system, Angel overhears Mok talking with his computer. The computer explains that the voice to open the portal must sing a certain progression of notes. However, there is a way that the portal can be closed. When Mok demands to know how or who can do this, the computer simply responds through the power of 'one heart, one voice, one song.'Angel and Cindy eventually make it to the club, where Omar and the others have also come. However, before they can find Cindy, the Schlepper Brothers find their truant sister and take her away. Omar sees Angel leaving out a side door, and then finds her in the arms of Mok. However, it is revealed to the audience that this was a decoy wearing a mask that resembled Angel's face.Mok returns the real Angel to his place, and shows her that he has captured her bandmates, and is willing to torture them unless she sings for him at his next performance, where he plans to open the portal. Angel agrees, and Mok sends the others back to Ohm-town on a bus, though the shock treatment he has administered has left them in a lucid state.Angel performs in Nuke York, but the portal fails to materialize, with the aftermath resulting in the destruction of the concert hall. Mok checks the computer for what went wrong, and it explains that there was not enough power to allow the portal to materialize. The computer then explains that a suitable power source can be found back in Ohm-Town.Mok returns to Ohm Town to complete his task. When Angel refuses to sing, she is drugged, and chained on stage at the Ohm Town Power Plant. Mok sucks up all the power from the town that he can, and a hole in the floor soon opens up, revealing a pulsating hellbeast that begins to decimate the audience, as well as ends up killing one of the Schlepper Brothers named Zip.Suddenly, a scream rings out, and Omar appears, freeing Angel from her chains. Angel has regained her consciousness, and then attempts to 'sing the creature back.' Singing a song titled 'Send Love Through,' Omar joins her in a duet, fulfilling the conditions of "one heart, one voice, one song" to banish the demon, causing the creature to shrink back into the hole from whence it came.Moke desperately tries to stop them, but is thrown into the hole by another of the Schlepper Brothers, upset by the death of Zip. Mok attempts to climb out of the pit, but ends up falling into the abyss as the pit disappears, and the sun rises on a new day outside of the Power Plant.
