Sally was an orphan who got her name from the telephone exchange where she was abandoned as a baby. In the orphanage, she discovered the joy of dancing and has been practicing since. Working as a waitress, she goes from job to job until she finds a job that also allows her to dance. At the restaurant, she meets Blair, and they both fall for each other, but Blair is engaged to Marcia. Sally is hired to impersonate a famous Russian dancer named Noskerova, but at that engagement, she is found to be a phony and that Blair is engaged. Undaunted, she proceeds with her life and has her show on Broadway, but she still thinks of Blair.
Having grown up an orphan, Sally Green currently works as a waitress, but she is constantly preoccupied by two other things: the handsome stranger who admires her through the window of the restaurant where she works, and wanting to become a dancer, of which she's dreamed since she was a child. Her preoccupations make her a distracted and thus not very good waitress, which constantly gets her into trouble. She eventually meets her window gazing admirer, he being well-to-do Blair Farell, who, in love with her, will do anything to help her out. He convinces Sally's boss, 'Pops' Shendorff, to let her dance in the restaurant's stage show. What Sally doesn't know about Blair is that he is already in an engagement of economic convenience to Long Island socialite Marcia Ten Brock. Meanwhile, Sally is hired by Broadway theatrical agent Otis Hemingway Hooper - who promised but was unable to deliver world renowned Russian dancer Madame Noskerova to perform at a society garden party - to impersonate Noskerova. Unbeknown to Sally, the party's hostess is Marcia's mother. Also doing an impersonation of sorts is Connie, Sally's waiter colleague at the restaurant. Now penniless, he is the deposed Grand Duke Constantine of Czechoslovenia, the title which he still holds but not the grandeur and wealth associated with it. He is also invited to the garden party, but Mrs. Ten Brock does not know of his now lowly deposed status. Not only do the mixed identities cause problems, but also the fact that Madame Noskerova was directly involved in the Grand Duke's overthrow. Can Sally, Blair and Connie get through the evening with their secrets still in tact?

