A stripper is horribly disfigured in a car accident. A brilliant scientist develops a treatment that restores her beauty and falls in love with her. To preserve her appearance the doctor must give her additional treatments using glands taken from murdered women. His unexplained ability to turn into a hideous monster helps with this problem but does nothing to win her love. The doctor's woes multiply as the police and the girl's boyfriend begin to close in on him.
The stripper Jeanette Moreneau is dumped by her boyfriend Pierre Mornet and she drives her car to talk to him. However, she has a car accident and the left side of her face is completely disfigured by horrible scars. She is approached in the hospital by Monique Riviere, who is the assistant and lover of Professor Alberto Levin, and she tells Jeanette that her face can be restored. Jeanette secretly goes to the professor's house and is treated by him, using a process that depends on the cells that Prof. Levin, who is also a monster that strangles his victim, removes from the women that he kills. While treating Jeanette, Prof. Levin falls in an unrequited love for her and kills Monique. Meanwhile, the police inspector that is investigating the mysterious murders, suspects of Prof. Levin.
Stripper Jeannette Morineau [Suzanne Loret], disfigured in a car accident, seeks a cure at Professor Albert Levin's [Albert Lupo] secret laboratory. Prof Levin and his loving assistant Monique Riviere [Franca Parisi] have finally perfected cell regenerative Serum 28 from its degenerative predecessor Serum 25. Serum 28 works; however, it quickly becomes apparent that Jeannette, with whom Levin is infatuated, will need multiple treatments. When Serum 28 runs out, Levin decides to directly transplant into Jeanette the neck glands (which naturally produce the serum) from another woman, and Monique becomes the first 'donor'. More donors are needed and, to augment his courage, Levin injects himself with Serum 25 so that he can transform into an atomic age 'vampire' and kill without guilt. But Jeannette is in love with boyfriend Pierre Mornet [Sergio Fantoni] who is searching for her. The trail eventually leads to Levin who has finally succeeded in curing Jeannette, but Levin decides to kill her rather than lose her. However, the gardener kills Levin first.
