The day before her wedding, a pampered young woman absconds with her sister's husband; in retaliation, her sister begins seeing the woman's former fiancé.
A young woman, Stanley Timberlake, dumps her fiance, Craig Fleming, and runs off with her sister Roy's husband, Peter Kingsmill. They marry, settle in Baltimore, and Stanley ultimately drives Peter to drink and suicide. Stanley returns home to Richmond only to learn that her sister Roy and old flame Craig have fallen in love and plan to marry. The jealous and selfish Stanley attempts to win back Craig's affections, but her true character is revealed when, rather than take the rap herself, she attempts to pin a hit and run accident on the young black clerk, Parry Clay, who works in Craig's law office.
Adult sisters Roy Kingsmill and Stanley Timberlake are the daughters of Asa and Lavinia Timberlake. Roy takes after her father's side of the family - compassionate and thoughtful if somewhat "soft" - whereas Stanley takes after her mother's side of the family - cutthroat and selfish. The differences between these two sides of the family can also be seen in the former business dealing between Asa and Lavinia's brother, William Fitzroy, who went onto wealth at the expense of Asa's side of the business. William dotes on his niece Stanley, who adds some excitement into his life. Stanley is about to get married to Craig Fleming, a lawyer without much professional aspiration. Roy is already married to surgeon Peter Kingsmill, the two who live in the Timberlake family home. Just before Stanley and Craig's wedding, Stanley and Peter run off together, the two who have been having an affair. Peter felt stifled in the marriage due to living in the Timberlake house and Roy allowing her family to control their lives. After Stanley and Peter run off, Roy and Craig try to get on with their respective lives. Just as Roy and Craig feel they have left this dark part of the lives behind them, Stanley re-enters their lives, bringing with her her selfish desires at the cost of anyone who gets in her way.
With her marriage to Craig Fleming fast approaching, the vivacious and carefree Stanley Timberlake runs off with her sister Roy's husband, surgeon Peter Kingsmill. Roy divorces him and he and Stanley are soon married. Their life together is not a happy one however with Stanley's selfish and spendthrift ways driving him to drink and ultimately suicide. Back home, Roy has rebuilt her life and she and she and Craig are in love and plan to marry. Stanley returns home and sets her sights on getting Craig back but after she accidentally hits a young girl with her car - she was driving too fast and struck the child while she was crossing the street - she points the finger at Parry Clay, a young hard working black man studying the law while working as a clerk for Craig. Her story soon breaks down and Stanley runs off with tragic results.
In Richmond, after the Great Depression, the industrialist Asa Timberlake is cheated by his brother-in-law and partner William Fitzroy and loses his business to him. His spoiled daughter Stanley Timberlake, who is the pride and joy of William, is going to marry the idealist lawyer Craig Fleming. However, she flees to Baltimore with the surgeon Peter Kingsmill, who is the husband of her sister Roy Timberlake. After a short period of happiness, Peter cannot afford to support the shopping of Stanley and commits suicide. Meanwhile Roy divorces from Peter and gets close to Craig that proposes to marry her. The black teenager Parry Clay that worked to Timberlake, dreams in becoming a lawyer, and Craig hires him to work in his office. Stanley returns home and unsuccessfully tries to seduce Craig, inviting him to have dinner with her in a tavern. However Craig does not show up and the upset Stanley drives back home at high speed. She hits and run a mother and her daughter and kills the girl. When the police comes to Asa's house, Stanly accuses Parry of driving her car and the youth is arrested and put in jail. What will happen to the innocent Parry?

