Dan McGinty has great success in his chosen field of crooked politics, but he endangers it all in one crazy moment of honesty.
Told in flashback, Depression-era bum Dan McGinty is recruited by the city's political machine to help with vote fraud. His great aptitude for this brings rapid promotion from "the boss," who finally decides he'd be ideal as a new, nominally "reform" mayor; but this candidacy requires marriage. His in-name-only marriage to honest Catherine proves the beginning of the end for dishonest Dan...
Tending bar in a seedy club in an out of the way banana republic, Daniel McGinty recounts his recent rise and fall to one of the club's chorus girls and a down on his luck American with suicidal thoughts. The rise began back in the United States where, as a tough guy hobo, he caught the attention of a man simply known as "the Boss" for his ingenuity and chutzpah. The Boss rigged elections for the sole purpose of political grafting, this election for mayor. The Boss hired McGinty to be his muscle, then moved him directly into the political realm when he needed a candidate with no name and thus no background to question. That political realm started as alderman then mayor the state governor. As part of his outward show of respectability, McGinty entered into a marriage of convenience with his secretary, Catherine, which included a built in family. McGinty's life with Catherine and his work for The Boss ended up being incompatible as McGinty, on Catherine's urging, wanted to go straight, while the law began to catch up with The Boss and anyone associated with him.
In a dive south of the border, bartender Dan McGinty stops a young man from committing suicide after a moment of dishonesty, and relates how a moment of honesty brought him down in a flashback. As a young man, McGinty joins a crooked political boss and rises from extortionist to alderman. Urged by the boss to marry his secretary to give respectability to his run for mayor, McGinty agrees -- only to fall in love with his wife and decide to do an honest thing for once in his life.
Dan McGinty, originally just a hobo, proves his toughness to a mob boss who takes him in. He earns the position of alderman, and then mayor, in a corrupt city administration. Along the way he enters a marriage of convenience with Catherine. Good natured Catherine gives him the appearance of a family man which Dan rides to the Governorship. When Catherine convinces him to do some real good with his authority, the mob boss is not so agreeable...

