During the Korean War former prisoner of war, Major Harry Cargill admits to having collaborated with the enemy but military investigator Colonel William Edwards wants the details.
Military investigator Colonel William Edwards is assigned a case involving Major Harry Cargill, a Korean War prisoner of war who is accused of aiding the enemy. Although Cargill admits his guilt and Edwards' superiors are impatiently pushing him to move this case to court-martial, Edwards doubts eventually convinces him of Cargill's innocence.
U. S. Army Colonel William Edwards is gather information to determine whether or not Major Harry Cargill, admittedly an enemy-collaborator while a prisoner-of-war in Korea, should face a court-martial. Cargill refuses to act in his own defense and all evidence points to his guilt, but Edwards notes that his record was exemplary until his capture and imprisonment by the North Koreans. General Connors, whose son died in the same prison camp, is pushing Edwards to complete his report so that Cargill can be punished. But Edwards' further investigation reveals that the general's son, Captain Joe Connors, was a traitor and had been killed by the American prisoners. The Koreans, in retribution, had forced Cargill to agree to collaborate or they would kill all of the American P.O.W.s. Edwards recommends no court martial, and then asks to be permitted to defend Cargill if his recommendation was not followed.
A US Army Colonel, William Edwards, is tasked with investigating the conduct of Major Harry Cargill while incarcerated during the Korean War. Cargill is accused of aiding and abetting the enemy by admitting to atrocities and then preaching communist propaganda to the men in his hut. Edwards' job is to make a recommendation to General Connors on what, if any, charges should be laid. The scuttlebutt is that Cargill is guilty and it's all an open and shut case. Edwards isn't convinced that Cargill is guilty of anything but the case is all the more complicated because the General's son was also in the same prisoners hut but died during captivity. Oddly, Cargill will do nothing to defend himself and as Edwards reviews the evidence, he becomes convinced that the men involved are hiding something.

