Juliet Mills plays a young pregnant woman in San Francisco who is going to have the devil's baby during her strange possession. Richard Johnson shows up to help her... but what does he really want?
Juliet Mills plays a pregnant woman who becomes possessed by a demon and begins puking split pea soup all over the place. Ex-boyfriend Richard Johnson shows up to save the day.
BEYOND THE DOOR aka CHI SEIThe film begins with a narration: the same voice we will hear for the devil (Robert Booth) later. It is explained that Dimitri (Richard Johnson) must locate Jessica Barrett (Juliet Mills) who is carrying the devils child. Jessica is shown naked, spread-eagled on an altar. It is as if she is looking at herself and is shocked and runs away. At one point we see her face transform into the face of Dimitri and back. Next we see Jessica and Dimitri in close contact. Jessica, frightened, runs away.Dimitri is seen driving his car when the voice speaks to him of finding the woman and her unborn child. He promises to extend the life of Dimitri for this. Unfortunately, the devil has other ideas. Dimitri drives off a mountain road to avoid hitting a van in the middle of the road. He is killed as the car falls into the sea.Jessica pulls up on a street in San Francisco with the children Gail (Barbara Fiorini) and Ken (David Colin Jr.) in the back seat of her car. She is picking up her husband Robert (Gabriele Lavia), who tries to hop in the car unsuccessfully. Jessica opens the door for him and off they go. He tells Jessica that they have a new record called BARGAIN WITH THE DEVIL. Gail is reading a copy of LOVE STORY and Ken is drinking pea soup out of a can with a straw. When he finishes the soup, the can is thrown out onto the street as they drive on. Gail asks Ken about the nickname he gave his father. Ken says it was a**hole. Both Robert and Jessica notice that the kids are speaking with profanities. Robert suggests a psychiatrist for the kids, but Jessica claims Gail draws her language from the book.Ken is seen carrying another soup can in one hand and a wrapped present in the other. Gail unloads several copies of the book from the car and is almost hit by a passing motorist. She curses the driver.Inside, discussion is ongoing about Ken's upcoming birthday party. Gail is making a cake from scratch. As she pours ingredients into the mixing bowl, she announces the names of each one as poisons and rotten fruits. Robert is reading a book about fish. Jessica, standing on a ladder, hangs decorations on the wall. She tells Robert that next time it will be his turn to decorate. She says she will have to avoid ladders by that time. He asks what she means and she tells him she is pregnant. It is definite.Next we see the party and candles on the cake. Barbara Staton (Elizabeth Turner as Elisabeth Turner) is helping out with the party. Robert comes in asking for Jessica. He hears retching coming from the bathroom and enters to find Jessica coughing up blood. She tells him she feels the baby is suffocating her, trying to kill her. He reassures her that everything will be all right. She says she doesn't want to have the baby. He replies that they will talk about it later. He leaves to rejoin the party and she tries to compose herself. Looking in the mirror, she sees Dimitri looking at her through a window. When she turns to look, he is gone.Jessica is talking to her doctor George Staton (Nino Segurini) who is also a friend of the family and the husband of Barbara. He confirms that the pregnancy is certain but that instead of seven weeks she is three months along. She is baffled by this news.Robert and Jessica are seen eating outside and discussing the pregnancy. She suggests names for the baby. He says we can draw a name out of a hat. Surprised, she insists that the name is important because it shapes the destiny of the child.Jessica is browsing through some old photographs. She is suddenly upset to find one of her and Dimitri. She turns it face down. Standing, she seems angry and picks up a glass ashtray. She throws it at the aquarium, breaking the glass and causing an outflow of water and fish. Ken is seen watching from another window.Jessica tells Robert on the phone about what happened, saying she wanted to break the glass. It wasn't an accident.That night an ominous voice and heavy breathing are heard in the bedroom. The covers are slowly pulled down from Jessica and Robert. Ken watches in the darkness. Jessica sits up and stands. Next we see her levitating and floating around the room.Later Robert is pensive. The floors are covered in wet spots. Jessica comes out of a door, drenched. He asks what happened to her and where she's been. She begins weeping softly on his shoulder.Robert meets for lunch with George, telling him what happened. The doctor confesses that he is worried about the pregnancy, which is developing at an unnatural rate. He says he has consulted with experts and can't recall any case like this one. Dimitri is seen observing them from another window. The doctor suggests someone close to Jessica should try to find out what's going on in her head. Barbara is suggested.Barbara and Jessica are driving and talking. Jessica complains that Robert has changed and she can't tell what he will do or when he will do it. She confesses she'd rather go away in a sailboat and escape from her troubles. Barbara asks about Dimitri but Jessica replies that she hasn't seen him since that one night they met and she walked off and left him standing there.That night a fire is seen breaking out in the bathroom. Ken screams and his sister asks what's wrong. She tells him to be quiet and go back to sleep. Robert demands Gail open the door which was locked. He tells her she is never supposed to lock the door. She denies locking it. Robert looks at Ken, noticing a strange bruising mark on his chest. As Jessica comes in the room, Robert tells her that Ken has a fever and he will call the doctor. Jessica kneels down by the bed and kisses Ken on the mouth.In the morning Dr. George examines Ken and concludes that he has a fever, nothing serious. Asking about the bruise, Robert is told it's nothing unusual. Gail doesn't like the implication that she had something to do with the bruise. George suggests Ken looks a little thin. Gail reveals that Jessica slips something to Ken. Jessica slaps Gail and is reprimanded by Robert. She says she is sick of Gail's lies.George tells Jessica in his office that her pregnancy is rapidly accelerating and that it is not unusual for her to have strange feelings. She confesses that she wants an abortion, saying she is scared of the baby. She's afraid she will go mad. He suggests that abortion be considered as a last resort. When she hears that he is for the abortion, her voice and character change, accusing him of being a murderer. She tells George that the child is hers and no one will take him away from her. Threatening to kill anyone who wants to harm the child, Jessica turns to leave. George tries to phone Robert but is told he is out.Jessica goes walking the streets. In a window she sees reflected the image of Dimitri watching her. When she turns to look, he is not there. She wanders into a shop and buys a doll. Walking on, she hears many voices talking and laughing in her head. At one point she looks down and sees a banana peel on the sidewalk which has obviously been there awhile. She picks it up and begins to eat it.In his room, Ken talks to an unseen friend, telling him to sit in the rocking chair. The chair is seen to rock back and forth. Gail enters and almost sits in the chair. She is told not to by Ken. She says his friend can only be seen by Ken, who twists a doll's head around backwards. Gail tells Ken to be quiet, saying he might disturb Jessica who is resting. The dolls seem to be coming alive and begin moving. Ken asks Gail if the dolls do things when they're gone out. She says they probably do things and go all over the house. She would like to see them walking around. Ken says he would not like to see that and tells her he is very hungry. She agrees to go get something to eat.In the kitchen Gail retrieves a cold dessert on a plate. Children's songs are heard involving the names of Gail and Ken. Meanwhile the dolls are walking and moving around. Gail returns to the room with the plate and sets it down. Ken licks his mouth to indicate he is looking forward to the sweet treat. Suddenly there is a roaring in the room. The plate is smashed on the wall and there is pandemonium. Dolls fly around and Gail and Ken struggle while the whole room quivers and shakes.Gail goes to Jessica's bedroom and calls for her. Jessica is lying face down. Her head turns unnaturally around backwards to look at Gail, who screams.Robert arrives home in the dark and unlocks the apartment door. Inside he finds a broken doll on the floor which he picks up. In the kitchen he asks Jessica what she is doing. She tells him that the children had a bad dream. He says it is only after eight o'clock. She seems surprised, but offers that they sleep sometimes in the day, being tired from playing. He asks what's wrong with her. She complains of being tired of what she sees every day. She tells him she sleeps to escape reality. When he shows concern, she angrily tells him to leave her alone and not to interfere in her personal affairs. She claims he gives her no room to breathe. He leaves the room in silence. Ken is seen watching.Robert looks in the children's room and sees all the furniture except the bed in the closet. Gail comes in and touches his hand, begging him to not leave her and Ken alone with mommy.On the street Robert buys a paper and looks at it. In the shop windows we see Dimitri watching him. Robert walks through a park and Dimitri is seen looking down from above. Then he is seen again in a glass elevator coming down as Robert walks by. Robert continues walking and Dimitri follows. All of a sudden Robert is almost run down by a large truck. He is pulled out of the way by Dimitri.Dimitri tries to persuade Robert to trust him, saying he can help with Jessica. He can explain what is happening with her pregnancy and the strange moods of her and the children. Robert tells him to leave them alone and stop following him. Dimitri pleads that he listen or face great suffering. He tells Robert that he may be able to save Jessica and the one to come. He asks that Robert listen and make his own decision. He tells Robert that Jessica should not leave the house or go away from it and that the child must be born. He promises not to follow Robert anymore, saying that with what is going to happen, Jessica will seek him. When Robert turns to look, Dimitri has vanished.Barbara is seen sitting with Jessica, asking how she is feeling. Jessica turns her head and one eye is seen rolling around unnaturally. Barbara takes a tissue and begins going over the face of Jessica. Jessica falls asleep and Barbara tries to talk to her. Suddenly loud noises are heard. The sound of large heavy footsteps is heard and a gate opening. Barbara trembles in fear. Suddenly a hand is upon her shoulder. It is Robert.He asks how Jessica is. Barbara says she mumbles occasionally and rolls her eyes in strange ways. She still has a high fever. Barbara leaves to get food for Robert. As he sits and watches her, Jessica opens her eyes. She remembers times from the recent past: driving with the kids, watching the sailboats, lunch with Robert.Dr. George is sitting with Jessica. The children are shown sleeping. George falls asleep. Heavy breathing and roaring are heard. The covers are shown rising and falling. George awakes to find the bed empty. Looking over to the chair, he sees Jessica perched there with demented eyes. She speaks in the demons voice, asking who are you? Then alternately Jessica's voice begs George to help her. As George looks on, the man's voice tells him to get out and curses him. Jessica asks George to help her, holding out her hand. Then the demon causes her to vomit green slime. She also speaks in a girls voice. The demon calls for Dimitri, saying he is waiting for him. Jessica whines and begs for help. This is seen by Robert, who has entered the room.Barbara is seen getting the children ready. Ken vomits and cries. Gail is seen packing a lunchbox for Ken, with 2 cans of pea soup. Barbara tends to Ken. Gail loads many copies of the book into a duffel bag. The children leave to stay with the Staton's and Robert kisses Ken. Barbara escorts them out the door.George tells Robert that Jessica can't remain at home. She is a danger to herself and others. He recommends hospitalization. Robert tells him about Dimitri and how she knew him before. He believes the man he met who was following him was Dimitri and that he can help Jessica. George insists that she be admitted to the hospital. Robert says maybe tomorrow. In a flashback we see Dimitri walking and Jessica telling about their relationship and how magnetic he was. She was drawn to his personality and the security she felt with him.Getting himself a cup of coffee at home, Robert sees Dimitri in the apartment. Suddenly loud laughing is heard. He asks how he got in. Dimitri tells him he was drawn there by Jessica, who needs him. Robert tells him she must be taken to the hospital. Dimitri angrily demands that she remain here and have the baby. He apologizes after calming down.Dimitri convinces Robert to allow him to remain for a few days alone with Jessica in order to save her and the child. If she goes to the hospital, he says, she will die. Robert is not sure whether or not to trust him. From the bedroom Jessica is heard telling Robert to go away and leave her alone. Between the two of them, Robert is convinced to leave and not to talk to George.As soon as Robert leaves, the demon speaks to Dimitri, shaking the walls of the house. He is told that his time is almost up. Dimitri begs not to be killed. He says he did all that he was told to do, but he feels like someone else. The demon tells him that he is someone else in his head, one whose name cannot be uttered. He tries to open the bedroom door with great difficulty while arguing with the demon. Inside Jessica is seen sitting up and watching. Dimitri collapses on the floor from exhaustion.Robert is seen approaching his car. George is waiting and wants to know why he left Jessica alone. He tells George that she is not alone; Dimitri is with her. He explains that she will remain at home and that he is convinced that Dimitri is the only one who can help her. George expresses his belief that Robert is out of his mind. Telling him that this is how it is going to be, Robert drives away.At home, Robert admits his doubts about trusting Dimitri. He is told that she will be all right as long as he trusts Dimitri. Finally he is told that Dr. George will be allowed to conduct a test on Jessica which will prove that only Dimitri can help her.George is seen connecting wires to Jessica's head for an EEG. The result is absolutely nothing. There are no brain waves detected. George suggests that she is already brain dead. Robert disagrees, saying that everything that Dimitri predicted is coming true. George says that Dimitri has fooled them both into trusting him but is crazy. Jessica speaks, cackling like a witch. She tells them that Dimitri is possessed by a demon who wants to steal her baby. The demon's voice speaks out, admitting this. The unborn boy's voice also speaks. She threatens to kill him and goes into a rant. George is seen giving her a sedative.George is seen going into a low-rent hotel and asking for Dimitri. The clerk points.At home, Jessica calls for Robert. Dimitri is seen sleeping in a chair. As Robert goes into the bedroom, Dimitri opens his eyes. Jessica says she was dreaming about the past and her parents. She asks about the children and is told they are fine. She begs Robert to release her from the strait-jacket. He tells her that she is a danger to herself and others. She convinces him that she is in agony and fears she will go out of her mind. Finally he begins removing the jacket. They embrace for a few moments.Suddenly the demon comes out and throws Robert to the wall. He calls out to Jessica, who sits and laughs maniacally as she throws him from wall to wall. Finally after jostling him around the room, Robert is thrown outside the door and lands at the feet of Dimitri. Dimitri explains how helpless Robert is trying to deal with the demon and says that tomorrow he will intervene and make sure the devil doesn't leave with the child.Meanwhile, George continues the search for Dimitri. He is directed to the waterfront where he confronts a woman on a small houseboat. She tells him she used to know Dimitri and that he was well-thought-of in some circles. They say he could heal those others could not. George asks about Jessica. She remembers that Jessica was bewitched by him, although she suggests it was the other way around. George is told that she never saw anymore of the girl after he died. She tells him Dimitri died years ago in a car crash but his body was never recovered. George says some have reported seeing him. She tells him that sometimes people come back from the past.As George is driving back, the sound of demonic laughter is heard. Dimitri is also plagued by the demon, who taunts him. He tries to splash his face with water as the demon tells him his time has come. The car is seen plunging over the cliff in a flashback.The demon, speaking through Jessica, tells Dimitri that soon he will possess the body of the newborn child. He appears at the bedroom door, which is shown open, then closed behind him. He is told to come in. Jessica sits up and breaks off the strait-jacket. Moving closer to him, she tells him to remove it from her. He does. She tells him that Jessica was chosen to bring him into the world because she was beautiful and innocent. Now the time for the birth has come and Dimitri must make up for having let her get away the first time. Jessica is levitated above the bed with her legs spread. Dimitri is told to come and plunge his hands into her and remove the child. As he reaches to do so, she vomits on his face and laughs. The demon tells him that he only pretended he would let him live; he was using him for his own amusement. Dimitri falls upon the body, crying out to be spared from his pain. The demon tells of his own pain of having no body of his own. Dimitri is damned to eternal destruction by the demon. He begins pounding on the stomach of Jessica, shouting: lies!George arrives and finds the apartment door standing open. He enters and finds Robert passed out on the floor. Entering the bedroom he finds Jessica lying asleep and appears in her natural face. Looking around the room he finds Dimitris overcoat covering up the still-born infant (who has no mouth).Robert, Jessica and the kids are seen on a cruise. Gail finishes reading her book and seems satisfied with the ending. Several other children are seen coming down from an upper deck. One of them smiles at Gail, who winks back. Ken finally opens the wrapped present, which is a model of Dimitris car. Holding it over the railing of the boat, he throws it into the water. At the same time, the car crashing into the sea is shown again. Ken turns around to look at the camera, revealing that the demon has possessed him.
