A blind man moves into his own apartment against the wishes of his overprotective mother and befriends the freethinking young woman next door.
All Don Baker wants is a place of his own away from his over-protective mother. Don's been blind since birth, but that doesn't stop him from setting up in a San Francisco apartment and making the acquaintance of his off-the-wall, liberated, actress neighbor Jill. Don learns the kind of things from Jill that his mother would never have taught him! And Jill learns from Don what growing up and being free is really all about.
Blind since birth, Don Baker grew up in an upper middle class household in Hillsborough, just outside of San Francisco. With the assistance of his first real girlfriend, Linda Fletcher, who was the first person ever to give him a real sense of self-confidence, young adult Don moves to San Francisco to live on his own. On an agreement with his controlling and judgmental widowed mother Florence, Don's new living arrangement is on a two month trial basis with Florence not to visit Don within that time period. Florence thinks that Don's trial is doomed for failure. One month into the trial, Linda is no longer in Don's life. But free spirited nineteen year old Jill Tanner moves into the apartment next door to Don. The two have an instant rapport, so much so that they decide to unlock the door that joins their two apartments together. Previously married for six days when she was sixteen, Jill admits that she is not a commitment type of person, and the two decide just to have fun together. Their relationship however seems to be moving into one that is more committed. Coinciding with Don's new friendship is Florence's visit to her son, the visit against their agreement. Above the trial itself, Florence now has Don's apartment, its neighborhood and Jill to complain about, the latter in particular which Florence has issue. However, Jill, Don and Florence's view of their collective lives may change after a private discussion between Jill and Florence.

