A young woman who works mending fishermen's nets is engaged to be married. But her fiancé has an old love who refuses to let him go. Further, his former girlfriend has a brother who is willing to use violence to protect his sister's honor.
The little mender is betrothed to Tom, the fisherman, rejecting the suits of all the others. Tom, however, is weak, and finds that his old infatuation for Grace still haunts him. Grace has sacrificed all for her love for Tom, and when she sees him courting the little mender, she reminds him of his duty towards her. He realizes the strength of this and hints to the little mender that he is not worthy of her. Grace's brother learns of her dishonor and attempts vengeance. A quarrel ensues between the men, and the little mender, ignorant of the cause, attempts to save her sweetheart from the anger of the brother, and her tender appeal turns him for the time from his purpose. The little mender learns, however, the cause and the truth of the other girl's sorrow, and, smothering her own feelings, awakens Tom to his sense of duty, while she returns to mend the nets, solaced by her memories and her old father.
A young girl (Mary Pickford) living in a fishing village is the mender of the fishermen's nets. A handsome fisherman (Charles West) asks for her betrothal sealing it with a ring and a kiss, to which she happily excepts. As he leaves her to return to work, he is stopped by his former girlfriend (Mabel Normand) who is still in love with him. She convinces him to go for a lover's stroll. Next day, frustrated as to why he has not comitted himself to her, she sees him with the girl who mends the fishermen's nets. Panicked, she draws his attention to her and tells him he must not marry another but her. He tries to pacify her, but her brother has learned of the dishonour brought upon his sister and sets out for revenge. From the shore, the young mender of the nets sees them violently quarreling. Going to investigate, she comes upon the brother carrying a gun bent on killing his sister's lover. Still not knowing the reason for the quarrel, she throws herself infront of her fiance to save him from being shot. Startled, the brother takes quick leave and as the couple embrace, the former girlfriend enters. Now both girls begin to fight over the handsome fisherman, and suddenly realizing what he has done, the young mender of the nets wants nothing to do with him. As she is about to leave, she takes pity upon the grieving girl and compassionately takes the hand of the fisherman and places it upon the girl's shoulder. Now she leaves them together and resigns herself to continue being the mender of the nets.
