Two sisters both fight for women's rights. Juliane is a journalist and Marianne a terrorist. When Marianne is jailed, Juliane feels obligated to help her despite their differing views on how to live.
Germany, 1968: The priest's daughters Marianna and Juliane both fight for changes in society, like making abortion legal. However their means are totally different: while Juliane's committed as a reporter, her sister joins a terroristic organization. After she's caught by the police and put into isolation jail, Juliane remains as her last connection to the rest of the world. Although she doesn't accept her sister's arguments and her boyfriend Wolfgang doesn't want her to, Juliane keeps on helping her sister. She begins to question the way her sister is treated.
Synopsis of Marianne and JulianeTwo sisters choose diverging paths of rebellion against the system. Juliane works as a feminist journalist rallying for womens right to abortion while Marianne commits herself to a violent revolutionary terrorist group. The film quickly informs us that Marianne has abandoned her husband and child to work for a radical terrorist group. Her husband arrives at the house of Julianne and states that Juliane must take Jan (their son) because the husband has to leave the country for work. Juliane is not supportive of her sisters choices because she feels that it is damaging to the fight for the womens movement. She informs the husband that she does not have time to care for the child. Next the husband steps out to go get something promising to return but instead takes his life leaving Jan without a guardian.Marianne shows up on the scene to discuss her political views with her sister and urge her to join the movement. Juliane informs her of her husbands suicide and of her intent to find a foster home for Jan. Marianne asks her sister to watch over Jan but Juliane replies you would have me take on the life that you chose to leave. Basically stating so whats not good enough for you is good enough for me. Juliane sticks by her guns and refuses to take on Jan. This fact still doses not stop Marianne from continuing on in the movement. She is content to allow Jan to have the life that will be dealt to him through foster care because she believes that any life he has in foster care will be better then the life many children have in third world countries.The sisters paths continue to cross as Marianne bursts in unannounced to her sisters life. The last time that Juliane sees her sister before she is arrested Marianne wakes her and her long-term boyfriend up at 3a.m. and wants to make coffee and take Julianes clothes. We soon discover that her sister has been arrested and is being held in a high security prison. Juliane goes to visit her sister. When she arrives at the prison she is ordered to strip down and is searched. Then she is let into the waiting room and told to wait for her sister. The guard returns and informs her that Marianne refuses to see her.Juliane goes home agonizing over her inability to communicate with her sister and see how she is doing. Her boyfriend suggests that she write a letter to her sister telling her how she feels. The film goes into a flashback of their childhood where we see the closeness of the sisters. Juliane mails the letter and soon after is able to visit with her sister. They argue often but Juliane continues to come and visit her sister. They have a bad argument on one of these occasions and Marianne slaps her sister. Marianne is then moved to a maximum-security prison where the two must sit on the opposite sides of a pain of glass and communicate through intercom.Juliane becomes so obsessed with her sister and her problems that her own relationships begin to fall apart. Her boyfriend suggests that the two of them take a vacation together. While on vacation they see the face of Marianne on T.V. but cannot understand what has happened to her because of the language barrier. Juliane runs back to their hotel and calls her parents to find that Marianne has committed suicide. Juliane and her father do not believe that Marianne actually killed herself. Juliane begins an obsessive journey to discover what really happened to her sister. This destroys her relationship of ten years. She ultimately proves to herself that Marianne was murdered but when she calls the papers with the news she is informed that her sisters death is old news and nobody cares if it was murder or suicide. Juliane is left with the knowledge but cannot convince the papers to defend the life of an ex-terrorist.Later Juliane is reunited with Jan because someone attempts to murder him when they find out whom he was the son of. Juliane takes him back home with her after he has undergone extensive reconstructive surgery. He is aloof and has no interest in having a relationship with his aunt. He has nightmares of the fire that nearly killed him.The film ends with him walking into Julianes workroom and tearing up the picture of his mother that is on the wall. Juliane tells him you are wrong Jan. Your mother was a great woman. Ill tell you about her. Jan says that he wants to know everything and then yells start now! Start now! The film fades out on Julianes face looking at him.
