An Egyptologist returns from the dead to take revenge on those who have violated his tomb.
Aga Ben Dragore, a knife-wielding, enigmatic Egyptian Arab, is seeking a sacred jewel which has been stolen from an ancient tomb. The thief tells him that he sold it to Professor Morlant, a fanatical Egyptologist who fervently believes in the pagan power of the ancient Egyptian gods. Dying from a mysteriously disfiguring ailment, Morlant entrusts his faithful manservant to bandage the jewel in his hand and warns him of dire consequences if his dying wishes aren't carried out. After his burial in an Egyptian-type tomb on his estate, an anonymous robber steals the precious stone from the corpse. Although the ghastly-looking dead man rises at the next full moon to seek revenge, neither he nor the audience know which member of the household possesses the powerful jewel.
On his death bed, Egyptologist Professor Henry Morlant orders his servant to wrap a valuable jewel in his hand and place a statue of Anubis along with his body in the family crypt. His hope is that Anubis will accept the diamond and allow Morlant to pass through to the afterlife. When someone steals the jewel from his tomb, Morlant rises from the dead just as he predicted he would and seeks his revenge. The heirs to his estate, Ralph Morlant and his cousin Betty Harlon and her friend Miss Kaney arrive at the estate just as their uncle rises from his grave. With the assistant of the butler, the local minister Nigel Hartley, the elder Morlants solicitor Mr. Broughton and an Egyptian, Aga Ben Dragore, they try to make sense of what is happening and determine who among them has stolen the jewel.
Dying of a mysterious disfiguring disease, on his death bed Professor Morlant (Boris Karloff) insists that a rare jewel called The Eternal Light that he has unearthed with an ancient Egyptian religious totem be bound into his left fist by his assistant Laing (Ernst Thesiger) and buried with him in his tomb so that he may meet the god Anubis and receive eternal life. When the professors nephew Ralph Morlant (Anthony Bushell) discovers that his brother has been buried in such a strange fashion and without a meeting with lawyers to discuss the estate, he goes to the strange home where the tomb lays to see for himself what his brother possesses that he is due to inherit. Meanwhile a ruthless Egyptian Aga Ben Dragore (Harold Huth) is after the precious jewel and arrives at Morlants home searching for it. Laing wants the priceless jewel for his own and steals the jewel form the dead professors hand thus provoking the dead professor to rise from his grave and seek revenge.
