A four-year old boy, Pricò, becomes the subject of emotional folly by his fluctuant parents and inattentive relatives.
The film follows the anguish of the four-year-old, Prico, after his mother, Nina, leaves his father, Andrea, for her lover Roberto. Prico is sent to his aunt and then to his grandmother. Nina returns when Prico is sick and vows to give up Roberto, even though he persists in seeing her. The family situation gradually improves until they take a holiday on the Italian Riviera.
After spending the day at the park with her son, Prico (Luciano de Ambrosis), Nina (Isa Pola) leaves the family to be with her lover, Roberto (Adriano Rimoldi). Embarrassed at being the subject of gossip in their condominium building, Prico's father Andrea (Emilio Cigoli) sends his son to stay with Nina's sister (Dina Perbellini) and then with his severe mother (Ione Fregiro) who thinks Andrea married beneath his station. When the sensitive Prico takes ill, Nina returns to the family, much to Roberto's dispeasure. Andrea is at first cold to her but under the influence of Prico, who clearly blossoms in his mother's presence, he agrees to reconcile with her. When Roberto comes to the apartment to beg Nina to return him, he strikes Prico. Nina kicks him out. She makes Prico promise not to tell Andrea that Roberto had been at the apartment.The family goes to Alassio, a resort town on the Italian Riviera. There they meet people of the upper class, including the shallow Dada (Claudia Marti) and her friend Mimi (uncredited) who is attracted to Nina. Andrea must return to Rome ahead of Nina and Prico. Dada invites Nina to dinner so Mimi can woo her back to his villa. Instead she learns that Roberto has tracked her to Alassio. She agrees to spend the next three days with him, and ignores Prico. When Prico sees her cuddling on the beach with Roberto, he runs away. The police find him on the beach and reunite him with Nina. When she and Prico return to Rome, she drops him off at the condominium and drives away to be with Roberto.Although the maid, Agnese (Giovanna Cigoli) offers to take care of Prico, Andrea elects to send him to a Catholic boarding school. Shortly thereafter, Andrea is killed. Nina goes to the boarding school to comfort Prico. Crying but no longer able to trust his mother, Prico walks away from her.
