When billionaire Jean-Marc Clement learns that he is to be satirized in an off-Broadway revue, he passes himself off as an actor playing him in order to get closer to the beautiful star of the show, Amanda Dell.
Billionaire Jean-Marc Clement learns that he is to be satirized in an off-Broadway revue. He goes to the theatre, where he sees Amanda rehearsing a song, and the director thinks him an actor suited to play himself in the revue. He takes the part in order to see more of Amanda.
New York based French billionaire Jean-Marc Clément VII has been able to build on the fortunes of the first six Jean-Marc Cléments before him, in the process being known, in his excessive leisure, more for being a love 'em and leave 'em playboy than a businessman. Alexander Kaufman, his head publicist, learns that Clément is one of the many well-known personalities being satirized in an off-Broadway musical, "Let's Make Love", currently in production, they who will skewer his playboy status. After Clément and Kaufman discuss what they should do including the option to shut down the show regardless of the fact that Clément truly doesn't mind being portrayed in a satirical way, they decide the best first measure of defense is to make a surprise appearance at a rehearsal just to show that he is a good sport, and thus may be less of a target. Clément and Kaufman's appearance at the rehearsal coincides with the auditions for the relatively minor roles of the many celebrities being satirized. As no one recognizes him but thinks he looks like Clément, Clément decides to play along and accepts the role of Clément if only because he is captivated by one of the featured performers, Amanda Dell. The more that Clément spends with Amanda, the more that he truly does fall in love with her, true love which is a first in his life, and wants to marry her. Clément has many obstacles to overcome for Amanda to feel the same about him. First, he seems to be competing for her affections with who is her leading man, Tony Danton. Second, he doesn't want to look foolish in front of her, which he may be asked to do in portraying himself in the show. Third, he doesn't seem to be the type of man personality-wise to who she would be attracted. As such, he decides to hire only the best to teach him to be the man he believes to who she would be attracted, teachers who may only able to do so much in this situation. And fourth and arguably most difficult, she has a generally poor opinion about "Clément" from what she knows about him through general publicity and as he is portrayed in the show.

