A man stumbles out of a car crash with no memory of what transpired. Everyone who he meets suggests that he is a ruthless man with an aggressive temper. Could he be deliberately blocking out memories of his past?
A young man emerges onto a rural road on foot through a broken guard rail with no memory of what happened or who he is. Based on what people that he encounters infer or tell him, he is wealthy Steve Mallory, got his money by marrying the boss' daughter, neglects his seductive wife Alex Mallory, manages a chinaworks factory called Parsons &amp; Co. that he is contemplating recommending to the company board to sell, and has a quick temper especially during his many drinking spells. Along with Alex, he lives on the Parsons estate with Alex's cousin Oliver Parsons, Oliver's mother Catherine Parsons, and Alex's father Austin Parsons, the company president who is currently in a comatose state from a stroke suffered three months ago. Austin's current state is the reason why Steve assumed the company management. He also finds out that the probable cause of the amnesia is head trauma suffered in a car accident - the reason for the broken guard rail - and that the other passenger in his car, a waitress/party girl named Holly Mitchell who was probably his latest fling, needed to be fished out of the Jenner River below the road, she who is now clinging to life in hospital. The car is still somewhere in the river. Because he was not at the scene when first responders arrived, Steve has not officially been associated with the accident. He is either loved or hated by those that know him, those on the hate side including: Oliver, who resents him as he would have been the heir apparent if Steve, who is from a working class background, wasn't in the picture; Lester Aldrich, a lounge performer, who has some connection to Holly; and Preston, a factory worker with an equally hot temper. With no memory, Steve falls in love with Alex all over again on first sight, and wants to do right regardless of what he was contemplating doing prior to the amnesia. It may not be easy as some may not forgive past incidents, while other try to manipulate him, taking advantage of the fact of the amnesia.

