A trio of female reporters find themselves staying overnight in a house occupied by a hostile being lurking in the basement.
Freelance reporter Jennifer and her two friends, Karen and Vicki, accept an invitation for cheap room and board in a large farmhouse offered by a friendly, but shady, museum owner named Ernest Keller since all the motels in and around town are booked for a holiday parade fair Jennifer is covering. But unknown to the women, some unseen "thing" has been living in the basement of the house for over 20 years and is looked after by Keller and his shy sister Virginia, in which the "thing" soon gets out and begins harassing and killing the women one by one in various violent, but seemingly accidental, means.
Two sisters; Karen and Jennifer, Tony Ross; Jen's disgruntled beau and female reporter Vicki Thompson stumble across siblings Virginia &amp; Ernest Keller allowing with their brother/offspring Junior dwelling beneath the bowels of an ancient former hotel.
After a hotel reservation mix up, two sisters Karen Fast (Karen Lamm) and Jennifer Fast (Barbara Bach), and their friend Vicki Thompson (Lois Young), meet a friendly, but shady character named Ernest Keller (Sydney Lassick) who is the owner of a small town museum. Ernest convinces the three women into accepting an invitation for cheap room and board at his large farmhouse outside of town where his wife Virginia (Leila Goldoni) also lives. Once there, Jennifer and Karen leave for the holiday parade fair which Jennifer, a news reporter, is reporting on. At the festival, Jennifer is met by her soon to be ex-boyfriend, Tony Ross (Douglas Barr), who gets her to stay behind to talk about their relationship.Meanwhile, back at the house, Vicki prepares to take a nap in her room, but she is attacked by an unseen figure. The unseen eventually begins to pull Vicki into a floor vent when she tries to escape. The grate of the vent slams down on her neck, killing her.At the parade, Karen leaves Jennifer and Tony to talk, and makes her way back to the house alone... where she too is then attacked and killed by the unseen, as it attempts to pull her by her scarf through a vent into the basement. Virginia, who had been in the barn slaughtering a chicken, soon after comes inside to find the bodies of both Vicki and Karen.When Ernest arrives back at the house, he finds Virginia in shock. At this point, it is revealed through flashbacks that Virginia and Ernest are, in fact, brother and sister, and that Ernest had murdered his own abusive and sadistic father over 20 years ago in order to maintain the unnatural relationship. It is also revealed that they have an incestual son named 'Junior' who has been kept locked up in the basement; the viewer also learns that Junior is often viciously beaten by Ernest. Ernest then convinces the subservient Virginia, who the viewer now realizes is taken advantage of by Ernest, that Jennifer must be killed upon her return, in order to keep everything under cover.When Jennifer gets back that evening, she is lured into the basement by Ernest, who then locks her inside. She wanders around looking for a way out, only to stumble upon Karen and Vicki's dead bodies. In a panic, she is confronted by Junior (Stephen Furst), who turns out to be a mentally retarded and infantile dirty grown man; at this point, it becomes clear that in all likelihood the Junior did not actually mean to kill Karen and Vicki.Ernest comes into the basement to finish off Jennifer, but Virginia, having had a change of heart, attempts to stop him. Ernest begins attacking Virginia, but Junior, enraged by the sight, intervenes to protect his mother. A fight breaks out between Junior and Ernest, while Jennifer escapes. The fight ends with Ernest gaining advantage over Junior, and knocking him in the head with a broken board containing a sharp, exposed nail, which causes Junior to collapse and die.Ernest then makes his way outside to hunt down and kill Jennifer with a hatchet. Just as she is about to be attacked, Tony pulls-up in his car, sees the commotion, and runs to help her, but trips and falls due to an existing leg injury. However, at the last possible moment, Ernest is shot in the chest from afar by Virginia with a shotgun and died. As Jennifer runs over to Tony, the film ends with Virginia in the basement cradling the dead body of Junior.
