A young man gathers a group of friends and adventurers to help battle an evil sultan.
In the world of Arabian Nights, Abu Amdar (Paul Henreid), head general of the Khalid, who is attacking Damascus, arranges a truce between the city and the Khalid's forces, and the Khalid (John Sutton') is furious. Amdar escapes to help the Persians, a decision prompted by his love for the Damascan Princes Zafir (Helen Gilbert). With the aid of Sheherazade (Jeff Donnell), Alladin (Robert Clary), Sinbad (Lon Chaney Jr., Ali Baba (Philip Van Zandt) and less-than-forty of his thieves, Abu Amdar soon sets things right in old Damascus...and Columbia's back lot.
The Thief of Damascus
Paul Herneid plays The General Abu Amdar
John Sutton plays Khalid
Helen Gilbert plays the Caliphs daughter Princess Zafir
Jeff Donnell plays Sheherazade
Lon Chaney Jr. plays Sinbad
Robert Clary plays Aladdin
Elena Verdugo plays the lady barber NeelaThe movie opens with scenes of Middle Age Soldiers attacking a Middle Age Battlements. Then an introduction to Khalid, the Iron Man who is sweeping across the land and conquering all in his path. An argument about the tactics between Khalid and General ensues. It is learned here that Khalid is only interested in destroying the city. Khalid agrees to his Generals plan. The attack is put into action. At this time another Middle age battle is inserted. The Caliph of Damascus surrenders by sending his daughter to the Generals camp with a flag of truce. At this time we start to see characters from the Arabian Nights Ali Baba, Sinbad, Scheherazade, Aladdin. When the truce is signed by the General and the Caliphs daughter, the General falls in love with the Caliphs daughter. Khalid doe not like the idea of Damascus surrendering because he want to destroy the city. He has the General arrested but the General gets away as Sinbad and Aladdin watch. Khalid sends soldiers after the General. The General having lost his weapon steals one from a sword makes shop. The sword is miraculous, it breaks every other sword. While this is happening Khalid imprisons the Caliph and his daughter. The General breaks into the castle and into the Caliphs daughters room. No one can find the General except for Sinbad and Aladdin. The general, Sinbad and Aladdin make instant friends and conspirators they steal horses and leave the city. The daughter of the Caliph still believes the General has betrayed her. When Khalid arrives at the harem and informs the Caliphs daughter that she is to be Khalids bride.
The General, Sinbad and Aladdin are riding in the desert when they are captured by the Less Than Forty Thieves and are taken to Ali Baba. The General and Ali Baba make plans to arm a force with the Miracle Blade sword. At Ali Babas cave the General runs into an old friend a female barber.
Back in Damascus the General, now shaven, returns and are immediately assailed by the merchant that they stole the horses they are riding from. They scare him into silence and return the horses but making plans to re-steal them later.
The General goes to the sword maker, that make the Miracle Blade, and arranges to have weapons made for the revolt. At the same time the General learns that the Caliphs daughter is to be married to Khalid. He makes plans to steal money from the treasury to pay for the swords. Scheherazade goes to dine with Khalid while the General goes through the kitchen to get to the main palace. This is when the Caliphs daughter and the General fall in love. She gives the General her jewels to finance the rebellion and a secret passage out of the castle.
The General, Sinbad and Aladdin re-steal the horses and head to Ali Babas cave. He decides to let the soldiers following him let him know where they are going and about how to open Ali Babas cave. The guards that were following the General, Sinbad and Aladdin find out the secret to Ali Babas cave.
The female barber then tries to get the General to cross Ali Baba and his men so that she and the General can rule Damascus but the General refuses.
Khalid wakes up the next morning with Scheherazade when the Guards come in and tell Khalid about the cave. Khalid does not believe the guards but decides to go and find out. This is where the Female Barber decides to turn traitor since the General rejects her but is caught by the General and returned to Ali Babas cave. Khalid and his soldiers arrive at Ali Babas cave and makes preparation to wipe out the General, Ali Baba, Sinbad, Aladdin and the less than forty thieves. They open the cave door and enter the cave, then Ali Baba closes the cave for ever.
Khalid then sentences the Caliphs daughter to death in two days and lays a trap to capture the General, Ali Baba, Sinbad, Aladdin, and the less than forty thieves. The general decides to use the Old Wives Tale about hiding in olive oil jars to enter the city.
The day of the execution arrives and Khalid has the trap set. The General, Ali Baba, Sinbad, Aladdin and the less than forty thieves get the new swords and head to the town square for the execution. The Caliphs daughter is brought to the execution platform after several others are beheaded and the General enters the city. She is about to be executed when the people are aroused. Then the General, Sinbad, Ali Baba, Aladdin and the less than forty thieves attack.
Khalid gets a Miracle Blade Sword and heads into the castle. The female Barber has relented and is in the fight but Khalid shoots her with an arrow. The General and Khalid have a sword fight and Khalid is killed.
The General gets the daughter and Aladdin finds his lamp and they live happily ever after
