When a crass new-money tycoon's membership application is turned down at a snooty country club, he retaliates by buying the club and turning it into a tacky amusement park.
Jack Hartounian, a self made man is trying to get into Bushwood County Club because his daughter's being asked by her snooty friends. Jack applies but a few things ruins his application, one that he's extremely boorish and because he is building low cost housing in an affluent neighborhood. Jack then turns to Ty Webb who owns the majority share of the club, Jack buys Ty's shares and then takes over the club and makes some changes which the members don't like. That's when the club members attack Jack by stopping his housing project. Eventually they decide to settle it on the golf course but the club president decides to take contingencies.
Kate Hartounian is a young girl with a snotty rich friend who wants Kate and her father, Jack, to become members at a high-class golf club. Everything is going fine until the current members meet Jack. His application to join is rejected. In retaliation, Jack buys the rights to the club and turns it into an amusement park-type golf club. In order to settle things once and for all, the two sides face off in a golf match.
Kate Hartounian (Jessica Lundy) is the teenage daughter of a wealthy and widowed real estate developer of Armenian and Jewish descent. Eager to improve her lot in life, she makes friends with Miffy Young (Chynna Phillips), a snooty WASP girl, who encourages her and her father to join their country club.Kate and her father, Jack (Jackie Mason), apply for membership at Bushwood Country Club... club from the first movie. Jack is a self-made millionaire, yet remains self-effacing, friendly and generous despite his wealth. His crude personality foils him on many occasions. However, one member, a widow named Elizabeth Pearce (Dyan Cannon), shows a liking to him.When the current members meet Jack, who builds low-income housing in more upscale neighborhoods, his application to join is rejected. The rejection is borne out of his oafish personality and an earlier confrontation with Bushwood's snobbish president (and Miffy's father) Chandler Young's (Robert Stack) wife. Cynthia Young (Dina Merrill) had tried unsuccessfully to persuade Jack to build his housing complex away from her neighborhood, but her less-than-subtle snobbery leads Jack to chase Cynthia with a bulldozer. It's actions like these that build a divide between Jack and Kate.Meanwhile, Ty Webb (Chevy Chase) returns, this time as the club's majority share owner, and while he admires Jack, he prefers to stay out of the way Jack's business and of the club's day-to-day operations.The elitist members of Bushwood reject Jack's membership application and pull strings to suspend his housing operation. In retaliation, Jack buys the majority stock to Bushwood from Ty and turns it into an amusement park. Chandler, incensed at the thought of a mere "nouveau-riche" individual getting the better of him, hires Captain Tom Everett (Dan Aykroyd) (who code-names Chandler Mrs. Esterhaus), a shell-shocked mercenary operating out of a lunch wagon, to "discourage" Jack from building any more structures on Bushwood property. The bumbling Everett decides to use explosive golf balls to do this.Meanwhile, Chandler uses his lawyers and connections to shut down Jack's housing construction site. Webb suggests that the dispute should be resolved like gentlemen, by facing each other in a golf match. If Chandler wins, Jack loses his construction site and the country club, and if Jack wins, he keeps the Bushwood and the housing project.At the climatic golf match, despite Jack's poor performance early in the match, with luck he ties the match before the final hole. However, during the hole, Jack is faced with a 50-foot putt, while Chandler faces a simple 2 foot putt. Using advice given to him by Webb before the match, Jack manages to use spiritual chanting and the adage "be the ball" to sink the nearly impossible putt. Chandler needs to sink the easy 2 foot putt to tie the match. Meanwhile, Everett, who foolishly shoots himself in the buttocks with a poison dart, fails to eliminate Jack as a gopher (the same mischievous gopher from the first film) steals his explosive ball. The mischievous gopher replaces Chandler's ball with the explosive ball, and as his family encouragingly crowds around him as he taps in his final swing, the ball bursts and Jack wins the match.Though Kate is embarrassed by her father's actions, she is still loyal to him, as evidenced when she commiserates to Miffy, who suggests that she change her last name from Hartounian to Hart. Bewildered at the thought of turning her back on her family name, Kate turns her back on Miffy and makes up with her father. Also, Jack finally asks Elizabeth out on a date, and she accepts.
