What would happen if a sex drug ended up in the Secret Sauce of a new burger joint?
Auggie and his friend, Drew are a couple of 'perpetual' college students - their school's so sick of them, there going to let them graduate, just to get rid of them. Augie's trying to 'make it big - fast' (the proverbial 'easy way'), and his latest scheme is to open a burger joint, and to help entice customers, the duo develop a very very very special sauce. But, even though their place seems too be a huge success, there's an odd side effect; the special sauce is actually a libido-enhancing drug, and that's where the trouble begins...
Auggie wants to make it big and has tried pretty much everything in order to do so. His next idea: turn his cousin's garage into a burger joint. To make it appealing, they develop a very very very special sauce. But beware, the king of fast food, Wrangler Bob, is out to get them...
Drew and Auggie are party animals, allowed to graduate from college (just to get rid of them). They want to start a business. When Wrangler Bob (played by Jim Varney) tries to buy out Samantha's old gas station for a new burger joint. The boys beat him too it, but lose in the competition until Drew steals a special fluid from a science lab that is actually a sex drug. When their "Secret Sauce" is released, the customers pile up around the clock. Wranlger Bob tries desperatly to find out what is in that sauce. Even if it means sending former porn star Traci Lords in to investigate.
Auggie Hamilton (Clarke Brandon) and his college friends throw a "casino night" party to raise money for the "Kappa Kappa" fraternity. To guarantee success, Auggie "fixes" all the slot machines. He takes a freshman girl to his room, plies her with beer, and they become amorous, but she notices her sister's picture on the ceiling, mounted as a trophy of Auggie's sexual conquest. The girl runs out of the room naked, and unwittingly falls into the hands of her father, college Dean Witter (Don Ferguson). Enraged, the dean barges into the recreation room and discovers Auggie's partner in crime, Drew Taylor (Randal Patrick), bagging cash. As Witter orders them to close down the event, and be in his office in the morning, Auggie hands over his daughter's panties.Later, Auggie and Drew seduce two girls at "Wrangler Bob's" burger restaurant and take them to a laboratory, where Dr. Duran (Julie Ridley) is conducting sleep studies on men who suffer "priapism," a state of prolonged erection. The youths are thrown out of the lab when one of the girls pulls a sheet off the subjects to take a look.The next morning, Dean Witter forces Auggie and Drew to graduate after their extended, nine-year college career. Drew is despondent, but Auggie reminds him they have started hundreds of businesses while in college, and can do it in the real world. Across town, "Wrangler Bob" Bundy (Jim Varney), owner of the Wrangler Bob's burger franchise, tells his assistant, E.G. McCormick (Blake Clark), that he has found a filling station located near the college, and orders him to buy it at any price.The bankrupt business belongs to Drew's cousin, Samantha "Sam" Brooks (Tracy Griffith), and she considers the deal, but Drew and Auggie protest, claiming it is the perfect location for a fast food restaurant. Sam is wary of Auggie's harebrained, often illegal schemes, and refuses his proposition.That night, there is an explosion in Dr. Duran's laboratory. As Duran's assistant, Calvin (Lanny Horn), telephones for an ambulance, Duran tears off her clothes, throws him on the desk, and seduces him.The next morning, Auggie gets Calvin to hack into the college's alumni database and finds a bank loan officer that was once a member of the Kappa fraternity. He is willing to make the loan for the restaurant, on condition that Sam wagers the filling station as collateral. Although Sam continues to refuse Drew and Auggie's business proposal, she overhears Wrangler Bob bad-mouthing her father to E. G. McCormick, and decides to take revenge.As the friends plan their restaurant, Sam's mechanic, Bud, suggests keeping the theme of a "service station," and they agree to name the establishment, "Pop's Burger Station." With the help of their fraternity brothers, Auggie and Drew renovate the shop to look like a 1950s gas station, but Sam is annoyed by their failure to consult her. Auggie orders Calvin to discover the secret recipe of Wrangler Bob's sauce. He learns it is a batch of chemicals and makes his own concoction, consisting of ketchup, mayonnaise, and chocolate syrup.Meanwhile, Wrangler Bob threatens to drive Pop's Burger Station out of business. After an opening week with few customers, business improves when Mary Beth Bensen (Pamela Springsteen), president of a sorority, hires Pop's Burger Station to cater her cotillion. Auggie takes the job without consulting Sam, and she drops a milkshake over his head in protest.The next day, Auggie goes to the lab to get Calvin's secret sauce and learns his friend has isolated a powerful inhibition suppressor from Dr. Duran's "priapism" research. When Calvin turns his back, Auggie tosses some of the potion into the sauce. Later, the sauce is served at the sorority party, and the staid cotillion turns into a wild bacchanal. Sam throws herself on Auggie and declares she has lusted after him for years.After an evening of drinking and lovemaking, Sam awakens and slaps Auggie for taking advantage of her. Later, Auggie confesses to Calvin that he added the love potion to the sauce, and convinces him to make more. Soon, the town flocks to Pop's Burger Station. However, Drew insists they cannot drug their customers and forbids Auggie from using the potion.Learning of the success at Pop's Burger Station, Wrangler Bob telephones a redheaded temptress named Dixie Love (Traci Lords) to infiltrate the restaurant as a waitress. She quickly gets Bud to reveal the secret of the sauce. After the restaurant closes for the night, Auggie finds Dixie sampling the concoction. She rips off her clothes and attacks in a fit of lust. Auggie hears Sam coming and shoves Dixie into a freezer. As Sam apologizes to Auggie, Dixie resurfaces, and drives away in anger.When Dixie recovers her senses, she steals a sample of the sauce and gives it to Wrangler Bob. He calls the Food and Drug Administration, who close the restaurant and inform Sam there will be a hearing to decide if she will be prosecuted for drugging the burgers. Auggie tries to explain, but Sam tells him she never wants to see him again. After she runs away, Auggie reveals that the first payment to the bank is due, and that he forged Sam's signature to put the restaurant up as collateral.The next morning, Sam and Drew are surprised to see Wrangler Bob at the hearing. He offers to help them, if Sam will sell her restaurant. Inside, Sam is mortified when Auggie claims to be her lawyer. Auggie calls himself as the first witness and confesses that he put the love potion in the sauce. Dr. Duran testifies that the drug may lower inhibitions, but it cannot make someone do something he does not want to do. All ingredients are natural and legal. When Auggie asks about Wrangler Bob's supposedly "all-natural" sauce, Duran reports it is made from artificial chemicals. The judge rules that the Pop's Burger Station sauce is legal and throws the case out of court.Wrangler Bob offers Dr. Duran $1 million for her recipe, but she explains the formula was a fluke. Wrangler Bob grabs the last remaining jar, but the judge hits him with his gravel, causing him to drop the container, and a plume of smoke is released. Auggie ushers his friends out of the courtroom before an orgy breaks out. Sam declares she should never speak to Auggie again, but kisses him.
