A gang of thieves lure a man out of his home so that they can rob it and threaten his wife and children. The family barricade themselves in an interior room, but the criminals are well-equipped for breaking in. When the father finds out what is happening, he must race against time to get back home.
Mr. Robert Cullison resides in a very beautiful country villa, far removed from contiguous neighbors, and about twenty miles from the city. He is expecting a visit from his mother, who is to arrive in the city from the West the next morning. The intelligence is learned by a couple of crooks, who plan to get Cullison away over night by sending him a fake letter by an apparently idiotic country bumpkin which reads: "Robert, Have taken an earlier train. Will arrive in New York 10:30 P. M. Meet me with car. Mother." He gets ready, as it is now nearly 8 o'clock, and while he is bidding adieu to his wife and three young children, the bumpkin is taking in the place under the pretense of dozing in the doorway. Realizing he is leaving them alone, he warns "his wife to be sure to fasten the doors and windows securely, also leaving her a revolver from which the disguised bumpkin slyly extracts the cartridges. Off he goes and is not out of sight when the crooks begin their work. Bursting in the front door with a bar they alarm the folks and throw them into a dreadful panic, as they feel their abject helplessness. Out on the road we see the husband speeding further away from them, when suddenly his machine becomes disabled and he is obliged to halt at a roadside inn. Here an idea strikes him to telephone his wife of his possible delay, when in answer he receives the alarming cries of his terrified wife intermingled with the thumping of the burglars, who are slowly but surely breaking their way into the sitting-room. He reminds her of the pistol, but alas it is empty and harmless. Back and forth go the wailings of the wife and the encouraging words of the husband; suddenly all is still. The burglar has cut the wire. Rushing out of the inn he finds his auto far from available, so he calls a policeman and they enlist the services of a gypsy wagon. Up the road they go at a breakneck speed, and during all this time the burglars are working from room to room, getting closer and closer to the frightened little family, who has as the last stand huddled in the library. Crash goes the door, in leap the sinister dogs, but at the same time in rushes the husband with the police and friends, so the burglars will have ample time to taunt each other with "I told you so."

