The discovery of a massive river of ectoplasm and a resurgence of spectral activity allows the staff of Ghostbusters to revive the business.
Having lost their status and credibility five years after covering New York City with marshmallow in Ghostbusters (1984), the once-famous band of spirit-hunters find themselves struggling to keep afloat, working odd jobs. However, when Dana Barrett and her baby, Oscar, have yet another terrifying encounter with the paranormal, it's up to Peter Venkman and his fearless team of supernatural crime-fighters to save the day. Now, once more, humanity is in danger, as rivers of slimy psycho-reactive ectoplasm, and the dreadful manifestation of the evil sixteenth-century tyrant, Vigo the Carpathian, threaten to plunge the entire city into darkness unless the selfless Ghostbusters take action. Can they save the world for the second time?
Five years after the events of the first film, the Ghostbusters have been plagued by lawsuits and court orders, and their once-lucrative business is bankrupt. But when Dana has ghost problems again, the boys come out of retirement and are promptly arrested. The Ghostbusters discover that New York is once again headed for supernatural doom, with a river of ectoplasmic slime bubbling beneath the city and an ancient sorcerer attempting to possess Dana's baby and be reborn. Can the Ghostbusters quell the negative emotions feeding the otherworldly threat and stop the world from being slimed?
Five years after the battle against Gozer, a restraining order has forbidden Peter Venkman, Ray Stantz, Winston Zeddemore, and Egon Spengler from working as Ghostbusters, so they've found other jobs. Ray owns a bookstore, "Ray's Occult," and performs at children's birthday parties with Winston. Egon conducts experiments at the Institute For Advanced Theoretical Research. Dana broke up with Peter and married another man, and Peter Peter now hosts a local TV show, "The World of the Psychic". Dana, now the divorced mother of an 8-month-old baby named Oscar, works in the restoration department at the Manhattan Museum of Art. Strange things start happening when Oscar's baby carriage takes off by itself with him in it and it stops in the middle of 1st Avenue. While Dana's boss, Janosz Poha, is restoring a painting of a 16th-century tyrant named Vigo Von Homburg Deutschendorf, the painting comes to life. Vigo wants to live again by taking over Oscar's body. Vigo takes complete control of Janosz and orders Janosz to get Dana to cooperate. Janosz has his own agenda: he's in love with Dana. When Peter, Ray, and Egon try to help Dana, they are arrested and put on trial for violating the restraining order. When the ghosts of the killer Scoleri Brothers invade the courtroom, the judge is forced to remove the restraining order against the guys so they can put the Scoleri Brothers in a ghost trap. After this, Peter, Ray, Egon, and Winston re-open Ghostbusters, and mayor's assistant Jack Hardemeyer tries to slow them down however he can, because he believes that the Ghostbusters are frauds who will hurt the mayor's chances of becoming the governor of New York. The Ghostbusters and their lawyer, Louis Tully, refuse to be stopped by Jack. When Jack has the Ghostbusters put in the Parkview Mental Hospital, there is an eclipse and Janosz kidnaps Oscar for Vigo. The mayor wants the Ghostbusters on the job, and when the mayor hears that Jack had the Ghostbusters committed, he fires Jack and has the Ghostbusters released to try to rescue Oscar from Vigo, which Vigo intends to make as difficult as possible.
Sidelined for five years since they spectacularly rescued New York City from destruction. the superstars of the supernatural spring back into action when the infant son of single mother Dana Barrett becomes the target of a powerful demonic force. Reunited with the no-nonsense Zeddemore, nerdy nearsighted Louis, and their ever-industrious secretary Janine, the heroes of the hereafter must put a stop to an enormous underground river of slime ready to rot the roots of the entire Big Apple. Now, if your hometown was on the verge of being sucked down into the 10th level of Hell, who else would you call?
After saving New York City from the demi-god Gozer, the Ghostbusters (Egon Spengler, Ray Stantz, Peter Venkman, and Winston Zeddemore) are sued for the property damage they caused, and barred from investigating the supernatural, forcing them out of business. Ray owns an occult bookstore and works as an unpopular children's entertainer with Winston, Egon works in a laboratory at Columbia University conducting experiments into human emotion, and Peter hosts a pseudo-psychic television show. Peter's former girlfriend Dana Barrett has had a son, Oscar, with an ex-husband, and works as a restorer at the Manhattan Museum of Art. After an incident in which Oscar's baby carriage is controlled by an unseen force and drawn to a busy junction, Dana turns to the Ghostbusters for help. Meanwhile, Dana's colleague Dr. Janosz Poha is indoctrinated by the spirit of Vigo the Carpathian, a powerful seventeenth-century tyrant and magician trapped in a painting in the gallery. Vigo orders Janosz to locate a child that Vigo can possess, allowing him to return to life on the New Year.The Ghostbusters' investigation leads them to illegally excavate First Avenue at the point where the baby carriage stopped. Lowered underneath, Ray discovers a river of pink slime filling an abandoned pneumatic transit line. Attacked by the slime after obtaining a sample, Ray accidentally causes a city-wide blackout, and the Ghostbusters are arrested. They are found guilty of investigating the supernatural, but before they can be taken away, the slime taken as evidence reacts to the judge's angry outburst and explodes, releasing two ghosts that proceed to devastate the courtroom. The Ghostbusters imprison the ghosts in exchange for the dismissal of all charges and that they be allowed to resume their Ghostbusting business.Later, the slime invades Dana's apartment and attacks her and Oscar. She seeks refuge with Peter, and the two begin to renew their relationship. Investigating the slime and Vigo's history, the Ghostbusters discover that the slime reacts to emotions, and suspect that it has been generated by the negative attitudes of New Yorkers. While Peter and Dana have dinner together, Egon, Ray, and Winston explore the underground river of slime. While measuring the depth, Winston gets pulled into the flowing river, and Ray and Egon jump in after him. After they escape back to the surface Ray and Winston begin arguing, but Egon realizes that they are being influenced by the slime, so they strip off their clothes. They also learn the river is flowing directly to the museum.The Ghostbusters go to the mayor with their suspicions, but are dismissed; the mayor's assistant, Jack Hardemeyer, has them committed to a psychiatric hospital to protect the mayor's interests as he runs for governor. Meanwhile, a spirit resembling Janosz in the form of a nanny kidnaps Oscar from Peter's apartment, and Dana pursues them to the museum alone. After she enters, the museum is covered with a barrier of impenetrable slime.New Year's Eve sees a sudden increase of supernatural activity as the slime rises from the subway line and onto the city streets, causing widespread paranormal activity with ghosts attacking citizens. In response, the mayor fires Hardemeyer and has the Ghostbusters released. After heading to the museum, they are unable to breach the power of the slime barrier with their proton packs. Determining that they need a symbol of powerful positivity to rally the citizens and weaken the slime, the Ghostbusters use positively-charged mood slime, and a remix of "Higher and Higher" to animate the Statue of Liberty and pilot it through the streets before the cheering populace. As they arrive at the museum, the slime begins to recede and they use the Statue's torch to break through the museum's ceiling to attack Vigo and Janosz.Janosz is neutralized with positively-charged slime, but Vigo immobilizes the Ghostbusters and attempts a transfer into Oscar's body. A chorus of "Auld Lang Syne" by the citizens outside weakens Vigo, returning him to the painting and freeing the Ghostbusters. Vigo, now a grotesque beast, momentarily possesses Ray, and the other Ghostbusters attack him with a combination of proton streams and positively-charged mood slime. Dressed in full Ghostbusters attire, Louis attacks the weakened slime barrier around the building with a proton stream of his own. This combination destroys Vigo and changes the painting to a likeness of the four Ghostbusters standing protectively around Oscar. Outside, the Ghostbusters receive a standing ovation from the crowd and, at a later ceremony to restore the Statue, the Key to the City from the mayor.
