A performer and gambler travels to New York City to raise the $25,000 he needs to marry his fiancée, only to become entangled with a beautiful aspiring dancer.
Lucky is tricked into missing his wedding to Margaret by the other members of Pop's magic and dance act, and has to make $25000 to be allowed to marry her. He and Pop go to New York where they run into Penny, a dancing instructor. She and Lucky form a successful dance partnership, but romance is blighted (till the end of the film at least!) by his old attachment to Margaret and hers for Ricardo, the band leader who won't play for them to dance together.
The dancer and gambler Lucky Garnett misses his wedding with Margaret Watson due to a prank of the other performers and his future father-in-law calls off the ceremony. When Lucky arrives at his fiancée's home, he promises to make US$ 25,000 to be allowed to marry her. Lucky travels to New York by train with his friend and magician Pop Cardetti and he stumbles with the dance instructor Penny Carroll on the streets of the big city. He follows her to the dance academy and they team-up in the end. When they are ready to dance together in an elegant club, Penny's former affair and conductor of the orchestra Ricky Romero (Georges Metaxa) refuses to play for them. Meanwhile Lucky wins lots of money gambling and Penny falls in love with him. Lucky decides to stop gambling in order to NOT raise US$ 25,000. But when Margaret arrives in the club to see his show, Lucky has to take a decision about his previous commitment with Margaret and his true love with Penny.
After professional dancer Lucky Garnett arrives so late for his wedding that all of the guests have left, the bride's father tells him he can only marry his daughter if he can demonstrate that he can make money and take care of her. They agree that $25,000 would be a reasonable sum and Lucky heads off to New York City. There he meets a dance instructor, Penny Carroll. They soon have a successful nightclub act and as they fall in love, they find themselves held back by their commitments to significant others. It all works out in the end.

