An angel on Earth, a doctor unable to believe, a patient with a secret, a love story made in Heaven.
Seth is an angel who accompanies the spirits of the recently dead to the ever after. Seth has never been human and so has never experienced touch or taste. When in the hospital however he comes across Dr. Maggie Rice, a brilliant young heart surgeon who is devoted to her profession and her patients. Seth has the power to let himself be seen but Maggie finds him far too mysterious. Seth also meets a patient, Nathaniel Messinger, who has news for him - he too was once an angel like Seth but chose to fall to Earth and become human. Seth makes a decision on his future, which does not turn out as he had expected.
Los Angeles, California. Seth is an angel who passes the eternity taking the souls of the recent deceased to move them to Heaven. With his partner Cassiel shares memories and experiences that the deceased tale him, pointing it in his notebook. Invisibles to the human eye, Seth and the rest of his celestial race protect humans of the danger as unfeeling duty, helping us to suffocate bad thoughts and increase the good feelings. Therefore, one day the quiet and peaceful existence of Seth changes after he goes to a hospital to collect the soul of a man who is being operated by Dr. Maggie Rice, a rational woman without faith nor supernatural beliefs. Believing that she looked him straightly to the eyes while Maggie tried unsuccessfully save her patient's life, Seth falls in love with her and decides to appear as human being to meet her, puzzled about the humans. At the same time Seth meets another Maggie's patient, Nathaniel Messinger, after Maggie takes wrongly Seth as friend of him, but things complicate for Seth when learns that Maggie has a relation with a job partner, Dr. Jordan Ferris. It's then when Nathaniel reveals Seth his greatest secret: he was an angel who time ago renounced to it by love and "fell" to Earth to live as human being to marry with Teresa and make a family. It creates in Seth a doubt: continue existing as angel or turn himself in human falling as Nathaniel did. But would a woman without faith love to an angel turned in human?
Seth, an angel watching over Los Angeles, begins finding his job difficult as he falls in love with Maggie, a beautiful heart surgeon. She becomes interested in Seth, and soon his not-quite-mortal state seems a barrier rather than a gift. A choice must be made between celestial duty and earthly love.
Angels are among us and when we feel an invisible presence, you better believe they are watching you. For a Los Angeles heart surgeon named Maggie, that is too much of a stretch. She believes that it is her job to save the lifes of her patients and when she meets Seth after visiting hours are over, he tells her it's simply just their time to go. She becomes intrigued by his presence and opinion. Seth is not just normal, he is an Angel. He meets Messinger while visiting patients. Messinger can see him because he was once a Angel but gave his power up to become human. This makes Seth want to become human so he can feel, smell, and love Maggie.

