Rahul Malhotra (Aamir Khan) is the manager of the heavily in debt family business. He is also the guardian of his dead sister's mischievous kids. Rahul hires Vaijayanti (Juhi Chawla) as governess. Vaijayanti is a runaway from home as she does not want to marry the man her orthodox family has chosen for her. Predictably, Rahul and Vaijayanti fall in love. Maya (Navneet Nishan), a rich girl in love with Rahul tries to ruin his family and his business.
Bachelor Rahul Malhotra gets news that his sister and her husband meet with an accident resulting in their death which made him quit his studies to take care of 3 of his sister's children, 2 nephews and 1 niece. Meanwhile the family's lawyer briefed him about the children's inheritance which includes a garment factory but until the children come of age he must take up the responsibility of maintaining this factory. His attempts to level business tactics and bringing up the children only lead to frustration especially when no maid servant is prepared to work at his home since they are subjected to physical abuse in the hands of the 3 children while his challenge increases with the factory's "Japanese" trained manager, Bhagwati Prasad Mishra. Meanwhile the children manage to run-away to a fair only to meet up with Vaijanti Iyer a young woman who run-away from home to avoid marrying the man her dad chooses for her. The children then sneaks Vaijanti into their home; when all is revealed to Rahul he decides to make Vaijanti the children's governess but Rahul faces a major challenge of a lifetime when an admirer of his, Maya is willing to liquidate his business using her father's Bijlani wealth since he refuses to marry her.
After death of his sister and husband Rahul is given custody of their three kids Sunny ,Vicky ,Munni and also their garment business.The kids are so mischievous that no care taker is willing to live in the house.Once Rahul locks the kids in house for being naughty .Vijayanti's father wants her to marry a classical dancer Natrajan she manages to run from the house and meets the three kids in a far who later hide her from Rahul in the same house but not for long.Rahul's garment company has a pending order of 1 Lakh shirts with Bijalni which he finds it difficult to complete.But Rahul agrees to marry Maya daughter of Bijlani for betterment of kids and to save his business.Vijayanti whose now working as care taker for kids has developed feelings for Rahul and with the help of kids break his engagement.Bijalni cant take this and decides to destroy Rahul's and his company.
Rahul (Aamir Khan) has just heard of the death of his sister and brother-in-law. He has to look after their three kids, Sunny, Muni and Vicky. They are hell. One day the kids sneak out to the fair and they come across Vayjanti (Juhi Chawla). Vayjanti has run away from home and the kids suggest that she stay at their place without their mama knowing. Will their plan work out?
Bachelor Rahul Malhotra (Aamir Khan) has just heard the news of the tragic passing of his sister and brother-in-law, through their lawyer (Tiku Talsania). He has inherited their business; two sons and a daughter. He finds the business in chaos under the "Japanese" trained Manager, Bhagwati Prasad Mishra (Mushtaq Khan), and the nephews and nieces - uncontrollable. His efforts to make sense of the business are met with even more challenges; and his efforts to find a suitable nanny are frustrated with one nanny after another quitting after being subjected to abuse at the hands of the three children. One day the children sneak out to a fair, and meet with runaway, Vaijanti Iyer (Juhi Chawla), who has refused to marry the man of her father's choice. The children and Vaijanti make a hit with each other, and they sneak her into Rahul's house. With the three, Rahul's hands were full, now with the fourth addition, how is Rahul to handle his life; his love-life with Maya (Navneet Nishan); the business; and Mr. Mishra?

