The story of a hitman who kills for the mob, but on one job he falls madly in love with a girl, who happens to be the beautiful daughter of an associate.
Tells the story of a feared hit man named Karan, who kills for the mobster Gajraj. On one assignment, Karan meets and falls madly in love with Kajal, the beautiful daughter of an associate. After initial resistance, the pure and innocent Kajal finds herself reciprocating Karan's feelings, and the two must find a way to get around the objections of Kajal's overprotective father, who tries to force her to marry another man.
Ramakant Sahay returns from America along with his son, Rajnath alias Raju to settle in India, and to get Raju married to his childhood friend, Prof. Sidhant Sharma's daughter, Kajal. The wedding ceremony takes place and thereafter Raju and Kajal go abroad for a honeymoon. When they return, Raju is asked by his dad and uncle, Gajraj Choudhary, to take over their family business under the name of Rajnath Shipping Corporation. Shortly thereafter Kajal becomes pregnant, much to Raju's joy. This joy turns sour when Raju finds out that his dad and his uncle have raised their business empire through sale of illegal activities namely drugs, arms, and illicit liquor. He decides to oppose this tooth and nail and even leaves the business and his dad's house. When Gajraj attempts to reason with him, Raju shuns him too, leaving Gajraj with no alternative but to have Raju killed. The contract is given to dreaded hit-man Karan - who was once the love of Kajal - and Karan who now has two reasons for killing Raju - and Karan has never failed in any job that has been assigned to him.
Homeless and orphan Karan works as a dreaded gangster for Gajraj Choudhary in return for a fee. Gajraj heads a vast criminal empire consisting of ammunition, illicit alcohol and drugs smuggling. When Karan goes to kill a man, Prof. Sidhant Sharma, he falls in love with his daughter Kajal. When he finds that Kajal is not showing him attention he decides to follow her until she eventually begins to love him wholeheartedly. Kajal convinces Karan to give up his criminal ways which he does but the couple's romantic relationship goes over board when Kajal's childhood friend Rajnath alias Raju returns form the U.S.A and asks her dad for her hand in marriage.

