The true story of how a group of African American pilots overcame racist opposition to become one of the finest US fighter groups in World War II
During the Second World War, a special project is begun by the US Army Air Corps to integrate African American pilots into the Fighter Pilot Program. Known as the "Tuskegee Airman" for the name of the airbase at which they were trained, these men were forced to constantly endure harassement, prejudice, and much behind the scenes politics until at last they were able to prove themselves in combat.
Historical drama about the first Africa-American pilots in the US military. In 1942, a group of college graduates are selected for training as pilots in Army Air Corps at the Tuskegee training base. In what is billed by everyone as an "experiment", the men face not only the institutionalized prejudice of their white officers but that generally found in the US South at the time. There are clearly those who would like to see this fail, including the Major in charge of training and a US Senator. Even when they distinguish themselves in North Africa, there is an attempt to disband them. In the end, they served their country with distinction and bravery, flying missions in Europe include providing bomber escort for the bombing of Berlin. Based on a true story.
A semi-fictionalized account of the Tuskegee Airmen, the first all-African-American Air Force squadron during World War II, the film centers on ambitious young pilot Hannibal Lee. Despite initial reticence by higher ranking white officers, Lee, along with Walter Peoples, Leroy Cappy, and others, are deployed into combat. As the successful missions mount, the Tuskegee Airmen develop a reputation as an able, fearsome group of pilots.
In WWII, the Tuskegee army airfield was where the first 'colored' army fighter pilots were trained. This dramatization of real events follows one man, Hannibal Lee, through training to impossibly high standards, Congressional maneuvering, months of no air-combat action, and finally acceptance and decoration as one of the 332nd Fighter Group, who never lost a bomber to enemy action.

