During the war in Bosnia, two childhood friends eventually become enemies, as the tragic and devastating circumstances of the war put them on the opposite sides and expose the most gruesome and cruel aspects of the human nature.
At the Belgrade army hospital, casualties of Bosnian civil war are treated. In the hospital they remember their youth and the war. Two young boys, Halil, a Muslim, and Milan, a Serb, have grown up together near a deserted tunnel linking the Yugoslav cities of Belgrade and Zagreb. They never dare go inside, as they believe an ogre resides there. Twelve years later, during the Bosnian civil war, Milan, who is trapped in the tunnel with his troop, and Halil, find themselves on opposing sides, fatefully heading toward confrontation.
Two boyhood friends, a Muslim (Halil) and Serb (Milan) , end up on opposite sides of the fence, during the Bosnian/Serb War. Through flashbacks, we are told the story of their friendship growing up together, and the events that lead to a final confrontation between the two, as Velja leads Muslim forces against a Serb squad Milan is assigned to, trapped in a tunnel, with an American reporter, the two friends use to play in as children. More flashbacks ensue as the reporter interviews the Serbian soldiers, their stories being told on how and why they are fighting this war. In the end, Velja and Milan come face to face, racial hatred for each other running amok, brought about by the horrors of the war both sides have endured.
While lying wounded in a hospital, a Bosnian Serb named Milan goes through flashbacks of his childhood and different scenes of the war in Bosnia that started in 1992. He and his best friend Halil, a Muslim fighting on the other side, were best friends their whole life and are now fighting on opposite sides. Besides him different characters are shown, and what they did before the war. We are able to see the normal life of a drug addict, a thief or a simple farmer, and how or why they joined the war.

