A straight-A teen explores Portland's rock scene.
Andrea Marr is a bright, straight-A, mature, 18-year-old high school senior on the verge of womanhood who decides to abandon her sheltered, boring lifestyle and her bookish friend Darcy for a look into the local rock and roll scene as a groupie to local rock singer Tod Sparrow and learn more about the life of one who follows a touring band along with her new friends aspiring rock star wannabee Cybil, outgoing fellow groupie Rebecca, and music critic Kevin.
Andrea Marr (Dominique Swain) is a bright, straight-A, 18-year-old high school senior living a sheltered life in rural Washington state. Being an only child of two older parents both in their 60s, her father and mother (James Karen and Rosemary Forsyth) pamper her every chance they get. Even though Mr. and Mrs. Marr are good-natured and treat Andrea very well, she longs for something more with people her own age. Andrea has two close friends, the bookish Darcy (Selma Blair) and the rebellious, aspiring rock star Cybil (Tara Reid). Andrea is insecure and confused at her budding sexuality as well as both of her parents, including her mother, unwilling to talk about the topic of sex.In pursuit of becoming "women", Andrea and Darcy attend a college frat party in attempts to lose their virginity. Both are unsuccessful, and Andrea ends up passing out and waking up with a frat boy masturbating on top of her.Upon learning of her acceptance to Brown University, Andrea finds she hasn't had many life experiences. So she ventures into the local rock scene with classmate and groupie Rebecca (Summer Phoenix), to watch Cybil and her band, which is made up of two other classmates Richard (Christopher Masterson) and Greg (David Moscow). There she meets local rock singer Todd Sparrow (Sean Patrick Flanery) and becomes enamored with him. Andrea loses her virginity to a guy named Kevin (Channon Roe) whom she also met at the show, but found the experience disappointing.Later, Andrea finds Todd at a record store and accompanies him back to his older sister Carla's (Portia De Rossi) apartment where they have sex. After, Todd leaves abruptly to go to band practice, leaving Andrea upset, but also obsessed with him. Andrea begins to neglect her friends, particularly Darcy, who is suffering from an eating disorder, in her pursuit of Todd.In the meantime, Cybil reveals to Andrea that she's dropping out of High School because she got a record deal to become a full time rock singer and composer. However, the record deal was only offered to her and not to Richard and Greg. Richard is upset, but ultimately accepting of it, whereas Gregg becomes severely depressed. Cybil and her new band open for Todd's band and Andrea goes to the show. At the show, Andrea and Todd reunite and Andrea becomes Todd's groupie, and they get together often to have sex. Todd eventually breaks things off to go on tour, leaving Andrea heartbroken.Graduation comes along, and Andrea is very somber. Unbeknownst to her, Todd came to the ceremony and watches her from the parking lot before driving off. Andrea finds a crying Richard at graduation and learns that Greg committed suicide. Andrea goes to the class graduation party with Rebecca.At the party, Rebecca soon leaves claiming that "this party blows". Andrea goes upstairs and finds Darcy making herself throw up in the bathroom. Andrea apologizes to Darcy about neglecting her and makes her promise to seek treatment for her eating disorder which Darcy agrees to. Darcy reveals that she was very jealous of Andrea because she appeared to have everything. Andrea helps Darcy clean up. When they leave the bathroom, Andrea and Darcy get accosted by a classmate who often used to bully Richard and Greg. Richard intervenes, and reveals his longtime crush on Darcy, and asks her to dance, which Darcy agrees. Andrea watches Darcy and Richard dance, then gets approached by Cybil, who showed up to the party. Outside, Cybil expresses regret and sadness over Greg's suicide and says that she feels responsible. Andrea consoles her, and Cybil reveals her feelings for Andrea by kissing her on the lips (revealing that Cybil is a lesbian). Andrea is surprised, and even though she doesn't reciprocate those feelings, she allows Cybil to kiss her anyway. Andrea leaves the party alone.After the party, Andrea walks around for a while thinking about everything that's happened, and encounters Todd. They go back to his apartment to talk, and Todd opens up to Andrea. He apologizes for treating her so badly and tells her that he can't go on tour without her and that he needs her. Andrea reveals to him that she's going to Brown in the fall and Todd is surprised at how smart she actually is. They attempt to have sex, but they can't because Todd is unable to get an erection. Andrea leaves, breaking things off with Todd for good.In the final scene, Andrea says goodbye to her parents and leaves for college, declaring herself a woman, and hopeful for her future.
