This ultra-hip, post-modern vampire tale is set in contemporary New York City. Members of a dysfunctional family of vampires are trying to come to terms with each other, in the wake of their father's death. Meanwhile, they are being hunted by Dr. Van Helsing and his hapless nephew. As in all good vampire movies, forces of love are pitted against forces of destruction.
Count Voivoide Arminius Chousescu Dracula dies with a stake in his
heart,and his daughter Nadja [Elina Löwensohn] shows up to claim the body, hoping that his
death will free her from the life her father has forced on her. She has
the body cremated and prepares to take the ashes to Brooklyn and pay a
visit to her twin brother Edgar [Jared Harris] whom she hasn't seen for a long time.
Before she leaves, however, she stops for a drink and meets Lucy [Galaxy Craze]. Lucy is
also feeling a sense of emptiness, so she takes Nadja home. They appear to
cheer each other up, and they wind up having sex together.So, who killed Dracula? Van Helsing [Peter Fonda], of course. And Helsing's nephew
Jim [Martin Donovan], who also happens to be Lucy's husband, has to bail him out of jail.
Helsing knows that, if Dracula's body is not destroyed properly, he'll be
back. When Helsing learns that Dracula's body has been removed from the
morgue, he enlists Jim's help.Meanwhile, Nadja goes to visit Edgar and meets his nurse and live-in
lover Cassandra [Suzy Amis]. Edgar is sick. Nadja pursuades Cassandra to move Edgar to
her apartment where she can help him by transfusing him with plasma from
the blood of shark embryoes, which is what Nadja uses to stay healthy.
Edgar revives enough to drink some of Nadja's blood.
However, Lucy has fallen under Nadja's mesmerism. She leads both Jim
and Van Helsing to Edgar's house where Nadja is staying with her renfield.
Edgar awakens long enough to warn Cassandra to leave the house,
as she is in danger. Cassandra, who just happens to be Van Helsing's
daughter, attempts to escape, with Nadja pursuing her, Lucy pursuing
Nadja, and Jim pursuing Lucy. Cassandra runs into a gas station where it
looks like two burly mechanics are going to protect her, but Nadja
mesmerizes them and kills one of them. The other one shoots Nadja in the
abdomen.Edgar is improving. He unites with the Helsings to stop Nadja. He
receives a "psychic fax" from Nadja, telling him that she is injured and
must return to Transylvania. She also mentions that she's taking Cassandra
with her, so Edgar and the Helsings high-tail it to Transylvania, too. As
they approach the castle, Nadja begins a transfusion of Cassandra's blood
while Cassandra sleeps. While Jim fights with Nadja's renfield, Edgar and Helsing
drive a stake through Nadja's heart. Lucy is released, Nadja is destroyed,
and Cassandra wakes up.
However, not all is as it seems. Nadja narrates the epilogue: "They
cut off my head...burned my body...no one knew...no one suspected that I
was now alive in [Cassandra's] body. [Edgar and I] were married at City
Hall...there *is* a better way to live." [Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.]
