A soldier convicted for murdering his commanding officer is dumped and left to die on a prison island inhabited by two camps of convicts.
Robbins is sentenced to prison for the assassination of his general officer, a prison you leave only when you die. Since nobody ever leaves the prison, nobody knows what the prison is like. The prison manager realizes this and buys himself an island playground called "Absolom," where the worst prisoners are free to create an isolated barbaric society, and where the strongest men rule...a living hell. Robbins is sent to Absolom after he almost kills the prison manager.
In the not-too-distant future, Capt. J.T. Robbins (Liotta) is sent to prison for killing his superior. The corporately (and corruptly) run prison causes Robbins to rebel against the Warden (Lerner). His rebellion only gets him sent to the most maximum security facility there is - Absolom. The worst hardcore criminals are just dumped onto the island Absolom to live or die as they can. The island is patrolled by heavily armed helicopters and fenced by impenetrable sea defenses. Two different societies have formed over the years; an evil 'empire' run by Walter Marek (Wilson) that is conflicting with the other, more pacific, group run by The Father (Henriksen). Resources are kept scarce by the warden as a game to keep the population down by destroying themselves. Who will our hardcore Captain fit in with the best? Can anyone escape from Absolom?
It is the 21st century, and our hero goes to Absolom because he murdered someone. Absolom is a prison-island where criminals leave alone, away from the rest of the world, and none has ever escaped.
The year is 2022, prison systems from all over the world are now run by private corporations and have become business. After being sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of his commanding officer who ordered him to wipe out innocent people. Convicted soldier John Robbins is dumped on the prison island Absolom (after he refused to execute his cell-mate and assaulted the Warden). On Absolom, convicts are put there to either survive or die. Robbins finds the prison island is inhabited by two camps, The Outsiders, tribes of savage prisoners led by the evil Walter Merrick and The Insiders, a community of prisoners living in a fortified village "The Compound" led by The Father. Robbins finds escape from Absolom is impossible, surveillance satellites monitor Absolom and gunships prevent all convicts from escaping from the prison island and The Warden has secretly put a spy on Absolom. Caught up in a feud between the two camps, Robbins is determined to escape from the prison island and finds it is his ultimate challenge as nobody has ever escaped and he agrees to help The Insiders defend "The Compound" from The Outsiders.

