A bored couple takes in a young man who turns their lives inside out
Nicole and Jean-Marie Kunstler are a nice, hard working couple who have been married for 15 years. They operate a dry cleaning business that keeps them both too busy to take a vacation, or to change their routine. A fateful trip to a drag club leads them to encounter Loic and Marilyn, a brother-sister drag queen performing team. Their shows fascinate the couple, as both Nicole and Jean-Marie find themselves growing more and more attached to Loic. Loic brings to the surface all of their suppressed desires and emotions - willingly and unwillingly. A psychological examination into the effects one attractive young man's entrance into the lives of an ordinarily seeming couple could have.
In a provincial town, not very far from the train station, not too far away from the big city of Paris, exists a night club where small town tastes are challenged by sexually ambiguous performers who tease and agitate conservative thinkers. One evening, a group of friends, all of whom are merchants with stores on the same block venture into the netherworld of a nightclub known as "La nuit des Temps", where a brother and sister perform a provocative strip-tease drag number that hypnotizes Jean-Marie and his wife Nicole who run a dry cleaning shop in the town. After fifteen years of love and faithfulness, working at the dry cleaning has cemented their relationship into a routine, but consistent lifestyle. They are slaves dedicated to eliminating the minute stains on the community's clothing. Never a day of rest, never a vacation for this beleaguered couple. Then one day the brother of the strip tease act stumbles into the dry cleaners to remove a stain from his dress. Now, Nicole and Jean-Marie begin a new life, dry cleaning during the day and spinning out of control at night. At first, they let themselves be taken in by the excitement of the game, which later has dire consequences for the couple's sanity. The strong excitement of a new sexual partner ignites feelings in both Nicole and Jean - Marie and makes them see themselves in ways they cannot understand.

