Greg Kinnear plays a carriage-shy husband in a romantic comedy about a couple trying to conceive a child.
A childless couple attempting to conceive discover that his sperm are "lazy". Several trips to a fertility clinic prove fruitless. Also, the wife had surreptitiously quit taking the pill and provided her doctor with a sperm sample before the husband agreed to start trying to have a baby. The deception alienates the husband for a time. To compound things, a female architect has the hots for the husband and lures him out of town on business at exactly the wrong time.
Married San Franciscans Danny and Jennifer Robertson, a construction foreman and independent perfumer respectively, are madly in love with each other, and have an active and healthy sex life, in part, for especially Danny, in having no pressure to have a baby, the two who have agreed to let it happen naturally whenever they do decide they are ready to become parents. But when Jennifer starts surprising Danny at the most unexpected of times donning her latest provocative fragrance enticing him into having impromptu sex, Danny's best friend and married co-worker, Steve Harris, believes Jennifer is really and secretly trying to get pregnant, which is indeed the truth. Danny finally comes to the realization of Jennifer wanting to become pregnant when she unilaterally starts doing some house renovations for a nursery. But when Jennifer doesn't become pregnant a couple of months into "officially" trying, she is able to convince Danny that they should consult a fertility specialist. The initial prognosis is that their ability to conceive naturally is low, resulting in they going into expensive fertility treatments. But secrets kept leading to this point result in some misunderstandings that may threaten their marriage in its entirety. Those misunderstandings center primarily around Jennifer and her business partner/best friend Nancy Tellen in negotiations to sell that latest fragrance to a corporation, the lead negotiator for that corporation being Richard Halstrom, and Danny's dealings with Lindsay Hamilton, the architect for the skyscraper on which he is currently working, Lindsay, a seductive female, who is seemingly maneuvering their professional relationship into the realm of the personal.

