Scooby-Doo and the Mystery Gang visit Oakhaven, Massachusetts to seek strange goings on involving a famous horror novelist and his ancestor who is rumored be a witch.
When the Mystery Gang meet famous horror writer Ben Ravencroft (Tim Curry) on their last mystery, he invites them to the small town Oakhaven, Massachusetts. While there for the Autumn Harvest Festival, Ben explains the history of his ancestor Sarah Ravencroft, who happens to be an evil witch. At the same time, the Hex Girls, an all-female Gothic rock band, come to town bringing an audience there. The gang investigate the mysterious sightings while they are there which seems to be connected to the locals of the town which turns into something much more.
After Ben Ravencroft, a famous horror writer of whom Velma Dinkley is a huge fan, assists her and the Mystery Gang in solving a case at a museum, he invites them to his hometown, Oakhaven, Massachusetts. When they arrive, they find the town converted into a tourist attraction by Mayor Corey, complete with 17th-century replicas and attractions based on the alleged ghost of Sarah Ravencroft, an ancestor of Ben's who was persecuted as a witch and executed by the Puritan townspeople in 1657. Ben disputes this, claiming Sarah to be a Wiccan who used natural herbs and reveals he has been searching for years for Sarah medical journal to prove her innocence.Meanwhile, Scooby-Doo and Shaggy Rogers are chased by a witch and run into Ben and the gang. They find broken tree branches at the scene and are drawn to an all-female gothic rock band, The Hex Girls, led by Sally "Thorn" McKnight. The gang decides to separate; Fred Jones and Daphne Blake remain with the Hex Girls, Velma and Ben go explore an archaic barn, and Shaggy and Scooby follow the Mayor. Fred and Daphne see Thorn doing some sort of ritual and are convinced that the Hex Girls are witches. Velma and Ben fine a cherry picker truck in the barn. Shaggy and Scooby follow Mayor Corey, until they encounter the witch and flee to the gang.The gang, the Hex Girls and Ben meet in the woods. The witch appears and gives chase, and is captured by Velma. The witch is revealed to be Mr. McKnight, a pharmacist who is Thorn's father. Velma locates the truck and explains that the truck's arm made the witch appear to fly. Ben scolds everyone involved for exploiting Sarah's good name. Back at Ben's mansion, Fred and Daphne apologizes to the Hex Girls and Thorn explains the ritual was soothing her vocal cords and that she is actually descended from Wiccans. Mayor Corey and Mr. McKnight arrive and apologize to Ben for using his ancestor in their publicity stunt, explaining the witch was to boost the town's failing economy and that they found inspiration from digging up the head marker for Sarah's grave; they keep this secret not to upset Ben. It is then recalled that Scooby found what appeared to be a shoe buckle earlier, which was actually from Sarah's diary.Everyone goes to the shoe buckle's location, where Scooby discovers the buried book, which is actually a spell book. Ben reveals that Sarah was indeed a witch, who used her terrible and evil powers against many people before the Wiccans used their powers with nature to imprison her within her own spell book. He created the mystery at the museum and engineered the encounters with the gang, as he knew they could lead him to the book. After taking the book from Ben, the gang attempts to escape in the Mystery Machine, but Ben (with his newly acquired powers) renders the Mystery Machine useless by damaging its tires. Ben takes back the book and summons Sarah. However, he soon discovers that she has no loyalty to him and her ambitions are to destroy the world, rather than rule it alongside him.Disillusioned, Ben attempts to imprisoned Sarah, but she informs him that only a Wiccan can imprison her, and imprisons Ben in a magical sphere. The gang launches an attempt to acquire the book, while Sarah begins to transform pumpkins, trees and a turkey into monsters in order to stop them. Daphne and Velma free the Hex Girls and Velma convinces Thorn to use her inherited Wiccan power to read the spell that will banish Sarah back into her imprisonment. However, Sarah manages to drag Ben into making him suffer the same fate with her, and they are both imprisoned inside the book. A burning branch falls onto the book destroying it, ensuring that the Ravencrofts can never return. Most of the monsters that Sarah have created have also returned to normal. The gang and the townspeople celebrate their deliverance with a concert from the Hex Girls with Scooby-Doo and the gang (and the still-gigantic turkey) taking part on the performance.
