Jacob Sterling brings home a mysterious clock from the infamous Amityville house, not knowing that it's haunted by demonic spirits.
When the young architect, Jake Sterling, returns home to California from a business meeting in New York, he brings back a surprise: an antique mantle clock he found on the ruins of a demolished house in Amityville. However, as the vintage item finds its place on the fireplace mantle, bizarre supernatural incidents begin to occur, and unfathomable dark powers start to take control not only of the Sterlings' house but also the family's lives. Now, an ancient evil has returned, and it seeks revenge. Can Jake stop the dark force of the mystical timepiece?
When an old clock arrives at home as a gift, strange things begin to happen. The family that proudly assigned a privileged place to the clock in the living room, is unaware that this thing is a link to an old and evil house...
A widowed father Jake Sterling returns home from a business meeting in Amityville. He brings home a gift for his two teenage kids: an eerie looking old mantle clock. What he doesn't know, is the clock has an evil past being created by a 15th century French necromancer (eater of the dead). The clock is tied to the evil past of Amityville. Soon after placing it on the fireplace mantle, he is attacked by the local neighborhood dog, leaving his ex-girlfriend Andrea to take care of him. As Jake's son and a neighbor get closer to finding out the legend of the clock, all hell breaks loose as hedges are set on fire, the dog is murdered, time begins to skip hours and slow down, Jake's daughter becomes seductive, and many people around them begin to die. Now, no one is safe from the terror as the clock begins to become the house itself.
A wall clock from the infamous haunted house in Amityville finds its way into a family's suburban home where the evil in the mystical clock is soon released, driving all the family members insane by making them see hideous visions and ghostly apparitions.
Jacob Sterling (Stephen Macht) is an architect who has just returned home from a business trip in Amityville. Jacob lives in California in Burlwood, California in a suburban housing development. Jacob's ex-girlfriend, art student Andrea Livingston (Shawn Weatherly) is watching Jacob's two teenage kids, naive Lisa (Megan Ward) and troubled Rusty (Damon Martin), while he's gone.When Jacob returns, he informs them that Amityville wants his company to develop a new neighborhood with a timeless concept. Jacob has also brought home an old, mantle clock that he found in the remains of an old house in Amityville. Jacob puts it on the fireplace mantle, stating that it's "what our house has been missing". Once it's on the mantle, however, things take a turn for the worst. It turns out the clock's ticking is incredibly loud, even so it can be heard upstairs. Unknown to the family, the clock attaches itself to the mantle, preventing it from being moved. But the strangest of all, Rusty goes downstairs in the middle of the night and turns on the living room light switch. Everytime he flips the switch, the living room is replaced with an ancient looking torture chamber. This happens until the lightbulb finally burns out.The next morning, after Lisa and Rusty leave for school (though we later learn Rusty actually skipped school that day), Jacob decides to go jogging. As he reaches the end of the jog his digital watch mysteriously stops. He turns around to find his neighbor Mrs. Tetmann (Terrie Snell) and her dog, Peaches, standing there ominously. Mrs. Tetmann lets go of Peaches and Peaches attacks Jacob, viciously mauling Jacob's leg. Jacob manages to escape by slashing Peaches's face with a broken bottle. At the hospital, the doctor (Willie C. Carpenter) mistakens Andrea for Jacob's wife. He tells her that Jacob's wound will have to be cleaned and rebandaged every few hours. Andrea agrees to stay with Jacob for a few more days until he's able to walk. At home, Jacob doesn't take care of his wounded leg, and refuses to let Andrea clean it out.Meanwhile, Rusty (skipping school) visits the neighbor, Iris Wheeler (Nita Talbot). He tells her about what he saw in the living room last night. She assumes that what Rusty saw was an evil force. It was afraid of Rusty and was trying to win him over. She says it would only go to their home because where it used to be is gone: "It must find a new home". When Rusty gets home, Andrea and him go to Mrs. Tetmann's house to ask if Peaches was vaccinated. Mrs. Tetmann doesn't know what they're talking about and says that she and Peaches never even left the house that day. She even shows them Peaches face and there's no trace of a cut. Rusty spends a lot of time thinking about what Iris said.Jacob, rather than resting, is busy designing a model for a new neighborhood. At dinner, Andrea asks Rusty to go get the phone book from the living room, which usually only takes a minute or two. However, when Rusty (who was talking the whole time) gets back into the living room, three hours have passed. Lisa lets Andrea have her room for the night and she sleeps on the couch in the living room. But the loud ticking from the clock keeps Lisa awake all night. Finally, near 3:00 AM, she asks Andrea if she can sleep with her. Andrea says yes and tells Lisa to get her pillow from The living room. But when Lisa gets her pillow, the living room doors slam shut and lock. In Andrea's room, she hears the door open and something gets in bed with her. She finds the other side of the bed drenched in black slime. She turns the light on, but it's not there. Andrea goes downstairs and unlocks the living room doors, letting Lisa out. She suspects that Rusty may have locked them, but he tells her he went for a walk.The next morning, Andrea learns that Peaches was murdered the night before and a swastika has been drawn in blood on Mrs. Tetmann's house. The police suspect that Rusty may have had something to do with it. That night, Andrea's boyfriend Leonard visits and had a hallucination of Jacob shooting him with a gun. The next day, Rusty visits Iris' house and describes to her the things he had seen in his living room and telling her that it all began the night his father had returned home from Amityville. Iris later figures out that it is the clock that's causing everything to go wrong but on her way to warn Rusty she is killed by duck status that falls from the roof. Meanwhile, at the Sterling residence things starts to go terribly wrong with Lisa's boyfriend Andy melting into the floor, Leonard encountering goo and a zombie that rises out of the bathtub, and Jacob acting aggressively. Andrea manages to overcome Jacob's attack but is unable to destroy the clock before it rewinds back to the first night Jacob brought the clock home. This time however, Andrea smashes the clock when Jacob comes home with it and when Jacob asks her "What the hell was that all about?!", She replies, "It's about time that's what!" and the credits roll.
