An absent-minded professor discovers "flubber," a rubber-like super-bouncy substance.
Professor Phillip Brainard, an absent-minded professor, works with his assistant Weebo, trying to create a substance that's a new source of energy and that will save Medfield College where his sweetheart Sara is the president. He has missed his wedding twice, and on the afternoon of his third wedding, Professor Brainard creates flubber, which allows objects to fly through the air. It looks like rubber, so he calls it flubber. This film is based on the 1961 Disney classic, "The Absent-Minded Professor.
Phillip Brainard, who is a professor at a college and a small-time worker in his own basement, is trying to create a great invention. Unfortunately he always failed to invent something, but he is so obsessed about it that he even puts off his own wedding to his fiancée, Sara. One day, he finally invents something that works; this substance can cause even the heaviest things to bounce in the air, 'flying rubber', but Brainard called it "Flubber". However, he sees Sara going out with another professor from another college and several criminals trying to rob him. So, Brainard has to find out a way to defeat the criminals and to get back his Fiancee. Hopefully, Flubber can help him.
Professor Philip Brainard (Robin Williams), an absent minded professor, works with his robot assistant Weebo (voiced by Jodi Benson), trying to create a substance that's a new source of energy and that will save Medfield College where his sweetheart Dr. Sara Jean Reynolds (Marcia Gay Harden), the remake's version of Betsy Carlisle, is the dean. He has missed his wedding twice, and on the afternoon of his third wedding, Brainard accidentally creates Flubber, which allows objects to fly through the air. It behaves like rubber, so he calls it Flubber (Flying Rubber). When he misses the third wedding, he tries to explain it to Sara by demonstrating flubber, but he falls out a window and Sara angrily breaks up with him and begins seeing Wilson Croft (Christopher McDonald), a professor from another college and the remake's version of Alonzo Hawk.Meanwhile, Brainard creates a flying car to win Sara back and tries to figure out ways to control the Flubber. He comes up with an idea to use the Flubber to help the Medfield basketball team win the championship, which they do, but he doesn't win Sara's heart back. Back at the house, he explains to Weebo that he's absent-minded because he's in love with Sara and Weebo records him saying it. She goes to Sara's house to prove it to her. Brainard then wakes up to see her standing above him and she kisses him.At the same time, a rich and corrupt businessman named Chester Hoenicker (Raymond J. Barry) wants Phillip to pass his failing son Bennett (Wil Wheaton), but he soon takes an interest in Flubber after hearing about it from his flunkies Smith (Clancy Brown) and Wesson (Ted Levine). Smith and Wesson steal the Flubber and destroy Weebo in the process. Brainard and Sara get the Flubber back in a battle.At last, Flubber is finally free, by being used as a silly weapon to defeat Wilson's henchmen. But then, Flubber is accidentally swallowed by Wilson, making him suffer from "inside" his body to the outside, making him "dancing", being ticklish, laughing, and moving around. Inside him, Flubber makes a short "body controlling awkward dancing/ticklish sensation" "journey", through his digestive system, that makes him suffer and laugh, every last second. Once Flubber wants to get out of his system, Wilson posses as in "painfully farting", meanwhile he says "Oh, mommy", farts it painfully and Flubber gets out of his body (like a bullet), laughing, and flying away. After that, Wilson looks at the others (Doctor and Sara) and faints, exhausted, half-dead. Brainard and Sara, which are shocked out by seeing the effect of swallowing Flubber, they go out of the room, free and victorious.(Since that, nobody knows how to explain briefly and better what happened with Wilson, his body, his digestive system, after and before Flubber came into his body. All we know it's that is an awkward scene that Disney will never reveal.)The film end with Phillip and Sara finally getting married through a video screen (like Skype) meanwhile Brainard makes a experiment and blows the house out. Once they got married, the "Just Married-Couple" flies away with the autocar, Flubber and with Weebo's daughter, Weebette, in the trunk.
