A man tries to rescue a woman with a little help from his half brother.
Following a ship wreck, a baby is rescued by a clan of Ninja warriors and raised by them as one of their own. But Haru (Chris Farley), as he is called, never quite fits in, nor does he manage to make a worthy Ninja. However, the good-natured and persevering Haru, in his own bumbling way, and with some help from Gobei (Robin Shou), manages to prove himself to be a winner in the end.
This is the story of an unlikely overweight man named Haru (Chris Farley), who was an orphaned baby back then when he was raised by ninjas in Japan. His physical challenges, still becomes a Ninja, albeit a klutzy white one. His first mission brings him to Beverly Hills, California to investigate a murder mystery.
A clan of ninjas finds an abandoned chest that has been washed onto shore, and find a white baby inside. One of their ancient legends spoke of a white foreigner male who would come among the ninja and become a master like no other would. The boy, Haru, is raised amongst the ninja, with the expectation that he may be the one of whom the legend speaks. As Haru grows into adulthood, doubts are quickly cast over him for being the great white ninja. Haru is clumsy and lacking in ninja skills and so fails to graduate as a ninja with the rest of his class.Left alone to protect the temple while the clan are on a mission, Haru disguises himself as a ninja when an American woman, Sally Jones, comes to the temple seeking assistance. Sally says she is suspicious of her boyfriend, Martin Tanley, and asks Haru to investigate. Haru discovers that Tanley and his bodyguard, Nobu are involved in a money counterfeiting business, but could not find Sally to inform her.Haru leaves Tokyo and goes to Beverly Hills in search of Sally. Gobei, Haru's adoptive brother, is sent by the clan's sensei to watch over and protect Haru, with Haru unaware of his presence.Haru checks in at a Beverly Hills hotel, where he befriends bellboy Joey Washington, and teaches him some ninja lessons. Unaware that Gobei is helping him, Haru manages to find Sally. Haru tracks Tanley and Nobu to a night club located in Little Tokyo, where they are attempting to retrieve a set of counterfeiting plates from their rival gang.The gangs fight, resulting in the deaths of two of the rival gang members, for which Haru finds himself the suspect. After receiving guidance from his sensei, Haru resumes his quest to search for Sally, and tracks down Tanley's mansion. Haru also then finds Sally and discovers her name is Alison Page who informs him that Tanley murdered her sister, and that she is dating Tanley in search of evidence which is why she used the fake name was Sally Jones.Haru disguises himself as a Japanese restaurant chef, and discovers Tanley will be hiring an ink specialist named Chet Walters to help counterfeit money. Haru then disguises himself as Walters to gain access to Tanley's warehouse. Haru's identity is exposed after failing to properly counterfeit the money and is captured by Tanley. While Tanley succeeds in obtaining the other half of the plates that night from the rival gang, Alison rescues Haru, only to be kidnapped by Tanley herself. The next day Haru enlists Joey's help in finding the warehouse. After they fail, Gobei intervenes without Haru's knowledge and leads them back to the warehouse.Tanley locks Alison in a room with a bomb. Haru attempts to intervene but is inundated by Tanley's guards. Gobei reveals himself to Haru, and manages to distract the guards, allowing Haru to rescue Alison. Haru attempts to defuse the bomb but fails. On hearing Gobei become inundated by Tanley's guards, Haru leaves Alison to assist Gobei.Seeing Gobei about to be killed, Haru snaps and suddenly demonstrates amazing martial arts moves, stunning Gobei. Haru saves Gobei's life and successfully defeats several guards himself. Haru and Gobei are left facing off Nobu and two guards. Joey, attempting to enter the building, crashes through a window and knocks himself and one of the guards unconscious. Haru and Gobei defeat Nobu and the remaining guard. Tanley then confronts Haru and Gobei.In the fight that follows, Haru accidentally knocks Gobei unconscious by hitting him in the head with a sheave, but forces Tanley to flee afterwards. Haru returns to attempt to rescue Alison. Using a large harpoon gun mounted on a cart, Haru shoots a harpoon through the room which inadvertently lands in the back of a truck in which Tanley is trying to escape. The harpoon drags the bomb into Tanley's truck and explodes. Haru successfully rescues Alison, then Tanley and his surviving hitmen are arrested by the LAPD.Sometime later back in Japan, Haru informs his sensei he will be returning to Beverly Hills to live with his girlfriend Alison. Haru and Alison leave together on a bus. A grappling hook tied to a rope has fallen from the bus and hooks into Gobei's wheelchair, causing him to be thrown into the ocean. Haru shouts an apology to Gobei.
