A woman must contend with rival strippers and her boss in an attempt to make a legitimate living.
Diana, a young mom working at a shoe store meets two strippers, Tricks and Ronnie. They tell her that she should work at The Playa's Club for big money. The woman accepts and soon introduces her cousin into the club. Then she finds out that her cousin is doing housecalls which Tricks bribed her to do. One day Diana returns to her house after almost being raped by an obsessed fan and finds her cousin sleeping with her ex-boyfriend. She kicks her cousin out and starts dating Blue, a DJ at the club. They go out one night and Diana's cousin calls asking her to pick her up from a bachelor party. Diana refuses and soon after her cousin is raped. Now she has only one option, to put Tricks in her place.
An unwed mother's struggle to get her college degree leads her to dancing at The Player's Club, a seedy Southern strip bar filled with criminal mischief.
Diana, a young, unwed mother struggles to make enough money to pay for her college education. Diana ends up working at a shoe store, when she meets Ronnie and Tricks, two evil strippers that work at a sassy strip club. Tricks tells Diana that she should "use what God gave her" and make some fast money. Diana goes to the hip and saucy "The Players Club". Dollar Bill, the owner of the club allows Diana to work and gives her the name......Diamond. Diamond's cousin, Ebony wants to work at the Players Club and gets caught up in the fast life. One night, when Diamond comes home, an obsessed fan attacks her. Diamond runs in and finds her boyfriend and Ebony in bed together. Diamond kicks her out and breaks up with her boyfriend. Ebony has been gone alot and Diamond finds out that Ebony has been doing "other" things than stripping. Ronnie makes Ebony go to Ronnie's brother's bachelor party. Ebony is raped and left to die. Diamond and Blue find her and call the cops. Diamond goes to The Players Club and confronts Ronnie. The two women end up getting into a catfight. Hair-pulling, name-calling, punch-throwing, these girls are going for blood.

