After a teenager has a terrifying vision of him and his friends dying in a plane crash, he prevents the accident only to have Death hunt them down, one by one.
Alex is boarding a plane to France on a school trip, when he suddenly gets a premonition that the plane will explode. Shortly after Alex, a group of students, and his teacher are thrown off the plane, to their horror, the plane does in fact explode. Alex must now work out Death's plan, as each of the survivors falls victim. Whilst trying to prevent the next death, Alex must also dodge the FBI, who believe that he caused the explosion.
Alex, an average teenager, goes for a trip in France with his classmates when, once in the plane, he suddenly gets a vision where the plane crashes. Suffocating, he asks for everyone to go out of the plane but no matter what, Death itself decided to get closer and closer to them...
When a boy starts having a premonition of Flight 180 crashing, he tells his friends before they board that it is a bad idea and to not to take the flight. His friends listen to him and don't go and soon after the plane crashes. Now since his friends didn't get on the plane one by one they are getting killed in mysterious ways.
Alex and a group of high school students take a flight to Paris for a French class trip. Before they set off, Alex has a premonition of the plane bursting into flames minutes after take off. He tells everyone to get off the ill-fated aircraft. Moments later in the departure lounge the student see the plane explode before their very eyes. Now the FBI thinks that Alex had something to do with it and follows his every move. His friends start to believe he had something to do with it also and slowly fade out of his life. But now, each one of his friends is mysteriously being killed by something that appears to the Grim Reaper. Alex starts to believe that fate is starting to taking it's toll.
Alex and his senior french class are going on a trip to France in the spring. Alex is very nervous, and has a deadly premonition that the plane he is on will explode after take off. Alex and six others, including his teacher, get off the plane. Soon after, the plane explodes. Now his teacher and friends are starting to avoid him. Shortly after school ends, Alex and his friends are being hunted down by Death, angry that they cheated the "design". It doesn't take long for Alex to realize that you can't cheat death.
Alex Browning is a teenager who has the power of seeing the future.He and 40 of his classmates are going to Paris on a school trip. Just before the plane takes off, Alex has a premonition of the plane exploding, killing everyone. He awakens and screams to everyone that the plane will explode. The guards take him off the plane and onto the airport. During the commotion, teacher, Valerie Lewton, and students, Billy Hitchcock, Clear Rivers, Terry Chaney, Carter Horton and Tod Waggner get off as well.Soon after, the plane explodes. The survivors are shocked to find Alex's premonition has come true. Days later, Tod slips in his bathroom, and falls on a clothesline in his shower. His velocity causes the rope to wrap around his neck, and strangles him to death. After his body is discovered, everyone deems it a suicide.Alex thinks that Death is after them, since they survived the plane explosion. He figures out that they are meant to die in the order that they died on the plane. He calls Clear and they go to a cafe and talk about Alex's theory. While at the cafe, all the survivors reunite. But Carter and Alex start arguing. Terry, Carter's girlfriend, is enraged at Carter still holding a grudge against Alex. She walks off, only to be hit by a bus.Next on the list is Miss Lewton. She has a series of household accidents that ultimately leads to her computer blowing up in her face, a knife impaling her and her house exploding.The four remaining take off in a car only to have it stall on the railroad tracks. They all get out except the Carter, who spots a oncoming train. The others convince him to get out. He decides to get out, with Alex's help, Carter's death has been intervened. But Billy, is decapitated by a piece of thin metal from the car wreckage. Alex figures out that if someone intervenes and prevents the people next in line to die, Death will put that person at the end of the list. Next in line is his girlfriend, Clear Rivers. She is at home when lightning hits a tree causing a chain of events to occur that ultimately find her in her car with a power line on top of it. Alex swoops in again and saves her, cheating death once again.Six months later, thinking they have finally cheated death for good, the three remaining fly to Paris. At a cafe, Alex sees omens around him, and thinks that Death is still after them. Walking away, Alex is about to be hit by a bus, without realising it. Clear has a vision and shouts to Alex and saves him. However, the bus hits a traffic pole, which sends it flying in the air, finally hitting a electrical sign, which says "CAFE LA MERO 81" on top of the cafe. The sign comes crashing down, about to hit Alex. Carter comes and saves him. Thinking Death has been defeated, Carter asks Alex, "Who's next?". Then the sign comes back down, this time backwards saying, "18o" and hits Carter.This leaves Clear and Alex the remaining survivors from the first film. It is revealed afterwards that Alex was struck in the head by a falling brick. Clear, now powerless, sends herself into a mental asylum.
