A loyal and dedicated Hong Kong Inspector teams up with a reckless and loudmouthed L.A.P.D. detective to rescue the Chinese Consul's kidnapped daughter, while trying to arrest a dangerous crime lord along the way.
Cultures clash and tempers flares as the two cops named Detective Inspector Lee a Hong Kong Detective and Detective James Carter FBI, a big-mouthed work-alone Los Angeles cop who are from different worlds discovers one thing in common: they can't stand each other. With time running out, they must join forces to catch the criminals and save the eleven-year-old Chinese girl of the Chinese consul named Soo Yung.
When the eleven-year-old daughter of the Chinese Consul in Los Angeles, Han, is kidnapped in broad daylight, the desperate father insists in summoning his old friend and Hong Kong Police ace detective, Inspector Lee, to assist the FBI in the investigation. However, as the bureau is far from keen on allowing the newcomer to get in their way, they pair him up with the motor-mouthed LAPD Detective, James Carter, to watch him over. Of course, none of them is particularly happy about this awkward partnership; nevertheless, the mismatched duo of reluctant partners must team up to solve this mystery before the FBI. Will Lee crack the case?
Realizing that the FBI and their by the book tactics may be unsuccessful, the Chinese consul recruits the aid of a loyal Hong Kong inspector to help rescue his kidnapped daughter. Outlawed by the FBI, the inspector must form an unlikely partnership with a cocky, street smart LAPD officer who prefers doing things his own way.
Hongkong, the last night of British rulership. Detective Inspector Lee, close friend to Consul Han Solon, manages to prevent precious pieces of China's history being smuggled out of the country. Two years later - Consul Han is living in Los Angeles with his family - Crime Lord Juntao takes revenge on him by abducting his young daughter Soo Yung. Han does not trust the FBI to do a good job and has Lee flown in from Hongkong to assist them. But the FBI officials do not want any help from outside and officially request help from LAPD, who are glad to get rid of Detective James Carter for a while, a big-mouthed work-alone cop who just can't be cool enough. His assignment is to keep Lee as far away from trouble as possible. But Carter and Lee don't like being put aside in that way and start working the case on their own.
Jackie Chan is Inspector Lee, a Hong Kong Detective who helps confiscate three dollars worth of stolen Chinese artifacts from Crime Lord Juntao. Seeking revenge, Juntao kidnaps the daughter of the Chinese consul when he moves to America. Chan is sent as a diplomatic advisor and finds himself paired up with a Los Angeles cop (Chris Tucker) - a man who works alone, and wants to stay that way.
When kidnappers grab a Chinese official's daughter, Hong Kong chief inspector Lee (Chan) is all over the case until LAPD detective James Carter (Tucker) gets in his way. Cultures clash until these unlikely partners realize they both want to nail the crooks. Between Lee's high-flying kicks and Carter's rapid-fire wit, the bad guys won't know what hit them!
