The Szalinski family is back, this time hilarious disaster strikes when an experiment causes their new toddler son to grow many stories tall.
Wayne Szalinski is at it again. But instead of shrinking things, he tries to make a machine that can make things grow. As in the first one, his machine isn't quite accurate. But when he brings Nick &amp; his toddler son Adam to see his invention, the machine unexpectedly starts working. And when Adam comes right up to the machine, he gets zapped along with his stuffed bunny. Now, whenever Adam comes near anything electrical, the electricity causes him to grow. Adam soon starts to grow to the height of over 100 feet. And he is now walking through Las Vegas which he thinks is one big play land.
Struggling to fine-tune his dangerously innovative matter-shrinking machine after the nearly catastrophic events in Honey, I Shrunk the Kids (1989), the ambitious backyard inventor, Professor Wayne Szalinski, decides to tweak his machine so that it makes things grow bigger. However, this time, it's the family's newest addition--the two-year-old toddler, Adam--who gets a hearty dose of particle-altering energy, causing him to grow at a dizzying pace. Now, as the cute flaxen-haired Godzilla takes a walk around dazzling Las Vegas, everything can be a toy to his eyes. Can Szalinski stop Adam's growing process before he levels the city?
Wayne Szalinski is experimenting with his equipment again, but this time for a large company. When an accident in the lab fries some circuits, he is barred from the lab. But 2 year old Adam, was unknowingly zapped during the accident. But Wayne and the family soon discover that something is definitely wrong with Adam. He starts growing, and growing, and growing, and growing...
This time, wacky inventor Wayne Szalinski accidentally zaps his 2 1/2-year-old son with a particle beam, causing the child to grow whenever coming in contact with electricity. Soon topping 112 feet, the overgrown baby is attracted to the bright, shiny lights of Las Vegas, and nothing stands in his way. Now the chase is on.
Two years after inventor Wayne Szalinski accidentally shrunk his and his next door neighbor's kids, his family have moved to Nevada and have welcomed a new son, mischievous two-year old Adam. Wayne's wife, Diane, leaves on a Friday with their daughter, Amy, to move her to her dorm at college, leaving Wayne to look after Adam and their teenage son, Nick, who struggles with puberty. He develops a crush on Mandy Park, who Wayne later arranges to babysit Adam. The next day, Saturday, Wayne takes Nick and Adam to Sterling Labs, where he has constructed an advanced derivative of his shrink ray which could make objects grow. He tests it out on Adam's favorite toy, Big Bunny. However, when his and Nick's backs are turned, Adam attempts to retrieve it and is zapped by the machine, which appears to short circuit and not enlarge the targeted object.Back home, Adam and Big Bunny are exposed to electrical waves from the microwave oven and grow in size, now seven feet tall. Wayne and Nick try to take him back to the lab to reverse the process, but are caught by Wayne's coworker, Dr. Charles Hendrickson, who dislikes him, later discovering his folly. Diane returns home and discovers the truth, and she, Wayne, and Nick have a hard time trying to take care of the large Adam. Later, Wayne and Diane drive to a warehouse and retrieve Wayne's first prototype to turn Adam back to normal. When Mandy arrives to babysit him, she panics and faints. Nick then ties her to a chair and gags her so she can't run away or scream. As he explains the situation to her, Adam is exposed to the television's electrical waves and grows to fourteen feet, before escaping through a wall.Nick and Mandy search for him, but are taken into custody, with Adam placed into a truck. Wayne and Diane return home, finding the smug Dr. Hendrickson waiting for them. He has summoned Clifford Sterling, the company chairman, with the plan to fire Wayne and experiment on Adam. Clifford arrives, praising Wayne when he admits his mistake and agrees to help Adam, firing the rude Dr. Hendrickson as well. At the same time, the truck carrying Adam passes by high voltage lines, exposing him to more electrical waves and causing him to grow even larger, escaping confinement. He mistakes Nick and Mandy for toys and puts them in his overalls pocket before heading for Las Vegas, pursued by his parents and the authorities. Wayne and Clifford figure out the cause of his growth and realize that exposure to Las Vegas' neon lights will make him grow bigger than ever.Dr. Hendrickson turns to board director Terrence Wheeler, who wants to start a boardroom coup to take Clifford out of power. With his permission, Dr. Hendrickson forcefully boards a military helicopter to attempt to tranquilize Adam, despite the pilot's reluctance. Wayne is determined to use his shrinking machine to shrink Adam back to normal, but needs him to stand still for twelve seconds so he can be shrunk. At first, he tries using Big Bunny to pacify him, but it backfires when Wayne suggests he take a nap (which he hates). After wandering through Las Vegas, he saves the escaped Nick and Mandy in a convertible from falling off the Kicking Lady of Glitter Gulch (Fremont Street) and puts the convertible in his pocket again, before pursuing an ice cream truck driven by Marshall Brooks to distract him away from the city. However, he grows to a max height of 112 feet and heads towards the Hard Rock Café, where he plays the lit up guitar. Dr. Hendrickson arrives in the helicopter shooting tranquilizer cartridges at Adam, hitting the guitar instead and causing him to drop it, crying from electric shock. Diane convinces Wayne to enlarge her so she can get to him, preventing Dr. Hendrickson from harming him and getting him to stand still for the needed time period for the shrinking ray to work. Wayne then fires it, returning them to normal size, but Nick and Mandy are gone. Dr. Hendrickson arrives, attempting to justify his actions, but an unforgiving Diane punches him in the face.In the closing scene, Nick, Mandy, and the convertible are revealed to have been shrunk from inside Adam's pocket to the size of insects. They are quickly found by Wayne, who decides to give them a few minutes of privacy before unshrinking them. The only problem left now is how to shrink the gigantic Big Bunny.
