Winnie the Pooh and friends decide to throw a birthday celebration for gloomy, old Eeyore.
Eeyore is gloomy, like always, but more so now. His birthday is right around the corner and everybody has forgotten. It didn't cheer him up any when Tigger "accidentally" knocks Eeyore into the river. Pooh invents a new game, "Pooh Sticks", and everyone contributes to Eeyore's party, there's flat balloons, storage honey pots with Owl's hand writing on them, and a game of Pooh Sticks which Tigger claims he likes, but immediately hates it because he lost. It turns out to be a happy birthday celebration after all.
While collecting pine cones, Pooh accidentally stumbles, and several go into a little river, over which spans a wooden bridge.As Pooh notes that the pine cones seem to almost race each other, the game is then dubbed 'Pooh Sticks.' Though in future races, twigs are substituted for pine cones.During one game, Rabbit, Pooh, Piglet and Roo are surprised when Eeyore floats through the middle of their 'Pooh Sticks' game. When asked how he ended up in the river, Eeyore claims he was 'bounced.' Given that word, there seems to be only one creature that could have done it: Tigger.The group go to Tigger to discuss this, but Tigger denies he 'bounced' Eeyore. It is then that the story's narrator interjects, and shows the characters that Tigger is lying. Tigger claims it was just a joke, and bounces off. Eeyore trudges off sadly, leading some to wonder if something is troubling him.Pooh finds him in his 'gloomy spot,' where Eeyore proclaims that today is his Birthday. Wanting to make him feel better, Pooh rushes off and tells the others about Eeyore's birthday. Pooh decides to give Eeyore a pot of honey for a gift. However, he soon ends up eating all the honey, and instead decides to give Eeyore the honey pot, claiming it as a 'useful pot.'Piglet decides to give Eeyore a balloon, but accidentally pops it. However, Eeyore is still pleased with it, notably when it fits perfectly in Pooh's 'useful pot.'Shortly afterward, Christopher Robin holds a birthday party for Eeyore, but the fun doesn't last long as Tigger shows up, unannounced and uninvited. To try and clear up the awkward moment, Christopher Robin suggests that everyone play a game of 'Pooh Sticks.'During the game, Eeyore as a first-time player, wins moreso than everyone else, but Tigger doesn't win one game. As everyone parts, Eeyore notices Tigger is dejected over not winning. Eeyore approaches Tigger, and cheerfully explains that he'll tell him his secret for winning at 'Pooh Sticks,' which cheers up Tigger.The short ends with Christopher Robin, Pooh, and Piglet standing on the bridge, looking around the 100-acre wood.
