Four women make a pact with the Devil. The 13-year-old daughter of one of them has begun to shown signs of a dark nature which causes preoccupation and somewhat regret on her mother.
Young women join a Satanic cult surrendering their will and bodies entirely to the Devil himself. Years later when they're older women, Carlotta, starts to lose control of her 13 year old daughter Daria, who starts to develop strong powers of her own, aware of her powers and with extreme devotion to The Devil she starts speaking and behaving in strange ways like casting spells and harming people with no remorse whatsoever. And her powers seem to increase exponentially every single day. In her desperation, Carlotta and some of her friends enlist the help of a priest with a crisis of faith to help them perform a strange ritual that will hopefully vanquish the evil out of Daria once and for all.
Several young women join a Satanic cult surrendering their will and bodies entirely to the Devil himself. Years later when they're older women some of their daughters start experiencing manifestations of evil. Anna, the teenage daughter of Elena, who's one of those women commits suicide. Another of those women Carlotta, starts to lose control of her 13 year old daughter Daria, who starts to develop strong powers of her own, aware of her powers and with extreme devotion to The Devil she starts speaking and behaving in strange ways like casting spells and harming people with no remorse whatsoever, including killing his father who is traveling through a plane that crashes, and with her touch burning the skin of a young boy that wanted to kiss her.
In her desperation, Carlotta and some of her friends enlist the help of a priest with a crisis of faith to help them perform a strange ritual that will hopefully vanquish the evil out of Daria once and for all. The ritual involves a sort of naked exorcism where the priest himself has a battle of wits against the Devil fighting for Daria. But the Devil was too strong and the priest could not win. Daria's power and devotion to the Devil seem to increase and by drawing a spell on the blackboard she causes her teacher to throw herself out of the window.
Confronted by Carlotta, Daria tells her that her efforts to save her are worthless because she is more powerful than her mother and she is totally devoted and she will not betray her Lord.
In a final attempt, Carlotta tries to vanquish the evil out of Daria by herself but is defeated by Daria's superior powers.
