Fact-based true crime story about the murder of publishing heiress Anne Scripps Douglas who, in 1989, married a young hunk who eventually killed her.
ORIGINAL TITLE: Our Mother's MurderAnne Scripps Douglas (Roxanne Hart) got divorced after having had two daughters. She had been educated as a lady, as she had been born into a very wealthy family. The only man she had been with was her husband.Anne got divorced. Her two children, Alex (Holly Marie Combs) and Annie (Sarah Chalke) -tell her to have fun. Annie goes out with a man ten years her younger, Scott Douglas (James Wilder), with whom she soon has a child. Alex oposes the relationship, but her older sister Annie wants to give him an opportunity.Scott reforms Ann's home, which takes very long. Scott wants to have shared accounts with his wife, but her accountant - also her brother - discourages her. Then, Anne gets pregnant, and they decide to make the guest room into the baby's room. Victoria "Tory" Scott (Nalia Rukavina) is born.The couple go to a charity danceball. Scott proposes to get a building business together to Roger Preston (Bob Osborne), and he gives him his card. However, Roger folds the card and leaves it there and leaves with his wife. After dancing with Anne and talking about buying some land to build a property, Scott gets angry because is wife tells him that no business is conducted at a charity gala. Scott realises about his card, left at the table, which makes him even more hysterical. He pushes her to leave. Anne tries to appease him, so he signals to her friend not to intervene in the row. Scott heads home and tries to push her off of the car he's driving full speed. Anne arrives to Alex's home, dirty and bloodied. The daughter wouldn't let him talk to her mother, and Anne wants to get a divorce.Alex got very disillusioned with men. She dumps one boy, Andy Phillips (Michael Buie), because he didn't call her during a whole weekend for no reason. It will take a long time to go out with somebody else, Jimmy Romeo (Jonathan Scarfe). Two police officers, Calder (Rick Ravanello) and Derrick (Alf Humphreys) watch him spying outside of Alex's in spite of the restraining order under his name.Anne tries a reconciliation with Scott because of Tory. The divorce is going to be more complicated than her first one. Scott promises to stop drinking, but he won't truly do it. Scott gets mad at Anne because he sees that she's going to change her will and take other actions against him. Anne, Tory and Annie end up locking themselves in the bathroom. When the two same officers appear at their mansion because of the emergency call, Anne says that it was only an argument. Scott terrorizes Anne, and threatens to make her go crazy.One day, Scott gets really mad, picks up a hammer and hits Anne in her head - at that moment, she was sleeping after having been reading a book. It takes her five days to die.Scott disappears, but Tory is well. Annie and Alex send her to New England with one of her aunts.Scott is found, dead, six months later, after the spring thaw.18 months later Alex marries in her mother's wedding gown. She tells Annie that Anne is with them as long as they remember her.----written by KrystelClaire
