When a lottery winner dies of shock, his fellow townsfolk attempt to claim the money.
The lucky winner of the national lottery is Ned Devine, so taken by his good fortune that he now can't be waked, because he died from the shock of it! News of the win spread quickly in the scenic little Irish village of Tully More, but not the secret news of Ned's demise. With lottery officials closing in to confirm the prize claimed by the deceased Devine, Ned's closest friends scheme to keep the prize money close to home, in memory of Ned of course! But as the plot twists humorously, they learn it is hard is to keep such a secret in a small town.
When word reaches two elderly best friends that someone in their tiny Irish village has won the national lottery, they go to great lengths to find the winner so they can share the wealth. When they discover the "lucky" winner, Ned Devine, they find he has died of shock upon discovering his win. Not wanting the money to go to waste, the village enters a pact to pretend Ned is still alive by having another man pose as him, and then to divide the money between them.
Jackie O'Shea, a resident of the tiny Irish coastal village of Tully More, discovers that one of his neighbors has won the lottery - the question is, who? It takes some doing, but Jackie figures out that the lucky person is none other than his new best friend, Ned Devine. Unfortunately, it turns out Ned is in no position to collect the jackpot, which totals almost 6.9 million Irish pounds. So Jackie and his real best friend, Michael O'Sullivan, try to figure out a way to share in Ned's good fortune - after all, Ned would want it that way. But things get a lot more complicated than either Jackie or Michael could have anticipated.
In the remote Irish village of Tullymore, someone has struck it rich, winning several million in the National Lottery. Since it is a close-knit, traditional Irish village, everyone knows everyone else's business, yet it remains mystery who might have won. Clever Jackie O'Shea (Ian Bannen) tries to find the winner through a process of deduction, analyzing everyone's behavior and hosting a fancy chicken dinner for potential winners (so as to curry favor and perhaps receive a bit of the winnings himself). Finally, it becomes clear that only Ned Devine, an elderly retiree who lives alone, could have won the prize. Jackie and his friend Michael O'Sullivan (David Kelly) call on Ned, only to find the poor man stone dead, clutching the Lottery ticket in his hand, and with a smile on his lips. The shock of winning killed him!The scheming Jackie tries to figure out a way to cash the ticket, but has a dream in which Ned Devine prompts him to share the money with the impoverished village. So he concocts a crazy scheme: his friend Michael will pose as Ned when a representative from the Lottery commission (Adrian Robinson) comes to verify the winner. In a series of humorous events, the entire village (save one) convince the Lotto observer that Michael is legitimately Ned Devine, and even devise an offshore banking scheme to cash the check.The town begins celebrating, when the old "witch" Lizzie Quinn (Eileen Dromey) threatens to turn them in for a fraud reward. She even attempts to reach the only working phone in the area (a telephone box along a winding coastal road). Her motorized wheelchair runs out of juice, so she staggers to the phone booth. As she tries to complete the call to betray them all, the phone box is struck by the Parish Priest in his van, and Quinn plunges to her death.Thus, everyone in Tullymore becomes a millionaire, and all the loose ends are tied-up.
