A rancher, his clairvoyant wife and their family face turbulent years in South America in this adaptation of Isabel Allende's best-seller.
Chile, second half of the 20th century. The poor Esteban marries Clara and they get a daughter, Blanca. Esteban works hard and eventually gets money to buy a hacienda, eventually to become a local patriarch. He becomes very conservative and is feared by his workers. When Blanca grows up, she falls in love with a young revolutionary, Pedro, who urges the workers to fight for socialism. It is unavoidable that Pedro and Esteban are pitted against each other. Esteban tries to stop the love affair between Pedro and his daughter by all means possible but soon Blanca becomes pregnant and has a daughter. The void between father and daughter seems unbridgeable when Blanca moves in with Pedro.
A poor Esteban makes a vow to marry Rosa, the sister of a young Clara. Esteban works hard in the gold mines until he has enough money to buy a small farm in the country. He sends for Rosa. On the same day Rosa receives his letter, Clara predicts a death in the family. Unexpectedly, Rosa dies. Clara sees the death as being her fault and takes a vow of silence. Esteban is devastated and goes to live on his farm alone. He works hard and eventually becomes rich. While in town at his mother's funeral he sees a grown Clara and proposes marriage. At this, Clara begins to speak again. They live at his farm and have a daughter, Blanca. Blanca is sent to boarding school, but on her summers at home falls for a worker on her father's farm, Pedro, who happens to be a revolutionary. She becomes pregnant by him and her father puts a reward on his head. Blanca and her mother move back into the city to get away from an angry Esteban. Blanca has her daughter. Esteban becomes a senator. Eventually, Esteban visits Clara and Blanca and they make up. Surprisingly, the revolutionary party wins an election and Pedro can see Blanca and his daughter. Unfortunately, there is a coup by the conservatives and both Blanca and Pedro are hunted down in connection with the revolutionary party.

