Robocop saves the day once more. This time the half man/half robot takes on ruthless developers who want to evict some people on "their" land.
The mega corporation Omni Consumer Products is still bent on creating their pet project, Delta City, to replace the rotting city of Detroit. Unfortunately, the inhabitants of the area have no intention of abandoning their homes simply for desires of the company. To this end, OCP have decided to force them to leave by employing a ruthless mercenary army to attack and harass them. An underground resistance begins and in this fight, Robocop must decide where his loyalties lie.
Having recently been taken over by Kanemitsu Corporation, OCP - known officially as Omni Consumer Products (but increasingly rechristened "Oppressive Capitalist Pigs" by Detroiters) - finally begins its project for the creation of Delta City over the trampled remains of soon-to-be-devastated Detroit. As part of its execution, a special goon squad ("rehabs"), headed by Commander Paul McDaggett, is deployed to evacuate residents by force and tear down the city (simultaneously, if need be). Amidst the chaos, a young, tech-savvy girl named Nikko, orphaned by the rehabs, takes shelter with a citizens resistance group that's banded together to strike back at OCP, first by raiding the Police Department Armory Warehouse for weapons. Murphy, dispatched to chase them down, ignores the order upon hearing a call for back up from Anne Lewis and other officers stranded within cop-killing Splatterpunk territory. This violation leads OCP to an executive decision: cut Murphy's past memories for good (a directive that technician Dr. Lazarus defies). With McDaggett unlawfully attacking citizens, Murphy finds himself in conflict over his prime directives: (1) serve the public trust, (2) protect the innocent, (3) uphold the law, yet (4) never oppose an OCP officer (who's in violation of the first three). Hampered in the ensuing mêlée against McDaggett and the rehabs, Lewis is killed and Robo severely damaged (but taken in by the rebels through Nikko). To keep Robocop off McDaggett's back, Kanemitsu deploys Otomos (android ninjas) to handle the cyborg once and for all. As an all-city battle looms, forces draw together for a stake in the final outcome.
Omni Consumer Products (OCP) begins its plan for the creation of Delta City. As part of this program, a special Rehab squad headed by Commander Paul McDaggett is deployed as they evacuate the city in a forced manner tearing down part of the city. In this chaos, a young girl named Nikko is left alone and picked up by a group of citizens joining together to strike on OCP, first raiding a Police Department Armory Warehouse. Murphy is sent to the chase of this group, but he eventually ignored the order when he received a back up call from Anne Lewis and the other officers who were attacked by a group of Splatterpunks. This violation leads to the decision of finally cutting Murphy's past memories for good, as he finds himself between the line of Law Enforcement and Popular Opinion when the law is beginning to be corrupted, and he is betrayed by the law he sought to uphold when Lewis is killed, and he is left for dead... all of this thanks to Directive 4: "Any attempt to arrest an officer of OCP results in Shut Down." At the same time, the new younger CEO of OCP begins relations with a Japanese Cybernetics Corporation headed by a man named Kanemitsu for Monetary support, leading into the deployment of the advanced android Otomo, a fully skilled Ninja with full human appearance, but still a machine. Slowly as all of Detroit joins the Motor City's cause, including the Police Department, McDaggett sees use for the arrested criminals to create his own army of criminals to strike down the City's militia once and for all. The only hope, Murphy overcoming the control placed on him by Directive 4, and bring down this corrupted plan.
It's some time after Robocop put an end to the "Nuke" production, and things have changed dramatically since. Though OCP's CEO known as "The old man" has gone, his "Delta City" project has begun, but not before OCP's buy out by the Japanese robotic company known as "Kanemitsu." It has formed its own police force to flush people from their homes and send them to OCP's special rehabilitation program; however, a little girl named Nikko escapes the program and is now with a group of rebels. Robocop and his partner, Anne Lewis, come upon activity at a church, where the OCP force led by a man named Paul McDagget is about to wipe out the rebels along with families. Robocop is heavily damaged by McDagget's forces and Lewis killed. Meanwhile, the new CEO of OCP receives notice that Kanemitsu will help with the construction of Delta City, sending Otomo, their ninja android, to assist. When the rebels repair Robocop, he seeks out McDagget, unaware of Otomo hunting for him.

