A young boy inadvertently gains possession of a check for $1 million and proceeds to spend it, unaware that the gangsters to whom it belongs are in pursuit.
After committing check fraud, Preston Waters lives out his 12-year-old fantasies by spending a million dollars in 6 days, but he quickly realizes he can't quite handle the consequences. Miguel Ferrer and Brian Bonsall star in this 1994 kid classic that will leave you asking, "Why didn't this kid get grounded?"
12-year-old Preston Waters is mistakenly given a blank check by a man who runs over his bike--and when he fills in $1,000,000 as the amount, he is actually able to get it. He enjoys spending the money, but the gangsters who own it want it back.
12-year-old Preston Waters is tired of his pain-in-the-butt brothers and stingy parents. One day, rich, convicted money-launderer Quigley nearly kills him in a parking lot and gives him (by mistake) a blank check. So Preston boots up his computer, makes out the check for $1 million, adopts the pseudonym "Macintosh," and gets spending. But Quigley wants his money back--it was supposed to be cashed by another man with a blank check and handed back to Quigley. Can Preston keep up the facade? Will Quigley and his goons get their money back? And will Preston learn how valuable money really is?
Preston Waters is a 12-year-old boy who is sick of his parents always teaching him the value of money. Little does he know he is about to learn it. When a smart crook, Carl Quigley, nearly kills Preston by running over his bike, he mistakenly fills out a blank check, which Preston prints out for $1 million. Preston convinces the bank manager to cash the check and when Quigley's employee returns to collect the money for Quigley and finds that the bank manager has given it to a kid, Quigley sets out to track the kid down and get his money. Preston creates the pseudonym of 'Macintosh' to handle his finances and the police get suspicious. Preston begins his spending, but later becomes aware that he must avoid Quigley who is on his back and the police separately attempt to work out the mystery behind 'Macintosh'. Will Preston be convinced that money isn't everything?

