A drifter enters a small town looking for employment. While working at the local cattle ranch, he meets and falls in love with the beautiful Kitty and becomes involved in a deadly yet erotic love triangle.
In the 50's, the drifter Clay Hewitt arrives in a small town in the countryside of Kansas and befriends the locals Kitty, Earl and his girlfriend Patsy after punching their friend Joel Carter in a bar. Clay asks for a job to raise money to go to California, and Earl drives him to the ranch of the widow Delilah Ashford Potts to work with him in the slaughterhouse. Mrs. Potts is an alcoholic and promiscuous woman and hires Clay and let him stay in the barn. When Clay meets her son Joseph "Flyboy" Potts, he learns that he has just returned from a mental institution after eight years and he does not speak a word to anybody. Further, his only friend is a bull called Jim that belonged to his father. Clay falls in love with Kitty and gets close to Flyboy that becomes his friend and slowly changes his behavior. When Clays decides to leave the town, he discloses a dark secret to Kitty. Meanwhile Flyboy's change of attitude unleashes a series of evil events and revelations from Mrs. Potts.
The daily life in a tiny Kansas town is indelibly changed when enigmatic drifter Clay Hewitt enters the landscape. Within a few hours of Clay's arrival, he punches out the local drunk, steals his gorgeous lady love, Kitty, and is hired by the local feed ranch's owner, boozy aging widow Delilah. Known for her appetite for younger men, Delilah eagerly takes him in, letting him use the carriage house on her estate. She of course has more in mind for Clay than merely room and board. Her completely withdrawn and utterly dominated young son, Flyboy, hasn't spoken a word to anyone other than his pet bull since his recent return from a mental hospital following eight years of incarceration. Clay slowly yanks the boy out of his shell, which unleashes a series of (occasionally brutal) turns of events.

