The tiny girl meets a fairy Prince who saves her from the creatures of the woods.
A girl no bigger than her mother's thumb feels all alone in the world knowing she is the only person her size. Her wish for a companion at last comes true when the Prince of the fairies arrives at her window sill. However, the naive Thumbelina's life goes downward from there when a toad kidnaps her. While she tries to find a way home, she begins to grow up and learns about hope with the help of the friends she always wanted.
A girl only as big as her Mother's thumb longs for companionship, but believes it is impossible, due to her being the only one of her size in the world. One night, her dreams are answered when she meets the Fairy Prince and they fall in love. Before Thumbelina can tell her mother, she is kidnapped by a toad and taken into the woods. While trying to find her way home to her Mother and the Fairy Prince, she is helped by friends she meets along the way.
Born of a flower and growing to only a couple of inches tall, poor Thumbelina is worried she'll never meet someone her own size, until she happens to catch the eye of Prince Cornelius of the Fairies. Just as soon as she finds love, however, it's torn away from her when she is kidnapped by a toad named Grundel, who wishes to marry her. Now Thumbelina has to escape Grundel's grasp and search for Prince Cornelius.
Adapted freely from Hans Christian Andersen's timeless fable, the beautiful thumb-size girl, Thumbelina, spends her childhood in solitude and isolation, unable to find a friend her size. Thirsting for love, a chance encounter with the charming fairy-prince, Cornelius, will pave the way for a sweet romance; however, the mean toad, Grundel, abducts Thumbelina, bent on marrying her. In a perilous world much bigger than themselves, will the two young lovers reunite?
Thumbelina is worried that there is no one her size so her mother tells her a story of fairies. That night the fairy prince comes to her window and hears her singing. They instantly fall in love and go flying and singing together where toads and bugs see them. Prince Cornelius promises to come back the next day after telling his parents about her. That night a toad comes and steals Thumbelina away because she heard her singing and wants her to join the family band "Singers de Espagna." Her toad son loves Thumbelina and wants to marry her. After convincing Thumbelina that she will be a star in show biz the toads leave her on a lily pad to get things ready for a wedding. Thumbelina is angry and calls for help, she doesn't want to marry the toad, she loves Cornelius. Meanwhile, Prince Cornelius goes to her house and finds her gone. The dog tells him that she was stolen by a toad and he leaves vowing to find her. He rushes home and asks his parents to stall the frost, which they can't really do. Thumbelina meets a bird who helps her off the lily pad and promises to find the Prince for her. A beetle hears Thumbelina and gets her to sing at a Beetle Ball where the beetles tell her she is ugly. The bird finds her (without news of the Prince) and reminds her that Prince Cornelius thinks she is beautiful and that she shouldn't give up. The Toad searches for Thumbelina and finds the beetle and steals his wings so the beetle will find the Prince for him so he can set a trap to get Thumbelina, since she will come for the Prince. Cornelius falls into water and gets frozen. The beetle finds him, pulls the block of ice out and brings him to the Toad and tells him where Thumbelina is. Thumbelina is taken in by Ms. Field Mouse who tells her that Prince Cornelius was found dead. Ms. Field Mouse introduces Thumbelina to Mr. Mole. Mr. Mole wants to marry Thumbelina and bribes Ms. Field Mouse to set them up. He also shows them a "dead bird" who happens to be Thumbelina's bird friend who got a thorn in his wing and passed out and fell into Mr. Mole's hole. Thumbelina comes and warms him that night and pulls the thorn out. The bird flies off to find the veil of the fairies before Thumbelina can tell him that Cornelius is dead. Thumbelina goes to marry the Mole. Some young jitterbugs thaw out the Prince. At the altar, amid visions of Prince Cornelius, Thumbelina refuses to marry the mole and runs. The toad arrives and tries to catch her, but she refuses him too. She runs out and heads towards the light outside of the hole. Prince Cornelius shows up after she runs out and duels with the Toad. Above ground the bird finds Thumbelina and flies her to the veil of the fairies. It is frozen and she doesn't believe it's the veil of the fairies. The bird tells her to sing. She sings a little and gives up, then Prince Cornelius starts to sing and then proposes, Thumbelina accepts and sprouts wings. They get married and "live happily ever after."
