In order to help her father who has financial problems, Tzeni agrees to a fake marriage with his political rival.
They say, all is fair in love and war; however, how far is one willing to go to succeed and to help his family? Would he accept the daring and startling proposal to make a marriage of convenience just for the sake of a political aspiration or would he listen to his heart? Such is the disagreeable dilemma and the heavy burden a single woman has to carry on her shoulders, Jenny Skoutari--the brilliant Greek Literature student, and daughter of Kosmas Skoutaris, the enthusiastic supporter of the local dominant political party. Suddenly, the future of the community rests on Jenny and her arranged marriage with Nikos Madas--her childhood friend and the opposition's leading candidate--nevertheless, can a love by obligation be the prelude to a fervent romance?
Nikos Mantas (Andreas Barkoulis) returns to Greece from the US having finished his studies there. His rich unkle Miltos Kassandris (Labros Kostadaras) who supported him financially all these years, thinks it's payback time. He is set to have his nephew elected as an MP. The only one that stands in the way is Kosmas Skoutaris (Dionysis Papagiannopoulos) who influences the majority of the people of the island, where Nikos wants to be elected, and supports Nikos' greatest opponent. Just when everyone is disappointed Diana Kassandris (Mary Lalopoulou) comes up with an inspired plan. Nikos should marry Kosmas' daughter Jeni (Jenny Karezi). The only problem is that Nikos is already secretly married to Yvonni Karipi (Mary Sokali), or so he thinks. That problem is also solved when Diana offers another inspired plan. They explain the plan to Yvonni who came to the island together with her mother Klara (Nana Skiada), in order to marry Nikos in a religious ceremony. Only then would their marriage be valid in Greece. Yvonni doesn't know what to say especially since her mother is in Thessaloniki for a few days. They tell her that they don't have any time to spare and she finally agrees to the plan as well. First Miltos Kassandris buys out Kosmas' debts. Then they more or less blackmail Jeni into marrying Nikos. Of course they don't reveal Nikos' secret to her. They simply tell her that he is in love with another woman (Yvonni), who also happens to be an old friend of Jeni's while she was studying in Athens. The deal is that the marriage will last for three months, until the elections, and that it won't be consumated. She agrees to the wedding. A few days later Klara returns to the island and through a misunderstanding she thinks that Yvonni and Nikos got married in a religious ceremony while she was away. After a while she realizes that Nikos married Jeni and is infuriated. Her daughter can't understand what the fuss is all about since she has married Nikos too in a civil ceremony in the US which is valid since Nikos has also US citizenship. Klara explains to her that the judge who married them was nothing but a common criminal who was just released from prison and needed the money. Yvonni asks her why she had to find a criminal and not a real judge. Klara reminds her that no real judge would marry them since Nikos was drunk. Luckily for them Nikos had no idea how drunk he was and believed the whole thing. But soon new problems arise when Nikos (who is now a "bigamist") and Jeni start falling in love. Nikos is jealous of a family friend Andreas Dermezis (Dimitris Kalivokas) who can't help admiring Jeni for her beauty and her wit. To add to that he is also an elligible bachelor. Jeni is upset by the fact that Yvonni and her mother are now living under the same roof with them, the huge villa of Miltos and Diana Kassandris, so as to keep an eye on the two of them. This lack of trust hurts her and she provokes Nikos even further when she starts flirting with Andreas and announces to Nikos that she is running out of time and she has to know what she is going to do after their divorce. One evening they all go out to a club to enjoy themselves. Jeni spends the whole evening dancing with Andreas and Nikos is very irritated. Even though his other "wife" Yvonni is also present and dances with other men, he barely even notices her. His unkle can't understand why he is so upset, thinking that this is a perfect opportunity to get rid of Jeni easily. Nikos goes up to Jeni and Andreas and interrupts their dance. Jeni and Nikos are now dancing and Nikos tells her that he demands to be respected for as long they are married. Jeni says that she also wants to be respected and Nikos promises not to dance again with Yvonni. Just then Yvonni, who was dancing with someone else all this time, comes and interrupts them stating that Nikos had already promised her this dance. Jeni is annoyed and leaves the dancefloor. She goes to Andreas again and asks him if he is tired. He says that he doesn't want to create conflict between her and Nikos. Jeni replies that this is not true and they start dancing again. Soon after she tells him that she wants to leave and aks him to escort her to her house. He agrees and they leave together. Nikos wants to stop then but Yvonni threatens him that she will start screaming that he is a bigamist if he follows them. Nikos continues to dance with her. After a while he returns to the house, only to find that Jeni still hasn't returned. He goes to Andreas' yacht to look for her. She isn't there either and Andreas asks what is going on between the two of them. Nikos says that everything is OK and leaves. Next he goes to her family house but she isn't there either. Finally he finds her drinking alone in an almost empty bar. Nikos wants to take her back home but they end up drinking together. They return to the house early in the morning and they are both drunk. There they sleep together. Next morning Nikos has no recollection of what hapenned last night. Jeni reminds him of the details. She thinks that everything is all right between the two of them but soon realises that Nikos is upset and he didn't mean anything of what he said last night. Nikos says that he meant what he had said and he does love her but there is also Yvonni. Time goes by and the day of the elections has arrived. In the evening Jeni's father calls at Kassandris' villa, where everyone is gathered, to announce the results and that Nikos is elected. Everybody congratulates him but just then Jeni faints. They call a doctor who examines Jeni and announces to Nikos that he will become a father. Yvonni accuses Jeni of having an affair. Jeni slaps her in the face and when she sees that Nikos is not going to take responsibility of his actions she leaves. Nikos finally admits that it is his child and storms out. Yvonni and her mother are also very angry with all these and they decide to go to a hotel. Jeni goes to her father's house and she explains the situation to her beloved aunt Matina (Eleni Zafiriou). At the same time Jeni's father goes to the house of Kassandris where he finds out the happy news and is very excited. He goes back to his house. Jeni isn't in a position to deal with him and his happiness and pretends that she is asleep. He wants to wake her up but aunt Matina dissuades him from it. He asks her why she is staying there and aunt Matina says that Nikos had to go to Athens and she decided to stay there for the night. Next morning Miltos Kassandris asks the house maid if Nikos is up and she informs him that he didn't come back all night. He tells her that he will go to the hotel where Yvonni and Klara are staying and if anyone needs him they should call there. Meanwhile Jeni's father leaves his house too, while Jeni is still sleeping. Nikos is hiding outside the house and as soon as he sees his father-in-law exiting, he goes in. He starts talking to aunt Matina, explaining the situation to her and Jeni comes in. There he reveals that he is also secretly married to Yvonni. Jeni and her aunt are shocked. Nikos leaves saying that he now has to pay for what he did. Miltos Kassandris goes to Yvonni's room and just as he is ready to knock on the door he listens to them arguing. Yvonni wants to leave the island before everyone understands that she and Nikos are not married and that the judge was a common criminal. But Klara believes that they can get money from Miltos Kassandris for the "divorce", since he will definitely want to avoid the scandal. Miltos Kassandris walks into the room and tells them to leave the island immediately or else he will go to the police. They are left speechless. Just as he is ready to the leave the hotel he receives a call from the general of the island's police (Vasos Andronidis) saying that his nephew is there telling him some unbelievable things. Kassandris says that his nephew should wait for him. Things have changed and he has just found out that his nephew fell victim to those women. Nikos is not happy that the general has called his unkle, but he says he didn't really have a choice since Nikos comes from a prominent family. Jeni on the the other hand packs her things and is ready to go to Athens without seeing her father. She tells her aunt to tell him that Nikos had called for her and that as soon as she settles down she will let her know where she is. Miltos Kassandris explains the deceit to his nephew and the general of the police and tells Nikos to go to his wife. Nikos goes to Jeni's house only to find that she has already left. He tells aunt Matina that everything is OK now and runs to catch Jeni. When he arrives to the island's harbour he sees that her ship has already sailed, but still he manages to reach her and explains everything to her. Jeni is overjoyed, they both fell into the sea and start kissing each other.
