Caesar has had enough when another legion is hacked to pieces by the damned single indomitable village in Gaul because of the druid's magic potion, so he decides to tackle the problem at the root before conspiratorial senators exploit his humiliation: sycophant Lucullus is ordered to capture the druid (believed immortal) and push him over the edge of the earth (according to the story still believed to be flat as a pizza; actually Greeks and Romans knew better). By pure luck, Lucullus' first net traps both druid and Obelix's pet dog, so the giant and Asterix follow them by ship on the Atlantic, and crash after a storm on the North America coast in pursuit of the druid who was catapulted off the Roman galley before Lucullus triumphantly sets sails back for Europe. They find the druid and meet a tribe of Indians (believing to be in India), literally a whole New World for the equally primitive Celts. At the home front, Caesar sees his chance to overrun the village, but has to wait till the last magic potion has run out, hoping the heroes won't return. In America, the medicine man has a bad eye in the foreigners, especially when the druid proves a dangerous rival...
During a brawl in their Gallic village, the magic potion that gives the heroes ASTERIX and OBELIX their superhuman power tips over. But now After another spectacular defeat of a fresh centurion Caesar sends Lucullus, one of his sycophants, to try to capture Getafix and throw him off the edge of the world away from prying eyes in case things go badly. Then so Asterix and Obelix ventures to America to rescue a magical Druid. Before the druid Getafix can make another brew, the Romans capture him and catapult him into space from their galley at the edge of the word. They believe that the earth is flat! Asterix and Obelix set out after Getafix. They end up in America, where Indians, who already hold Getafix prisoner, capture Asterix. The medicine man has designs on their magic potion and Getafix has to use every trick in the book to protect its secret formula. The three Gauls finally escape from the Indians and on their return home find their village burned to the ground and its inhabitants abducted. The heroes have free their friends, tear the Roman camp apart and send Caesar on his merry way.

