An imprisoned I.R.A. fighter is freed to help stop a brutal, seemingly "faceless" assassin from completing his next job.
In Moscow, the FBI and their Russian counterpart, the MVD, are working on a joint mission to apprehend Russian mobster Ghazzi Murad specifically for the murder of Mayor Nikolai Semankho. During the arrest, they are forced to kill Ghazzi. Ghazzi's brother, Terek Murad, also a mobster, begins his own form of deadly retribution against the MVD for Ghazzi's death. But the FBI and MVD also get wind that Terek has hired an assassin by the code name Jackal to carry out a hit on a high profile but unknown American target for the Americans sticking their nose in Russian affairs. Intelligence points to that target being Donald Brown, the Director of the FBI. The Jackal is known only by name and reputation but no one in authority knows who he is, what he looks like or if he even really exists. They learn of only one person alive who they know has had ties to the Jackal: former Basque separatist Isabella Zanconia, whose whereabouts are unknown. As such, the FBI and MVD decide to turn to the one person they know who has had ties to Isabella: Declan Mulqueen, who is currently in an American prison serving twenty-five years for his deadly IRA activities. To their surprise, Declan purports to have met the Jackal. Although they are unable to meet all his demands including not being able to guarantee his release and return back to Ireland after all is said and done, Declan agrees to help them on the promise that they will do their best to meet that request. What happens is largely a function of Declan's relationship with his two handlers, the MVD's Major Valentina Koslova and FBI Deputy Director Carter Preston, the latter in particular who does not fully trust Declan. It is also affected by the nature of the history between Declan, Isabella and the Jackal. Through it all, Declan may, if given the opportunity, do what Carter believes he will do, which is run without keeping to his side of the bargain.
Russian mobster Terek Murad has declared open season on the Russian militia and the United States FBI over the shooting of his brother in a Moscow nightclub. He hires "The Jackal" -- an elusive, nasty assassin -- to kill FBI Director Donald Brown. Present at the shooting of Murad's brother were FBI Deputy Director Carter Preston and Major Valentina Koslova of the Russian militia. Nearly no one has ever seen The Jackal, save for Declan Mulqueen, an imprisoned IRA sniper. Upon learning that the Director Brown is a target, Preston and Koslova enlist the services of the reluctant Mulqueen to track down the Jackal before he can assassinate Brown.
The United States is trying to help the New Russia in its war against organized crime. Presently, they are after Terek Murad, a deadly crime boss. They get evidence against one of Murad's people who is also his brother for murder so they try to arrest him. But the man tries to kill Russian cop, Major Koslova so she kills him. Murad seeks revenge against the ones who killed his brother, FBI agent Carter Preston and Russian Major Valentina Koslova, and wanting to send a message to America about interfering in matters he believes are none of its concern. Thus, he hires "The Jackal," an international assassin, to kill a prominent American. The Jackal tells Murad to go into hiding till the job is done. When Preston and the Russian police learn that Murad has gone into hiding; they wonder why? So they grab Murad's man and under intense interrogation he mentions the Jackal. Preston knows about the assassin. Koslova confirms it because the Russians have used him. She also tells Preston that Murad's man had info on the Director of the FBI which makes Preston think, the Director is the target. So he informs the Director who chooses not alter his schedule or add security. He tells Preston to find him quietly. So Preston needs to find someone who's seen the Jackal and unfortunately there are not that many and most of the ones they know of are dead. There's a woman who knows him but she's vanished so he tries to enlist the help of a man who might know where she is, Declan Mulqueen, an imprisoned IRA sniper. Mulqueen refuses to help till he learns about the Jackal and tells them he knows who he is, so they let him help them. But finding the Jackal is not going to be easy.

