A waitress falls for a handsome customer who seduces her, her two sisters, her brother, and her brother's girlfriend.
A waitress meets personable, attractive Adam and they soon become lovers, then get engaged. Wasting no time, Adam starts an affair with her bookish sister, who knows about the first relationship. Their (none-too-happily) married third sister knows about both these liaisons but is still attracted to Adam. The lad is certainly playing the field, but in their own ways the girls seem to be getting just as much out of the deal as him.
In Dublin, Ireland, the adult Owens sisters are in different stages of and have different outlooks on romance. The eldest, Alice Rooney, is in a stable if somewhat boring marriage to Martin Rooney, with a baby daughter Jean adding to that stable, traditional family life. Middle sister Laura Owens, an academic, believes it better to have no relationship than to be in one without that fairy-tale passion, much like the romances in literature which she studies. Youngest sister Lucy Owens, an aspiring singer and a waitress at a local bar, goes in and out of relationships easily, she recently just having broken it off with her latest boyfriend Simon, an aspiring stand-up comic, and never yet having had that passionate relationship to which Laura so aspires. Into their collective lives comes Adam, a photographer and gallery owner, who becomes ensconced within their family. Unlike Martin who she doesn't much like, Mrs. Owens would love to see Adam as part of the family. Adam does touch on something primal and different in each of the sisters, one who he does openly embark on in a relationship, that sister unaware of what is happening between him and her sisters. Certain situations involving Adam are presented from the different perspective of each of the sisters. If Adam does end up as part of the family and with which sister and/or if he does have a longer term effect on each of their romantic lives is also affected by David Owens, the sisters' younger brother, who is in a stalled situation sexually with his current girlfriend Karen, and who sees in Adam the "bro" he has never had... and perhaps more.

