A skeptical professor visits a remote British estate to debunk allegations of psychic phenomena, but soon finds himself haunted by a ghost from his own past.
Professor David Ash is invited to Edbrook to calm the fears of the elderly nanny of the Mariell family. Nanny Tess is seeing things, and Ash's book debunking such phenomenon makes him a good choice to set her mind at ease and convince her she is just tired and stressed. But soon after arriving David too begins to doubt his senses, and watching the odd behavior of the three grown Mariell children doesn't make his task any easier. In fact, he begins to think Nanny Tess isn't really just tired and stressed out after all.
In 1905, in Sussex, England, the young boy David loses his twin sister while playing with her nearby a lake. The girl falls and drowns in the lake, and David feels guilty for her death. The grieving family returns to USA, and twenty-three years later, David Ash comes back to England, to be the professor of psychology in the University of Camberley. The skeptical David is specialized in psychic phenomena and exposition of false mediums and frauds, and wrote a successful book about this subject. After a countless number of calls from an elder lady called Miss Webb claiming to be haunted by ghosts, David is informed that the lady lives in Edbrook, and he decides to accept her invitation to visit her. When he arrives in Edbrook's train station, the beautiful young woman Christina Mariell is waiting for him. She drives him to her remote mansion, where she lives with her two brothers and their former nanny, Miss Webb. After being introduced to the family, David finds the behavior of Miss Webb very weird and disturbed, but decides to investigate the existence of any psychic phenomena in the place. Meanwhile, Christina and him fall in love for each other. Their romance and his investigation come to surprising revelations.
After the accidental death of his twin sister, David and his family move back to the United States. In 1928, David returns to England to teach at Cambridge. Besides teaching, David is an author who exposes false mediums and spiritualist. While he has never found a person who can communicate with the "dearly departed", his continues to accept challenges. For this reason, and the desperate letter he receives from Miss Webb, he heads to Edbrook to investigate her claims of spirits who torment her. At Edbrook Hall, David meets beautiful Christina and her two brothers who live in the house with Nanny Tess.

