A young engineer works in a firm that is managed by a beautiful but rather "stiff" civil engineer woman. When they come face to face, there are sparks flying everywhere...
Driven, meticulous, accomplished--and above all--successful in her profession at a young age, the beautiful civil engineer, Lila Vassiliou, has everything her male colleagues ever wished for. Impeccable in her crisp and fashionable suits, the brilliant but stern expert is, by all means, immaculate; however, poor Lila is utterly out of touch with her feminine side and surprisingly bad at recognising her subordinate Alekos' audacious flirtation. Under those circumstances, only the magic touch of Lila's cousin, Athena, can help the respectable manager get back on track, even if she is still sceptic about the wonderfully painless and pampering makeover experience that awaits her. What a pity. Lila would be surprised how far can one go with a little dab of bold blood-red lipstick and a melodious soft voice.
Lila Vasileiou (Jenny Karezi) is a young architect who is dedicated to her studies and her work. One of her former Professors (Periklis Hristoforidis) trusts her to run the construction company he manages while he is away on a business trip abroad for a few months. On her first day to work she is escorted to her office by her father Thomas (Dionysis Papagianopoulos). On that very day Alekos Samiotakis (Alekos Alexandrakis) returns to Athens from Northern Greece where he was on business. He is a well-known playboy and when he finds Lila alone in the office he starts hitting on her thinking that she is the secretary of the new manager. Lila is annoyed and sends him to hell. The Professor comes back to his office together with the president of the company (Dimitris Nikolaidis) another member of the board, Mr. Makrakis (Aggelos Antonopoulos) and Alekos to introduce them to his replacement. Alekos realises to his surprise that Lila is his boss and from then on tries to behave appropriately. He even refuses to smoke in front of her due to respect. Lila is upset and confides in her cousin Athina (Lili Papayanni) that everyone in the company sees her as a man. Because of a misunderstandsting her cousin thinks that Lila is talking about the president of the company, who is a lot older than Lila, and persuades him to express his feelings to her. He goes to the office and asks her to go out but Lila is offended and he is at a loss, so he leaves. A weekend is coming up and Lila is planning to go to Nauplio with her father and her cousin. But some business needs to be done and so she decides to ask Alekos to devote his weekend to that business if he is free. Alekos was planning to go to Nafplio too with his girlfriend but lies instead and says that he doesn't have anything else to do. Just then his girlfriend Vicky (Nitsa Marouda) comes into the office and reveals their plans to go to Nafplio. Lila is crushed even more because all this time Alekos was trying to dissuade her from going to Nafplio. She is disapponted and decides not to assign him the extra work. Some time has gone by. Athina is trying to help her cousin, showing her how to improve her outer appearance, dress better etc. Meanwhile Alekos was in Mesologgi on business. He returns that afternoon and a friend of him comes to visit him. Alekos' mother (Eleni Zafiriou) doesn't like her son's girlfriend and asks Stavros (Kostas Karras) to talk to him about her, but he refuses. A short while after that Vicky arrives all dressed up to pick Alekos up and go out with him. He says he is too tired to go out and she leaves irritated. At the same time Lila and Athina are getting ready to go out. Lila was expecting a call from Alekos but he still hasn't returned her call. They talk about him and Athina reveals to her that Vicky is also seeing another man, a doctor. Lila says that they should tell that to Alekos but Athina says that that would be too petty. In his house Alekos talks to Stavros about her and he is full of admiration for her, leading Stavros to believe that he has a crush on her. Alekos says he is tired of women like Vicky and Stavros reveals to him that his mother is of the same opinion. Lila finally decides to call him again, but when she does he hangs up because he thinks that it's Vicky. Her cousin tells her that he spoke to him far too sweetly, which is not like her and he didn't understand who it was. In the end they talk to each other and they arrange to meet that night, the reason for this being (as Athina explains to her) that Lila is dressed up and Alekos will have a chance to see her when she looks so good. Over the phone he asks her if he could come back to Athens and Lila agrees. While they are waiting for him Vicky comes and asks Lila to bring Alekos back to Athens. Vicky leaves and Lila gets angry because she thinks the two of them are plotting in order to be together. Alekos arrives and they start arguing. Lila decides to send him even further, to Soufli, and Alekos ends up handing in his resignation. Lila storms out of the room and Athina tells him that it is childish to ignore his work in order to be in Athens and go out with his girlfriend. Alekos explains that he wants to attend a seminar. Athina realises their mistake. She asks Alekos to go to his house to cool off and then call Lila again. Everything will be arranged. Athina reveals to Lila the true reason why Alekos wants to stay in Athens and the misunderstanding is resolved. Some time later the president of the company Admiral Gelevourdezos holds one of his legendary parties at his house. Lila doesn't want to go but when she finds out that Alekos will be there too, she can't wait to get there. When Lila and Athina arrive the house is full of people having fun. Most of them work at the Admiral's company. The Admiral welcomes the two cousins, there are no hard feelings between him and Lila because of the previous misunderstanding. He prepares them something to drink and Athina confides in Lila that she wants to marry him because he is very rich. Just then Vicky arrives. Lila is upset because she tought that she had broken up with Alekos. The Admiral asks her to dance and she agrees. When Alekos arrives together with Stavros she runs to him. Alekos brushes her off. She says that the doctor was the one who was attending her grandma, but he doesn't believe her and she finally leaves him alone. Athina wants to go to get something from her car and sees the two men. She tells them that she is there together with her cousin and leaves. Alekos is excited because Stavros will finally have the chance to meet this fantastic woman, that he so much admires. In the meantime Lila is a little tipsy and she is dancing, making a complete fool of herself because she doesn't really know how to dance. Alekos is at a loss for words. When Lila sees him, she comes up to him and starts flirting with him in her own awkward way. Alekos doesn't understand the meaning of all this and is about to leave. On his way out he meets Athina again who reveals to him that Lila is in love with him and that all this time she has been trying to help her cousin become more feminine. Alekos returns to the party determined to finish the masquerade once and for all. He takes Lila to the veranda so they can dance there alone. He comes on to her, she slaps him in the face and goes inside again. The whole scene was witnessed by another guest of the party, who makes some degrading comments. The two of them start fighting. Lila is excited because she thinks they are fighting over her. The police arrive and Alekos ends up spending his night in jail. The Admiral and Athina take Lila home and the Admiral goes on to ask Athina to marry him. Next day Lila feels humiliated by the way she behaved at the party and decides to resign while avoiding Alekos at the same time. Alekos finally finds her in her office and the two of them confess their love to one another. Lila's father walks in on them hugging and understands that his daughter is in love with Alekos. Vasilis (Giannis Vogiatzis) comes running and informs Thomas that the traffic police are towing his car. They both leave running. Lila and Alekos are left alone laughing and hugging.
