Two schizophrenics meet during therapy and fall passionately in love. Ahead of them lies the inevitable road to disaster - one they share to the end.
Harry(John Lynch) and Kate(Jacqueline Mckenzie) are schizophrenics.Their first meeting is at one of the group sessions they have to attend at the clinic where they are both outpatients.From the first moment Harry sets eyes on Kate, he is in love. She is intense, with dark eye-pencil lining her eyes, and strawberry blonde hair. Harry tells his brother later, I worship her. But he hasn't spoken to her yet. Harry is staying with his brother(Morris) and his family. One day after their therapy sessions; when Kate's boarding a bus, Harry follows her. Kate realizes she is being followed, and moves to the front of the bus. Harry follows her. The bus arrives at a stop, and Kate suddenly flees out the back door. Harry races after her. He chases her through a park and she finally stops and confronts him,"what are you doing? Why are you following me?". He is too shy to answer. In their cordial conversation she reveals that during childhood she was raped by her father.Suddenly she remembers something &amp; hurries back towards the bus stop. She races back to the sidewalk, but the bus had left. She panics, dropping her bag, she screams at Harry," I needed to be on that bus. I need a television!!!". Harry grabs her hand and she runs along with him. They run across a bridge towards the city. He takes her to a store with TVs airing Wheel of Fortune. Kate crouches on the sidewalk, taking out her journal, she starts watching the show, and writing things down. She tells him that she gets messages at Wheel of Fortune from Astral, her guardian angel. Kate glances up at Harry and barks," And dont you dare laugh at me". He shakes his head, he wont, he wont laugh. Harry and Kate's love affair heats up immediately. They devour one another in love scenes passionate and raw. Harry has Kate over for dinner at his brothers house. She wears a skimpy orange dress showing too much skin. She nervously smokes. She refuses to use a fork, and tries to cut her meat with a spoon, for reasons known only to her. Morris' wife asks Kate how things are going with Harry, and Kate replies, freely, somewhat flatly, Hes the best lover Ive ever had. Hes got a sideways move that rocks my world. Later Harry reveals that they have mutually decided to move in together. Harry and Kate both intend on taking up a job.They move in together, and there are funny scenes where they look through apartments at the realtors office and add up the numbers of the addresses and apartment numbers, and reject places because they are not numerically calming. They believe that there is a vast interconnected system out there, and if they can just align themselves correctly with the messages they are being given, from Astral, they will be safe.Kate becomes pregnant. Morris and his wife express concern on their decision to have a baby &amp; after an heated argument with his brother Harry declares that he too has a right to have a family like him. As Harry walks away from them Kate follows him. Harry and Kate stand on the edge of the bridge, in the golden light of sunset, fearful of what will happen with their baby, fearful of how they will survive, afraid of the madness coming again knowing what that is, what that will mean and they flap their arms like the birds, cawing, cawing, cawing reaching out to one another to grasp hands, worried, quite evident in their eyes, but also laughing. Laughing not because they are happy. But laughing because all they have is the moment. In order to avoid any complications to the baby,so that it may not inherit their disorder Kate decides to go off her anti-psychotics for the safety of the baby. Harry, in an act of solidarity, goes off his as well, and they sit over the toilet, flushing them down, the bright green pills whirling down the drain, reminiscent of the image of the wheel of fortune on TV, incessantly spinning, colors over colors, telling them the future.But things go haywire for them after an awkward incident at a shopping mall wherein we see Kate's hallucinations reappear, haunting her to flee from the scene to a dark corner of the mall. Harry comforts her but the lack of medication affects him as well for the other day he is fired by his employer after revelation of his medical condition. Harry's hallucinations torment him as he pounds at the side of his head.Meanwhile Kate realizes that Harry has lost his job and this further adds to her already deteriorating mental state.Traumatized she locks herself up in a bathroom from where she is taken to the hospital after Morris discovers her crouching in the bathroom. At the hospital Harry is informed that Kate doesn't want to see him anymore and she would undergo her treatment in the hospital. Harry later finds her and helps her escape from the hospital after showing her a phrase(Run &amp; Hide) that appeared in Wheels of Fortune. He hides her at a developing infrastructure site without informing Morris with whom now he lives. Harry later returns to his room to find Kate's medication but Morris confronts him and he agrees to send her back to hospital &amp; reveal her whereabouts if Morris would bring her medication. Kate has a sudden miscarriage and she's rushed to the hospital. In the hospital, Kate dies while giving birth to their daughter. Harry asks his brother to take care of his daughter and walks to the bridge where Kate and Harry once stood to "fly". Harry climbs to the top of the railing imagining Kate by her side telling her she won't wait for too long there.As Harry gazes the sun, the screen fades and Harry's further actions are open for interpretation.
