Absent father, alcoholic brother Tim try to cope with life.
A young college student returns from Yale to introduce his fiancée to his family. While there, the relationships between the various family members are tested, and the secrets hidden behind the seemingly "perfect family" front are brought to light.
Doing Time on Maple Drive is a powerful story of a seemingly perfect family's dysfunction. Parents Phil and Lisa have three adult children. Two of the children, Tim and Karen, haven't met the parents expectations of success and the youngest Matt appears to be doing everything right and a child Phil and Lisa can be proud of. But secrets start to surface shattering the family's idyllic facade and forcing them to acknowledge the realities of their lives.
In this made-for-TV drama, a New England family's secrets all come tumbling out at once as they spend a weekend together to celebrate the engagement of their youngest son. Lisa Carter (Bibi Besch) and her military husband, Phil (James B. Sikking), couldn't be happier when their youngest son, Matt (William McNamara), brings his rich bride-to-be, Allison (Lori Loughlin), home from Yale. Col. Carter views Matt as the perfect son, especially given the way his other children have turned out. Tim (Jim Carrey) has sunk into alcoholism after dropping out of college, while Karen (Jayne Brook) must support her husband, Tom (David Byron), a struggling art photographer who wants to start a family despite his father-in-law's financial misgivings. As Allison gets acquainted with the Carter clan and its dysfunctions, her fiancé's artfully constructed facade of perfection begins to crumble, ultimately threatening his family's reputation, his impending nuptials, and his very life. Doing Time on Maple Drive debuted March 16, 1992, as a "Fox Night at the Movies" feature on the Fox network; it was later nominated for several Emmy awards. Directed by thirtysomething star Ken Olin, the film features a number of additional television staples among its cast, from Loughlin, star of Full House, to Carrey, then best known as Fire Marshal Bill on In Living Color. Two additional TV personalities from the cast -- Hill Street Blues actor Sikking and Northern Exposure actress Besch -- both share the distinction of being Star Trek vets, Besch in Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan and Sikking in Star Trek III: The Search for Spock. ~ Brian J. Dillard, All Movie GuideMovie data provided by:
All Movie Guide (AMG)
1991
