An afterlife therapist and his daughter meet a friendly young ghost when they move into a crumbling mansion in order to rid the premises of wicked spirits.
Furious that her late father only willed her his gloomy-looking mansion rather than his millions, Carrigan Crittenden (Cathy Moriarty) is ready to burn the place to the ground when she discovers a map to a treasure hidden in the house. But when she enters the rickety mansion to seek her claim, she is frightened away by a wicked wave of ghosts. Determined to get her hands on this hidden fortune, she hires afterlife therapist Dr. James Harvey (Bill Pullman) to exorcise the ghosts from the mansion. Harvey and his daughter Kat (Christina Ricci) move in, and soon Kat meets Casper (Malachi Pearson), the ghost of a young boy who's "the friendliest ghost you know". But not so friendly are Casper's uncles,- Stretch (Joe Nipote), Fatso (Brad Garrett), and Stinkie (Joe Alaskey) - who are determined to drive all "fleshies" away. Ultimately, it is up to James and Kat to help the ghosts cross over to the other side.
Kat (Christina Ricci) and her dad, Dr. James Harvey (Bill Pullman) head to an old house that is haunted by ghosts. Dr. Harvey's job is to get the ghosts out of the house so they can cross over to the other side. After they move in to the house, Kat meets a ghost named Casper (Malachi Pearson), who is in love with Kat. His one wish is to be human again and maybe he can win the girl.
Casper (Malachi Pearson), a friendly ghost who lived in an abandon Haunted Mansion called Whipstaff Manor in Friendship, Maine, along with his three obnoxious, ghostly uncles: Stretch (Joe Nipote), Stinkie (Joe Alaskey), and Fatso (Brad Garrett), has been hoping to find a friend for over one hundred years. When a spoiled woman named Carrigan Crittenden (Cathy Moriarty) is angry about her late father's will to Whipstaff, she soon discovers that there is treasure hidden inside the Mansion, so she along with her partner: Paul "Dibs" Plutzker (Eric Idle), arrive at Whipstaff to seek it out. When Casper introduces himself to them, they are frightened by him and his uncles who scares them off, leading Carrigan and Dibs to try several attempts to get them out of the house, but to no avail. Thanks to Casper, they hire Dr. James Harvey (Bill Pullman), a ghost therapist who contacts with the living dead and helps them crossover to the other dimension while trying to search for his deceased wife: Ameila (Amy Brenneman). Once Harvey arrives at Whipstaff along with his daughter: Kathleen "Kat" Harvey (Christina Ricci), Casper develops a crush on Kat and tries to make friends with her and Harvey, but his uncles attempt to scare them away.
A friendly, but lonely ghost boy name Casper (Malachi Pearson) has spent most of his years in the afterlife living in an old mansion called Whipstaff Manor with his three dastardly uncles while hoping to find a friend. When the Manor's greedy owner, named Carrigan Crittenden (Cathy Moriarty) and her partner: Paul "Dibs" Plutzker (Eric Idle) hire a ghost therapist named Dr. James Harvey (Bill Pullman) to remove the ghosts from the mansion, just so they can collect the treasure contained in the mansion. Casper falls madly in love with the therapist's loner teenage daughter named Kat (Christina Ricci), who is also looking for a friend. Unfortunately, it creates a distance between them since Casper is a ghost, therefore, Kat can't be with him. After regaining some of his old memories before he passed away, Casper discovers the secret that would bring him back to life, so he and Kat seek out to find it while Carrigan and Dibs want to use it for their own intention.
The eternally irritable Ms. Carrigan Crittenden (Cathy Moriarty) discovers that the only thing she's been left in her recently departed father's will is a rickety old house in New England. Naturally, the woman is furious about this, until her "close personal friend" and assistant, Paul "Dibs" Plutzker (Eric Idle), discovers a secret message that a treasure may be concealed somewhere in the house. The two take off for Friendship, Maine, only to learn that the house is haunted by Casper (Malachi Pearson) "the friendly ghost" and his three ghostly uncles Stinkie (Joe Alaskey), Stretch (Joe Nipote), and Fatso (Brad Garrett). After futilely recruiting an exorcist (Don Novello, as Father Guido Sarducci from Saturday Night Live (1975)) and a "professional ghost exterminator" (Dan Aykroyd), she brings in "ghost psychiatrist" Dr. James Harvey (Bill Pullman) and his daughter Kat (Christina Ricci). Innocently attracted to the young girl, Casper befriends Kat as they try to save the ghosts' home from the evil Carrigan. Eye-popping special effects highlight this magical story that touches (albeit lightly) on the theme of what lies at the heart of human desires.
Steven Spielberg produced this feature starring the friendly ghost created in 1940 by Joe Orolio. A greedy heiress inherits the haunted Whipstaff Manor and discovers that the house contains a treasure, which is guarded by three nasty ghosts. Ghost therapist Dr. James Harvey, and his daughter Kat, move into the mansion to get rid of the supernatural creatures. Kat makes friends with a ghost named Casper, the nephew of the 3 nasty ghosts.
