Two attorneys adopt a mysterious orphan girl as their daughter, unaware she is the new Antichrist, next in line from Damien thorn.
Damien Thorn is dead, but his prophecy is reborn in a mysterious girl named Delia, who is adopted by two attorneys, Gene &amp; Karen York. When Karen realizes her baby was born under suspicious circumstances, she hires a private investigator to find Delia's real parents. A series of bizarre accidents occur, and Karen begins to suspect everyone of conspiring against her as she unravels the truth about her baby.
The story concentrates on a child of mysterious origin called Delia (Asia Vieira), who is adopted by two attorneys, Gene (Michael Woods) and Karen York (Faye Grant). At first, all seems normal, but Jo, their nanny with remarkable psychic powers, begins to learn aspects of Delia's personality that become very suspicious. Jo takes her to a fair for people with psychic powers. When Noah, Jo's friend, takes a picture of Delia and sees very dark colors, which is like her personality, Noah finds out she is evil. When Delia finds out what they're up to, she gets angry and the whole place catches fire.When meditating with Delia to help her discover why Delia is so full of negative energy, Jo finds out who Delia really is. She is pushed out of the window by Delia's dog and is thrown onto Delia's roundabout. Increasingly alarmed and suspicious of her adoptive daughter, Karen hires a private investigator to learn the identity of Delia's real parents. What follows is a string of bizarre accidents, resulting in Karen falling into a paranoid state as she fears people are conspiring against her. What's worse, Karen's pregnancy increases her feeling of paranoia around Delia. It is soon revealed that Delia is the daughter of Damien Thorn, the Antichrist, thus the granddaughter of Satan.After delivering her son Alex, Karen goes to the doctor who knows the truth about Delia and finds out that the Antichrist is not Delia: she is the protector of the antichrist. The antichrist is in fact Delia's twin brother, whose embryo was carried inside Delia and then implanted into Karen by the doctor. Karen kills the doctor then heads home to try to kill Delia and her baby, the 666 symbol shown directly on his palm.Karen arrives home and confronts Delia. She is horrified to see the "666" sign on the baby's hand. Karen tries to kill the baby but instead kills herself as the camera pans out to a view of the house. The film then ends with Gene and Delia walking home from Karen's funeral.
