When Sunder loses everything, he seeks refuge in a graveyard, where he befriends a ghost.
Sunder Srivastava (Shah Rukh Khan) is a young graduate whose main ambition in life is to fulfil his father's dream of starting a school on his half-acre property in his village, though he has no funds to execute his plans. Sunder's childhood friend Prem, a seasoned conman who operates in Bombay, convinces the gullible Sunder to mortgage his land to the village Zamindar (landlord) and fly to Dubai. Prem promises Sunder a handsomely paying teacher's job in Dubai that would give Sunder enough money to start his school within two years. Sunder does as told and arrives in Bombay to meet Prem; not only is there no sign of his friend at the station, but Sunder also gets unwittingly involved with a petty thief who robs him of all his luggage and money. To make matters worse, when Sunder reaches Prem's lodge, he finds an apologetic letter from Prem informing him that he has used his Rs.10,000 to get himself to Dubai instead and will one day repay him. Now at the end of his tether, Sunder wanders into an old Christian cemetery. Sitting on an old grave, Sunder gives vent to his frustrations and strikes the tombstone in helplessness, but immediately apologizes to the deceased. This amuses the ghost of Amar Kumar-- alias Marco (Naseeruddin Shah)-- who was killed and thrown into the grave 20 years before, only to rise at Sunder's apology. Marco explains to a frightened Sunder that he was a notorious Crime Don, who at the behest of his romantic partner Savitri (Malvika Tiwari), had resolved to give up crime, but was shot by his protégé Kunta the day after the wedding. Marco seeks Sunder's help in getting even with his killers and promises Sunder a job and a place to stay in return. Marco manages to get Sunder a post in a school run by his father-in-law (Shammi Kapoor). Everyone grows fond of the new games teacher, including Marco's daughter (Urmila Matondkar). This last, a vivacious girl of an age with Sunder, courts the boy at least twice, accompanied by her largely invisible father. Kunta (Tinnu Anand) makes an attempt to capture the playing ground on the college campus. The college is starved of funds and proposes a cricket match to collect funds. Sunder and his team are helped by the invisible Marco, who cheats on their behalf and ensures victory. When Sunder tries to tell the others that he can see and talk to Marco, nobody believes him. In a final bid for victory, Kunta captures Sunder, Marco's daughter, and Marco's father-in-law, attempting to bury them alive. Marco rescues them and gives all the criminals led by Kunta a beating. He is about to kill Kunta when Sunder pleads with him not to do so. Marco forgives his enemy and lets him go. In time, Sunder marries Marco's daughter while Marco ascends to heaven. As he goes, Marco warns the children that although he came back to life for a second chance to do the right thing, they will not have the same chance; they therefore must make the best of what chances they have.
Sunder Srivastav is a teacher by profession who has high expectations of making it big in life one day. His aggression takes him to Bombay but he loses his way there only to end up in a grave yard. Once there he meets with an unrest soul - who happens to be a male named Amar Kumar alias Marco. Marco was wrongly killed by his business partner, Kunta who now decides to avenge his death with the help of Sunder - who agrees to help him without knowing that this experience will change his life forever.
Sundar Shrivastav a teacher dreams of building a school for village kids.His friend Prem tells him that his dream can be fulfilled as there is a teacher's job in Dubai with good salary.Sundar sells of his land and gives the amount to Prem who asks him to come to Mumbai in few days.Upon reaching Mumbai he finds that Prem as conned him and left for Dubai with the money where as he is also robbed of his belongings.Sundar with no way to go spends his time in a Catholic graveyard where he comes across a ghost Marco who is only visible to Sunder and only he can hear him.Marco tells him he was not a good person.But when he decided to give his world of crime fro his wife Savitri.His partner Gunda killed him and buried him in the graveyard secretly.Marco then asked god to plead him as he did not get a chance to prove himself.Marco then was waiting for 20 years for this day.Marco and Sundar become friends and Marco finds he also has a daughter Mala who then loves Sundar. Marco's only aim is to destroy Gunda and prove himself innocent where he is helped by Sundar.
Sunder Srivastav, a teacher by career, is a klutz. He decides to re-locate to Dubai in the United Arab Emirates, with the help of his childhood friend, and pays him a large sum of money, and travels to Bombay to fly out to Dubai, but finds that his friend has betrayed him. Alone, lost, and helpless in Bombay, Sunder has nowhere to go, and ends up in a graveyard. He soon comes across Marco alias Amar Kumar, who asks his assistance in apprehending some killers. Sunder agrees to do so. It then he realizes that the person he has promised to assist has been dead - for over 20 years.

