After being released from prison, Billy is set to visit his parents with his wife, whom he does not actually have. This provokes Billy to act out, as he kidnaps a girl and forces her to act as his wife for the visit.
Billy is released after five years in prison. In the next moment, he kidnaps teenage student Layla and visits his parents with her, pretending she is his girlfriend and they will soon marry (and forcing her to say the same).
Buffalo, New York. Thirty-something Billy Brown has led a relatively unsatisfying life so far. His happiest times spent at the bowling alley, a game at which he is good. Many of his issues in life are associated with a passion for the Bills, his passion for the local team passed down from his obsessed mother Jan Brown. His father Jimmy's passive-aggressiveness has also been passed down to Billy, a key attribute in his personality. The Bills are indirectly related to his five year stint in prison, from which he has just been released. On this his first day out Billy has two general tasks to accomplish: to visit his parents, and to murder the person he blames for his incarceration. Billy never did tell his parents about being in prison, having told them that he works out of town for the federal government and that he is married. He intends to keep up the ruse when he visits them, telling them that "Wendy" is not feeling well and is at the hotel. When he is forced to produce Wendy, Billy kidnaps a young woman with whom he has a chance encounter, to pretend to be Wendy. She is twenty-eight year old Layla. Billy's time with Layla and another chance encounter with a person who is arguably the largest source of his unhappiness may factor into what happens to Billy on this day, and whether he is destined for another longer stint in prison for murder.
Billy Brown has been in jail, but his parents think that he's married and successful. When he can't find anywhere in Buffalo where he can pee, he runs desperately into a dance studio to use the washroom. He winds up kidnapping a dance student, Layla to bring home and show off to his parents. The parents just barely remember their son or care about him, but Layla falls for him.
Only one thing could bring Billy's mom any joy: an NFL championship for the Bills. She missed the last championship because she went into labor with Billy. Billy's dad snapped his dog's neck to teach him responsibility. Billy bet ten grand on the Bills to win in the Super Bowl five years before only to lose that bet on a missed field goal. He did five years in prison taking the fall for the bookie he can't repay. Now he's out. He has to do two things while he's out: visit his parents before killing the kicker who not only lost the Super Bowl for the Bills but also put him away. The only problem is he has to piss. He kidnaps a girl from a dance studio where he goes to piss so that she can pose as the fictitious wife from the fictitious life he invented in his letters to his parents from jail. She falls for him instantly. He makes the audience uncomfortable as he ignores her advances as he uses her in his plans to eventually kill the kicker while convincing his parents that he lives far away with his beautiful wife.
Having just served five years in prison for a crime he did not commit, Billy Brown (Gallo)'s first desperate post-incarceration action is to search for somewhere to relieve himself. Oddly enough, the first thing he does is try to go back into the prison he was released from and denied. Then, to impress his dunceish, thoroughly neglectful parents (Ben Gazzara &amp; Anjelica Huston), Billy kidnaps a dance class student named Layla (Ricci) and forces her to pretend to be his wife. Layla allows herself to be kidnapped and it is clear she is romantically attracted to Billy from the start, but Billy all the while is compelled to deal with his own demons, his loneliness and his depression, and it is only at the end that he allows Layla to give him the love and comfort he has been needing all his life.
The subplot of Billy seeking revenge on the man indirectly responsible for his imprisonment, Scott Wood, is a reference to a former Buffalo Bills kicker, Scott Norwood, who missed the game-winning field goal in Super Bowl XXV against the New York Giants in 1991.
