A group of scientists try to track down and trap a killer alien seductress before she successfully mates with a human.
In 1993, a search for extraterrestrial life, a transmission's recieved, detailing an alien DNA structure, along with instructions on how to splice it with human DNA. The result is Sil, a sensual but deadly creature who can change from a beautiful woman to an armour-plated killing machine in the blink of an eye. Government agent Xavier Fitch assembles a team of scientists and mercenaries to locate and destroy Sil before she manages to find a mate and breed.
A group of scientists try to track down and stop a killer alien. In 1974, the United States government relayed a message containing information about Earth and its inhabitants (including the DNA sequences which make up the human genoome) out to the galaxy. But now, 20 years later, a reply arrives; it contains a unique sequence of DNA, along with instructions of how to combine it with their own. An experiment's undertaken and within weeks, one of the injected human ova grows into a seemingly normal female child, called "Sil." It soon becomes apparent she possesses dangerous alien characteristics. She's part human, part alien, strong, dangerous and desperate to mate with a human.
In 1974, a message was sent into space by SETI. hoping it would be intercepted by alien life. A reply'srecieved, which gives humanity the genetic blueprint for their work species. A secret experiment wherein human and alien DNA is combined, creating Sil, a human-alien hybrid. 20 years later, she's escaped, and is determined to mate.
A message is sent out to space to whatever intelligent life form out there might be listening. Approximately 20 years later, a reply is received; it gives the scientists information of an alien species' DNA structure and instructions on how to mix their DNA with human DNA. The science team successfully creates a hybrid,which they codename Sil. Due to some mistakes, the experiment had to be stopped. Sil manages to escape. murdering people. She is on a mission to mate with a human male, but the team gathered has to quickly catch her and stop her. if Sil manages to mate, she'd produce offspring which will destroy Earth.

