Young Charlemagns is placed on the Frankish throne in the middle of the 8th Century A.D. Despite having many powerful enemies he slowly unites the nations of Western Europe and rebuilds civilization on the ruins of the Roman Empire.
Young Charles is placed on the Frankish throne in the middle of the 8th Century A.D. Despite having many powerful enemies he slowly unites the nations of Western Europe and rebuilds civilization on the ruins of the Roman Empire.
From his father Pippin, Charlemagne inherits the northern part of the Frankish kingdom and Aquitaine, where Duke Hubold is rebelling. In his first victory, Charlemagne defeats the conspirator. At the same time Charlemagne's brother Karlmann is poisoned. For reasons of state, Charlemagne marries the daughter of Desiderius, king of the Lombards, and soon falls in love with her. He has to disown her, however, when Desiderius attacks Pope Hadrian and the the Papal States. After a siege of Pavia, the Lombard king is defeated by Charlemagne. Soon he rules an empire stretching from the Atlantic to Rome. He finds new happiness in the arms of the Frankish woman Hildegard. But Charlemagne's enemies have not been idle: Paschali, the influential nephew of Pope Hadrian, tricks him into going to Spain to fight the Saracens. Experienced general that he is, Charlemagne recognizes the trap; he avoids doing battle and returns home. His best friend Roland is killed, however, when their encampment is attacked by Basques. His wife Hildegard also dies while giving birth to their child. His faith in God now deeply shaken, Charlemagne starts questioning the sense behind his battles, but at this point an English monk introduces him to the teachings of Saint Augustine, and this gives Charlemagne new strength. Meanwhile the heathen Saxons in Germany, under the leadership of Duke Widukind, are taking up Charlemagne's full attention. A war ensues, during which thousands of Saxons are killed. But then Charlemagne befriends Widukind, who converts to the Christian faith. Now Charlemagne has to deal with the attempts at independence being undertaken by Duke Tassilo of Bavaria, who had originally sworn allegiance to the Franks. He has him accused and exiled. Charlemagne now has to return to his court as quickly as possible, where his former friend Ganelon has installed his disowned son Pippin the Hunchback on the throne as a mock king. Charlemagne defeats his son and his small retinue with ease. Shortly afterwards he hears that Pope Hadrian has died. The new pope, Leo, seeks refuge with Charlemagne from his opponents who are eager to pass sentence on him for declaring his opposition to an alliance with Byzantium. Charlemagne recognizes the new pope and travels to Rome. By means of a clever trick he manages to prevent the Byzantines from carrying out their plan to come to Rome as well. On Christmas Day in the year 800, in gratitude for his support, Pope Leo crowns Charlemagne emperor.

