Elwood must reunite the old band, with a few new members, and go on another "Mission from God."
Elwood, the now lone "Blues Brother" finally released from prison, is once again enlisted by Sister Mary Stigmata in her latest crusade to raise funds for a children's hospital. Once again hitting the road to re-unite the band and win the big prize at the New Orleans Battle of the Bands, Elwood is pursued cross-country by the cops, led by Cabel the Curtis' son (and Elwood's step-brother), the Russian Mafia, and a militia group. On his new "mission from God" Elwood enlists the help of a young orphan, and a strip club bartender.
Eighteen years after completing their "mission from God", Elwood J. Blues is released from prison only to learn of the deaths of his brother and partner in crime, 'Joliet' Jake Blues, and his father figure and mentor, Curtis, as well as the destruction of the orphanage he was raised in. With no family, no roots, and no life, a discouraged Elwood goes to meet with Sister (now Mother) Mary Stigmata. At this meeting, in addition to getting stuck mentoring a wise-ass orphan named Buster, Elwood learns of the existence of Curtis' illegitimate son, Cable. Now determined to seek out the only family he has left and to reassemble The Band, Elwood, with the help of his new associate and lead singer, 'Mighty' Mack McTeer, embarks on a death-defying journey that will pit them against the Russian Mafia, a Neo-Confederate Militia, the State Police and the FBI, and end with The Band competing in a Battle of the Bands competition against The Louisiana Gator boys led by B.B. King!
Nearly two decades after Jake and Elwood Blues' noble "Mission from God" in The Blues Brothers (1980), a freshly released from jail Elwood finds himself like a fish out of water, all alone, and, as always, broke. As the intimidating Mother Mary Stigmata demands that Elwood takes under his wing the troubled ten-year-old orphan, Buster, the unlikely couple along with the strip-joint bartender "Mighty" Mack McTeer set out to reunite the original R&amp;B band, on their way to the ultimate Battle of the Bands competition in Louisiana. More and more, the band's enemies keep piling up--including the fearsome Russian Mafia, the police, and a right-wing militia group--however, they say God works in mysterious ways. Do the new Blues Brothers have what it takes to beat legendary B.B. King's Louisiana Gator Boys?
This sequel picks up 18 years later from the original and finds Elwood Blues being released from prison and trying to re-form his old band with new lead singer Mighty Mac replacing Jake. A road trip culminates with a battle of the bands against the Louisiana Gators led by B.B. King, Eric Clapton, Dr. John, and others.

