A man likes a woman at work. He sees her get murdered. He gets drunk and zapped at 12:01AM. Next morning she's back and everything is exactly like the day before. The time loops gives him chances to save her.
Barry Thomas is the average office worker. He becomes attracted to Lisa Fredericks who works in the same company. After work, Barry witnesses the murder of Lisa and goes to a bar to get drunk. Later that night, there is a storm and Barry gets a shock from a lamp's faulty power wire at exactly 12:01 am. The next morning, he realizes that everything is happening exactly as it did the previous day. The next morning the day is repeated again. It is now Barry's job--being the only person alive who is aware of this time loop--to stop the murder of Lisa, and stop the time loop or be caught in time forever.
The HR clerk Barry Thomas works in the office of a power plant with his best friend Howard Richter and has a crush on the scientist Lisa Fredericks. One day, he wakes-up late and heads to the office. On the lunch time, he has a contact with Lisa at the restaurant and by the end of the day, Barry and Howard witness Lisa being assassinated by hit-men in a van. On the next morning, he wakes-up late and when he see Lisa, he realizes that the day is repeating. Soon he realizes that he is trapped on the same day and is the only person who knows it. What can he do to save Lisa and let life goes on?
Barry Thomas is dreaming about his co-worker and scientist Lisa Fredericks who barely even knows he's alive. On his way home from work he witnesses her death in a road shooting. Brooding over her death, he receives a bad electrical shock at exactly midnight. The next morning Barry slowly becomes aware that all the events of the previous day are repeating themselves. His accident caused him to be aware of the time loop, while everybody else was oblivious to the repetition of events. Continuously repeating his day, Barry tries to save Lisa while also getting him fired and arrested for being in the wrong place and knowing too much about events, a problem that often occurs in time travel stories. In some loops he gets closer to Lisa than in others. Barry eventually figures out that Lisa's boss, Dr. Thadius Moxley, illegally and unethically proceeded with a weapon program development that caused the continuing time loop. Dr. Moxley's henchmen are also behind the murder of Lisa, who had uncovered his illegal activities. With the help of an undercover government agent, Barry and Lisa must stop her boss and prevent him from activating the machine again or the world will remain stuck in a time loop forever.
