When retired engineer Frank Corvin (Clint Eastwood) is called upon to rescue a failing satellite, he insists that his equally old teammates accompany him into space.
When a Russian satellite orbiting the Earth starts to veer off course. It seems like the guidance system in the satellite is of American origin. It's important to try and fix it before it comes into the atmosphere. N.A.S.A. man, Bob Gerson (James Cromwell) tries to find out who designed it, and discovers that it was designed by Frank Corvin (Clint Eastwood), an Air Force pilot who, forty years ago, was part of a team who was originally suppose to go to space, but when N.A.S.A. was formed and Gerson's influence, they were dropped. Gerson asks Frank to help, but Frank still holds a grudge. But after some prodding, he agrees but only if he and his team can go there so he can fix it. Gerson reluctantly agrees, so Frank recruits his former team members, "Tank" Sullivan (James Garner), Jerry O'Neill (Donald Sutherland), and "Hawk" Hawkins (Tommy Lee Jones) to join him. After some strenuous tests, they're cleared. And they go up with two other astronauts and check out the satellite and discover that they weren't told the whole truth.
In 1958, four hot shot test pilots seem certain to be the first men to go into outer space. However, the back-stabbing leader, Bob Gerson (James Cromwell), of their organization disbands them to prevent their involvement in the then-forming N.A.S.A., and labels them as non-team players. Flash forward to the present, the foursome are now living a docile life. Electrical engineer Frank Corvin (Clint Eastwood) has a pleasant retired life in a desert home with his wife Barbara (Barbara Babcock). Pilot "Hawk" Hawkins (Tommy Lee Jones), who had a penchant for pushing the test planes to their limits, is now a daredevil crop duster. Navigator "Tank" Sullivan (James Garner) is a Baptist minister. Designer Jerry O'Neill (Donald Sutherland) is a womanizing roller coaster designer. Their former boss, Eugene Davis (William Devane), is now a mission leader at N.A.S.A. and still as despicable as in his younger days. It is here that the main story begins. It seems that an old Russian "communications" satellite is about to crash back into the Earth's atmosphere and somehow American technology designed by Frank Corvin has ended up as the guiding system. Of course, because of the old technology, only the original team can save the day. As Bob Gerson makes many learning statements about the satellite to Russian General Vostov (Rade Serbedzija), who is working with the Americans to save the day, you know there is something much more nefarious about the satellite. After some struggles to get the four to pass their physicals in less than thirty days, the four, with two young counterparts, are launched on the space shuttle to fix the satellite. Ethan Glance (Loren Dean) has somehow been coerced to be in on the subterfuge involving Gerson, and in an unexplained action, he tries to make connections on the satellite that causes the whole mission to become a disaster and creates the greatest action sequences in this movie.
Frank Corvin (Clint Eastwood), "Hawk" Hawkins (Tommy Lee Jones), Jerry O'Neill (Donald Sutherland), and "Tank" Sullivan (James Garner) were hotdog members of Project DAEDALUS, the Air Force's test program for space travel. Their hopes were dashed in 1958 with the formation of N.A.S.A. and the use of trained chimps. They blackmail their way into orbit when Russia's mysterious IKON communications satellite's orbit begins to degrade and threatens to crash into Earth.

