A criminal, shoots and kills a painting restorer during a bungled burglary, and shoots her daughter as well. Twenty years later, the daughter has been left mute and with a mental age of a child, spending most of her time in a mental home.
Ismael Lopez, a petty criminal, shoots and kills a painting restorer during a bungled burglary, and shoots her daughter as well. Twenty years later, and the daughter Leire has been left mute and with a mental age of a child, spending most of her time in a mental home. A chance meeting between Leire and Ismael, who now works in a bar, leads Ismael to think that she still might be able to recognize him, and turn him in to the police. With the help of his girlfriend Maite, he kidnaps Leire and chains her to the bed in his house. He is unable to kill her, however, and instead asks the mental home for a ransom for her return. Whilst a prisoner, though, Leire and Ismael grow closer and closer through his attempts to make her laugh and their mutual love for chocolate.
Ismael lives with Maite - who loves him, but whom he treats violently - in an abandoned house they occupied. One day, working in a bar he looks on the street and meets the eyes of Leire, a young and beautiful women, whose mother he killed in front of her when she was a child. Though he understands she's in an institution and mentally disconnected from the world, he fears she might identify him, so he decides to kidnap her. Later, he and Maite discuss if it's better to ask for a ransom or to kill her. Meanwhile, some sort of attraction seems to develop inside the rough criminal, and we are taken to think if it is based on his search for redemption or if he's just a pervert who wants to abuse her. Will he be able to communicate with her?
Ismael López Matauko (Karra Elejalde), a petty criminal, stares in amazement to a torn painting in the home of a woman (Marisol Saes) whose home he is burgling. He shoots the woman, who was a painting restorer, in the presence of her only child, young Leire (Raquel Santamaría as a child). Ismael wants to shoot the girl, but in the end he decides not to do it.Twenty years later, Leire (Ana Álvarez) is staying at a mental hospital. The director of the assylum (Elena Irureta) asks the young two-month intern Blanca (Silvia Marsó) her opinion about Leire's state. The director intends to adopt Leire soon. Meanwhile, Ismael and his girlfriend Maite (Lio) are constantly arguing. There are even bouts of violence, because she doesn't know why he wants to stay with her.Ismael wonders at the fixed stare of teenaged Leire: it confuses him. Ismael is a waiter at a bar where his boss (Ramón Barea) is a stupid man who really makes him angry. Ismael, who now lives under the name of Carlos, wants to watch how Leire and an elderly lady, la señora Millás (Gregoria Mangas) do their daily stroll. Ismael kills the nightclub owner, who is rude and is swearing all the time. At the last moment, he tells him his name, when the owner is already dead. Lio is afraid that they would have to run away together again, but he tells her that this time it won't be necessary, because only prostitutes and politicians who will always deny they were there.Ismael cannot refrain himself from following Leire. She gets hysterical when she sees even a drop of blood. Ismael tells Maite that he is going to kill Leire, as the teenager recognises him. Ismael follow Millás and Leire and enters the former's home. She is a distracted woman, but on a first occasion he isn't able to kill her. He drugs himself, but when Ismael wakes up, he looks at a late señora Millás, while Leire is looking at him, as usual saying nothing.Maite was waiting with a sexy negligée for Ismael. Ismael tells Maite that señora Millás fell down and died by natural causes. Maite wonders why Ismael has brought Leire over, something which Maite doesn't like, although people will probably think that Leire has run away. Leire is always eating chocolate. Ismael tries to throw her on the way of a passing train, but he ends up telling her off because she has picked up her piece of chocolate from a muddy pool and is still eating it.Maite was waiting again for Ismael's return wearing sexy clothes. Instead, she has to clean Leire up. She tries to caress Leire. That night, Maite and Ismael make love. Txarly Llorente ... Guard (as Txarley Llorente)Super Pake Pekao ... GypsyElena Armengod ... GypsyJuan Ignacio Viñuales ... MedicMiguel Olmeda ... NurseJosé María Sacristán ... Nurse (as José Sacristán)
