Arjun and Pyare Mohan are honest policemen who work together. Trouble follows when thieves Bade Miyan and Chote Miyan, look-alikes of Arjun and Pyare, commit crimes and the hapless duo are blamed for it.
Fellow Police Inspectors Arjun and Pyare work in the same Police Station in Mumbai, India. Although they work together, they have an unhealthy rivalry between them - leading to considerable acrimony and inefficiency. Then things get worse when a series of crimes and robberies take place - with witnesses coming forward and identifying them as the culprits. Their seniors view this matter very seriously, hold an inquiry, get evidence of their involvement, and suspend them. Now Arjun and Pyare must fore-go all past rivalries, band together and find out who framed them - and why?
Arjun Singh and Pyare Mohan are two cops posted in the same Mumbai police station. They cannot stand each other but need each other's help to solve crimes. Unknown to them, their exact look-alikes have arrived in Mumbai who incidentally happen to be thieves. When the thieving duo come to know their facial resemblance to the police duo, they decide to use it as an advantage by committing crimes and pinning them on the two hapless policemen.
Police Inspectors Arjun Singh and Pyare Mohan are brothers serving in the same Police Station in Bombay, India. Although their methods of apprehending criminals resemble those of the Keystone cops - they do manage on occasion to solve crimes diligently. Then all of a sudden their lives take a turn for the worse when they find out that they are being blamed for mistakes they did not commit. Not only that they have been identified by video-taped evidence of having stolen an expensive diamond from a showroom. Both of them are suspended, charged with theft, and held in a prison cell until the courts decide their fate, leaving the Commissioner of Police, Shyamlal to ponder what went wrong and where. Watch as events unfold that will shed some light on the fate of the two hapless cops.

