A Bombay police officer seeks revenge when his brother is killed by a powerful underworld figure. Things get complicated when a matinee movie idol begins to tag along the policeman so he can research a movie role.
Karan (Ashkay Kumar), a police officer whose brother is murdered by ruthless gangster Goli (Shakti Kapoor). Despite his best efforts, the only witness, Mona (Shilpa Shetty), is also killed. But Karan's plans for revenge are interrupted when he's ordered to work with Deepak (Saif Ali Khan), a famous actor training for his next role as a cop. The mismatched pair catch a break when they discover a crude dancer who looks just like Mona (Shetty again), and together they hatch a wild plan to bring Goli to justice.
A tough and honest police inspector Arjun Joglekar is killed by drug landlord Goli.Arjun's younger brother Inspector Karan decides to revenge on this.He convinces Goli's mistress Mona to testify against him when Goli finds about her hideout she gets killed.Deepak Kumar an actor is fed up of his romantic image and wants to do something different he comes across Karan and becomes fan of his aggressive personality and wants to try in his next film.Karan notices a street dancer Basanti look alike of Mona and asks Deepak to train her as Mona.Basanti is send to Goli's gang to keep a watch on his activities.In return Deepak starts to live with Karan for a month to learn his style for next film.
Inspector Arjun Joglekar is killed by Goli a smuggler when he tries to come in between his business.Goli's mole Mona witness the murder and is pressurized by Arjun's younger brother Inspector Karan to testify against Goli.Mona is shot dead by Goli and Karan is left helpless.Deepak Kumar is a big film star bored of doing romantic roles.When he comes across Karan he becomes fan of his image as a deadly cop and wants to play a similar role on screen by living with Karan for sometime.But Karan wants to get rid of him.Karan comes across Basanti a street dancer and lookalike of Mona.He then asks Deepak to train her in such away so she can replace Mona in Goli's gang and in return Karan will help Deepak learn his style.
Bollywood actor, Deepak Kumar, is frustrated with the roles and his being type-caste as a romantic hero. He would like to do something different, and bring some change and excitement to his dull and boring existence. One day in order to overcome his tedious life, he gets drunk and drives around, and is arrested by the police, and held in a cell. This is where he meets with dashing Inspector Karan Joglekar, and is very impressed with his assertiveness, courage, and honesty, and would like to study his behavior so that he can use this as a background for his next movie. Karan reluctantly agrees to help Deepak, and permits him to accompany him while on duty. This is when Deepak will find out that perhaps he was better off being the reel-hero, rather than facing the harshness of a real hero.
One of the most respected inspectors, Arjun Joglekar (Mukesh Khanna) is killed by drug dealer and gangster, Goli (Shakti Kapoor). Mona (Shilpa Shetty), a cabaret singer and Goli's mistress, agrees to testify against Goli and is placed into witness protection by Inspector Karan (Akshay Kumar), Arjun's younger brother, who aims to fight any injustice and avenge his brother's murder. When Goli finds out about Mona's forthcoming testimonial which would expose his real identity, he tracks her down and kills her.Deepak Kumar (Saif Ali Khan), who is the most romantic actor around, is frustrated with his roles and for being type-cast as a romantic hero. He would like to do something different and bring some change and excitement to his dull and boring existence. To change his monotonous life, he gets drunk and drives around. He is arrested by the police, and brought to his rowdy producer. This is where he meets Karan and is very impressed with his assertiveness, courage, and honesty; Deepak would like to study his behavior so that he can use this as a background for his next movie.Karan meets Basanti, who looks identical to Mona. He tells Deepak to hang around him if Deepak can get Basanti to act as Mona. Deepak trains Basanti and presents the new "Mona" to Karan. Karan places Basanti at the Moonlight Hotel as an amnesiac Mona, where she can report on Goli's criminal activities. That's how they uncover Goli eventually. While Karan and Basanti fall in love with each other, Deepak falls in love with Karan's sister, Shivangi, which makes Karan mad and he tries to get rid of Deepak Kumar, for which Deepak Kumar reminds Karan that he wanted to hang around with him because he wanted to learn what it is like be a cop, and apologizes for loving his sister Shivangi, which makes Karan guilty and tries to win back Deepak Kumar for his sister and Mother-in-Law.At the end, Karan avenges the death of his brother by killing Goli.
