A sarcastic comedy thriller about a vampire who sets out to infect the blood of a hospital and the twenty-something slackers who set out to stop him.
A man walks into a grocery store and notices another man looking at
the red meat in the display case. Man 1 follows man 2, knocks him out,
binds his eyes and mouth with duct tape, chains him to the top of his car,
drains a quart of his blood into a bottle, drives a stake through his
heart, and dumps the body into his trunk.Meanwhile, Ryan [Greg James] and J.T. [Sean Farley], best friends since grade school, have
tickets to see Bladerunner after the closing of the video store where
they work. The only problem is that J.T.'s car is in the shop, Ryan
doesn't drive, and their driving buddy Mike just broke his leg, so they
ask the new guy Alex [Dusan Cechvala] whether he'd be able to give them a lift. No
problem...until Alex's radiator begins to overheat and the car stalls.
They walk back a few blocks to a gas station, but it's closing and the
attendant refuses to sell them any antifreeze. Alex suggests that they
might get help from his ex-girlfriend Adia [Tina Kapousis], who lives a few blocks away.
While walking there, however, they are attacked by two punks, one of whom
stabs Alex in the stomach. As the punk gloats and Ryan and J.T. fear for
their lives, Alex suddenly rises up and kills both punks by biting them in
the necks. It is thus that Ryan and J.T. discover that Alex is a vampire.So is Adia. She's also an alcoholic, and she has taken up with a new
guy, a vampire named Slain [Jason Bouwer], who works in a blood bank and who brings
"dinner" every night. Slain is not there, so Adia loans Slain's car to Alex.
While they drive to an open gas station to get antifreeze, the trunk on
Slain's car comes loose. Alex stops the car to close it and finds in the
trunk a body and an icechest of blood. Worse yet, the stake through the
body's heart tells Alex that it belongs to a vampire. Furthermore, the
blood in the bottles, all marked by blood type, is vampire blood (Alex can
tell by the smell). It appears that the vampire Slain is killing other
vampires for their blood. But why?More important at the moment is the fact that Slain is living with
Adia, a vampire vampire-killer living with a vampire, so Alex hurriedly
telephones Adia and warns her to get out of the house. Unfortunately,
Slain has already come home and, knowing that Adia has loaned out his car,
rewards her with a stake through the heart. Alex arrives and tries to
revive Adia, but it's too late. As Alex is rifling through Adia's room,
looking for information about Slain, he comes upon a list of names -- four
vampires, three of whom are dead, and their blood types. Only Marcus Thoel
remains.Assuming that Marcus Thoel is Slain's next target, the boys go
looking for him. First stop is the local vamp bar ("Bram Stoker's
'Cheers!'") where Alex visits with Clyde [ Eric Jaan], the gay vampire who turned him.
Clyde has not heard of Slain, but he is able to provide Marcus' address.
When they arrive at Marcus' house, however, they find that Slain has
already been there. Marcus is dead. Even worse, he was tortured before he
was staked. Alex concludes that it was Marcus who turned Slain and that
this killing was done out of revenge as much as for Marcus' type O blood.
Suddenly, it all fits together in Alex's mind. Slain is a new vampire who
is in pain because of being turned, so he is collecting blood from
vampires in order to contaminate the blood at the blood bank and turn all
recipients into vampires so that they can also feel his pain, just like an
AIDS victim who goes around giving the virus to others.After figuring out at which blood bank Slain works, the boys head
over. They get there just as Slain is tainting human blood with drops of
vampire blood. Big fight in which Alex succeeds in staking Slain. Slain's
last words: "Thank you." Since it's only a little after 1 am, the boys
head off to the theater. [Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.]
