When a runaway orphan ends up at the house of a cruel millionaire, she decides to alter his perception of the world.
Stern, strict and prestigious Ashok Bansal is an industrialist and the eldest in the Bansal family. He is a very strict man especially when it comes to his family, his younger brother, Anil, and sister Sunita who must all follow his rules and regulations pattern. Fail to act proactively and abide by these rules Anil decides to run away from home with an orphan named Kavita and seeks employment in a garage. His sister who loves a peon named Kamal is forced to marry the alcoholic, cruel, abusive and womanizer Pradeep Malik. Soon a run-away orphan named Munna ended up in Ashok's house. Where she decides to mend his ways. Will she be successful in doing so?
Wealthy businessman Ashok Bansal governs his house-hold with certain rules and regulations presiding over his younger brother Anil and sister Sunita. Fed up of his dictatorship Anil decides to leave the house and seeks employment in a garage while Ashok gets Sunita marry to equally wealthy Pradeep Mallik who is an alcoholic and womanizer. But situations change the lives of the Bansals when an orphan Munna ends up in their house.
Ashok Bansal is rude industrialist who doesn't care for relationships and hates poor people.His younger siblings Sunita and Anil to are afraid of him.When Anil falls in love with a poor girl Kavita,Ashok permits his relationship following which Anil leaves his house.Sunita whose in love with his office employee unable to share her feelings gets married to Pradeep who makes her life hell.During Ashok's visit in a orphanage he comes across an orphan girl Munna.Munna stays with Ashok for a few days which he believes are worst days in his life.Ashok leaves Munna back to orphanage in care of her drunkard caretaker.But he cant forget Munna.Ashok discloses his reason to his secretary Fanny as why hates poor people as his mother left them for a rich men.While Ashok is back on his way to home he sees a Munna crying on middle of the road who has ran from orphanage fearing her caretaker.Ashok takes Munna along with her.This is where Munna will help him understand relationships and make him a gentleman.
Multi-millionaire Industrialist Ashok Bansal is the eldest in the Bansal family, and he presides over the rest of his family, his younger brother, Anil, and sister, Sunita, like a dictator. He has certain rules and regulations, and those are to be followed by everyone in his household without any exception. Fed-up of this, Anil leaves the house, and seeks employment in a garage. His sister, who loves Kamal, is forced to marry the cruel, abusive, womanizer Pradeep Malik. Then a run-away orphan ends up with Ashok, and must either live up to Ashok's rules or make an attempt to change him.

