Two dim-witted teenagers are forced to save the fast food restaurant they work at from going out of business, despite a new-and-improved burger joint opening across the street that want to be the "Top Dog" in the fast food industry.
Dexter Reed, a high-schooler is forced to get a summer job at a fast food restaurant called Good Burger after causing a car wreck by his school teacher Mr. Wheat. So Dexter must pay off his teacher's car by working very hard at Good Burger. Meanwhile things turned worse when Mondo Burger, a mammoth fast-food chain opens across the street, it looks like Good Burger is soon going to be history for good! Now it is up to Dexter and his new friend Ed the not-so bright cashier to save the day, as they develop a delicious special secret sauce that Ed created brings hundreds of new customers to their door and makes their new competition desperate to steal the recipe and all of their customers.
Dexter reed plans to have a nice relaxing summer but, good burger worker Ed is skating when dexter gets in to a car accident wth his teacher! Dexter has to put his summer plans aside and get a summer job. Ed helps him work at good burger where across the street mondoburger is opening and putting good burger out of business. Until Ed makes a amazing suace to put on the burgers and mondoburger wants to put good burger out of business. Dexter and Ed goes under cover at mondoburger and finds what mondoburger puts in there burger and ended up getting put up In a psycho home. The. The break out and steal a ice cream truck As a get away drive car. Ed had a idea to make the burgers even bigger and make the whole restaurant blow up. So the owner of mondoburger in jail for using illegal ingredients and everything is back to normal.
Teenagers working at fast food called Good Burger (including naive Ed and Dexter who has to pay off a car accident with his school teacher Mr. Wheat) face stiff competition from mega chain Mondo Burger who have their own fast food across the street. Ed has a homemade special sauce that makes Good Burger an instant hit..
Ed is your normal (Ahem) employee of fast food, more specifically the food chain "Good Burger". Ed causes a car wreck involving Dexter Reed and Dexter's Teacher, Mr. Wheat. To pay off the debts on Wheat's Car, Dexter gets a job at Mondo Burger, the new burger chain across the street from Good Burger. Fired before the grand opening, Dexter turns to Good Burger for cash. After the opening, the employees of Mondo Burger decide to have a bit more than friendly competition. Can Dexter and Ed stop Mondo Burger? More importantly, will Dexter stay tolerant of Ed before he goes totally insane?

