It's autumn in New York. Sam has broken up with his girlfriend and his father has recently died. World-weary and sloppy drunk, he finds temporary solace in the arms of Anna, a mysterious vampire who draws him away from his friends and into a web of addiction and madness.
It's Halloween in New York, but it's not quite Sam's [Larry Fessenden] day. His father
has recently died, he's just broken up with his girlfriend Liza [Heather Woodbury], and he
gets robbed on the subway. Already drunk, he goes to a Halloween party at
the apartment of friends Nick [Aaron Beall] and Rae [Patricia Coleman] and there meets Anna [Meredith Snaider]. Anna walks
home with him, but, when Sam has to dash back to Nick and Rae's apartment
because he took the wrong coat, Anna disappears.Several nights and a lot of beers later, Sam runs into Anna at a
festival. They go for a ride on the ferris wheel, and Anna jerks him off
in Battery Park and bites his lip in the heat of passion. Sam wakes up the
next morning, lying alone in the grass and Anna is gone. That night, Sam
has to stand in for Lenny, who works as a waiter at the restaurant that
Sam manages. Lenny has been seeing some chick on a boat and has suddenly
disappeared. Everyone figures he's just run off. After the restaurant
closes, Sam goes outside to find Anna waiting for him. They go out to
dinner (Anna isn't hungry, but Sam wolfs down a big red hamburger), and
then they go back to Sam's apartment, Anna making a point of being invited
in.Sam and Anna are becoming an item. One night, while Sam is chopping
garlic for dinner, Anna drops by. She can't stand the smell in the house
so they go up on the roof to have sex. When Sam wakes up, Anna is gone.
Sam meets Liza for coffee. He tells Liza about Anna, and Liza is visably
shaken. In the middle of their conversation, Sam feels sick and goes to
the bathroom. He doesn't return until Liza is gone.It is the funeral for Sam's father, and Sam is giving the eulogy.
Afterwards, the mourners adjourn for a few drinks, and Anna suddenly shows
up. Sam and Anna go walking in Central Park, and they are chased by
wolves. Anna raises her hand to the wolves, and they cease the chase. When
Sam and Anna come out of the park, they come upon an accident in which a
small boy is injured. Anna picks him up and carries him to the emergency
room. Afterwards, Sam and Anna find a storage closet, where Anna bites his
arm while they're having sex.Sam is feeling "drained" and looking forward to spending Thanksgiving
with Nick and Rae at Rae's grandmother's house on the beach. But rest is
not to be his. Sam's first night there, Anna comes to him in his sleep.
The next day is Thanksgiving, and Anna joins them for dinner but doesn't
eat anything. ("Cramps," she says.) Sam eats his dinner but barfs it up.
After dinner, while Sam and Nick drink shots, Rae and Anna go for a walk.
Anna comes on to Rae and is just about to bite her neck, when Rae backs
off. The next day, the three of them (Nick, Rae, and Sam) return to the
city.Sam is losing it fast. He tries to speak to Liza, but she blames it
on his drinking. Anna accuses him of pining for Liza, and they break up.
Sam attempts to talk with Nick about Anna, describing how she is like a
parasite. Every time they make love, she bites him and sucks up the blood.
He's never seen her eat or drink; neither has he ever seen her in the
daytime.Nick laughs, and tells Sam he has a real propensity for Gothic
melodrama. "Vampirism is everywhere," Nick lectures. "It is hiding in our
hearts. It is at the bottom of a bottle or a needle in the arm. It is 500
channels of insipid cultural drivel, the advertizing and gluttony draining
us of our ability to think. But believe me, it is not to be found embodied
in Anna. She probably belongs to one of those bloodsucking cults, but she
is not a vampire!" Nick goes on to tell Sam to lay off the booze, pull
himself together, and get an AIDS test. Then he invites Sam out for drink,
but Sam refuses.When Sam finds his cat slain, he runs to Liza's apartment. When Liza
doesn't answer her door, Sam lets himself in and finds Liza in the same
condition as his cat. Realizing that he is in big trouble, Sam tries to
help himself. He buys a bag of garlic and smears it on his windows. He
buys a package of beefsteaks and drinks the blood. He calls Nick for help
and, when Nick comes to the door, Sam opens it...only to find Anna
standing there, teeth bared.Sam locks himself in the bathroom and pulls out the rod from a towel
rack. While Anna pretends to take a phone call from Liza, Sam cautiously
opens the bathroom door to find Anna again standing there with her teeth
bared. She knocks him down and bites him in the neck. Then she screws him
while drinking his blood. Sam reaches for the towel rod, hits her with it,
then locks himself in the bedroom and passes out on the bed.While Nick and Rae make their way to Sam's door, Anna comes in
through the bedroom window (on the fifth floor!) and leaps on top of Sam.
She offers him a taste of her blood, but Sam refuses and tries to escape
through the window. Anna tries to pull him back in. Just as Nick breaks in
the bedroom door, Sam and Anna plunge to the ground below. Nick and Rae
run outside to where Sam and Anna lay dead on the cement. Moments later,
Anna's body disappears. A short while later, a boat leaves the harbor.
[Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.]
