The worst child in the world makes an unthinkable discovery - there is another child even worse than him, and that's a girl.
Junior's back in his first adventure since his last! Junior and Ben move to Mortville which seems like the perfect town to live in. The Healys have a nice new house--and Junior get's a cool new room! And young women have formed a line at Ben's door in order to get a piece of him (romantically). Ben does feel he should get remarried so Junior can have a mom, so while Junior adjusts to his new school which includes a little girl who's as bratty as Junior and a teenage brain-dead ignoramous bully in Junior's sixth grade class, Ben finds some dates, which Junior sends running for the hills, in the meantime Junior pulls his infamous tricks on people: blowing up barbecues, taping the bully to the chalkboard, videotaping his babysitter and her boyfriend having sex and broadcasting it for the whole neighborhood to see, same old same old. Meanwhile, Ben meets the gorgeous school nurse (after the school's satellite dish get's pushed on his head) and they, well he, believes it's love at first site, until he meets LaWanda Dumore, a greedy business women who wants to marry Ben and send Junior to boarding school--in Baghdad! So Junior and his new friend, Trixie, must get rid of LaWanda (any way possible!) to bring their parents together!
Junior and his father, Ben, move from Cold River to Mortville. Junior becomes threatened by Ben's desire to date again and find a new mother for Junior, and sabotages each of his dates. Ben falls in love with Annie, the school nurse. However, Annie is the mother of Trixie - who is worse than Junior in his behavior and equally resents her mother dating again. Then Ben meets Lawanda, the richest woman in Mortville, who desires to marry Ben and send Junior to boarding school in Bagdad. And Ben now has to make the decision whether to continue to pursue Annie for love or marry Lawanda so Junior can have a mother.
Following the events of the first film, Ben and Junior Healy decide to leave Cold River for a better life in a new town called Mortville, which is, unfortunately, known as the "divorce capital of the world" as Ben is greeted by a seemingly endless number of single women when they arrive at their new house, as well as hotshot single dad Aron Burger, who invites Ben and Junior for a welcoming barbecue. After being insulted by Burger and his equally bratty twin daughters, Dolly and Madison, Junior seeks revenge by turning up the barbecue's gas pumps, causing Burger to get blown up in the air and landing in a kiddie pool in the next yard.The next day, Junior begins his new school year at Mortville Elementary, where he runs into his old nemesis, Mr. Peabody, who originally quit his old job and became a school principal to get away from Junior. When Junior breaks wind in front of Peabody, he thinks that Junior is a smart kid and passes him to the sixth grade. Of course, his new teacher Mr. Thorn is not happy that he is saddled with many of his old students again as hardly any of them passed, including hulking but incredibly stupid Murph, who has been in 6th grade for the past 20 years. When Junior steals a answer from a math question intended for Murph, Thorn is somewhat impressed and leaves the room to find something that will make Murph pay more attention. Of course, a chase breaks out all over the classroom between Junior and an angry Murph, ending with Junior taping him up on the blackboard, causing all the teachers and students to run out of the school. Meanwhile, Ben visits the local bank to get a loan approved. The bank's owner and local rich woman LaWanda DuMore observes this from her upstairs office window and orders her assistant Smith to find out everything about him so she can date him. When Ben picks up Junior from school, Murph somehow gets up on the roof and pushes a satellite dish off, crashing on top of Ben and knocking him out. When Ben regains consciousness, he finds himself in the nurse's office greeted and tended to by pretty Annie Young. Of course, her daughter Trixie who knows Junior's face as he shot her balloon with a slingshot the day they moved in, notices him trying to deface a photo of Annie with a black marker and clobbers him.The next night, Junior is not happy when Ben is going out on a date with Debbie, one of the neighborhood's many single women. Ben leaves Junior with a two-faced babysitter named Rhoda. Junior calls Debbie's ex-husband, Voytek, a slob who lives in a messy apartment, eats dog food, and is insanely jealous. Afterward, Voytek shows up at the restaurant and beats Ben with a lead pipe, but when Ben tries to defend himself from Voytek, Debbie punches him out. Back home, Rhoda's boyfriend shows up on his motorcycle, and they go up to Ben's bedroom to have sex. Junior sees Ben's video camera and records it.After returning home, Ben sees several cars parked in his driveway and sees everybody sitting in the front yard watching the projection of the babysitter and her boyfriend having sex on the front of the house. Shortly after, Big Ben arrives at the house, claiming to be on a vacation, but then admits he is on the run from his creditors as he lost his business and all his money. Ben and Junior reluctantly allow him and his dog, Nippy to stay at the house and in Junior's room.The next day, after Junior is sprayed with the fire hose by Trixie, Ben arrives at the nurse's office and it is quite clear to Junior that he has feelings for Annie. Later, Junior tries to impress Ben with his cooking skills but Ben has another date with another single woman named Emily. While Ben gets ready, Junior rigs the doorbell with the electrical wires and soaks the outside doormat with a garden hose, and when Emily rings the doorbell, she gets electrocuted. Ben is shocked at Emily's appearance, and after he closes the door, Emily collapses on the ground.A distraught Ben thinks that Junior is not getting enough attention, and decides to spend more time with him, thinking his behavior will improve. One day, He takes Junior to a water park, a ball game, and finally a carnival, where is unable to ride a popular ride because of his height and after getting snubbed my Murph and Trixie, who uses stilts on her shoes to get on the ride, gets revenge by expanding the ride's speed, causing everybody in and out of the ride to vomit all over the place. Though frustrated with Junior, Ben decides to make a deal with Junior that he will be there for him, providing he will be good from now on.When they get home, they discover their entire house has been redone by LaWanda, who secretly threatens violence to Junior if he tries to come between her and Ben. After discovering his new bedroom has been become a haven for clown toys, Junior sabotages a dinner cooked by LaWanda by putting roaches inside the salad. An angry and betrayed Ben is convinced he has failed as a father and declares Junior cannot be trusted again and LaWanda telling Junior that she plans to marry Ben. During the school's open house, Ben gets a dose of what Annie's daughter is really like when she ties up the kids during a puppet show. Annie cannot believe it and drags Trixie out of the school. As Ben tries to explain to Annie that he can help her, she confesses that Trixie consumes her life and does not have room for any other person and they disappear into the night, but since Ben still has feelings for LaWanda, he accepts her marriage proposal, much to the anger and dismay of Junior. He gets revenge by switching her blood test with a rabid dog and she is sent to the hospital, where Junior switches nose plastic surgery paperwork for LaWanda.That night, Ben and Junior run into Annie and Trixie having dinner at a local pizza place. Unfortunately, the school principal, Mr. Peabody is there with his girlfriend, and they get into a food fight, causing the four to be kicked out and banned from the restaurant, but thanks to this escapade, Junior and Trixie now become friends and must band together to stop LaWanda from marrying Ben. Later that night, Trixie shows up at his house and plan to take a walk to the park monument, the Love Rock, and they bound and gag Big Ben, fearing he will tell his father. Early the next morning, he receives a phone call from an alarmed Annie. They drive to the park where they see Junior and Trixie sleeping on a bench and after embracing, the two couples go their separate ways.At the wedding, Junior is praying that Ben sees LaWanda's nose. However, to his chagrin, he discovers she got almost $400 worth of last-minute plastic surgery done on it. They then go ahead with the ceremony until it is interrupted by Trixie driving a bulldozer into the park containing the Love Rock. It rolls down the aisle as guests scramble to get out of the way. LaWanda firmly stands her ground and puts out a hand to stop it, which it does by crushing her. Defeated at not stopping Trixie in time, Annie arrives and apologizes to Ben for Trixie ruining the wedding, but Ben says the wedding was meant to be ruined. Feeling that both parents have feelings for each other, the two passionately kiss. Though Big Ben tries to persuade his son to marry LaWanda, Ben suggests his father should, much to his joy. To celebrate, Junior slingshots a stuck of dynamite on the wedding cake, causing it to rocket up in the air and splatter all over Big Ben and LaWanda. The movie ends with Ben, Annie, Junior, and Trixie happily walking out of the park.
