A group of aliens visit Earth to plant the Tree of Might, a plant that grants cosmic power by draining the Earth's life force.
A Saiyan named Turles has come to Earth in order to plant the Tree of Might, which will sap all of the life from earth in order to bear fruit that will greatly increase the strength of whoever eats it. Goku and the Z Warriors cannot let this happen and duke it out with Turles's group for the sake of the planet.
Bulma, Krillin, Oolong and Gohan are enjoying a peaceful day camping, until a massive fire breaks out in the nearby forest. Krillin and Gohan manage to put out the fire and save the animals. The next day, the group use the Dragon Radar to find the Dragon Balls. Summoning Shenron, they wish to restore the forest. Shortly after, Gohan befriends a purple dragon who they name Icarus. The next morning, the space probe which caused the fire (unbeknownst to the group) is revealed to be sent by Turles, a Saiyan who plans to plant the Tree of Might. The Tree of Might absorbs the energy of the world, bearing fruit that whoever eats it is granted immense power and strength.Recognising the Tree of Might, King Kai warns of the imminent danger and sends the Z-Fighters to find and destroy it. After firing ki attacks at the Tree of Might, which have no effect, Turles's minions appear soon after and engage the Z-Fighters in a battle. Gohan arrives with Icarus to help the Z-Fighters, who are evidently outmatched.Turles learns that Gohan is a Saiyan and appears before him. He tries to convince Gohan to join him in his quest to conquer the universe, however the young Saiyan refuses. As Turles prepares to kill Gohan, Piccolo intervenes and is blasted by a ki attack in the back from Turles, who tricks him into catching a weakened Gohan, thus letting his guard down. Seeing Gohan's tail grow back, he creates an artificial moon, causing Gohan to transform into a Great Ape. Just as Gohan begins to crush Goku, Icarus appears and calms Gohan down. After seeing this, Turles shoots Icarus, causing Gohan to go into a frenzy and attack Turles. Dodging Gohan, Turles then fires a massive energy attack at Gohan, but Goku severs his tail with a Destructo Disk, returning him to normal just in time so that the attack misses him.An enraged Goku easily kills Turles's minions and confronts him. The two Saiyans' seem to be evenly matched in the beginning, however Goku gains the upper hand soon after. A desperate Turles takes a bite of the newly grown fruit from the Tree of Might, gaining a sudden surge of power. Turles quickly overpowers Goku, but the Z-Fighters come to his aid. As they distract Turles, Goku begins to form a Spirit Bomb, at fires it at him, who responds back by shooting a ki blast that destroys the Spirit Bomb, knocking out Goku cold.Suddenly, as all hope seems lost, energy from the Tree of Might flows into Goku, allowing him to recreate the Spirit Bomb. He confronts Turles and they launch their final attacks. Goku's Spirit Bomb finally overwhelms Turles, destroying both him and the Tree of Might.
