An outsider and a young woman plagued by Tourette's syndrome meet and together journey to Canada.
"Niagra, Niagra" begins quietly in a drugstore in Poughkeepsie, where Marcie, the film's disarming heroine, likes to shoplift. She literally crashes into Seth, a quiet outsider, also on a shoplifting spree. Marcie invites Seth to accompany her to Canada to find a black hairstyling head. They set off in Seth's beat-up station wagon, destined for a toy store in Toronto. While on the road, Marcie confides to Seth that she has Tourette's syndrome, necessitating a series of detours to liquor stories and pharmacies along the roads of upstate New York.
Two misfits - Marcy and petty thief Seth meet shop-lifting in their upstate New York hometown. Marcy wants to get a hold of a black Bobbi head doll that their hometown does not carry so they take off to Toronto searching for it. Marcy needs pills to calm her muscle spasms. So on the way to Toronto, they stop at a pharmacy where the pharmacist thinks she is a junkie and refuses to fill her forged prescription. Later that night they come back to the pharmacy where they break in and steal the pills she needs. Before they can leave, the pharmacist from earlier arrives with a shotgun and shoots Seth in the leg. They make a run for Seth's car sitting outside. Marcy hops in the driver seat while Seth lays out in the back, with Marcy's bra wrapped around his wound. Due to Marcy's intoxication, she flips and totals the car off-road. The next morning they are picked up by lonely widower, Walter, who drives and old beat-up tow truck. Walter is very kind to both of them: tending to Seth's gunshot wound, teaching him to fish, and even covers for them when the sheriff stops buy to inquire Walter of the pharmacist thieves. While Seth is sleeping, Marcy and Walter begin to feed his chickens. Marcy has one of her "attacks" and ends up beating Walter unconscious (not purposefully). She wakes up Seth, who is very upset at what she did, considering how kind Walter was to the both of them. Seth yells at Marcy to get in Walter's truck and they drive off, leaving Walter there on the ground while they continue their journey to Canada. They arrive at the toy store where the is only one black Bobbi head doll left, and it is on display. Seth climbs to the top of the shelf where the display doll is chained. An employee walks by asking Seth to get down from the shelf and calls for his manager. The manager tells Seth the they will not sell the display doll, and Marcy has another "attack." The police get called. Marcy begins to wrestle with the store security guard and takes his gun. Though she is just playing around, the police officers that show up beg to differ.

