"Mad Max" clone set in the not-too-distant future about a group of people trying to escape to a safe haven called Neon City after a solar disaster that has decimated the Earth.
In the year 2053, the earth has been devastated by a military experiment gone awry. The ozone layer is gone, radioactive clouds drift across the plains, and unpredictable, intense bursts of ultra-violet sunlight (called "brights") incinerate anyone caught outside. In these conditions, a group of travelers are trying to get from the frontier town of Jericho to the paradise safe haven of Neon City: A doctor named Tom, an old man with a mysterious past, a prostitute, a spoiled rich girl, an untalented comedian, and a bounty hunter named Stark with his valuable prisoner Reno. They board an armored truck converted into a passenger transport driven by an ex-convict named Bulk. Along they way, the travelers deal with passing though radioactive Xander clouds, 150F degrees of "brights", unstable paved roads, and nomadic motorcycle riders who kill anyone venturing though their territory. During the journey, few, if any, of the passengers turn out to be what they initially appear.
In the year 2053, extensive ecological damage has resulted in largely lawless areas in the USA Midwest that are controlled by mutant raiders. Harry Stark (Michael Ironside), an ex-cop who now works as a bounty hunter in the wastelands, saves a woman (Vanity) from mutant outlaws. After she pulls a knife on him, he knocks her unconscious and brings her back to town for her bounty. Captain Raymond (Monte Markham), Stark's former commanding officer, tells him that the woman, Reno, must be brought to Neon City to collect his payment. Raymond requests that Stark ride shotgun on a transport that is going to Neon City, but he refuses. When Stark's truck blows up, Raymond claims it to be an act of terrorism by mutants. Stark attacks Raymond, only to be knocked unconscious and placed on the transport with Reno.On board the transport are the driver Bulk (Lyle Alzado), a former friend and ex-cop whom Stark once arrested; Tom (Nick Klar), a serial killer who pretends to be a doctor; Dickie Devine (Richard Sanders), a clown; Sandy (Valerie Wildman), Stark's ex-wife; Twink (Juliet Landau), the sheltered daughter of an influential Neon City politician; and Wing (Arsenio Trinidad), an old man who keeps to himself. Before they leave, Raymond gives them the opportunity to receive a refund and stay behind, as mutant activity along the road has been excessive; all elect to go instead of staying and collecting a refund. Along the way, they pass through a deadly Xander Cloud, and, when they stop afterward, they meet a family who is suffering from extensive radiation damage. Stark buys a euthanasia kit from Devine and donates it to the grateful family. Disgusted, Reno calls Devine and Stark no better than herself.When they reach their first destination, an outpost where they are to meet with an escort, mutant raiders have killed almost everyone. The sole survivor, Bulk's sister, is entrusted to Tom, who pretends to aid her until the others leave him alone, after which he murders her. Reno saves Twink's life and flees the site on a motorcycle, but Stark recovers her. Stark proposes that they continue without the escort and surprises Reno when he gives her a vote. She sides with the majority, and they push on.Their next stop is at a restaurant staffed by mutants. Twink is surprised when the others treat the mutant staffers as equals. While on the road, mutant raiders attack, and Devine is wounded. They jettison some of their cargo to escape. After they barely survive a "bright", an intense temperature change, Tom murders Devine.After burying Devine, the transport encounters a shelter, where they rest and recuperate. Tom tries to force himself on Reno, but she beats him; Tom claims she could not handle his rejection. Reno and Stark bond as he consoles her, and she reveals that she killed her foster parents accidentally when fleeing from their child prostitution ring. After they have sex, Reno asks Stark to run away with her, but he refuses to leave the others.After discussing the world's ecological damage with Wing, Bulk realizes that Wing is actually Dr. Xander, the scientist responsible for much of the damage. Xander explains that he was attempting to solve the world's problems, and, if he reached a proper laboratory, he might be able to reverse the effects. Bulk promises not to turn him in, and they return to their journey.During the next mutant raid, they run out of ammunition. Xander improvises a laser weapon that saves them, but not before Sandy is shot and the transport battery finally dies. Xander elects to leave for the border of Canada, and the rest walk to Neon City, which is nearby. Tom gives Sandy a dose of painkillers.When the group finally arrives on foot at Neon City, Twink expedites their entry when she is reunited with her father and smooths things over between Stark and the local police, who are commanded by Jenkins, a man with a grudge against Stark. When Sandy dies of a massive drug overdose, Tom is finally exposed. He takes Twink hostage, but Stark kills him. This results in a standoff between Stark and Jenkins; Reno calms Stark, and they leave together. When Jenkins asks about his prisoner, Stark says she died during transport. As they leave Neon City, Stark and Reno pick up Wing/Dr. Xander.
