An unconventional single mother relocates with her two daughters to a small Massachusetts town in 1963, where a number of events and relationships both challenge and strengthen their familial bonds.
After yet another failed relationship, Mrs. Flax (Cher) ups her family to the east coast to start all over again. Reluctantly dragged along with her is her daughter Charlotte - going through a very confusing time of her life - who wants to become a nun, and instead falls in love with a quiet, mild-mannered church employee, to the mixed response of her mother. Set at around the time of the Kennedy Assassination.
A sexy and unpredictable single mother "Cher" of two is a source of constant embarrassment to her confused 15-year-old daughter, who's trying to deal with her own sexual awakening and not having an easy time of it. Based on a novel by Patty Dann.
Moving is what Rachel Flax is great at. And by this stage, her oldest daughter, 16 year old,Charlotte
nows the signs.They move to a little town on the east coast, far away from the big city and right into
a sequence of dramatic realisations, young love, new love and a nunnery as a neighbour.How can life be normal when they entire family isn't? Charlotte's obsessed with religion and wants to become a nun! Kate practically lives at the school swimming pool and
collects prizes left right and centre. And Mrs. Rachel Flax is selfish, self obsessed and
hopelessly promiscious! Kate's father was a one night stand and she refuses to talk about
Charlotte's dad, who stole her favourite car.Rachel soon falls for Lou, a sweet and funny shoe store owner. Could this be true love? Or
will Rachel botch this one up 'cause of her commitment phobia?Charlotte adjusts to yet another highschool. But hopelessly falls for the sexy local handyman/
church bell ringer/ school bus driver, Joe. Who is about ten years older than her and alot
more experienced. And most likely to be the one who ends Charlotte's sexual innocence.What will unfold when Rachel also starts flirting with Joe and makes Charlotte green
with envy? And what tradegy awaits poor Kate?
