Reluctantly retired from boxing, and back from riches to rags, Rocky takes on a new protege who betrays him, as the champ's son must adjust to his family's new life after bankruptcy.
Rocky Balboa is forced to retire after having permanent damage inflicted on him in the ring by the Russian boxer Ivan Drago. Returning home after the Drago bout, Balboa discovers that the fortune that he had acquired as heavyweight champ has been stolen and lost on the stockmarket by his accountant. His boxing days over, Rocky begins to coach an up-and-coming fighter named Tommy Gunn. Rocky cannot compete, however, with the high salaraies and glittering prizes being offered to Gunn by other managers in town.
Having just defeated Moscow super-boxer, Ivan Drago, Rocky returns home. Rocky and Adrian discover that Paulie left power of attorney to Rocky's accountant who invested all of his money that went belly-up and lost it all. To make matters worse, they discover they have years worth of unpaid property taxes. With Rocky's status, he would just need to to a couple of more fights to help with the money. Unfortunately, they discover that Rocky has suffered irreversible brain damage that could be fatal if Rocky were to continue fighting. They sue the accountant and move back to Philly's ghetto. Rocky starts training talented young fighter, Tommy Gunn, who is a huge fan of Rocky's. As Tommy becomes more successful, Rocky distances himself from his family and a huge resentment grows toward him from his son. When Tommy is brainwashed by promoter, who has been at Rocky's throat throughout the whole movie, Tommy betrays Rocky and Rocky realizes he may not have a choice but to fight.
Touted upon its release as the finale of the Rocky saga, this fifth entry in the long-running series of sports dramas reunites star Sylvester Stallone with John G. Avildsen, director of the Oscar-winning original. Stallone is Rocky Balboa, suffering from career-ending brain damage as a result of his punishing bout with Ivan Drago at the finale of the previous film. Upon their return to Philadelphia, Rocky and his wife, Adrian (Talia Shire), discover they are broke, their fortune squandered by an incompetent accountant. Forced to move back to their working-class neighborhood, Rocky finds that his only asset is the run-down gym willed to him by Mickey (Burgess Meredith, who appears in new flashback sequences). Resisting big money offered to him by Don King-like boxing promoter George Washington Duke (Richard Gant), Rocky becomes a trainer and finds a talented comer in Tommy Gunn (real-life boxer Tommy Morrison, nephew of John Wayne). Rocky's son (played by Stallone's real-life son Sage Stallone) feels neglected by his father, who lavishes attention on his protege, but Tommy ultimately turns his back on his mentor to sign a more lucrative deal with Duke, leading to a street-fight showdown.
After gaining permanent brain damage, Rocky Balboa (Stallone) is finally force to retire from the sport of boxing. But it doesn't stop him from coaching an up-and-coming boxer named Tommy Gunn (Morrison), but when Tommy decides that Rocky isn't moving him up quickly, he soon leaves Rocky and begins his new training from Duke. Tommy wins the title he wants, but still does not gain the respect he want. He wants to take out his anger in a fight with Rocky, but as Rocky is now retired from the ring, a street fight would have to do for Tommy. A street fight which could risk Rocky's life.
World heavyweight boxing champion Rocky Balboa returns home to Philadelphia to a hero's welcome after defeating Ivan Drago in a brutal match. Rocky soon discovers that his match with Drago has left him with damage to his brain, and his fortune, which he had entrusted to his wife Adrian's brother Paulie, has been squandered by an incompetent accountant. In debt to the IRS, Rocky is forced to sell most of his possessions, including his mansion. Rocky, Adrian, and their son Rocky Balboa Jr, move back to Rocky's old neighborhood in South Philadelphia. Adjustment to the dramatically different lifestyle proves to be more difficult for Rocky Balboa Jr than it is for Rocky and Adrian. Junior quickly becomes involved with a bad crowd, and encounters a bully. Meanwhile, financially desperate Rocky is tempted to re-enter the ring when shady promoter George Washington Duke offers him a huge amount of money to defend his title. Adrian insists that Rocky not risk his life by returning to the ring. Rocky's financial future looks bleak, until he is approached by a young boxer named Tommy "Machine" Gunn, who idolizes Rocky and begs Rocky to help him train. Rocky agrees to train Tommy, but this hurts Rocky's relationship with Junior, who believes Rocky is neglecting him in favor of Tommy. Junior becomes even more deeply involved with the bad crowd that he has fallen into. Junior even undergoes training and beats up the bully who was harassing him. After Tommy wins his first few matches, he starts becoming arrogant. When Tommy, who wants a high profile match against a champion, arrogantly decides that Rocky is not moving him up quickly enough, an impatient Tommy turns his back on Rocky and hires Duke as his new manager. While this gives Rocky and Junior the chance they need to work things out with each other, Tommy wins a belt, and still doesn't have the respect that he's arrogantly looking for because fans always boo him. Duke tells Tommy that the only way to get the respect Tommy wants would be to beat Rocky one-on-one, so Duke and Tommy find Rocky at a bar, and Tommy challenges Rocky to a street fight that may put Rocky's life on the line.
Rocky V begins with Rocky and his trainer Tony "Duke" Evers in their dressing room after the Drago fight. Tony praises Rocky for his victory, but Rocky, seen to be in some form of physical discomfort, asks Tony to summon his wife, Adrian. His hands are shaking, and he cannot make them stop due to the trauma, pain and fear caused by Drago. In addition to that, he keeps calling for "Mick", the name of his deceased former trainer.Rocky returns home from the Soviet Union and is greeted by his son, Robert. At the following press conference, a crooked promoter named George Washington Duke (a parody of boxing promoter Don King) tries to goad Rocky into fighting the new #1 contender to his championship, Union Cane, in Tokyo. Duke sees this as a great opportunity with both Rocky's managers Mickey Goldmill and Apollo Creed dead. With Adrian insisting on her husband's retirement, Rocky decides, at least for the time being, not to take the fight with Cane.Rocky, Adrian, and Adrian's brother Paulie return to their lavish Philadelphia home to find out that Paulie had unknowingly signed 'power of attorney' over to Balboa's accountant, who had, in turn, squandered all of Rocky's money on bad business deals and fled the country with all of the Balboa estate money (it is also revealed the accountant had not paid Rocky's income taxes in six years). Now bankrupt, Rocky is forced to sell his house and auction all of his cars and belongings: the only thing Rocky does not lose is Mickey's gym, which Mickey had willed to Rocky's son (making it untouchable to the IRS). Rocky immediately decides to take the fight against Cane to earn money. However, years of fighting, especially the last one with Drago, have taken a toll on him and after a physical evaluation, it is determined that Rocky has suffered significant brain damage, and that he can no longer fight without further risking his health. Rocky is forced to vacate the championship (which Cane subsequently wins) and move back into his old working-class Philadelphia neighborhood, where he and the family must try to start their lives over again. Rocky begins training boxers at Mickey's gym, Adrian gets her old job back at the pet store across the street and Paulie goes back to working at the meat packing plant.After a few months, things start to look up for them when Rocky meets a hungry young fighter from Oklahoma named Tommy Gunn and takes him under his wing. Training the young fighter gives Rocky a sense of purpose, and he slowly helps Tommy fight his way up the ladder to become a top contender. Meanwhile, the new friendship results in Rocky paying little attention to Robert, who becomes withdrawn and angry. He eventually falls in with the wrong crowd at school, and as a result he begins acting out at home.Over the next few years, Tommy's rapid rise through the ranks catches the eye of Duke, who uses the promise of a title shot and Tommy's own resentment at being compared to his trainer to lure him away from Rocky. Duke pulls up outside the Balboa house with Tommy in tow, who has now been brainwashed into thinking that Rocky doesn't have his best interests in mind. When Rocky tries to convince his friend otherwise, an ungrateful Tommy drives off in a huff, leaving Rocky for good.As he watches Tommy's car speed off into the night, his head suddenly pounds with nightmarish flashbacks of his fight with Drago. When Adrian attempts to comfort him, Rocky's frustrations finally boil over. He confesses that his life had meaning again when he was able to live vicariously through Tommy's success. She reasons with him, telling him that Tommy never had his heart and spirit that it was something he could never learn. When this realization hits him, an emotional Rocky embraces his wife and they begin to pick up the pieces. After finding Robert hanging out on a street corner, Rocky apologizes to his son, and they mend their broken relationship.On New Years Day, January 1, 1990, Tommy wins the heavyweight title by knocking out Union Cane in the first round, but is booed by protesters during the fight and is hounded by reporters after the fight: they tell him that Cane was nothing but a paper champion (indicating that Cane was named champion after Rocky vacated the title) with a glass jaw and that the public would never consider Tommy the real champion because he didn't win the title from Balboa. In the hallway Tommy is very upset about being called "Rocky's robot" Duke, sensing an opportunity, tells Tommy that he needs to fight Rocky man to man and settle once and for all who is the best.Duke and Tommy show up at a local bar to goad Rocky into accepting a fight; Rocky initially declines but after Tommy hits Paulie, Rocky agrees, however he insists on a street fight then and there. Despite Duke's warnings to "fight in the ring", Tommy accepts the fight.Despite gaining the upper hand early in the fight, Rocky is eventually beaten down by Tommy and is seemingly out for the count. His head once again pounds with hellish visions of the fight with Drago, and with visions of Mickeys burial. He then has visions of Mickey and hears his old mentors voice saying "I didn't hear no bell!" and urging him to go "one more round". Rocky gets back up and with Robert, Adrian, Paulie, and the whole neighborhood cheering him on, utilizes the street fighting knowledge from his days of collecting for a loan shark to defeat Tommy, using various tricks to trip Tommy, tie him up and finally knocking him into the grill of a bus with a final blow. After the fight, Duke commends Rocky and tries to appeal to him, but Rocky has heard enough. Duke threatens to sue if Rocky touches him, but after a brief hesitation, Rocky punches him in the gut anyway, knocking him onto the hood of a car. The crowd cheers as the bankrupt Rocky shrugs and asks "Sue me for what?".Rocky and Robert meet up the next day at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, and Rocky gives Robert the Rocky Marciano cuff-link given to him as a gift from Mickey. They make their way to the museum, Rocky says "I love most everybody". The film ends with a shot of Rocky's statue looking out over Philadelphia.
