Coming from a police family, Tom Hardy ends up fighting his uncle after the murder of his father. Tom believes the killer is another cop and goes on the record with his allegations. Demoted then to river duty, the killer taunts Tom.
Tom Hardy (Bruce Willis) is a maverick cop in pursuit of a sadistic serial killer. Demoted to river patrol after suggesting to the press the killer may be a police officer, he initiates an unauthorized investigation with his new partner (Sarah Jessica Parker).
A serial killer is back in Pittsburgh to torment the former homicide detective who was on his trail years before. Tom Hardy, who has been relegated to water-way duty, along with new partner Jo Christman, navigate the three rivers looking for clues and discovering bodies. This time the victims are women Tom knows, he must find the killer to prove his innocence.
Tom Hardy comes from a family of cops and has just broken the cardinal rule -- never speak out against another cop -- which now makes him persona non grata with the other cops. Presently there's a serial killer on the loose and when Tom and his father and some other cops corner him, a big chase ensues and when it is over Tom's father is dead, supposedly killed by the perp. Later a suspect is brought in whom Tom doesn't believe is the one but most of the cops just don't want to believe him or think that his perspective is clouded. Eventually he is drummed out and the only position he could get is at river rescue. Two years later he still sticks to his beliefs and apparently the killer is back but nobody believes him and some people think that he is copy-catting the killer.
Tom Hardy is a fifth-generation cop. When his father dies during the chase of a serial killer, Hardy further complicates matters by implicating his partner and cousin Jimmy in a police brutality case. Two years after Jimmy is believed to have committed suicide, women from Hardy's past start to turn up dead, and his father's alleged killer is found. Believing that the alleged killer is a patsy, Hardy conducts his own illegal investigation into his father's death, and the women's deaths as well. In a riveting climax, Hardy and the killer ultimately lock horns in a showdown that ties all the loose ends on both cases.

