A group of Pontian Greek immigrant teenage dreamers dwelling marginalised in the notorious and lustreless wild suburbia, witness the city's repulsive face and an unrelenting world defined by prostitution, drugs, and inevitably, loss.
The "Edge of the City" means Menidi, a poor suburb on the edge of pulsating Athens (the city). Menidi harbours many Cosssack Greeks. They are also called "pontios", ethnic Greeks from the Black Sea dispersed through the ex-Southern Soviet Union in the Stalin era. The "pontios" have returned to Greece en masse after the demise of the USSR. The parents speak mostly Greek, but the teenage children speak a hybrid Russian-Greek language which reflects their lack of identity and marginalization. The teenagers' marginalization leads them to the core of the film's theme: the lives of petty crime and prostitution which these second or third class Greeks lead. Their camaraderie, the way they mock each others' dealing in homosexuality, their sexual and criminal exploitation by rich Greeks, their own exploitation of prostitutes, sexual and moral ambiguity all lead to the film's defining.
This is Menidi, a town at the edge of the bustling city. A remote commoner's neighbourhood on the outskirts of the multicultural Athens, a notorious, muddy and lustreless wild suburbia that almost everybody has heard of, but surely, only a few desire. Under those circumstances, on the brink of the new Millennium, nearly 18-year-old cocky and rebellious Sasha leads a group of Pontian Greek immigrant friends, sharing a mundane and harsh day-to-day life, dreaming of conquering the world. But instead, knowing that life, their life, is nothing but a meaningless bad dream, marginalised and always under society's heavy thumb, they chase the elusive easy money even if this leads to the city's repulsive face and a gloomy and unrelenting world defined by prostitution, drugs, and inevitably, loss. They say that teenagers rely on their invincibility. Sadly, this is not the case.

