Rebecca inherits her grandmother's gothic mansion and celebrates by bringing her best friend and her boyfriend for a weekend. While exploring the crypts, they find an old dusty book, which gives a detailed description o a vampire's life.
Rebecca has inherited her grandmother's Gothic mansion and brings both her best friend an her boyfriend for a weekend. While exploring the crypts they discover an old dusty book, which describes the life of a vampire. As the story unfolds, it becomes apparent that the vampire was Rebecca's great grandfather, Rico. Later that night Rebecca finds herself in a trance, reciting an occult ritual described in the book resulting in the opening of the coffin and the new life for Rico. The Angel of the Night is back.
Following the death of her grandmother, Rebecca [Maria Karlsen] has inherited Angel
Land Estate, a large, gothic mansion with plenty of rooms and family
secrets lying in the dark, dank, spiderweb-filled cellar. Rebecca and her
boyfriend Mads [Tomas Villum Jensen], along with Rebecca's best friend Charlotte [Mette Louise Holland], have come to
check it out. Scarier than the dark mansion, however, is the fact that
Grandma dabbled in the occult and was president of the Society for the
Protection of Vampires. Historian by trade, Grandma did research into the
life of her father Rikard, a minister turned vampire, and compiled it all
in a book titled Nattens Engel. Charlotte and Mads talk Rebecca into
sharing the stories with them.Rikard's story starts in 1850 Copenhagen when a vampire was ravaging
the city. When the mayor's daughter fell victim, the mayor put together a
hunting party which included the young minister, much to the chagrin of
his wife and young daughter. Armed with an ornate vampire-stabbing dagger,
the hunting party tracked the vampire down to the harbor. They were
successful in destroying the creature, but not before it got the bite on
Rikard. Rikard turned vampire, changed his name to Rico Mortiz, and waged
a new reign of terror until just a few years ago when a group of leather
jacket clad hoods, led by Tim, attempted to put Rico to rest.Meanwhile, Rebecca has been exploring the cellar and discovered the
original vampire-stabbing dagger. She also finds a scroll. Although the
scroll is in Latin, Charlotte is able to translate part of it. It says
that the vampire will walk again if someone says "the seven forgotten
words." But Charlotte and Mads are getting a bit antsy and want to go on
to the club, so Mads calls a taxi. Rebecca decides to stay behind so that
she can try to translate the rest of the scroll, so Mads and Charlotte go
upstairs to wait for the cab. While waiting, Mads starts to read the next
story in the Nattens Engel.It concerns the fact that, every 100 years, Rico must impregnate a
woman to bear him a child from whom he must then drink the blood. Rico
chose Marie Liman, hypnotized and raped her, and then awaited the birth.
Marie figured that the baby was from her boyfriend Alex until she began
having dreams about what really happened. When she told Alex that the baby
wasn't his, he dumped her. Fortunately, Father Esiah Garcia down in Peru
had been having visions about the pregnancy and came all the way to Europe
to help Marie. It got Father Garcia killed, but Marie was able to kill the
baby by drinking holy water, which resulted in Rico turning into a pile of
dried up bat bones.Mads and Charlotte are feeling pretty spooked after reading about
Marie, so Charlotte tosses the book out the window and puts on some music
to liven things up. Since the taxi still hasn't arrived, she decides to
pass the time by seducing Mads. (Some best friend!) Meanwhile, down in the
cellar, Rebecca is being mesmerized by Rico into lighting seven candles
and reciting the seven forgotten words -- Brujah Gangrel Malkavia
Nosferatu Toreador Tremere Ventrue -- while slitting her wrist and letting
the blood drip on Rico's bones. Voila, Rico Mortiz [Eric Holmey] is back amongst the
undead...and he's hungry.Rebecca has the sense to hide when she sees Rico taking batform, so
Rico flies upstairs and sates his thirst on Charlotte while Mads pulls up
his pants and runs into Rebecca. After drinking Charlotte's blood, Rico is
able to take human form. Rebecca plunges the superduper vampire-stabbing
dagger into Rico's chest, but unfortunately she misses his heart. His
recoil causes them all to crash through a window, landing out on the lawn.
Rico begs Rebecca to meld her blood with his ("We're family...I need your
blood"), but Rebecca reminds him of the family he left behind back in
1850. As Rico anguishes over the memory, Rebecca plunges the dagger back
into his chest, this time hitting his heart.Rico roars in pain, and hands suddenly come up from the ground and
start to pull him under. Just as he sinks below the surface, there is a
flash of fire and suddenly Rikard [Christian Gronvall] is lying on the ground. They both notice
a brilliant light in the night sky and look up to see an angel floating
down to earth. It is Rikard's dead wife. She takes his hand and they float
up to heaven together. Just then, the taxi arrives. Rebecca and Mads drive
off together, promising each other that they will buy another house. [Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.]
