An electronics expert searching for evidence of aliens picks up signals that he believes are from an alien spacecraft--and they are coming from a lake near town.
Reporter Tom Lewis (Tom Harper) interviews a Georgian university professor, Professor Bauer (Ed Lynch), who saw a UFO last night. He saw a thunder of light and a fast-moving object. Mrs Acree (Ida Acree) also watched a huge light in the sky, but it couldn't be a helicopter because of the lack of noise. A couple of farmers (Luann McMann &amp; George Lafia) also felt that the UFO was the one responsible for having taken them. The aliens didn't use words in English, they just felt the feelings of traquility and trust within themselves. A couple of ranchers (Johnny Baker &amp; Sam Durrance) saw a cigar-shaped which desintegrated, but only the remains of a human airplane are visible at that moment. The ranchers insists to the interviewer that they know what they saw.A love song and title credits.On the afternoon of 26th March 1974, a university communications specialist, Alan Grimes (Nick Plakias) heard a military call. Somebody is checking strange phenomena, and that person thinks it's about UFO's. Gen. David Gallagher (Brooks Clift) is the leader of the Army.A small boy called Alan (Billy Crane) tells his mother (Martha Corrigan) that he's scared of a light which hurts and which got him naked. The mother dismismisses it saying that it was his waking star, and that nothing is the matter. Outside, the storm is about to break lose.Grimes wants to get in touch with Vivian (Cynthia Cline). She thinks that aliens are surrounding us, and that she can communicate with "it". Grimes makes an appointment with her for the following day. Grimes also talks to Dr Whitham (Phil Erickson), and the receptionist (Kathleen Long) tells him that he's in the planetarium. Whitham thinks that so-called UFOs are visual illusions. He shows Grimes around his office and they talk about the speed of light limit. Whitham thinks it's all a myth, and that the approaching comet will be confused as a UFO by some members of the public.Grimes and Vivian meet at a bar because she's feeling an oppresive feeling. She suffers a panic attack. The music in the bar fades away for a few moments.Grimes tells Dr. Mansfield (LaVerne Light) his suspicions, stating that he feels some kind of weird enerty, even within the room they are in. Grimes wants him, Vivian and Col. Gallagher to meet. He tells Grimes to code his messages, even in case of emergency. They talk about a lake in spiral, and she remembers some de-colourings in the electrical power poles. But Vivian has no sensations about the lake.Dr Mansfield lets Grimes use her computer. Vivian and Grimes talk to the woman (Martha Corrigan) who had a third-phase contact. Her declaration seems to be the same that some of Vivian's images. Vivian has a feeling of deja-vu when her and Grimes arrive to the lake. She feels a bit used, but takes his walkie-talkie anyway. He goes around in a boat in a lake.Vivian gets some sounds on the walkie -she's stayed near the tent- while Grimes is setting a light and camera system on the other side of the lake. Vivian runs away across the forest but leaves the walie behind. Grimes tries to talk to her with no avail. Grimes goes to the rescue and somebody answers him with Vivian's walkie. Mansfield and her assistant Dan Rivers (Tom Arcuragi) look for Vivian, and she thinks he should have not brought her there.Vivian keeps on hearing "stach, stach", and she tells them to go away, as though she were a different person. Vivian says they're using her. Mansfield takes her away. Back to the camp, Mansfield thinks that Vivian's got psychiatric problems. Mansfield thinks that the aliens may have fallen to Earth but they couldn't secure enough power to start their journey back to their planet. Mansfield herself won't believe that possibility until she sees them, but she needs to make some kind of explanation; she thinks that Grimes is too emotional. She looks at the comet.That night, Mansfield gets sick. The equipment points to a high concentration of energy underwater. Vivian cares for Mansfield when she starts to hyper-ventilate. The equipment detects great levels of energy and the TV set gets turned on. Grimes stares at the monitor feeling that somebody is with them. Rivers asks Vivian to tend to him. She doesn't want to leave Mansfield on her own and thinks that it was Grimes who produced the phenomena all the time.The aliens are shapeless pure energy, but humans are transmitting their fears to them, so humans should leave their fears aside. Mansfield wakes up and tells Grimes to cast his fears aside. The image on TV tells Grimes that they've been waiting thousands of years. The power of humans' mind and imagination is the power that the aliens need to activate their spaceship.Grimes will die or the planet will perish. Grimes is only the 4th person who ascended to the aliens' level. An elderly Grimes commits suicide in the lake, in spite of Rivers' attempt to stop him: Rivers can only rescue... a skeleton.The aliens say (I don't know to whom) that they are beyond the judgement of humans.More graphic design loops with orchestra's music. The loops become an alien spaceship which is going away from our planet.A quotation from Apocalypse.The eye of Grimes reflects an eclipse.---written by KrystelClaire
