Career thief Luther Whitney (Clint Eastwood) witnesses a horrific crime involving U.S. President Alan Richmond (Gene Hackman).
Luther Whitney (Clint Eastwood) is a master jewel thief. While robbing the safe of a house, he witnesses the murder of Christy Sullivan (Melora Hardin) by Secret Service Agents Bill Burton (Scott Glenn) and Tim Collin (Dennis Haysbert), and the President of the United States, Alan Richmond (Gene Hackman). Now he is targeted for death by the young woman's husband, Walter Sullivan (E.G. Marshall), the Secret Service, and the President.
Based on the novel by David Baldacci, this movie is about the ruthlessness of people in power. President Alan Richmond (Gene Hackman) believes that everything he does is beyond reproach, including an affair or two. That leads to murder and everyone around him is involved. There is only one witness, a thief named Luther Whitney (Clint Eastwood). They are sure he'll talk, but when? The Secret Service is determined to keep him quiet, but catching a thief isn't always easy.
Luther Whitney (Clint Eastwood) is a professional thief, who only works occasionally. He is planning what is supposed to be his last job, and everything is going smoothly until someone comes in before he can leave. He hides in a secret room and from behind a one-way mirror he sees that it's Christy Sullivan (Melora Hardin), the wife of the owner of the house he is robbing and another man. They are fooling around when the guy decides to liven things up by striking her. She gets away, but he corners her, she then grabs a letter opener and is about to stab him when he cries out for help and two men come in and shoot her dead. It seems that the man is Alan Richmond (Gene Hackman), the President of the United States and the two men are Secret Service Agents Bill Burton (Scott Glenn) and Tim Collin (Dennis Haysbert), who are assigned to him. Later, Chief of Staff Gloria Russell (Judy Davis) enters, and, upon learning what has happened, decides to cover it up and make it appear that she was killed by a burglar. After sanitizing the room, they are about to leave, but they forget the letter opener, Whitney comes out of the room and takes it and makes his getaway, but when they returned for the letter opener they discover Whitney and chase him, but he gets away. The Police investigate the murder and there are so many inconsistencies, which makes the investigator Seth Frank (Ed Harris) suspect that something is going on. Frank then discovers that Whitney is a possible suspect but the only thing is, he doesn't believe that Whitney is a killer. Whitney tries to leave town, but when he learns just how corrupt and amoral Richmond is, he decides to play mind games with him and the others. Richmond, at the same time, tells them that Whitney must be silenced permanently.

