TV viewers love seeing the two reporters with opposing views on the show "He Said, She Said". Womanizer Dan and Lorie fall for each other. Love?
Dan and Lorie are journalists working in the same office. More often than not they have opposing view of the issue in question. Deciding that this is hot stuff, a television producer gives them their own program (called "He Said, She Said") where they can give their opposing views on various issues. As they work together and get to know one another, the events that occur in their lives are replayed in the film twice; once from each's perspective.
The wolf journalist Dan Hanson is disputing a column in the newspaper Baltimore with his colleague Lorie Bryer. The editors decide to divide the column between them increasing their rivalry. They are invited by the television producer Wally Thurman to have their own show called "He Said, She Said", where they present opposing opinions in different subjects. Meanwhile they fall in love for each other and decide to live together. Three years later, Lorie wishes to marry Dan that refuses and they have a discussion and Lorie throws her cup on his forehead. When they tell their story to their friends, each one tells it in a different perspective.
The wolf journalist Dan Hanson is disputing a column in the newspaper Baltimore with his colleague Lorie Bryer. The editors decide to divide the column between them increasing their rivalry. They are invited by the television producer Wally Thurman to have their own show called "He Said, She Said", where they present opposing opinions in different subjects. Meanwhile they fall in love for each other and decide to live together. Three years later, Lorie wishes to marry Dan that refuses and they have a discussion and Lorie throws her mug on his forehead. When they tell their story to their friends, each one tells it in a different perspective.
Womanising, right-wing Dan Hanson and quiet, liberal Lorie Bryer work for the Baltimore Sun. Rivals for the job of new writer of a vacant column, the paper ends up instead printing their very different opinions alongside each other, which leads to a similarly combative local TV show. At the same time their initial indifference to each other looks like it may evolve into something more romantic. If only they can agree.

