The film chronicles the rise and fall of Germany's most famous a capella group, the Comedian Harmonists, in 1930s Germany.
Comedian Harmonists tells the story of a famous, German male sextet, five vocals and piano, the "Comedian Harmonists", from the day they meet first in 1927 to the day in 1934, when they become banned by the upcoming Nazis, because three of them are Jewish.
Berlin, Germany, 1927. Harry Frommermann is a poor, but talented musician writing his own pieces and dreaming of the big success. When he goes to the store nearby and listens to new records he is so deeply fascinated by the tunes that he doesn't even realize that Erna, the young employee, adores him. When the day comes where he can barely afford the food for his parrot, it is time to do something about his situation. He launches a newspaper ad looking for company to found a singing group. He gets to know Robert Biberti and both seem to be on the same level. Soon four other fellows are found. A concept evolves and rehearsal begins.
Berlin in 1928: Young actor and musician Harry Frommermann has the idea of creating a German version of the American a-capella band "The Revellers". He then publishes an advertisement in a newspaper and soon has formed a group out of singers Robert Biberti, Erich Collin, Ari Leschnikoff and Roman Cyckowski as well as pianist Erwin Bootz. After a long time of rehearsing and failures "The Comedian Harmonists", as the group calls themselves, achieve a huge popularity, success and wealth in Germany as well as Europe and even the United States. The group's trademark are not only brilliant singing performances, it's mostly their talent to imitate music instruments so that the audience gets the impression of listening to a whole orchestra playing while indeed the only real instrument is the piano. However, after years of immense success first problems appear with the beginning of the Nazi period, because three of the group's members are Jews and so soon are forbidden to perform in public. The movie portrays the rising of stars, the sparkling side but also the shadows of their success and finally their fall, being destroyed by politics and a mad government. Very entertaining, very moving and brilliantly acted.

