A billionaire offers one million dollars to a young married couple for one night with the wife.
A happily-married young couple, David Murphy (Woody Harrelson) and Diana Murphy (Demi Moore) have started their respective careers, she as a real estate broker, he as an architect. She finds the perfect spot to build his dream house, and they get loans to finance it. When the recession hits, they stand to lose everything they own, so they go to Las Vegas to have one shot with their last five thousand dollars at winning the money they need. After losing at the tables, they are approached by a suave billionaire and high-stakes gambler, John Gage (Robert Redford), who offers them a million dollars for a night with Diana. Indignant but already seduced, Diana and David reluctantly agree. They say money can't buy love. Though the couple agrees that this is a way out of their financial dilemma, it threatens to destroy their relationship. Can the husband and wife survive John's ultimate test?
A happily-married, but down on luck and money, couple, David Murphy (Woody Harrelson) and Diana Murphy (Demi Moore), go to Las Vegas. There they hope their luck will change and their financial problems will be over. They meet a powerful billionaire, John Gage (Robert Redford), who makes them an offer - one million dollars for one night with Diana.
David Murphy (Woody Harrelson) and Diana Murphy (Demi Moore) have been together since high school and get married. Everything goes well until the recession strikes and they go through financial turmoil. In their last attempt to revive their financial situation, they decide to gamble in Las Vegas, where they meet John Gage (Robert Redford), a very rich man, who offers them one million dollars to spend the night with Diana. Out of desperation, they both agree to do it and forget it forever. However, it begins to erode their relationship.
To bounce back from unemployment and the severe recession that threatens to cost them their dream house in Santa Monica, California, the devoted high-school sweethearts - the talented architect, David Murphy (Woody Harrelson), and his real-estate agent wife, Diana (Demi Moore) - get up their nerve and decide to gamble their last five thousand dollars in Las Vegas. There, the suave billionaire and high-stakes gambler, John Gage (Robert Redford), tempts the broke young couple and makes David the indecent proposal: should Diana accept to spend the night with him, one million dollars is theirs. Indignant but already seduced, Diana and David reluctantly agree. They say money can't buy love. Can the husband and wife survive John's ultimate test?

