In addition to declaring that Katharine's (Lynn Redgrave) head and heart line are hopelessly fused into one "simian line", eccentric palm reader/fortune-teller Arnita (Tyne Daly) makes a dire prediction: By the end of the year, one of the couples present at a Halloween party will have broken up. But will it be Katherine and her much-younger boyfriend Rick (Harry Connick Jr.); her upstairs tenants Marta and Billy or new yuppie neighbors Sandra (Cindy Crawford) and Paul? Fueled by Arnita's prediction, each of the couples begins to drift apart in a sea of doubt and distrust. Can the "divine" intervention of two well-meaning ghosts (William Hurt and Samantha Mathis) keep these earthly conflicts from erupting into multiple self-fulfilling prophecies?
An eccentric palm reader predicts that one of the couples attending an intimate dinner party will end their relationship before the year is over, sparking confusion and doubt amongst the guests, in the tender romantic comedy SIMIAN LINE. The star studded cast includes Harry Connick Jr., Cindy Crawford, Tyne Daly, William Hurt, Monica Keena, Dylan Bruno, Samantha Mathis, Lynn Redgrave, Jamey Sheridan and Eric Stoltz.One night in October, Katherine (Redgrave), a middle-aged divorcee, and her younger boyfriend, Rick (Connick, Jr.), invite two couples, Marta (Keena) and Billy (Bruno), and Sandra (Crawford) and Paul (Sheridn), to join them for a festive dinner gathering. Its a joyous evening until Ricks special dinner guest, Arnita (Daly), a quirky palm-reader, disrupts the couples content lives with an ominous prediction-one of the partners will separate by years end.Looming over the dinner party is a pair of uninvited, ghostly guests - lonely, but spirited spirits, Edward (Hurt) and Mae (Mathis). Edward is Katherines deceased great grandfather who refuses to leave his house until his wife returns. And Mae, is a fun-loving, flirtatious 1920s socialite who is just not ready to enter heavens pearly gates! Autumn turns into winter, and the two apparitions good-naturedly attempt to accept their own ghostly predicament with amusing consequences, as they observe the disintegrating relationships of the dinner party guests.Marta and Billy, two rambunctious musicians, must contend with unplanned parenthood. Socialites Sandra and Paul, are confronted with unrealized dreams and financial woes. And Katherine begins to question Ricks devotion when she spies his apparent longing for a younger mate.As the New Year fast approaches, the couples lives become more intertwined, but in the end, their true destinies rest in the palm of their hands.
