Thou-Vou and his new partner, MAP31, accept three imaginary tasks from a cunning director who is only interested in filming the unsuspecting duo for his upcoming movie feature. Will the agents manage to squeeze success out of failure?
Thou-Vou has finished the secret agents school and is now working as "000" along with his partner "MAP31". When a film director accidentally sees how goofy these two are, he presents himself as a client, giving them three assignments. Of course, all three missions are totally fake; he just wants to film their efforts, and thus making the ultimate comedy.
Finally, after rigorous training and a bit of luck, the overzealous student of the renowned "James Bond" private eye academy, Thou-Vou, or better yet, Agent 000, manages to graduate. Unfortunately--business is slow, and as things don't go as planned--Thou-Vou teams up with the fellow graduate, MAP31, to start their own business, and before long, the famous director, Jimis Paloukas, assigns three imaginary tasks to the agency. However, unbeknownst to the unsuspecting operatives, the cunning filmmaker and his crew are only interested in capturing on film the bumbling duo's adventures, intent on using the hilarious raw material for his upcoming movie feature. Will the two agents manage to squeeze success out of failure?
The inept secret agent Thou-Vou has finally graduated from a school of secret agents. He and his fellow agent MAP 31 partner up to open their own agency. They are hired by drama film director Tzimis Paloukas and the film production company "Ah Vah" (Greek term for "woe") to complete three missions for them. Paloukas is actually fully aware that the two agents are inept. He intends to secretly film them in action, in order to produce a comedy film. The "missions" are wild-goose chases, and excuses to film gags. The first mission involves searching for a hippie by the name of Roza Alimonou. Thou Vou instead locates a Romani woman, who is also named Roza. The misunderstanding causes fights and a near--riot in a Romani camp. The second mission has the agents enter a a catch wrestling match against wrestler Spazokefalos ("Headbreaker"). The third mission actually interrupts the filming process of one of Ah Vah's rival firms. Causing a fight between rival film-making crews.

