Assigned to a Vice squad, Detective Chief Inspector Jane Tennison (Dame Helen Mirren) investigates a child murder and discovers a sinister link to the police.
Detective Chief Inspector Jane Tennison (Dame Helen Mirren) moves to a new district and is put in charge of a vice investigation instead of homicide. But soon a homicide case impinges on her new job when a very young male prostitute is murdered in the apartment of Vera Reynolds (Peter Capaldi), a trans woman and cabaret performer. Soon Jane is on the trail of the boy's brutal pimp, James Jackson (David Thewlis). But her investigation is complicated by the Old Boy's Network, which is spying on her and is more concerned with preventing scandal than bringing the villain to justice.
Having been passed over for promotion at Southampton Row police station, Detective Chief Inspector Jane Tennison's (Dame Helen Mirren's) request for a transfer is approved and she finds herself heading the Vice Squad. They have a major investigation under way, known as "Operation Contract", which is meant to root out a male prostitution ring involving underage boys. The day of her arrival coincides with a fire in which one of these young boys, Colin "Connie" Jenkins (Greg Saunders), is found dead. There are several suspects including a known pimp, James Jackson (David Thewlis) as well as Edward Parker-Jones (Ciarán Hinds), the head of a local youth center where many of these boys congregate. As the investigation continues, Tennison learns that Connie was trying to sell his story to a journalist with a promise to reveal a Member of Parliament and very senior police officer as clients. In the midst of all this, Jane receives some surprising and potentially life-altering news from her doctor.
[Part One]As Vera Reynolds (Peter Capaldi) performs at a gay cabaret, we see pictures of Martin Fletcher (Danny Dyer) being chased by James Jackson (David Thewlis) and of fire breaking out at the flat where Colin Jenkins (Greg Saunders) is sleeping, all characters who we will learn more about later. As Bill Otley (Tom Bell) and other police arrive at the scene and start the investigation, we also see Jake Hunter (Michael Shannon), an American, giving a talk on serial killers as promotion for his book on the subject. Jane Tennison (Helen Mirren) is in the audience, and when they drive off to a hotel together we learn that they were lovers many years ago and have recently started seeing each other again even though Hunter is now married. Hunter is going on a book tour and wants her to come with him, but she is starting a new job and rejects him, just as she rejected him many years ago.At a police station we see the vice squad waiting for their new chief inspector, and we hear Superintendent Halliday (Struan Rodger) speaking on the phone with Commander Chiswick (Terrence Hardiman). Tennison arrives late on her first day, and Sergeant Otley and other staff have already begun the day's work. Halliday instructs her to focus her efforts on Operation Contract, a long-running programme to clean up vice crimes that failed under Tennison's predecessor. Tennison calls her team together to learn about their progress and the connection of the recent fire to the vice squad. When Otley is late for the meeting she calls him into her office and demands his full cooperation in spite of their history.Jane meets with Jake Hunter at the first class lounge at the train station shortly before he is scheduled to leave. He wants to convince her that they should be together, but she says they should not see each other again. Instead, she asks his opinion on the case. Meanwhile, the dead boy from the fire has been identified as Colin Jenkins, a possible prostitute also known as Connie. Otley visits a local advice centre run by an Edward Parker-Jones (Ciarán Hinds) to speak to some of the young boys who might have known Connie. One of the boys he talks to is Martin Fletcher.At a dinner for retiring deputy commissioner John Kennington (Terence Harvey) we hear Chiswick and Halliday talking about sweeping things under the carpet and keeping them there. Also present is Superintendent Kernan (John Benfield), Jane Tennison's former boss, who gives a speech for the retiree. We also see a Judge Syers (Lewis Jones), first at the dinner, then at the night club Bowery Roof, where he first talks to drag performer Vera Reynolds, then to some other men in suits about the death of Colin Jenkins, which they seem very worried about.That same night Otley and another officer, Larry Hall (Mark Strong), bring in Martin Fletcher for questioning. The next day a complaint is filed by a social worker because Martin is only 14 years old and was questioned without a lawyer present. Tennison gives them hell about it, but it also becomes clear that Martin could be a good witness against James Jackson, a local thug who lures young boys and girls into organized prostitution, and who the vice squad has hitherto been unable to bring to court. Apparently, Jackson had been looking for Connie on the night of the fire and beat up Martin trying to find him.Tennison visits the scene of the crime, and the tech team concludes that the fire was not accidental. Remains of money and some paper and photographs have been found on the burnt body. Chiswick comes to see Halliday in his office, urging him to make sure Tennison hands over the case to the homicide department rather than investigate it herself.Tennison and Otley interview Vera Reynolds; it was her flat that burned with Connie inside. She tells them what she knows about Connie, which isn't much. It is indicated that Tennison has received information from her in earlier cases. The police also bring in Martin Fletcher again; he retracts his previous statement about Jackson and refuses to help. Jackson, on his side, denies any involvement in Connie's murder or Martin's bruises and provides an alibi for the night of the murder.Halliday tries to get Tennison to give up the case, but she convinces him that she should keep going. She then overhears him on the phone explaining to somebody how it would seem suspicious to remove her from the case now. Commander Chiswick soon turns up with several officers assigned as backup for the murder investigation, including Detective Inspector Brian Dalton (Andrew Woodall).The police try to confirm Jackson's alibi, which depends on several street kids as well as centre manager Parker-Jones. Otley brings Dalton along to some street-kid hangouts, and Dalton behaves more confrontationally than Otley likes. One kid, Billy Matthews (Andrew Dicks), bites Dalton in the hand. Jane Tennison visits Edward Parker-Jones to learn more about the night in question, and he confirms Jackson's alibi in detail.Back at the police station we see Brian Dalton in Halliday's office. Halliday is telling him the direction he wants the investigation to take, and it becomes clear that Dalton is not an ordinary investigator. Added to the team are also investigators Lillie (Philip Wright) and Haskons (Richard Hawley), both Tennison's former colleagues, as well as Ray Hebdon (Mark Drewry). Tennison begins to suspect that something is up when a cassette tape goes missing from her office, and she is suspicious of Dalton. However, she is sympathetic towards him when she finds out that the kid who bit him has AIDS and she tells him to get tested. She also asks her own doctor (Eric Deacon) about the risks of HIV infection when she is there for some routine tests. Meanwhile, fag jokes are the order of the day at the station.That same day, Martin Fletcher is found dead from alcohol and drug poisoning. We also see Jackson pick up another boy, Alan Thorpe (Richard Cadman), in his car; Alan later turns up bruised and battered. Tennison meets Halliday in his office, and he tells her to stay away from Edward Parker-Jones. She also goes to see the social worker, Margaret Speel (Alyson Spiro), who had met with Martin the day before. Tennison learns from Hall that the department had also been warned about staying clear of Parker-Jones back when her predecessor, Lyall, was still in charge. Otley calls Lyall to get some information. Lillie and Haskons go to the studio of a photographer, Mark Lewis (Steven Crossley), who does model shots for teens; at first he is very helpful, but then they discover a cabinet full of video tapes including one with Connie, and they find Lewis trying to destroy evidence. They watch the videos of Connie and interrogate Mark Lewis about his business, and he tells them about when he filmed Connie and about the older man who had accompanied him. Billy Matthews appears on one of the videos; the police go to interview him, but find him weak and ill and have to take him to hospital.A journalist named Jessica Smithy (Kelly Hunter), who has been calling the station for days, turns up at Tennison's home with a microphone and camera. It turns out Smithy also has information about the case as she had interviewed Connie, who had agreed to give the names of men he had performed sexual favours for, including a member of parliament and a high-ranking police officer. Meanwhile, the squad go to search Mark Lewis's studio and home, but they have already been emptied of evidence. Tennison complains to Halliday and Chiswick that her investigation is being tampered with, but when she leaves Chiswick expresses concern that Tennison is shedding too much light on the case. The squad listens to Smithy's tapes and interrogates her; they do not learn the names of Connie's clients, but they do learn that Edward Parker-Jones was aware that Connie was about to reveal their names to Smithy. Tennison has also discovered that Parker-Jones' credentials are less than he makes them up to be; the university he has a degree from doesn't even exist.Jane Tennison goes to see the doctor again. He has the results of her tests, and he tells her that she is pregnant.[Part Two]At the police station, Tennison has a staff meeting. Otley has dug up that an Edward Parker has been investigated for crimes against minors in other parts of the country years ago. Tennison says she'll take the trip to interview the accusers. When Ray Hebdon shows himself unusually knowledgeable about the local gay scene he admits that he is a homosexual. Tennison shows him confidence, but most of his colleagues shun him. Dalton seems most stunned by the revelation, and he and Hebdon have a confrontation. Meanwhile, Tennison speaks to Halliday, who tells her to charge Jackson rather than spend time on Parker-Jones and more elaborate theories.The squad track Jackson down and tail him to a house where they also find Billy Matthews, who has checked himself out of hospital. Tennison and Dalton travel to Manchester and talk to a young man called Anthony (Jonny Lee Miller), who tell them about the sexual abuse he suffered by Parker-Jones as a kid, and also by a police officer when he tried to report it. Tennison also meets with David Lyall (Christopher Fairbank), her predecessor, who gives her additional information. Back in London, Lillie and Haskons go undercover at the Bowery Roof Club in drag. This upsets Vera, who fears for the consequences. In the street, she is approached by an angry Jackson, but convinces him that she is not to blame. Instead, he seeks out the two drag police officers and attacks them, but they overpower him and bring him in.Otley gets some of the street kids to point out a house where kids were brought to make films and perform sexual favours. It belongs to retired deputy commissioner Kennington. In Cardiff, Tennison interviews Jason (James Frain), another victim of Parker-Jones's, who has suffered mentally from the years of abuse. When Tennison and Dalton leave the estate where he lives he jumps from several floors up and injures himself severely. Later, Tennison asks Dalton straight up about his loyalties, and Dalton confesses that he is to report to Chiswick whenever Tennison's investigation crosses an ongoing investigation of blackmail connected to John Kennington's possible links to a paedophile ring.Tennison also finds out that Jason's social worker in Cardiff was the same as Martin Fletcher's in London, Margaret Speel. They interview her, and she confirms that she has had a longstanding relationship with Parker-Jones, which may have cluttered her judgement. Back at the station, Halliday is angered by recent events and yells at the squad. Tennison and Dalton go to the home of John Kennington and ask him questions about the murder, but he refuses to answer. Tennison also drops by to see Mike Kernan, who tells her that she is unlikely to get anywhere with a case against Kennington. She also asks him about a job opening as superintendent and implies that she would be interested.Back at the office, Dalton apologizes about his role in the investigation and becomes emotional when he tells her how much he fears that he might be HIV positive. Otley tells Tennison that he's brought Parker-Jones in for questioning. She would have preferred to wait, but interrogates him as well as Jackson while the unit are busy breaking their alibis and uncovering new details. The next day Tennison is called to a meeting with Halliday and Chiswick, who demands that she drop her investigation of Parker-Jones. She refuses, but she does agree to leave John Kennington out of it in return for being put forward for the superintendent position.Tennison interviews Vera Reynolds again, promising that Jackson will go to jail for a long time. This time she tells her about Connie and how he tried to blackmail Kennington and sell his story to the papers. Connie got Martin Fletcher to steal photos and documents from Jackson. Tennison again interrogates Jackson, who claims it was Parker-Jones who wanted to get back the evidence from Connie. Meanwhile, Margaret Speel goes to see Edward Parker-Jones and yells at him about what he's done. Later, the police are called to the Kennington house where John Kennington is dead. Mrs. Kennington (Rowena Cooper) tells Tennison that he shot himself that morning after a phone call from Edward Parker-Jones.In her office, Jane calls her doctor. She arranges to have her pregnancy terminated. She cries.Tennison calls in Vera for questioning again, angry with her: Jackson has claimed to have seen Vera at the advice center on the night of the murder, and Vera confirms it. She also tells Tennison that Connie was not alone when Vera left him at the flat that night, a journalist was there. Vera returned home to pick up something she had forgotten and discovered Connie showing the journalist Vera's photo album. After the journalist left, this made Vera so angry that she hit Connie with an ashtray, thinking she killed him. When Vera told Parker-Jones and asked him to call an ambulance, he said he would take care of everything. Vera tells Tennison she was too afraid of going to prison to tell her the truth sooner. When Vera goes to the lavatory she cuts her wrists; she is taken to hospital, but it is never confirmed if she survives.Tennison talks to Jessica Smithy, who had withheld the information that she was in the flat on the night of the murder, but now confirms the story. The squad go to the advice centre to pick up Edward Parker-Jones once again, and Tennison interrogates him. She shatters his alibi and establishes that due to a delay on ambulances it would have been possible for him to call emergency and then go to set Connie and the flat on fire before the ambulance arrived. But she doesn't succeed in getting a confession, and with no hard evidence she has to let him go.Superintendent Halliday tells Tennison she has the new job. Jessica Smithy returns with some pictures Tennison had instructed her to bring in. Tennison decides that it would be unforgivable if Parker-Jones were allowed to continue his work with children. She gives Smithy a file of Colin Jenkins's case so she can write the story.
