After Suman's father leaves her in the care of another family while he travels abroad, she falls in love with Prem. However, in order to for them to marry, Prem has to prove to Suman's father that he is not the same as his own dad.
Kishen Kumar Chaudhary and Karan are family like friends, when Kishen's wife Mrs. Kaushalya gives birth to a baby boy Prem, Karan helps the couple bring up their child with out- most care. Years later the two friends have parted ways, Karan likes in a shanty house, works as a mechanic and is the father to a young girl Suman while Kishen is a wealthy industrialist and lives in a spacious bungalow. In order to accumulate huge sums of fund abroad for good living Karan decides to leave Suman in the care of the Chaudhary's family. All is well there for Suman as she is befriend by Prem which eventually blossom to love, Kaushalya finds out about Prem and Suman's relationship and approve of Suman as her daughter-in-law but Kishen is quite unhappy with the relationship as he have plans to get Prem marry to his business partner's daughter Seema thus he insults Suman and throw her out of his house. Karan returns and is enraged at the treatment his daughter receive and leaves the house immediately with his daughter. Prem too is unhappy with his dad's decision and he also leaves the house opting to marry Suman with the blessings of Karan. But Karan refuses to accept Prem and the only way Prem can win Karan's approval is if he prove that he can earn money by his own sweat.
Karan (Alok Nath) lives in a small house with his only daughter, Suman (Bhagyashree). He decides to travel overseas in Dubai, in the Persian Gulf, so that he can accumulate enough wealth to get his daughter married. He decides to leave his daughter with his friend, Kishen Kumar choudhury (Rajiv Verma), wife Mrs. Kaushalya (Reema Lagoo), and son Prem (Salman Khan). Prem is supposed to marry Seema (Pervin Dastur), who is the only daughter of Kishen's business partner, Ranjeet (Ajit Vachani). But Prem falls in love with Suman. He woos her until she also falls in love with him. Kaushalya approves of Suman, but Kishan does not, and asks her to get out of his house and life, as he feels that she has taken advantage of his hospitality. Karan returns and is enraged at Kishan's behaviour. Prem is unhappy with his dad's decision, and he decides to leave home and be near Suman. But Karan does not approve of Prem, and will not let him come anywhere near Suman. Prem will now have to prove himself to Karan, that he is not the same as his dad, and is worthy of Suman's love.

