Publisher Will Randall becomes a werewolf and has to fight to keep his job.
Worn down and out of luck, aging publisher Will Randall is at the end of his rope when a younger co-worker snatches his job out from under his nose. But after being bitten by a wolf, Will suddenly finds himself energized, more competitive than ever, and possessed with amazingly heightened senses. Meanwhile, the beautiful daughter of his shrewd boss begins to fall for him - without realizing that the man she's begun to love is gradually turning into the creature by which he was bitten.
Raymond Alden has a pretty but estranged daughter, Laura, who is attracted to his subordinate, Will Randall, who has recently been separated from his spouse. Will is special, in a way, because he has been bitten by a seemingly dead wolf, and finds himself energized, his senses heightened, and has acquired a thirst for blood. He consults Dr. Vijay Alezais, who gives him an amulet that will prevent him from changing into a werewolf in return for a bite - Will refuses, but accepts the amulet as a gift. Will and Laura continue to meet, while Will's rival, Stewart, who is also attracted to Laura, will force a confrontation between them, complicated by the involvement of the Police who suspect Will of killing his wife.
While driving through Vermont, New England, the middle age chief editor Will Randall hits a wolf with his car. He stops the car to drag the animal out of the road, but the wolf is alive and bites his hand. He goes to the doctor, takes a rabies vaccine and the doctor releases him. Will is under stress in his job since the publishing house where he works has been bought by the tough millionaire Raymond Alden and the employees are expecting downsizing. Will is supported by his wife Charlotte Randall and his colleague and assistant Stewart Swinton. Raymond invites Will to a party at his manor and he learns that Stewart will occupy his position in the publishing house. Will also meets Raymond's rebel daughter Laura Alden. On the next morning, Will Randall goes to his work and learns that he has acute senses and he feels more competitive and decided to fight for his job. But Will Randall is becoming a wolf and his transformation completely changes his life.
Under a full moon, the suave middle-aged editor-in-chief, Will Randall, is bitten by a crafty black wolf in an empty stretch of road, on his way home in snow-capped Vermont. Little by little, as the unknown but baneful infection spreads, Will comes to realise that his once-weary body, inexplicably, has become the host of a new set of powers and abilities, as his acute sensory perception marks the beginning of an indescribable and almost beastly transformation. Now, in the cut-throat publishing industry, no one is a match for the fresh and lupine Will--not even his much younger back-stabbing protégé, Stewart, or the publishing firm's new billionaire owner, Raymond Alden. Under those circumstances, could the legend be true? Is Will, indeed, turning into the cryptic creature known only as the werewolf?
After publishing executive Will Randall is bitten by a wolf, his life begins to change. First his mood changes, and his sense of hearing and smell go into overdrive. Will has become a werewolf and he has an appetite for human blood. His newly found friend Laura Alden wants to help, but she doesn't know what Will is yet. As if Will's new problem wasn't enough to keep him occupied, he must also contend with Stewart Swinton, who is out to get his job.
Will Randall (Jack Nicholson) is bitten by a wolf while driving home in Vermont. Afterwards, he is demoted from editor in chief of a publishing house when it is taken over by tycoon Raymond Alden (Christopher Plummer), who replaces him with Will's protegé Stewart Swinton (James Spader). Stewart is having an affair with Will's wife Charlotte (Kate Nelligan). Will starts to be more aggressive, taking on the characteristics of a wolf.With the help of Alden's headstrong daughter Laura (Michelle Pfeiffer), Will sets out for his new life. His first escapade as a werewolf takes place at Laura's estate, where he wakes up at night and hunts down a deer. In the morning Will finds himself on the bank of a stream, with blood all over his face and hands.He visits Dr. Vijav Alezais (Om Puri), who gives him an amulet to protect him from turning completely into a wolf. Alezais asks Will to bite him, as Alezais does not have long to live, and would prefer "demonization to death." After refusing, Randall keeps the amulet so that he won't transform at the next full moon. Calling Laura to explain, Randall, now a wolf, breaks into the Zoo and steals handcuffs from a policeman. Muggers want his wallet, but he attacks and leaves one of them alive. He wakes up in his hotel, with no memory of what happened.Will outmanoeuvres Stewart at their work and fires him, urinating on his shoes in a bathroom. While washing his hands, he finds fingers in his handkerchief and realizes he killed someone. Will inadvertently bites Stewart, who then becomes a wolf and murders Charlotte. Stewart attempts to frame Will in order to seize his job back.Horrified that he might have killed his wife, Will goes back to Laura`s cottage and is locked up in the barn. Laura gets a call from a Detective (Richard Jenkins), who tells her that canine DNA was found on Charlotte's body. Alarmed, Laura goes to the police station. There she runs into Stewart, who makes an animal-like pass at her. Laura hurries away, making arrangements for her and Will to leave the country.Stewart follows her and kills her two guards. After a brief struggle in the barn, Stewart tries to rape her, but Will frees himself and they fight. Stewart is shot to death by Laura. After he returns to normal, Will has a brief moment with Laura and then runs into the forest.Minutes later, Laura shows heightened senses when the police arrive, telling the detective that she can smell vodka on his breath. The final scene is a close-up of her face fading into dark, lupine eyes, and a close up of Will completing his transformation into a full werewolf.
