The Mystery Gang reunite and visit Moonscar Island, a remote island with a dark secret. Daphne wants more than just a villain in a costume, and they get more than they ever expected.
After years of unmasking fake ghosts, the Mystery Gang have separated and acquired new careers, including Daphne being a reporter. For her birthday, Fred invites the whole gang to join their trip to Louisiana for Daphne's television show. They have many adventures but every ghost is just a villain in a costume. They soon meet Lena Dupree, who takes them to Moonscar Island in the hopes to encounter a real ghost. Things soon become creepy and the gang find themselves caught between vicious werecats and zombies lead by the ghost of Moonscar the Pirate.
The gang goes Cajun in this Scooby Doo hit. They are tired of solving mysteries involving a person behind a mask, so the gang take new roles in life. Daphne Blake becomes a television reporter, Fred Jones her cameraman, Shaggy and Scooby customs agents at an airport, and Velma a bookstore owner. Fred rejoins them for Daphne's Birthday. Off they go for a real "haunted house" as Daphne wants to film a new segment for her TV show. The gang head out to New Orleans, and without much avail searching for a house that's really haunted, Daphne becomes hopeless. Overhearing their conversation is a girl named Lena Dupree, who invites them to her "haunted house" a place called Moonscar Island, where Morgan Moonscar, a pirate, died. Finding the lead to be promising, the gang follow Ms. Dupree to the island, but not before a run in with a friendly ferry driver and a grumpy old fisherman. They arrive and meet Ms Lenoir, the owner of the house. After wandering the island, Scooby and shag run into the ghost of Moonscar and encounter a suspicious grounds keeper, Beau. Being invited to spend the night enlightens the gang, as Daphne is thrilled about being here for her show. But at midnight the zombies make an encounter with the gang from all sides. Beau remains the prime suspect. Then, the gang hears screams from Lena and investigate. They are lead to a secret room where they meet Lena and Ms. Lenoir, (her first name is Simone) in the form of cat creatures. What it melts down to is they have to drain the lifeforms from victims to get their immortality. Turns out Simone and Lena settled the island, and Morgan Moonscar attacked her, Lena, and the other settlers. Wishing to impose revenge, Lena and Simone become cat creatures and killed the pirates, led by Moonscar, off. But they need to have their life and at every harvest moon, must feed of of someone else. And the zombies over the years were people who had come to the island, but were attacked by Lena and Simone. Jacques, the ferry driver mentioned earlier, also is a cat creature. Bottom line: The cat creatures run out of time for the next victim and die, and Beau is an undercover Police Officer investigating the disappearances. The gang goes home happy, and the end.
