The story of the 1912 sinking of the largest luxury liner ever built, the tragedy that befell over two thousand of the rich and famous as well as of the poor and unknown passengers aboard the doomed ship.
The plot focuses on the romances of two couples upon the doomed ship's maiden voyage. Isabella Paradine (Catherine Zeta-Jones) is a wealthy woman mourning the loss of her aunt, who reignites a romance with former flame Wynn Park (Peter Gallagher). Meanwhile, a charming ne'er-do-well named Jamie Perse (Mike Doyle) steals a ticket for the ship, and falls for a sweet innocent Irish girl on board. But their romance is threatened by the villainous Simon Doonan (Tim Curry), who has discovered about the ticket and makes Jamie his unwilling accomplice, as well as having sinister plans for the girl.
The tale of R.M.S. Titanic, the famous passenger liner that claimed to be unsinkable. This claim was proved to be false when it hit an iceberg when crossing the Atlantic Ocean. The drama unfolds as the passengers and crew race against time to get off of the sinking vessel and decide who will go into the lifeboats that can only hold less than half of the ship's population. Those who do not get the privilege of a space on a lifeboat face almost certain death.
Everyone thought R.M.S. Titanic was the safest ship in the world - a leading shipbuilding journal proclaimed it "unsinkable" because of its watertight compartment design. On its first trip from England to New York City, it collided with an iceberg in the middle of the North Atlantic. The much-publicized "unsinkable" watertight compartment design was never designed to cope with such extensive damage, and the "unsinkable" ship starts to go down. Even worse, more than half of the two thousand two hundred plus passengers and crew on-board are already doomed, as the Titanic is only carrying lifeboats for about one thousand two hundred. This is the frightening story of the passengers and crew's struggles to stay alive. Who will escape the Titanic before it goes nearly two miles to the ocean bottom, and survive the panic, as well as the twenty-eight-degree water?

