A man finds out from a would be killer that his wife has paid $10,000 to have him killed. But is this mysterious man telling the truth? When both the killer and the wife turn up dead, everyone is a suspect, and the investigation takes an unexpected turn
Ramsey is a rags to riches story success in insurance with "the ramsey curve" which is a theorem intended to help prevent companies from committing insurance fraud. He gets a call from a stranger stating that his wife paid him 10k to kill Ramsey. Later, after that same man confronts Ramsey and scares him, the would be hit man gets shot after meeting Ramsey at a park. After that, Ramsay's wife disappears then is found dead. Ramsey goes from being victim to suspect. Ramsay's Father in law files for custody of The children, leading Ramsey to suspect him. During the movie it is revealed that Ramsey had mild psychological issues which led to a domestic disturbance report early in Ramsay's marriage. Some flashback scenes prior to the discovery of his wife's (Sarah) body suggests that perhaps Ramsey is guilty. Ramsey's co-worker is found to have a bandage fetish, which leads Ramsey to suspect him. A Lt Farrand is investigating the case with 30 days left on the job before retirement. Ramsey hires his own investigator, which ends up dead, and the police find the gun that killed the hit man in the pi's apartment with a partial print from Ramsey. Ramsey remembers something about a case in which he testifies and goes to his insurance office to get information. The bdsm fetish co-worker offers information which allows Ramsey to find the truth. At the same time, Farrand picks up Ramsey's son, noting that the passenger door sticks. Ramsey calls his inlaw's house, where he reaches his wife's old friend telling her that it's Lt Farrand &amp; finds out that Farrand has his son and is heading to where Farrand's stepson was hit by a train, crippling the boy and driving Farrand's wife to suicide after the insurance wins the case in court because of Ramsey's testimony (based on false information provided by the insurance company, unbeknownst to Ramsey). Ramsey barely gets there in time to push Farrand's car off the track, his own car getting knicked &amp; turned over by the train. Farrand pulls Ramsey's son from the car &amp; admits to everything vents his anger at Ramsey's theorum. Leslie, Sarah's friend arrives as Ramsey's son gets away from Lt Farrand, Distracting him. Ramsey pulls out a gun and kills Farrand and the movie closes with the implication that it's all over and everyone will live happily ever after.
