A young, naive Hollywood studio assistant finally turns the tables on his incredibly abusive producer boss.
A young Hollywood executive becomes the assistant to a big time movie producer who is the worst boss imaginable: abusive, abrasive and cruel. But soon things turn around when the young executive kidnaps his boss and visits all the cruelties back on him.
Movie producer Buddy Ackerman is one of Hollywood's most powerful men whose quickly on the rise for someone else's higher profile job. But that doesn't make Buddy such a nice guy, which his very naive assistant Guy is just about to learn. As he barely endures and tolerates Buddy's daily rituals of constant abuse and humiliation in front of the office, Guy has his own agenda to rise within Hollywood's ranks and Buddy is his only ticket there. But when Guy learns a potentially explosive personal secret involving both he, his producer girlfriend and his boss, he's decided he's had just enough. Now Buddy is about to be on a much harsher receiving end of Guy's wrath when he's been kidnapped, held hostage, and relentlessly tortured in his own home, with both men having no idea how this night is going to end when the cards will finally be on the table.
Buddy Ackerman (Kevin Spacey), a big time movie producer on the rise, hires young Guy (Frank Whaley) to be his assistant. Guy thinks he's finally hit the big time. But Buddy has other ideas. He torments Guy with petty requests and daily reamings for bringing him Equal instead of Sweet-N-Low. Guy decides that he is fed up with Buddy's torture and goes to Buddy's house and ties him up and begins on his revenge. Guy's lover, a script writer who has "screwed" her way to the top, is dragged into this. Guy tortures Buddy and then his lover arrives and the big ending occurs.
Guy, an ambitious would-be screenwriter, works as an assistant to demanding boss Buddy Ackerman. Guy tries to cater to Buddy's ever-more capricious demands until he decides he's been pushed too far in what can best be described as an cynical if canny black comedy.
