A rather neurotic ant tries to break from his totalitarian society while trying to win the affection of the princess he loves.
In an anthill with millions of inhabitants, Z 4195 is a worker ant. Feeling insignificant in a conformity system, he accidentally meets beautiful Princess Bala, who has a similar problem on the other end of the social scale. In order to meet her again, Z switches sides with his soldier friend Weaver - only to become a hero in the course of events. By this he unwillingly crosses the sinister plans of ambitious General Mandible (Bala's fiancé, by the way), who wants to divide the ant society into a superior, strong race (soldiers) and an inferior, to-be-eliminated race (the workers). But Z and Bala, both unaware of the dangerous situation, try to leave the oppressive system by heading for Insectopia, a place where food paves the streets.
Z the worker-ant strives to reconcile his own individuality with the communal work-ethic of the ant colony. Falling in love with the ant-Princess Bala, Z strives to make social inroads, and then ultimately must save the ant colony from the treacherous schemings of the evil General Mandible that threaten to wipe out the entire worker population. Themes of individuality run rampant.
Z-4195, a worker ant, tries to break from his totalitarian hive society and get the attention of Princess Bala. He trades positions with his friend Weaver, a soldier ant, to see the princess during a parade. Unfortunately war breaks out during the parade, Z becomes a hero during the battles, and begins to spread the idea of individualism throughout the hive.
Z is a worker ant that doesn't fit in. He longs for a life that strays from his monotonous routine. One night in a bar he dances with a female that turns out to be the princess. In order to see her again, he switches places with one of his friends that is a soldier. Little does Z know that he will be sent into battle and start the adventure of his life. Z struggles to get the princess, defeat the evil general, and find his own identity.
Z is just another ant in a colony of millions, striving for individuality. He falls in love with Princess Bala, and convinces his Warrior ant friend Weaver to switch places with him for a day, so that he can see Princess Bala once again. The outcome of this throws Z into a bigger adventure than he ever dreamed possible...
Z is a worker ant who has many more plans in life than just moving earth around all day.
When Z meets Balla at the bar he knows he must see her again, he convinces his soldier friend Weaver to switch places with him to go to the royal inspection, but what he does not know is general mandable is planning to send all the units loyal to the queen to war.Against all odds Z is the sole survivor of the termite war, he returns to the coloney a hero and when he meets Princess Bala again he accidently kidnaps her.
The pair Make there way to Insectopia, meeting many proplems and other insects along the way, but moments after arival General Cutter arrives to take Bala back to the coloney.Z ten makes his way back to the coloney to rescue the Princess when the pair discover General mandable has more in store fo the coloney than anyone could have imagined.
The pair then Come up with a Plan to save the Coloney... but will their plan sucseed?A great story line with some cracking gags and characters!
