A Hindu man and a Muslim woman fall in love in a small village and move to Mumbai, where they have two children. However, growing religious tensions and erupting riots threaten to tear the family apart.
Based on true incidents, a south Indian Hindu man falls in love with a Muslim woman--taboo in the small village from which they hail. They marry against family wishes and move to Mumbai, where he works as a reporter for a large daily newspaper. Eventually, the couple has twin boys. The rest of the film is set during the December 1992-January 1993 period when the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid controversy raised religious tension in Mumbai and other parts of India, which sparked rioting and violence. The couple is separated from their children, and the fathers of both parents are killed when their home is burned by rioters. A reporter is shown interviewing politicians from both factions as well as the police. An underlying moral of thinking of oneself as an Indian rather than a Hindu or a Muslim is prevalent throughout the latter part of the film. The family is finally reunited after much searching through hospitals, morgues, and shelters. But the violence has left indelible impressions in the minds of the children.
Shekhar Mishra Narayan and Shaila Bano are in love and want to marry. The only problem is that Shekhar is a Hindu and Shaila is a Muslim. Unfortunately, even in modern secular India this marriage is a problem for their respective families. As a result, the young couple elope to a more tolerant and accepting Bombay city. And then came December 6, 1992, a day of national shame for India, when extreme right-wing Hindus tore down the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya - resulting in religious riots everywhere - including cosmopolitan Bombay. Shekhar and Shaila are now proud parents of a twins, Kamal Bashir and Kabir Narayan. During the riots, Shekhar's father and Shaila's parents decide to bury the hatchet and come to visit their children and were in the process of settling their personal differences when a fire breaks out, separating the family, with Shaila's parents and Shekhar's father killed instantly, and Kabir and Kamal nowhere to be found. All now fear armed and angry mobs that ask the same question that was asked in British India in 1948: "Are you Muslim or Hindu?" The answer could mean life or death, and not even children will be spared.

