A short film wherein a man working in a morgue mutilates and defiles one of the corpses.
An unfortunate young woman, Marta, meets her tragic end in a horrendous car accident and is later transferred to the morgue. Later that night, two mortuary technicians finish their shift, however, one of them decides to stay and locks himself in the autopsy room to be left undisturbed with Marta's fresh cadaver. Little by little, the examiner by taking his time undressing and fondling the dead body, he gets excited, mutilating and then molesting the corpse with enthusiasm, while at the same time, he takes morbid mementos with his camera. In the end, when everything is finally over, the man also takes with him another grotesque souvenir and heads back home.
When the others leave for the night, the last mortician begins to fondle the corpses. He quickly moves to the corpse of a young woman who died in a car crash, tearing her clothes off and mutilating her body. He then mounts her and rapes her corpse while taking pictures with a camera and timer.
The film begins deep in the bowels of a Spanish morgue. In the morgue there is an autopsy-taking place, right before our very eyes. The film is devoid of any real dialogue and focuses on the use of graphic shocking imagery to make its point. The film starts with the average goings on in a morgue. The other morticians call it a day and leave one behind to finish up his work. This is when the film gets uncomfortably vile and disturbing. The lone mortician who is left in the morgue begins fondling some of the corpses. Then he turns his attention to the dead body of a young female who died in a car crash. The mortician apparently overcome by some twisted desire, proceeds to strip her naked and mutilate the young girls corpse. He then mounts the corpse and has sex with it, all the while taking pictures of himself in the act. The man then takes the girls heart home with him, blends it in a blender and then feeds it to his dog and calmly sits down to watch his TV.
