Attractive but warped college co-ed Sabrina resorts to lying, cheating, blackmailing, seduction and manipulation to get what she wants.
A spoiled little rich girl arrives at Sorority High with studying the last thing on her mind. Spreading malicious rumours and splitting people up are just some of the things she finds amusing. Her behaviour not surprisingly though, starts to alienate her from her fellow classmates.
Malibu, California, 1958. Sabrina Masterson (Jamie Luner) is a conceited and wealthy 19-year-old freshman at Filmore College, a Southern California university, who is sent by her equally conceited and snobbish mother to live in the Alpha Beta Pi sorority house, because she couldn't handle her any more... explaining that Sabrina was too evil. Upon her arrival, Sabrina is welcomed by everyone and is assigned as the roommate of Rita Summers (Alyssa Miliano), the sorority president and most adored and popular girl on campus. Sabrina soon takes an interest in Rita's boyfriend Mort, a Filmore graduate who owns a bar at the beach, and will soon enroll into medical school, hoping to become a doctor. At a toga party at Mort's Beach Bar, Sabrina tries to flirt with him, but is unamused by his disinterest.Sabrina soon starts taking her frustrations out on Rita and her two best friends, Tina and Ellie, often embarrassing them or making catty remarks without directly insulting or confronting them. In spite of that, Rita still tries to befriend Sabrina, who confides in Rita about her bad relationship with her mother, explaining that her mother is often too busy to talk to her. Rita confides in Sabrina that her mother is actually in jail and does not want the college campus to know about it for it would not look good on her image. Sabrina tries to upset Rita even more by saying that her relationship with her mother is very good compared to Rita.It soon turns out that isn't true. Mrs. Masterson shows up one day at Filmore for a surprise visit, expressing her disappointment in her. She tells Sabrina that she wants her to be more like her older sister Julia, who was once the sorority president, and terminates her allowance because of breaking a rule.Later that day, Sabrina and Ellie overhear Tina announcing that she is pregnant from her boyfriend Jimmy, who she secretly sees. Tina expresses her worries and considers an abortion. Sabrina helps her out by not getting caught when Ellie is confronted, and thereby wins their trust.The next day, Ellie and Tina nominate Sabrina for sorority president, meaning she will be competing against Rita. When Sabrina finds out, she can only become president if her grades for French are better, she seduces her teacher and later blackmails him to give her a passing grade.Later that night, Sabrina blackmails Rita to give up her title as sorority president by threatening to reveal to the college that her mother is in jail. Rita gives in to the demands, and Sabrina is appointed president of the sorority.The next day, Sabrina is upset to find out that her mother doesn't share her joy of becoming president. Mrs. Masterson doesn't show up for the inauguration ceremony. When Sabrina calls her mother afterwords, Mrs. Masterson explains, in an unconvincing tone, that she was too busy to attend the inauguration ceremony. Highly disappointed by her mother, Sabrina tries to find comfort with Mort, but he doesn't hide the fact that he doesn't think highly of her. Jealous, Sabrina reveals Rita's secret about her mother, thinking it will end his relationship with her. However, it has the opposite reaction as Mort reacts madly towards Sabrina.Sabrina later witnesses Mort being rejected by Rita when he tries to sleep with her, and she thinks she can profit from that information to win him back. In his bar, she seduces him into having sex with her. At first, he rejects her, but he finally gives in.Meanwhile, Tina returns to the college after going to Tijuana for an abortion, but she was too afraid to go through with it. Not knowing what to do with her future, she bursts out in tears.The next morning, Sabrina reveals that she has slept with Mort. Rita refuses to believe her, but when Mort admits to it, Rita is furious and slaps him. Sabrina, hoping they can finally be in a relationship, is surprised when Mort angrily turns her down. Sabrina swears that he will regret saying 'no' to her. Sabrina tells Joe, who thinks Mort is her boyfriend, that Mort raped her. The plan backfires when Mort convinces Joe that he wouldn't do something like that, also assuring him that Sabrina is bad news.Sensing that she is loosing control of the situation, Sabrina resorts to more lying that gets more out of control and complicated.Sabrina then convinces Tina to tell everyone that Mort is the father of her unborn baby, thereby possibly assuring her financial support. After the announcement, Tina is kicked out of campus, but, after a failed suicide attempt, she keeps on blackmailing Mort. Vulnerable, she admits to him that she was pushed by Sabrina to do so. After she left, it turns out that he recorded the conversation.Later, Tina accepts a marriage proposal from Jimmy. Rita decides to rekindle with Mort after she hears the audio conversation. A jealous Sabrina, realizing she has been caught, hits Mort with a baseball bat and beats up Rita. She locks them into Mort's bar and sets it on fire, leaving them to burn to their deaths. However, Jimmy runs into the burning bar and rescues both Rita and Mort just before the burning building collapses to the ground. With both Rita and More clearing the air with each other and both Tina and Jimmy learning that Sabrina led them on and is the one responsible for the fire, Sabrina finally backs away from everyone, devastated that her crimes have finally been revealed. Emotionally defeated, Sabrina walks into the ocean and kneels in the surf in complete shame looking at the hostile crowd on the beach staring at her just as two policemen arrive and move in to arrest Sabrina for arson and attempted murder.
