Earl Bassett, now a washed-up ex-celebrity, is hired by a Mexican oil company to eradicate a Graboid epidemic that's killing more people each day. However, the humans aren't the only one with a new battle plan.
When an army of Graboids - giant, carnivorous underground worms - threaten the Petromaya oil refinery in Mexico, its owners call on Earl Bassett, who once helped kill four of the creatures in Perfection, Nevada. Having squandered the money that came from his resulting celebrity status, Earl is convinced by the $50,000-a-head bounty offered, as well as the enthusiasm of admirer Grady Hoover, who becomes his partner. At Petromaya, Earl and Grady meet geologist Kate Reilly, and begin Graboid hunting, tricking several Graboids into swallowing bomb-rigged, remote-controlled cars. When they find they're facing a lot more Graboids than they ever expected, Earl calls his friend Burt Gummer, a survivalist who arrives well-stocked with weapons.
Earl Bassett, now a laid-back living legend, is coaxed by the Mexican government into hunting and exterminating the Graboids that are threatening an important oil-refinery. But no amount of explosives could prepare him for what the worms have in store.
Our underground monster-killing heroes from the original Tremors have split up. Soured that everyone else profited from Graboids-mania, Fred Ward "re-enlists" to battle a new breed of Mexican Graboids.
An oil refinery in northern Mexico is attacked one night by an unseen enemy.Back in the United States, Earl and Val became wealthy with their discovery of the Graboids, large, worm-like subterranean creatures that terrorized the town of Perfection, Nevada a few years prior. While Val had moved away from Perfection and married, Earl lost most of his fortune through an ostrich farm and other poor investments. Earl is approached by two men, Grady Hoover and Señor Ortega. Ortega knows that Earl and Val dealt with the Graboids previously. He informs Earl that there are more of them killing workers at the Petromaya Oil Field; he needs help to dispose of them. Earl refuses, horrified at the prospect that there are more of the creatures that almost killed him. Grady tells him that Ortega will pay him $50,000 for each Graboid. Earl agrees to eliminate the Graboids, and Grady accompanies him.On their way to the Petromaya Oil Field, Earl and Grady are introduced to Pedro, the company's chief engineer and Kate Reilly, a geologist. Ortega brings Earl and Grady their meager supplies; a few cases of dynamite and two CAR-15s. A man named Julio introduces a seismic monitor that will show Grady and Earl where the Graboids are. Grady builds a chain drag with a few empty aluminum cans attached to it that they'll fasten to Earl's pickup to attract the GraboidsEarl and Grady kill 16 Graboids using dynamite strapped to remote-control toy cars. The sound of the toy cars on the ground attracts the Graboids, who swallow the vehicle and are killed when the guys detonate the dynamite.Soon, another Graboid snags the chain Grady hooked to the back of the truck. The Graboid begins dragging them across the field. When their truck hits solid rock, the Graboid snaps the chain. Earl sees more Graboids approaching on the seismic monitor. And they retreat back to Petromaya. Because of the sheer number of the monsters, Earl decides to call in Burt Gummer, his old friend from Perfection and gun and weapon enthusiast, to help. Burt comes in with an Army deuce-and-a-half filled with explosives and weapons. The group splits up to kill more of the Graboids.Earl and Grady see another Graboid on the seismograph. Oddly, the Graboid is moving away from them, so Earl and Grady investigate. Upon reaching the top of a hill, the Graboid surfaces. In a panic Earl backs his truck down the side of the hill and into a pile of rocks, breaking an axle. They see the Graboid has not moved. Earl and Grady wait for Pedro to bring the Graboid back to the refinery. The Graboid makes loud, painful noises, and Grady and Earl see gaping holes in the Graboids body, leading Earl to believe that something emerged from it.While Earl tries contacting Kate over the radio, he notices that the radio's transmitter has been damaged, but they manage to get a message out to Pedro to pick them up. Earl and Grady hear another Graboid making loud moaning noises. Grady sees Pedro's truck coming up the road only to stop. When Earl and Grady walk to the truck, they see the engine is damaged beyond repair and all that is left of Pedro are his severed arms. Earl decides to call for help by hiking to a nearby radio tower.Burt has become worried that his monitor is showing no Graboids and returns to the refinery. When Grady and Earl reach the radio tower they find it has been damaged. Earl spots a car near a small bar that Grady tries hotwiring. The two hear a strange noise coming from the bar, then see a creature resembling a smaller two-legged Graboid, dubbed a "Shrieker", emerge from the bar. Grady and Earl kill it, but three more Shriekers come for them. They drive the car back to the refinery. As Burt is trying to get back he is ambushed by Shriekers.Kate, unable to contact anyone, grows worried. Julio agrees to find them. As he is about to leave a Shrieker attacks and devours him. Grady and Earl kill the Shrieker that killed Julio and reunite with Kate. As they are about to leave another Shrieker appears and begins damaging their car's engine, but Earl kills it. Burt arrives with his truck damaged from the Shriekers that attacked him. He shows them a Shrieker he caught alive, unaware that another Shrieker has stowed away underneath his truck.The four discover that the Shrieker hunts by using heat signature, using flaps on it's head, explaining why the Shriekers attacked the cars and the radio tower, believing them to be prey. When it consumes a piece of food it creates another Shrieker, spitting a grotesque birth sac from it's mouth that quickly matures. While enjoying this spectacle, Kate, Earl, Grady and Burt are ambushed by Shriekers. The group plans to drive off with another compact pickup, but another Shrieker is blocking their path. Burt uses his .50 BMG rifle to kill it, but the bullet goes through the Shrieker and damages the engine block of the truck. More Shriekers trap Grady, Earl and Kate on top of an oil tower and Burt in the bucket of a nearby payloader.The Shriekers start jumping onto each other's backs to reach Grady, Earl and Kate. Burt makes the Shriekers chase him into the storage compartment where his truck is. He is able to lock a door and close a garage, trapping them. However, this proves to be problematic as the garage is filled with food and allows the Shrikers to reproduce at a rapid rate. Knowing that they can kill the rest of them with some of Burt's explosives, Earl has Grady spray him with a fire extinguisher to make him cold so that the Shriekers will not see him, so that he can reach Burt's bombs.As he is walking the frost from his body melts and the Shriekers see Earl in Burt's truck. Earl sets off a timed charge and throws it in the back of Burt's truck. Grady, Burt and Kate pull him out with a hose, and the four run from the refinery. The bomb detonates the explosives in Burt's truck and destroys the refinery, killing the Shriekers.Grady tells Earl that the Petromaya corporation still owes them for 28 worms they killed. As they walk towards the remains of the refinery, Earl suggests they charge the corporation for the Shriekers they killed. When Grady says that they can open up their own Monster World, Earl says, "No way.", but Grady says, "Oh, C'mon, Earl. This could be like your big third chance".
