A biker comes upon a girl with a flat tire and offers her a ride home. He winds up at a drug party with the girl's sister, then follows her to a turkey farm owned by her father, a mad scientist. The father turns the biker into a giant turkey monster who goes after drug dealers.
Narrator [Brad Grinter], puffing on a cigarette: The one constant in this world is that things change.
There is order in change in that one thing leads to the next thing, and
one seemingly random event can affect the course of the future.Herschel [Steve Hawkes], an out-of-work and homeless Vietnam vet, meets and
befriends Jesus freak Angel [Heather Hughes] when her car breaks down on the Florida
turnpike. Angel takes Herschel home where her hot-to-trot sister Ann [Dana Cullivan] is
smoking marijuana and doing drugs with a bunch of her friends.Narrator: *puff* Angel and Ann are both truth-seekers, although each goes
at it from a different angle.Herschel accompanies Angel to a meeting with her Jesus freak friend
Tom Nolan [?], who offers Herschel a job on his poultry ranch. Angel invites
Herschel to stay with her and Ann until he can get on his feet. The next
day, as Herschel cleans their swimming pool, Ann dons her bikini and tries
to get Herschel to notice her. When that doesn't work, she gets Herschel
to take a drag on a joint laced with something that Ann's friend Guy [Larry Wright]
guarantees will hook him after only a few tokes. Into the bedroom they go,
and off comes Ann's bikini.Narrator: *puff* Because Herschel is a real man, he couldn't refuse Ann's
attentions. But the paths of life are predicatable, and we choose them
over and over again.The next morning, Herschel heads over to the Midway Turkey Farm &amp;
Hatchery. Tom introduces Herschel to Lenny and Gene, who work in the
farm's laboratory. They are currently researching the chemical
"caponization" of poultry. Needing a human to eat the meat in order to see
if there are any side-effects, they rope Herschel into it by offering him
some recreational drugs for his personal use. Later that evening, Herschel
begins to withdraw from that incredibly-addicting grass and is in dire
need of a fix. Ann calls Guy, who brings over some more weed.The next day at work, Lenny presents Herschel with a whole roasted
turkey, which Herschel proceeds to gobble down. After finishing off the
turkey, Herschel isn't feeling so good, so he goes for a stroll in the
yard and passes out in the bushes. Lenny finds Herschel suffering from
convulsions in the grass and he and Gene cart him off and dump his body
elsewhere. Sure that they are going to be caught for killing Herschel,
Lenny and Gene split. Later that evening, the drugs appear to have run
their course, and Herschel wakes up and goes home to Ann. Unfortunately,
Herschel has turned into a were-turkey and can only communicate with Ann
by writing; when he tries to speak, all that comes out is a gobble.
[Herein is one of the most bizarre seduction scenes I've ever seen.] Ann
feels awful, because she thinks it is all her fault, so she calls her
sister Angel.Narrator: *puff* Interesting how, in times of trouble but not before, we
turn to God. Be careful what you pray for.Herschel has learned that he can get his drug fix by hanging users by
their feet, slitting their necks, and drinking their blood. While Herschel
goes around drinking the blood of various drug-abusing girls, Ann talks
turkey with two of her friends, trying to get them to help her find and
take care of Herschel until he reverts back to normal. When Herschel is
spotted by a non-druggie man, he is forced to kill the man. The man's wife
or son (it's hard to tell) attacks Herschel and stabs him in the eye.
Bleeding all over his turkey feathers, Herschel stumbles home to Ann.Meanwhile, Guy is trying to buy more drugs, but his pusher refuses to
deliver unless Guy pays what he already owes. Guy offers him $175 and a
chance to make it with Ann, who is taking a nap in the bedroom. The pusher
agrees. As he fondles Ann's breasts, she wakes up and sees that it isn't
Herschel. The pusher sees Herschel out the window and runs out of Ann's
bedroom. He tries to hide in a garage, but Herschel finds him and cuts off
his leg with a tablesaw. Herschel isn't feeling too steady and falls to
his knees in the grass. As Herschel folds his hands in prayer, Ann's two
friends find him. They cut off the head of a turkey. The final scene shows
people's hands tearing the meat from a roasted turkey. Next to the turkey
is Herschel's turkey head.But wait a minute. Back up a few paragraphs and pick up where
Herschel goes for a walk and passes out in the bushes. Tom finds Herschel.
It was all a hallucination. Turns out that Herschel was badly burned in
Vietnam and became addicted to pain killers. The combination of smoking
marijuana and eating drugged turkey brought on hallucinations. Tom calls
Angel who works at the Drug Center. Angel calls Ann and offers to bring
her to pick up Herschel at the turkey farm, but Ann feels too guilty to
face Herschel right now. Angel explains everything to Herschel, tells him
how much Ann loves him, and they pray together to increase Herschel's
faith.Narrator: *puff* This movie has been a story about the horrors that can
occur when we use the human body as a mixing bowl for drugs. *cough*
*puff* *cough* *hack*Epilogue: Herschel finds Ann walking alone on a pier near the ocean. They
smile at each other, kiss, and walk away in each other's arms. [Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl]
