A romantic girl travels to Hong Kong in search of certain love but instead meets a kind-hearted professional fighter for whom she begins to fall instead.
A Taiwanese girl named Bu has just been proposed to. While pondering the proposal, she finds a message in a bottle which inspires her go to Hong Kong to meet the guy, Albert, who wrote the message. However, she finds out that Albert is gay. A successful playboy businessman CN, and Howie have been rivals in love and business since school days. Howie finds out that CN is dating his girl and also trying to take over his company. Howie tells his guys to teach CN a lesson. Bu happens to be there and saves CN, but decides to fake her identity and scheme to make him fall in love with her. In the meantime Howie, who wants to teach CN a humiliating lesson, hires a highly trained foreign fighter to beat him.
In a fishing village in Taiwan, the dreamer Bu loves fairy-tales and has just been proposed by the fish man Louie. However, her dolphin finds a bottle with a love message inside and the romantic Bu decides to seek out the author Albert in Hong Kong. However she is frustrated when she discovers that Albert is gay and the message is for his former boyfriend. Meanwhile, the millionaire and wolf broker C.N. Chan, who owns a recycling company, has a serious love and business competition with the businessman Howie Lo since they were students. Bu witnesses Lo's bodyguards hitting Chan and she helps him with her boat. They have an accident and spend the night together in a small island. On the next morning, Chan brings Bu to his fancy apartment and she does not give her true name to him. Bu also plots a scheme with Albert to lure Chan to become her boyfriend. Meanwhile Howie hires a skilled fighter to beat and humiliate Chan. Will Bu succeed in her intent?
When Ah Bu, a girl from a small fishing town in Taiwan, finds a glass bottle with a romantic message, she travels to Hong Kong to find her prince charming. As it turns out, her prince charming, Albert, happens to be gay. But all is not lost when Ah Bu meets the dashing Chi Wu. Meanwhile, Ah Bu's boyfriend from Taiwan comes looking for her, as the action and romance follow Ah Bu back to Taiwan.

