An introvert relieves the tedium of caring for his invalid mother by spying on his neighbor.
The story of a pious introvert whose religious conviction begins to crumble under the weight of a cruel and strange existence, Buddy Boy is a study of faith, obsession, alienation and madness. The film's title character, Francis, lives with his invalid, abusive mother in a dingy tenement apartment, and has suffered a life of unrelenting misfortune and brutality. Over time, he has withdrawn from the world and into himself, silently observing others rather than interacting with them. His only solace has been his Catholicism, but he has begun to question his faith in a loving God who could countenance so much evil and pain. When he discovers he can see into the apartment of a beautiful, mysterious woman from his own back stairs, Francis cannot stop watching her, even after he meets her and they become romantically involved. Unable or unwilling to believe that she could actually love him, he becomes ever more obsessive in his voyeurism. And it is what Francis sees - or thinks he sees - that leads ultimately to his undoing.
The stutterer Francis is a lonely religious man that works processing photos and lives with his abusive stepmother Sal that is invalid in a gloomy apartment. Francis has a dreadful solitary life and he works, takes care of Sal and goes to the Catholic Church and his relief is his faith in God. Francis is also a voyeur and spends his nights watching a beautiful neighbor in another building through a hole on the wall from the back stairs of his building and masturbating later. One day, Francis stumbles with the woman that is being robbed by a thief on the street and he helps her. She introduces herself as Gloria and invites him to have dinner with her. Gloria explains that she is vegan and soon they have a love affair and Francis loses his virginity with Gloria that loves him. But Francis becomes obsessed to watch Gloria and he believes that she has other men and is cannibal, eating the flesh of her lovers. The schizophrenic behavior of the delusional Francis makes him see weird things in Gloria's apartment.

