Lancelot falls in love with Guinevere, who is due to be married to King Arthur. Meanwhile, a violent warlord tries to seize power from Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table.
Lancelot lives by the sword. In fact, they're next door neighbors, so teaming up to fight for money comes pretty naturally. Lady Guinevere, on her way to marry King Arthur is ambushed by the evil Sir Malagant. Fortunately, Lancelot is lurking nearby and he rescues his future Queen. They fall in love, but Guinevere still fancies the idea of wearing a crown, so she honors her promise to Arthur.
After King Arthur of Camelot has fought several wars which has led to peace and justice for his land, he is turning his attention to thoughts of marriage, his chosen one being Lady Guinevere, who has become head of neighboring Leonesse following the death of her father. Peace and justice for Arthur and Guinevere are short lived as Prince Malagant, one of the knights of the round table, wants Camelot for himself and King Arthur deposed. Many in the land follow Malagant, whose quest also involves marauding Leonesse. As the King's betrothed, Guinevere becomes Malagant's target in achieving both of his goals. Meanwhile, Lancelot is a free-living peasant who often makes his way through life by demonstrations of his sword fighting prowess. His skill is largely due to his ability to assess his opponents, and not fear dying. On Malagant's first attempt at abducting Guinevere, Lancelot, by happenstance, is there to save her. He falls in love with her at first sight. Although attracted to the man who saved her, Guinevere cannot think of any other man in the lead up to her marriage to Arthur. Because of his attraction to Guinevere, Lancelot becomes involved in the battles between Malagant and Arthur in Lancelot doing whatever needed to keep Guinevere safe. As these battles brew and as Arthur becomes indebted to Lancelot for saving Guinevere at the possible expense of his own life, Guinevere cannot help but fall for Lancelot, resulting in a romantic triangle comprised of Arthur, Guinevere and Lancelot, a triangle of which Arthur is unaware.
Triumphant but weary from years of battle, the war-seasoned King Arthur returns to Camelot, only to see the hard-earned peace shatter under the threat of the pride and ambition of the former Knight of the Round Table, Sir Malagant. When the devious usurper's men attempt to abduct Arthur's wife-to-be, Guinevere, the legendary wandering swordsman, Lancelot, boldly saves the day and earns himself a place in the brotherhood, equal among the king's knights. However, as the wedding day approaches, a sinful passion threatens to engulf both Lancelot and Guinevere, under the king's nose. Of all the adversaries Lancelot encountered, Guinevere is the mightiest. Will the First Knight succumb to desire?
A rebel knight from King Arthur's round table seeks to expand his empire by force, and terrorizes the subjects of Guinevere, who has received an offer of marriage from Arthur. On the way to visit Arthur she has a chance meeing with the free-spirited and bohemian Lancelot, to whom she finds herself attracted.
Merlin, Excalibur, and all things supernatural are out of this movie, as King Arthur, aged and war-weary is forced to go to battle one last time against the traitor Prince Malagant, while in the meantime, his new bride Guinevere, and new knight Sir Lancelot, betray the King in their own way.

