Story of two female Manhattan book editors fresh out of college, both finding love and themselves while frequenting the local disco.
Last Days of Disco loosely depicts the "last days" at a disco palace, where drugs, sex and weirdness ran rampant. The story centers around a group of friends who frequent the disco and each other. All the characters are searching for something to make their lives more fulfilling. Some are searching for everlasting love and some are just wanting something different. As the disco is closed, they all wonder can disco ever really be dead?
It's the early 1980s Manhattan. Disco is king, and the clubs playing disco music the palaces where the beautiful people go to see and be seen. As such, Des McGrath wields the most power among his social circle as a low level manager at one of the hottest clubs, he who has some influence on who is on the "do not admit" and "allow for immediate entry" lists. He is a bit of a cad who has come across a new scam to tell his female conquests who he no longer wants to date that he has just discovered that he is gay. The one person he can't help get into the club is his best friend, ad man Jimmy Steinway, his type who Des' boss Bernie does not want in the club just so that he can impress potential clients. Alice Kinnon and Charlotte Pingress have led parallel lives for the past few years, both being Hampshire College graduates, and both now working as poorly paid readers at a publishing house. Charlotte is conceited and opinionated, and looks down at their colleague Dan Powers, primarily because he attended Harvard. Demure and inexperienced Alice looks to Charlotte for advice, Charlotte who believes that Alice negatively comes across to men at the clubs like a kindergarten teacher. Despite not having any money of their own, both surviving off of allowances from their parents, and not really knowing if they truly are friends, Alice and Charlotte decide to find an apartment together with a mutual friend named Holly. Charlotte knows that Alice likes Jimmy, but convinces her instead to pursue her number two choice, environmental lawyer Tom Platt, who will end up having a profound effect on Alice's being. In turn, another lawyer named Josh Neff enters their lives against Charlotte's wants, he who doesn't want to play the sexual games prevalent in the disco culture. Those within this collective who most closely associate themselves to the disco culture may have a rude awakening in less than a year as disco goes the way of the dinosaur and with it the way they lived and connected to each other as human beings.
Set in New York City in the "very early 1980s," Alice Kinnon (Chloë Sevigny) and Charlotte Pingress (Kate Beckinsale), two recent New Hampshire College graduates, work in a New York City publishing house as poorly paid readers. After work one night, they are able to enter an exclusive disco nightclub, where Alice is hoping to socialize with Jimmy Steinway (Mackenzie Astin), who works in advertising and uses the nightclub to entertain clients. Jimmy is ill-tempered because he has been barred from bringing clients to the nightclub and is eventually kicked out by his friend Des McGrath (Chris Eigeman), who works as a manager at the club but whose job is in jeopardy for allowing Jimmy and his clients inside. After Jimmy leaves, Alice takes Charlotte's advice to go home with her second choice, Tom Platt (Robert Sean Leonard). Tom and Alice to back to his apartment and spend the night together.At work the following morning, Charlotte and Alice talk with other editors about how to fast-track their careers. They also decide to move in together with a third girl, Holly (Tara Subkoff), as they cannot afford to pay rent on their own. Despite Alice's reluctance, the three women eventually settle on a railroad apartment.Returning to the club one evening, Alice is upset to learn that Charlotte has designs on Jimmy. She is further upset when Tom tells her that when he slept with her, he had a long-term girlfriend he was separated from and his one-night stand with Alice convinced him to return to her. Des then begins to pursue Alice.At work, Alice decides to pursue the publication of a book on Buddhism, written by the Dalai Lama's brother, that Charlotte had previously recommended rejecting, and Alice gains the editors' respect. It is discovered that the author is not in fact the Dalai Lama's brother, but Alice maintains the book is one of the best she's ever read. Meanwhile, Charlotte, now dating Jimmy, is openly insecure about Jimmy and Alice's apparent friendliness.At the club, in front of a group of various friends, Charlotte loudly announces that Alice has gonorrhea, after figuring it out when Alice refuses to drink. Charlotte later apologizes to Alice but tells her not to be embarrassed, as it will make men think of her as more accessible. In fact, after learning this, Des does become more interested in being with Alice, and they start dating casually.A few nights later, Alice has dinner with Tom to confront him about giving her gonorrhea. He initially denies it, arguing she could have contracted it from someone else, but Alice tells him he was her first sexual partner. He then admits he also gave her herpes.Meanwhile, Josh Neff (Matt Keeslar), a D.A. and friend of Jimmy's who also frequently attends the club, asks Alice to lunch to pitch a book to her. At lunch, he confesses he is interested not in writing a book but in Alice. Alice and Josh go on a real date, and he tells her he is on medication for manic depression. Upon returning home from the date, Alice discovers Charlotte being taken away in an ambulance after a miscarriage and being told by Jimmy that he is moving to Barcelona after meeting an old friend named Ted (from the film 'Barcelona') for a job offer. At the hospital, Charlotte asks Alice if Jimmy ever expressed interest in being with her; when Alice admits that he did, Charlotte reacts with tears and tells her she will be moving out.The nightclub is raided by the police for tax fraud, and Des tries to run away despite Josh's promise to protect him, believing that Josh's interest in Alice will cause him to act unfairly. They later discover that even before the club was raided by the police, disco records were no longer selling and attendance was down.Alice and Charlotte learn that their employer has merged with a larger publishing house and that layoffs are to be expected. Some time later, Charlotte, Josh, and Des are seen leaving an unemployment office with their pink slips. Josh tells the group that he is going to Lutèce for lunch, treated by Alice, who is celebrating her promotion (her book was published after she switched it from nonfiction to self-help). Des and Charlotte talk about how their big personalities are too much for normal personalities like Alice, Josh, and Jimmy. Des also says that pairing off monogamously detracts from their glamorous lifestyle, and Charlotte agrees.On the subway on their way to Lutèce, Alice and Josh discuss their future prospects. As the end credits begin, they break character to dance to "Love Train", and are eventually joined by the entire subway station of passengers when they arrive at their destination.
