Continuing the story of Aurora Greenway in her latter years. After the death of her daughter, Aurora struggled to keep her family together, but has one grandson in jail, a rebellious granddaughter, and another grandson living just above the poverty line.
She's back-and as delightfully feisty as ever! The generations grow, but life still spins around Aurora like a cyclone: her rebellious granddaughter wants to run off with Mr. Wrong; a snooty rival has come up with new ways to meddle in Aurora's life; her longtime spinster housekeeper is ready to ditch domestic work for the domestic bliss of matrimony; her great-grandson is like a poison pill; and her shrink is more than eager to cross the line separating client relationships and romantic entanglement. Welcome back Aurora. We've missed you.
Determined to keep the promise she made to her late daughter, Aurora Greenway does her best to raise three grandchildren with constant opposition from Emma's best friend Patsy. She visits eldest grandson Tommy in prison, who awaits the possibility of parole, and struggles to break through the hate he harbors since the death of his mother. She also watches younger grandson Teddy struggle to make a living and provide for his budding family. Aurora focuses her hope for a better future towards her youngest Melanie who becomes a rebellious college student whose taste in men is unacceptable by her standards. Aurora comes to terms with the sacrifices she's made for others and ultimately embraces the thought of finding her own happiness. She begins to chronicle her life in an effort to recollect and organize the events that shaped who she is. Through exploring love, experiencing loss, and endearing efforts to bring her family back together, she changes over the years. With help of an old friend, she lays a loved one to rest and finally allows herself to age gracefully into her twilight years. The Evening Star is a touching continuation of a story that shines brightly along with Terms of Endearment.

