A pair of mismatched Chicago cops arrive in Jerusalem to investigate a murder - and stumble into a battle with an ancient demon trying to establish a new of reign of supernatural darkness.
Shatter and Jackson, two Chicago police officers, are investigating the brutal murder of a rabbi and are summoned to Israel for questioning. While they are in Israel they continue their investigation there on some leads they have. After a while they begin to understand that they are trying to catch a supernatural being, and if they don't do it fast something terrible will happen.
During the Crusades, King Richard the Lionheart defeats the mythological emissary of Satan Prosatanos and shatters his scepter in nine pieces that are kept in sacred places around the world. In the 50's, grave robbers accidentally release Prosatanos from his tomb. In the present days (1994), in Chicago, Sergeant Frank Shatter and his partner Detective Calvin Jackson investigate the murder of a rabbi in a cheap hotel that had his heart ripped off. Their only lead is a piece of the scepter and a card with the names of the Jewish marchand Krieger and Professor Lockley. Shatter and Jackson are summoned by the Israeli Police for a hearing and Shatter decides to seek out Krieger and Lockley. They also meet the professor's assistant Leslie that helps them and feels attracted by Shatter. Soon Shatter and Jackson learn that they are dealing with a supernatural being and they are the last of mankind to avoid the Apocalypse.
In Chicago police detective sergeant Frank Shatter (Chuck Norris) works vise with his partner Calvin Jackson (Calvin Levels) when during an average night they discover in a seedy hotel room of an Israeli Rabbi murdered by having his heart ripped out of his body. When assigned the task of accompanying the body back to Israel to answer questions about the crime Shatter and Jackson meet a young street thief Bezi (Erez Atar) who leads them to places where they could net find without local intelligence. The detectives discover that a golden scepter holds some value to a professor Lockley (Christopher Neame) who is actually an ancient demon named Prosatanos an evil spirit who is planning to morph into an all-powerful persona by killing nine holy men and sacrificing a woman of divine blood. The professor's own assistant Leslie (Sheree J. Wilson) is the daughter of a Duke and is captured by Lockley for a sacrificial ceremony and Shatter and Jackson must reach her in time.
