Andy "Brink" Brinker and his in-line skating crew--Peter, Jordy, and Gabriella--who call themselves "Soul-Skaters" (which means they skate for the fun of it, and not for the money), clash with a group of sponsored skaters, Team X-Bladz--led by Val--with whom they attend high school in southern California. When Brink discovers his family is in financial trouble, he goes against the wishes of his parents and his friends and joins Team X-Bladz. Brink tries to lead a double life but will be able to pull it off?
Andrew 'Brink' Brinker is a soul skater living one day at a time. After his dad gets laid off, Brink is forced into choosing to stick to his morals or sacrifice his friends to make money from his passion. Watch as Andrew faces off against Team X-bladz in a final race that will leave you on the edge of your seat... Or as far as you can get to the edge that a kids movie will allow.
Andy "Brink" Brinker and his in-line skating crew--Peter, Jordy, and Gabriella--who call themselves "Soul-Skaters" (which means they skate for the fun of it, and not for the money), clash with a group of sponsored skaters, Team X-Bladz--led by Val--with whom they attend high school in southern California. When Brink discovers his family is in financial trouble, he goes against the wishes of his parents and his friends and joins Team X-Bladz for 200 dollars a week. He keeps this from his friends until they see him skating for Team X-Bladz in a local competition. Brink's friends feel betrayed by Brink, and agree to a downhill race - Soul-Skaters vs Team X-Bladz (specifically Gabriella vs Brink). Val sabotages Gabriella's part of the course by sprinkling pebbles onto the road in order to make her fall and ensure a win for the X-Bladz despite the trivial nature of the street race. As Val plans, Gabriella wipes out big and sustains major injuries. At this point, all of the Soul-Skaters disown Brink as their friend; they accurately call him a sell-out and stop talking to him. Since Brink seems eager to help out the family, his dad finds him a job working at a dog grooming shop named "Pup 'N Suds." He gets an advance in his paycheck and buys new gear for the team. In the days before the competition, he meets his friends at the skate yard and tells them of his plan to sponsor the team under the name "Team Pup 'N Suds." They accept Brink as their friend again, after hearing that he threw a milkshake in Val's face As friends once again, they compete in the competition. At the end, it comes down to Brink and Val. Although Brink tries to skate fairly, Val cleverly uses controversial tricks, but fails in the end to secure the win. Brink, his friends and his family celebrate the long-awaited victory. Immediately after the race, Val is fired from X-Bladz for cheating. Team X-Bladz's manager Jimmy offers Brink the captain position of the team. Remembering that they skate for fun, not money, Brink turns down the offer.
By: Anonymous
