A teenage boy and his father move to his recently-deceased mother's hometown, where they encounter the ancient Native American cemetery with the power to raise the dead.
After the horrible electrocution of his divorced mother in a freakish film-set accident, the troubled thirteen-year-old boy, Jeff Matthews, and his father, Chase, move to his hometown of Ludlow, Maine, to make a fresh start. However, as Jeff struggles to leave the bad memories behind him, his only friend, Drew Gilbert, tells him about the ancient Indian burial site with the otherworldly reanimating powers, intent on testing it on his loyal dog, Zowie. Indeed, the myth is real; nevertheless, what would happen if Jeff buried his beloved mother's dead body in the graveyard's stony soil? Can the dead truly return from the grave?
While shooting a horror film, the famous actress Renee Hallow dies in a weird accident. Her ex-husband, the veterinary Chase Matthews decides to leave Los Angeles and move with their teenage son Jeff Matthews to Renee's house in Ludlow to start a new life. Soon Jeff is bullied by his schoolmate Clyde Parker and befriends the teenager Drew Gilbert. When Drew's stepfather Sheriff Gus Gilbert kills his dog Zowie, Drew buries his dog with Jeff in an ancient Indian cemetery that has the rumor of raising the dead. Zowie returns and kills someone and they bury him in the cemetery. But soon the boys learn that sometimes death is better.
After his actress mother Renee Hallow is electrocuted to death before his eyes on the set of a movie she was shooting, Jeff Matthews and his veterinarian father Chase decide to move from Los Angeles to Renee's hometown of Ludlow, Maine. There, Jeff befriends fellow outsider Drew Gilbert, the stepson of the town's sheriff Gus Gilbert. One night, Drew decides to bury his dog in the cursed Micmac burial ground that lies beyond the pet sematary, and Zowie comes back. Not long after, on Halloween, Zowie emerges and violently kills someone. Terrified about his death, Jeff and Drew decide to take him up to the burial ground to try and resurrect him, but all hell breaks loose. Pretty soon, Jeff starts to wonder if maybe he should use the sinister power too.

