A 1960s secret agent is brought out of cryofreeze to oppose his greatest enemy in the 1990s, where his social attitudes are glaringly out of place.
Austin Powers is a 60's spy who is cryonically frozen and released in the 1990's. The world is a very different place for Powers. Unfortunately for Austin, everyone is no longer sex-mad. Although he may be in a different decade, his mission is still the same. He has teamed up with Vanessa Kensington to stop the evil Dr. Evil, who was also frozen in the past. Dr. Evil stole a nuclear weapon and is demanding a payment of (when he realises its the 90's) 100 billion dollars. Can Austin Powers stop this madman? or will he caught up with Evil's henchman, with names like Alotta Fagina and Random Task? Only time will tell!
A 1960's British hipster secret agent Austin Powers is brought out of cryofreeze to oppose his greatest arch-enemy Dr. Evil into the 1990s. 30 years later, Austin was then released and is now thawed back into action to once again battle Dr. Evil where he wakes up somewhere in Nevada and steals a nuclear weapon and holds the world hostage. After Austin is woken up to stop Dr. Evil he gets a new sexy sidekick Miss Vanessa Kensington, his ex-partner's daughter and they go to Vegas where they must stop Dr. Evil's outrageous plot to control the world for 100 billion dollars!
British secret agent Austin Powers was placed into cryostasis at the end of the 60s, in case a spy of his talent was ever needed again. A spoof spy movie ensues when he's thawed out in the 90s...
In 1967, after burning most of his henchmen, Dr. Evil sets a trap for Austin Powers, but freezes himself so Austin won't catch him. Austin then volunteers to be frozen in case Dr. Evil shows up again. 30 years later, Dr. Evil wakes up in Nevada and steals a nuclear weapon and holds the world hostage for 1 million dollars. Sorry, 100 billion dollars. Austin is woken up to stop Dr. Evil but gets Vanessa Kensington, his ex-partner's daughter and goes to Vegas to look for Evil, but finds out there is no longer any free love in the 90's, or Swinging.

