A teenager who accidentally committed matricide finds himself being hunted together with his girlfriend and mates by his now crazed father.
A group of teenagers decide to take a vacation at the beach house of one of their fathers. The kid whose father owns the house just happened to accidentally kill his mother when he was a child. When they get to the house, the father has mysteriously disappeared. Hmmm...
As a child, Ed was cleaning his father's hunting rifles for as part of a surprise birthday treat for his old man when one firearm accidentally discharges fatally striking his own mother in the back. His father, Jack Sr came home, saw his wife dead, and blaming his own offspring tried to commit infanticide before Ed managed to escape his father's murderous antics. Leaving his old man to sleep into mournful psychosis as he began pouring whiskey down his slain wife's throat. Ed now in his teens returns back to his family home, his dad long since supposedly vanished...only he hasn't and has been waiting for a chance to even the score with his kid...right about...now
A woman is seen working on a birthday cake in the kitchen. In another room, her young son puts a sign on a gun cabinet reading: 'Happy Birthday, Daddy. All cleaned by me'. The boy takes out one rifle to polish. He playfully aims the gun and pulls the trigger, and a single bullet shoots right through the door and hits his mother in the back, killing her instantly. The woman's husband returns and sees his dead wife. He violently hits his son, and the boy runs outside while the man drags his dead wife to the living room. He sits with the dead body, has a drink from his large liquor cabinet and puts his son's sign on his wife's corpse. The little boy watches from the kitchen.Several years later, the young boy, named Ed, is drinking with friends at a local dive bar and they are complaining about their monotonous fall break from college. Ed then gets a phone call from his father and Pam tells the others about the accident when Ed shot his mother which "drove his father crazy". Ed's father, known as Big Ed, is a hunter and survivalist and has always been hard on both his wife and only son. Since the death of Ed's mother was ruled an accident, the memory of it has always hanged on him. Ed's father tells him over the phone that he wants to close the condo for the upcoming winter. After Ed tells his friends that making the job will sound simple, they suggest going there for their fall break. Ed, Pam, Ralph, Sue, Mike and Linda jump into Ed's car and drive off.At the beachfront condo house, the group finds the door open and many empty beer bottles inside. Big Ed is nowhere to be found. Pam wants to report it to the authorities, but Ed tells her that the cops are usually not around and the beach patrol enforces the law. They go to his father's trophy room and find various stuffed animal heads from Big Ed's years of hunting, as well as a gaff and a photograph of a dead bloody guy (Ed's dad ran over him with a ski boat). Ed tells them all about his father being a big game hunter and survivalist who was always obsessed with his guns and other weapons he kept around the house. Ed shows them a pyramid stinger in the wall and tells them of a throwing contest between his father and friends. Pam points out an empty space on the wall, and Ed says that his father's battle axe used to be there. Pam thinks that the ax may have been stolen, so Ed tells her that he will call his father in the morning to ask about the condo and the missing axe.Meanwhile, Ed's disheveled father is in the garage having been woken up from a slumber, and gripping the axe. Big Ed dreams of choking, shooting, and slicing the throat of his young son whom he apparently still blames for the death of his wife. Big Ed hides when Linda and Mike enter the garage to look at things around the room, but they are called by inside before they can open the door where Big Ed is hiding.That evening, after dinner, Pam's "dusty roaster" shows that she and Ed are cleaning up. Mike and Linda go for a walk on the beach while the others play a board game in the living room. Pam becomes worried about Mike and Linda being gone for quite a while, so they all go out to look for them on the beach.Mike and Linda find a heated swimming pool in the courtyard area of an unoccupied house down the beach. So they strip down and dive into the water. While they are playfully splashing around, Linda is pulled underwater and drowned; her body is taken away without Mike seeing anything. Mike gets out and sees that all his clothes are missing. He follows a trail of his own clothes, puts them on as he goes along and finally sees Linda's bra near the garage and says "I think I'm getting your message". He checks the door with Linda's hanging panties; another door opens to reveal Big Ed who uses a boat's motor blades to slice open Mike's chest.Ben, an officer of the beach patrol, finds the others where they tell him that they are staying at Big Ed's place and that someone may have broken into the house. Ben goes to the beach condo and looks around, but he is soon beheaded by Big Ed using his battle axe.Ed Jr. and the rest of his friends decide to go back to the house and decide to play 'Blind Man's Bluff'. Sue offers to be first, so the other three go outside and drink a beer as Sue turns off the lights and hides. They finish their beer and go back inside, and Big Ed sneaks out and goes around to the back of the house. Pam finds Sue hiding behind the cooler and hides next to her under the kitchen table. Ralph finds them both and hides, while Big Ed wonders around the house and walks right pass them (neither of the teens are aware to who it really is). Ed Jr. finally ends the game by walking into the kitchen and offering everyone a beer. His murderous father walks outside unnoticed.A little later, everyone goes to bed for the night. Ralph and Sue are kissing on the bed having foreplay, until she tells him that they forgot to lock the front door. Ralph leaves to find Linda and Mike, and he goes to open the garage door thinking that they are inside. He finds Linda's panties and throws a pyramid stinger at the door and hits it. Big Ed suddenly opens the door and jumps out and stabs Ralph in his throat with a pitchfork. Pam hears a noise and tries to wake Ed. Sue goes looking for Ralph, and Big Ed gets inside and takes the gaff off the wall. Pam finally wakes up Ed, and they go looking for the others and find Sue, who says she does not know where Ralph is. They split up to look. Sue is then grabbed by Big Ed, who drags her to the garage and gorily chops her up with his battle axe.Pam and Ed enter the garage and find their dead friends, all hanging by hooks on a wall as kill trophies. They see the shadow of an approaching Big Ed, and Ed Jr. throws Pam into a room. He and Big Ed struggle with each other until Big Ed gets the upper hand and knocks down his son and ties his hands and feet together. Big Ed lifts the axe to kill Ed, but Pam runs out to throw things at Big Ed. The man shoves part of his axe into Ed's leg, and Pam tosses a pyramid stinger at him, hitting his forehead. She then picks up a knife and stabs Big Ed in his chest. Pam then frees Ed and they decide to run to the car to try to get away, but the convertible won't start. Suddenly, Big Ed appears atop the car and begins axing through the top to get at them. He grabs Ed, but Pam burns him with the car's cigarette lighter just as Ed finally manages to start the engine and backs out, knocking Big Ed off the roof. Big Ed then tries to get back on the car's back trunk and Pam throws the car into reverse, crushing him into two pieces.A little later, the police arrive and as they are taking Ed and Pam's statements and hauling the dead bodies out of the garage into body bags. As a cop comes over to inspect Big Ed's remains, the top half of the killer jumps up to cut the officer up with the axe just before he finally expires.In the final scene, Ed goes to see Pam in the hospital and they observe a moment of silence.
