A group of vampires keep the body of a witch in a castle cellar. They require virgin blood to resurrect her. A party of people arrive and things kick off.
In the late-1300s, the beautiful and innocent Isabella is tortured and burned at the stake for supposed witchcraft, in front of her lover who swears revenge. Several hundred years later, the well-off Jack Nelson and his niece, Laureen, celebrate the latter's engagement at their newly-acquired and fully renovated castle, unbeknownst to them that in the château's dank cellar, evil occultists participate in ancient black magic rites, sacrificing youthful virgins. What are their intentions? Is Laureen next in line?
In the cellar of the local cursed castle, Satanists are cutting out
the hearts and drinking the blood of virgins in order to keep alive their
Great Mistress Isabella Isabella Drupel [Rita Calderoni], a witch/vampire who was staked through the chest
and burned to death in the 14th century. They currently await "the 25th
moon", when Isabella (chained to a wall and with a big hole in her chest)
will be able to fully reincarnate in another body. Neither the stories
about the castle being the site of the Inquisition, nor the heartless
village virgins being found all over, nor the fact that some odd occultist [Raoul Lovecchio]
and his servant are also living in the castle, phases Jack Nelson [Mickey Hargitay], the
castle's new owner. In fact, one of the first things Jack does is to throw
an engagement party for niece Laureen [Rita Calderoni] who is marrying a local boy, Richard
Brenton [William Darni].Jack doesn't care about the castle's notoriety because he is actually
Count Dracula, and he's been waiting 500 years for the day when his
beloved Isabella will return to him. He doesn't care about the occultist
either, because it was he who helped remove Isabella's body from the stake
all those years ago. In fact, many of the male guests are also vampires
who have been awaiting Isabella's return, and most of the female guests
are reincarnations of the same girls who were shouting "Burn the witch!"
all those years ago when Isabella was suffering.[Herein insert a good 45 minutes of scenes with no continuity and
even less sense, mostly of Isabella being staked and burned, the virgins
being seduced by the vampires, Christa [Christa Barrymore] being buried alive and then
returning as a vampire, lots of bare breasts and women being held by the
torturers, and Laureen escaping from a tightening cage of knives and
falling into amnesia about what happened to her.] This kind of stuff goes
on until Richard stumbles upon one of the occultist's books that explains
how Vampires need blood uncontaminated by semen (i.e., from virgins) and
Jack and the occultist explain how everyone there has paid a role, past
and present, in Isabella's death.It is the night of the 25th moon. All the vampires suddenly go on a
feeding frenzy. Two of their victims escape but, while they are running
through the valley clothed only in a black cape, a lightning bolt strikes
a wooden cross and sets it on fire. The villagers see the cross burning
and, like in the old days, start screaming there be witches here. The
villagers attempt to kill the girls, but the occultist suggests that they
be allowed to pass the altar at the crossroads where it is said no demon
can pass without being incinerated. The villagers agree, and the two girls
are promptly engulfed by fire and disappear, reappearing in the castle
cellar where they rejoin the other girls being held as sacrifices to
Isabella. Tired of all the mysteries and disappearing girls, Richard
confronts the occultist who delivers the moral of the story: There is a
thin line between the known and the unknown, the real and the unreal, and
maybe the things we see are just the things we want to see. Profound?Meanwhile, Laureen has disappeared again. She has become the Chosen
One, the one who will provide the eyes and ears of the reincarnated
Isabella. Only Laureen must be a willing body donor. In a drugged state,
it looks like Laureen is going to consent, but just as Isabella begins to
awaken, Laureen cries out "Monster!" and the spell is broken. Laureen then
kills Jack, and the next thing we know, Laureen is waking up in her own
little bed oblivious to it all. [Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl]
