A poet (Sanjay Dutt) and his best friend (Salman Khan) fall in love with the same woman (Madhuri Dixit).
Aman (Sanjay Dutt) is a poor, handicapped orphan who is befriended by wealthy Akash Verma (Salman Khan) during his childhood. Akash's parents adopt him and give him their family name, and Akash and Aman grow up as brothers. While Akash is a womanizer, Aman takes to writing poems under the pen name Sagar. The poems get published, and Aman becomes very popular. One of his fans is a young woman by the name of Pooja Saxena (Madhuri Dixit), who corresponds with Sagar. Akash meets Pooja and falls head over heels in love with her. When Aman comes to know this, he asks Akash to pose as Sagar, which he does, and Pooja and Akash fall in love with each other. A heartbroken Aman looks on, as he knows that although women may like his poetry, they will never come out openly and love him when they see his handicap. At the end, Akash discovers that Aman is actually Sagar and loves Pooja, so he decides to sacrifice his love for Aman.
Wealthy Akash Verma befriends poor, orphan and crippled Aman, introduces him to his parents Rajiv and Kamla who adopts him, gives him their family name and support him with the responsibility of handling the family business while Akash is a womanizer albeit with a good heart. During his spare time; Aman gets into the habit of writing and publishing love poems under the name Saagar. This makes him popular and he develop many fans; one of them is Pooja Saxena who pen him various letters and they communicate. When Aman meets Pooja in person he fall in love with her only to learn that Akash also has feelings for Pooja and with this he asks Akash to pose as Saagar. Akash and Pooja then fall in love with each other - but when all is reveal this bring the three to the crossroad of life.
Aman is lame an orphan.He befriends Aakash son of a wealthy Mr Verma.They both grow up as brothers while Aman a quite serious and responsible person and Aakash a Casanova.Aman secretly writes poems by the name of Sagar and has a big fan for him in Pooja.Aman travels to Ooty for a business trip and meets Pooja and doesn't disclose that he is Sagar as Maneka a friend of Akash had insulted him for being orphan and lame.Aman and Pooja become close to each other and Aman finds that Pooja loves Sagar.When Akash arrives in Ooty he to falls in love with Pooja .Aman then introduces Aakash to Pooja as Sagar sacrificing his love for friendship.
Orphaned, poor, and handicapped Aman is befriended by rich and wealthy Akash Verma in his childhood. Akash introduces Aman to his parents, Rajiv and Kamla, and they adopt him and give him their family name. Akash and Aman grow up as brothers with a lot similar habits and characteristics, save that while Akash is a womanizer, Aman is not. Aman gets to writing poems under the name of Sagar, which gets published, and he gets very popular. One of his fans is a young woman by the name of Pooja Saxena, and they correspond with each other over the next few months. Akash meets Pooja and falls head over heels in love with her. When Aman comes to know this, he asks Akash to pose as Saagar, which he does, and both Pooja and Akash fall in love with each other, while a heartbroken Aman looks on, as he knows that although women may like his poems, but will anyone come out openly to love him when they see his handicap?

