Spurred by divine voices and visions, fifteenth century teen Joan d'Arc leads French forces against the English.
Joan d'Arc (Leelee Sobieski) is born in 1412 in the village of Domrémy in the war zone of Northern France. During her youth, she often witnesses the horrors of war, but her spirit is kept high by the legend of the Maiden of Lorraine. This says that a young maiden one day will unite the divided country and lead the people to freedom. When eleven-years-old, she starts hearing voices from Saint Catherine and Archangel Michael. Through them, she is commissioned by God to go to Prince Charles (Neil Patrick Harris) in Chinon, to convince him to become the King of France, and drive the English occupants away. Charles thinks that Joan could be the catalyst that animates his disheartened troops. He commissions her to lead the army together with Captain La Hire (Peter Strauss). After their victory at Orléans, Joan participates in the coronation of Charles in Reims. Bishop Pierre Cauchon (Peter O'Toole) accuses her of heresy, and is relocated to Northern France, where he associates with the English occupants. Joan breaks Charles' treaty with Burgundy by attacking Paris. Her troops are defeated, and Charles betrays her by letting the Burgundians capture her. They hand her over to their English allies, who put her on a trial led by Bishop Pierre Cauchon. The court sentences her to be burned at the stake as a heretic.
Ten years before her death, Joan d'Arc (Leelee Sobieski) hears voices. Six years later, from the village of Domremy, she begins her mission to unite France under King Charles (Neil Patrick Harris). First she leads a defense of Vaucouleurs against the Burgundians, then obtains safe passage to Charles, the Dauphin. He uses her, as the embodiment of the mythical "Maid of Lorraine", to raise an army, and he sends her to the rescue of Orléans. After Charles is crowned, Joan leads a disastrous campaign in Paris, where her brother, Pierre d'Arc (Justin Peroff), dies. Then she's the victim of Charles' manipulations. She's captured in Burgundy, sold to the English, examined by Bishop Pierre Cauchon (Peter O'Toole), found to be a heretic by the Inquisition, and burned at the stake.

