In the future, galactic civil war destroys the human space civilization and a new Dark Age begins. On a distant planet, a scavenger looking for his abducted sister teams up with a former general who wishes to rebuild the Galactic Republic.
In this failed TV pilot, a shadowy sage figure calling himself the Warlord recalls his role in reshaping the galaxy. In a distant future, a pointless galactic civil war fueled by nationalism and globalism tore apart the progressive human federation that colonized the galaxy. A new Dark Age marked by lawlessness, brutality and failure of most advanced technology began. On a small faraway world, Justin Thorpe, an experience thief and scavenger who grew up after the fall of civilization, agrees to help the elderly General Sorenson, one of the last surviving leaders of the long gone federation army, to restart his powerful starship, the Osiris, and flee the planet in order to try reassembling the scattered remnants of the old federation and build a new alliance which could bring hope to the galaxy and rebuild the Galactic Republic. In return, the general agrees to first help Thorpe find his abducted little sister, Nova. Sorenson's granddaughter Maggi, a spunky teen with a natural talent for flying, is tasked to pilot the ship. Negotiator Rula Kor and her silent bodyguard Jana are brought in to help Thorpe get Nova back. Also, Wally Price, Thorpe's cool psychic friend, joins the crew as the ship's navigator. Heenoc Xian, the representative of a mysterious, eerie, tech-savvy, mutant race known as the Navigators, whose goal is to evolve beyond race, sex and gender, helps the crew fix the Osiris for a price. The crew then travel to the mutants' world and are shocked by what they discover there. Meanwhile, the local space warlord Shahklan and his right hand man Valois are tracking the Osiris. The heroes eventually decide to reach the planet where Sorenson's friend Mashwah and her people live raising and protecting the last rightful heir of the Galactic Republic, who might be able to help unite the people and eventually reinstate the federation. But there's a problem.

