A 6 y.o. Inuit boy runs off a snowy roof in Copenhagen and dies. Smilla, a half Inuit who lives in the building and knows the boy, looks into it. What makes an acrophobic boy run up on the roof? The clues take her to Greenland.
Based on Peter Hoeg's bestseller, this film is set in snowy Copenhagen where a small boy is found dead after he fell off a roof. Smilla Jasperson, a close friend who lives in the same house begins to suspect murder because she knows that the boy was afraid of heights and would not have played on the roof. As she begins to investigate, she is pulled deeper and deeper into a conspiracy that could very well mean her death.
Smilla Qaavigaaq Jaspersen is a 37 years old woman of Eskimo origin, who is living in Copenhagen. She is unmarried, unadapted, childless and irascible. One day her friend - 6 years old Esajas - falls down from the roof and is killed in what seems an accident. But Smilla believes he has been killed. Highly ranked people try to 'convince' her not to interfere, but she does not listen to them and tries to solve the crime. Her sense of snow leads her into a mystery with roots far back in time...
Smilla Jaspersen, a transplanted Greenlander, lives in Copenhagen. A young boy falls to his death from the roof of her apartment building; his death is ruled an accident, yet Smilla, an expert on ice and snow, can tell from his footprints that he was running from someone. Smilla begins her own investigation, forming an uneasy friendship (and perhaps a romance) with her neighbor, a mechanic. Smilla uncovers a trail of clues, leading her towards a secretive corporation that has made several mysterious expeditions to Greenland. What are they looking for? Were they somehow responsible for the boy's death? We'll find the answer on Gela Alta, a frozen island off Greenland's western coast.
When a young boy from Greenland falls from the top of the house Smilla Jorgensen lives in, she suspects that this was no accident. She gets in trouble with the government and police when she tries to dig deeper in what seems to be a big case...

