A young man with a vendetta against a business tycoon seduces and kills his eldest daughter and then proceeds to his younger daughter but she begins to suspect her new lover's ulterior motive.
A poor but ambitious young man Ajay Sharma is a devoted son to his widowed, traumatized, amnesiac mother. He leaves home for Bombay to fulfill the mysterious promise he made to himself and his mother. On the way he gets a lift from his childhood friend Vicky Malhotra. Ajay has secretly seduced Seema, the elder daughter of business tycoon Madan Chopra and on the side, he also makes acquaintance of Chopra and his younger daughter Priya at a car race in Madras. Ajay promises to marry Seema but betrays and murders her by throwing her off the roof of a building, making it look like a suicide with the help of a faked suicide note which he obtained from Seema under false pretext. He then adopts the identity of Vicky Malhotra, makes the vulnerable Priya fall in love with him and also wins Chopra's trust. However, Priya refuses to believe that her sister committed suicide and keeps investigating, which forces Ajay/Vicky to murder anyone who could possibly help her discover the truth.
Multi millionaire business man, Madan Chopra's passion is car racing and realizing that he is not young anymore decides to take part in his last race winning it only to learn that another participant, Vicky Malhotra let him win this race on purpose. Vicky who in reality is Ajay Sharma wants to take revenge on Madan Chopra for the destruction of his family's wealth and businesses by making Chopra's two daughters, Priya and Seema a target.
Ajay lives a simple life with his mother.He is in love with Seema daughter of rich businessman Madan Chopra.Ajay poses as Vicky Malhotra a lover of sports cars in front of Madan Chopra and his younger daughter Priya.Seema is about to get get married against her wishes and Ajay tricks her to write a suicide note.He promises her to get married and takes her to marriage registrars office and throws her down from the building.Priya's college friend Inspector Karan gets Seema's suicide note but Priya believes that she can never commit suicide.Ajay uses Seema's death as medium and comes close to Madan Chopra and Priya.He kills Ravi who was to provide information about him and Seema's relationship to Priya and terms it as suicide handling Ravi responsible for Seema's death and the case gets closed.Ajay then wins heart of Madan Chopra who his ready to accept him as Priya's husband.But a secret unfolds that Ajay always wanted to come near Madan Chopra as he wanted to revenge against him for destroying his family.
Ajay Sharma (Shah Rukh Khan) is a young boy who seeks revenge for his father's death which was a result of the actions of his trusted employee Madan Chopra (Dalip Tahil) Chopra has two daughters, the elder one is Seema (Shilpa Shetty) and the younger one is Priya (Kajol).Ajay finds a way to cozy up to Seema in a plan to take revenge upon her father by seducing her. Meanwhile, the younger daughter Priya travels with her father Madan Chopra to Madras (now Chennai), for Madan's final kart race before he retires permanently. Madan has never lost before, but comes across Vicky Malhotra (Ajay Sharma in a disguise of brown contact lenses). Vicky allows Madan to win by slowing at the last corner and tells him that he couldn't beat his "guru". Vicky then charms Priya by saying that he lost the race as he couldn't break the heart of a beautiful girl. Thus his ploy of winning in spite of losing (meaning Baazigar) succeeds as he wins Priya's heart. This way, he manages to date both Seema and Priya simultaneously using different identities. Later, as a test to Seema over their love, Ajay and Seema both write identical suicide notes when her father arranges her marriage with someone else. However, Ajay convinces her he was simply testing her resolve by making her write a suicide note and rips up his own suicide note while keeping hers. Then under the pretense of marrying her, he takes her to the registrar office and then pushes her off the roof. The police start making investigations and Chopra hastily has the case closed to prevent any further embarrassment once the suicide note is discovered. Ajay uses Seema's death to get close to both Priya and Chopra. Priya however, suspects that her sister didn't commit suicide. With covert help of her college friend and police inspector Karan Saxena (Siddharth Ray), she investigates the matter secretly.Ravi, a college friend of Seema, gives a clue to Priya about Seema's secret lover. Ravi finds a photo of Seema and Ajay together at a birthday party. When Ajay finds out about this, he murders Ravi and forces him to sign a suicide note in which makes it seem as if Ravi is the murderer of Seema, and not Ajay (making Priya and Inspector Karan believe that Ravi must have been Seema's secret lover and murderer). Thus the investigation is halted for a second time considering all the proofs and evidences planted by Ajay. Ajay begins a double game whilst keeping both the parties in the dark and slowly wins Chopra's confidence.Fooling both the police and the Chopra family, Ajay has a flashback remembering the days of his late father, of when Ajay's father, Mr Sharma (Anant Mahadevan), discovers that his project manager Madan Chopra is embezzling money under his nose, and Sharma has Madan thrown in jail.After Madan completes his jail term, he re-approaches Sharma and asks for forgiveness. Sharma rebukes him, but later decides to re-employ Chopra at the pleas of his wife Shobha, who takes pity on his daughters. However, Chopra has returned to exact revenge on his former boss and slowly but surely regains the confidence of Sharma. When Sharma has to go on a business trip, he hands power of attorney over to Chopra, who waiting for such an opportunity, usurps control of Sharma's company and becomes its de facto owner.When Sharma learns of this treachery, it is too late and his family is ejected from their home as the house and property were mortgaged by Chopra and more tragedy strikes the Sharma household when his newborn daughter dies of fever and Sharma suffers a severe heart attack and dies, while his wife Shobha goes insane. Heartbroken by all of these events, Ajay swears revenge and vows to make Chopra pay in the same coin.Meanwhile, Seema's friend Anjali (Resham Tipnis) discovers a photo of Ajay from college days; Soon Vicky and Priya get engaged and are planning the wedding day. At this time, Anjali thinks that she recognizes Vicky phones the Chopra residence during Ajay's engagement party. Ajay intercepts a phone call during his engagement party and quickly arrives at Anjali's place, kills her then stuffs her body in a suitcase, and throws it in the river. A man and his dog find the body soon after. Soon after these events, Priya and Inspector Karan realize that the murderer is still alive.Meanwhile, history repeats itself, with Chopra handing over the power of attorney to "Vicky". Ajay decides to hasten up his plans on learning that Priya and Inspector Karan are bent on finding the killer.Ajay's plan hits a glitch when he and Priya run into the real Vicky Malhotra (Adi Irani), Ajay's friend whose identity he had taken. Priya becomes suspicious and decides to contact the real Vicky. After returning from his business trip, Chopra is shocked to find that the company is run by the Sharma group. Ajay reveals the apparent truth of his desire to seek revenge on his father's death to Chopra and kicks him out of the company after humiliating him.Meanwhile, Priya learns of Ajay's true identity from Vicky and rushes to Ajay's home in Panvel. She is shocked to see a picture of Ajay and finds a marriage locket with photos of him with her sister. Ajay comes home, where she confronts him with his misdeeds. He tells her the whole sad story. Priya then realizes that it is her father who is at fault, not Ajay. Ajay introduces her to his mother, who hardly remembers him as her son. But Madan comes there and shoots Ajay in the arm and has his goons beat him up.When his mother tries to intervene, Madan pushes her injuring her and angering Ajay, who defeats Madan's goons. A chase between Madan and Ajay ensues and Ajay is about to kill Madan, but decides to stop, however, Madan stabs Ajay with a metal rod and laughs over his victory, Ajay begins laughing manically in return and stabs him back, finally killing him. He returns to his mother and collapses in her arms. In his last words, he says that he has regained everything that is meant to be there back and now only wants to rest in her arms. Priya and Karan watch despondently as Ajay dies in his mother's arms, finally at peace.
