They've melded into modern society. They've evolved. They learned to control their need to feed that ancient desire for human blood that binds the Carpathian family forever. Though it's not enough. Suddenly they're the ones being hunted.
This film concerns the exploits of the "Carpathian American" society in Long Beach. Carpathian Americans are just like any other expatriate organization, they enjoy family get together, and share business opportunities (cf the Italian Americans ...). There is just one minor difference, the Carpathian Americans seem to have a predilection for drinking human blood. The film begins somewhere deep in the bible belt where teenager Cody wakes to find that intruders have just skewered his parents and are about to set fire to them for good measure. Despite being shot by a crossbow bolt Cody makes his escape from the "hunters". He remembers his parent's advice to him that if he was ever in trouble he should contact his uncle in Long Beach. The uncle turns out to be a local businessman (of an unscrupulous nature) and also a leading light in the "Carpathian American" society. Cody is introduced to other members of the society notably Harry, a crusading journalist and his non-Carpathian girlfriend/lawyer who wants to see his fellow Carpathians become more integrated, the wanton Celia who likes to have her neck bitten during moments of ecstasy, and "The Shrikes" a gang of tearaway biker teenage vampires. Before long Cody has been initiated into the terrible secret which ties this clan together. All would be well if it were not for the hunters who have followed Cody and are now seeking to destroy the nest of vampires they have found. The Carpathians must choose between their outward air of "respectability" and renewing an age old blood feud.
When Cody Puckett's [Jason London] parents are murdered in their sleep by having stakes driven through their hearts, dirt poured in their mouths, and their bed set on fire, Cody runs to the only relatives he knows in Long Beach, California. What Cody does not know is that both he and his relatives are really Carpathian vampires who have migrated to the U.S. and become assimilated into American society. Cody soon learns about his ancestry as well as his special powers. When the hunters kidnap vampire Celia Scholarin [Michelle Johnson], her brother Eli [Patrick Bauchau] and reporter Harry Martin (nee Harlivan Martinescu [Harley Venton], also a vampire but in love with a very human district attorney Amy Lawrence [Kim Johnson Ulrich], dispute over whether to handle Celia's captors by the old ways or through the American legal system. In the end, the old ways win out, and the vampire hunters become dinner for Carpathians. Harry and Cody walk away hungry.
