Wallace takes in a new lodger, a devious penguin. Sporting some techno-trousers, the penguin plans a grand theft, a plan that involves putting Wallace in danger.
Plasticine animation of Wallace and Gromit, inventors of all manner of useful devices. Gromit (a dog) finds himself being pushed out of his room and home by a new lodger who is actually a ruthless criminal (and a small penguin). The penguin is planning a robbery and needs to use Wallace and his mechanical remote controlled trousers to pull off the raid. However, Gromit is wise to the penguin and comes to the rescue.
It's Gromit's birthday, and Wallace presents his friend with 2 gifts: a new dog collar, and a pair of ex-NASA 'Techno Trousers.' Needless to say, Gromit is hardly at all thrilled with these two gifts.While going over the bills, Wallace realizes that they're short on cash, and decides to rent out the spare bedroom. Gromit is surprised when a penguin shows up in answer to the sign out front. Gromit's day is made worse when the penguin decides to take his room instead of the extra bedroom. Wallace tries to make the best of it, trying to help Gromit redecorate the room. Gromit uses the techno-trousers to walk up the walls of the room and repaint the ceiling. As he does so, he notices the penguin watching from the doorway.Later on that evening, Gromit tries to sleep, but the penguin has the radio in his room playing loud music. Unable to cope, Gromit goes outside and to the doghouse out back.Waking up the next day, Gromit is then upstaged as the penguin tries to become overly-helpful, fetching Wallace's slippers and mail. Later on that evening, feeling unwanted, Gromit leaves, with Wallace unaware of his absence.Wallace wakes up for breakfast, only to find himself now wearing the techno-trousers, with it's control panel missing. The trousers then take off with him still attached, running all over town. Gromit meanwhile, is searching for a new apartment, when he sees a wanted poster for a black bird with a red glove on his head. The poster gives the bird's name as Feathers McGraw, and asks 'Have you seen this chicken?'
