In this sequel, a couple must use a portal through time to defeat evil.
Mark and Sarah survive to the fire in the wax museum, but Sarah is followed by a severed hand that kills her father. Sarah becomes the prime suspect and goes to trial. Mark and Sarah search evidence to prove her innocence and they go to Sir Wilfred's house. They find a footage prepared by Sir Wilfred with a puzzle based of the Alice and the Looking Glass. They solve the puzzle and find a compass that opens portals through time. They travel to the most different places in time seeking something to help Sarah in her trial in a dangerous journey.
Mark and Sarah survive to the fire in the wax museum, but Sarah is followed by a severed hand that kills her alcoholic stepfather. Sarah becomes the prime suspect and goes to trial. Mark and Sarah search evidence to prove her innocence and they go to Sir Wilfred's house. They find a footage prepared by Sir Wilfred with a puzzle based of the Alice and the Looking Glass. They solve the puzzle and find a compass that opens portals through time. They travel to the most different places in time seeking something to help Sarah in her trial in a dangerous journey.
The couple that survives the wax museum in "Waxwork" is followed by a dismembered hand, which kills the girl's father, for which she must stand trial (those lawyer types are shrewd, they weren't going for that dismembered-hand stuff). She and her boyfriend go to Sir Wilfred's house for clues, where they find a film he has prepared for them, pointing the way to his secret evil-thing-fighting stash. They grab the time machine compass thingy and go back in time to look for evidence that the girl is telling the truth, and get embroiled in different conflicts along the way.
Mark and Sarah survived the mayhem from the first movie only to have Sarah on trial for a murder committed by a dismembered hand. To find the proof that will clear her, the pair travel through time and space to dimensions full of historical, movie, and book characters. However, Mark's involvement in these other worlds may not be an accident.

