A troubled hitman seeks aid from a forger to help him get papers to China. However, the drug lord has hired replacements to finish the job, and kill the hitman.
John Lee is the best hitman money can buy. But when John refuses to kill because of the seven year-old son of his target, John's bosses send someone after John to kill him and then take his place in the ring of hitmen. John then teams up with Meg Coburn to help him escape these "Replacement Killers."
Hitman John Lee owes a debt to Mr. Wei, L.A.'s Chinatown drug-lord. When a Cop kills Wei's adult son during a drug bust, Wei orders a hit in revenge. Lee can't pull the trigger, and he knows Wei will punish him by going after Lee's mother and sister in Shanghai. To reach them fast, Lee needs a forged passport. He seeks out Meg Coburn, a forger. But Wei's men are already on Lee's trail, disrupting his visit to her. Lee and Coburn must fight them off, evade the cops, face replacement killers imported to shoot the cop's son, confront Wei, and get Lee onto a plane to China, passport in hand.
John Lee is a hitman who works for Chinese crime lord, Terence Wei. It seems that John is obligated to Mr. Wei and so far has done everything he's been told to do. Now Mr. Wei wants John to get revenge on the police detective who killed his son. John was about to carry out the job but for some reason can't do it. When Mr. Wei hears of this, he sends for some replacements. John now has to return to China to help his mother and sister whom Mr. Wei will now target because of his disobedience, but first he needs a passport. He needs find someone who can give him a passport who will not betray him to Mr. Wei. He is told of Meg Coburn, a small time documents forger. John goes to see her and was in the process of making his passport when some of Wei's people come in shooting. While John gets away, Meg is caught by the police but is released by the cop whom Mr. Wei has a beef with. John goes to her and still needing a passport, forces her to go with him. Mr. Wei's people finds them and was about to take care of them but John managed to escape. So now the two of them are not only hunted by Mr. Wei but also the police.

