Prahaar is the story of Major Chavan, a tough and stern soldier, trained to destroy the enemy. He can see the enemy on our borders but is unaware of the invisible enemy within ourselves. When one of Major's Commandos - Peter D'Souza is killed, he is shown the harsh reality revolving around us, the enemy is within ourselves. The battlefield changes and Major Chavan makes his final attack on the enemy within this crumbling society.
Peter Dsouza lives in a small middle class family in Bombay and wants to join the Indian Army.People around him have different views regarding it his father wants him to join his bakery business while his fiance Shirley wants him to get married soon,but his neighbor Kiran tells him to listen to his heart.Peter goes to join the Indian Army.He comes across Major Pratap Chauhan a very strict and disciplinary officer who is a nightmare to his students Peter hates Major Chauhan for his acts and decides to quit the training.Major Chauhan tells Peter that if he quits his training mid way he will be considered as a coward by people around him.Peter then decides to complete his training.During one of his rescue operations Peter looses his legs and has to return back home.Major Chauhan after some days gets Peter's wedding invitation upon reaching his house in Bombay he finds that Peter is dead he finds a shocking truth that he was killed by local goons who were escorting money from local shop keepers Peter fought with them like a solider till his death after none of the locals and Peter's family members testify against the goons due to fear Major Chauhan decides to take matters in his hand.
Peter D'Souza joins the Indian army against the wishes of his family. Peter is trained under strict officer Major Chouhan at a point he decides to leave the army for strict training but later copes up. During a rescue operation, Peter loses his legs and returns home. A few months later Major Chouhan gets invite for his wedding. But upon reaching finds that Peter is dead. He fought like a true soldier until his last breath against injustice happening around him.
This is a story about an idealistic and patriotic army officer, who is shocked to see that the country he has fought for is going to the dogs. He sees politicians and thugs as worse than any outside enemy, because they are eating away at his beloved country. When one of his soldiers (crippled in action), is brutally killed by street thugs, and the police show apathy, he takes it upon himself to curb the situation. however, this is not an action thriller like 'Rambo', etc. This is a mature, thought-provoking examination of society and the individual.
Peter D'Souza lives in a small town in India. He is an idealistic and honest young man, and wants to serve his country by joining the army. He enlists in the Maratha Light Infantry Division, and soon undergoes vigorous training under the hands of Major Chauhan. After the training, Peter and a group of commandos are assigned to combat terrorists who had hijacked a bus full of passengers. The commandos daringly rescue the passengers, however, Peter is gravelly wounded and loses his leg in this tactical assault. He is honorably discharged from the army, and goes home to help his father run a small corner store. Subsequently, Major Chauhan receives an invitation to attend the marriage of Peter with his long-time girlfriend, Shirley, which he decides to accept. Upon arrival in the town, Chauhan finds out that there is to be no marriage as Peter is dead. Chauhan is further shocked to find out that Peter's death was a homicide, as Peter was killed by a enraged gangsters who were unable to extort money from him. Chauhan finds out that the local police are corrupt and unable to tackle the gangster problem. So Chauhan decides to avenge Peter's death, not realizing that he, himself, may not live to tell this tale.

