Immortals Connor and Duncan MacLeod must join forces against Kell, an evil immortal who has become too strong for anyone to face alone.
When Connor MacLeod sees his old friend Rachel die in an explosion, he's had it with his immortal life and the endless pain it brings him and those he loves. He locks himself inside the Sanctuary, a Watcher-organized retreat stationed on holy ground, where immortals who are tired of the game can go to forever escape it, as well as to ensure that The Prize never falls into the wrong hands. But when an old enemy, Jacob Kell, and his posse of assassins attack the Sanctuary and kill everyone there but Connor, he is forced out into the open and into battle. Kell and Connor were friends once, and knew each other back when Connor was cast from Glenfinnan; he returned when news came that his mother was to be burned at the stake, and in the attempt to free her, Kell was killed by none other than Connor himself, and became an immortal, bitter with hate, and devoted to making Connor's life a living hell. In the present day, Connor's kinsman Duncan MacLeod is attacked by Kell's posse, including Kate, an old love of Duncan's who seeks revenge for her unwillingly being made an immortal centuries ago. This attack had something to do with Connor, and Duncan goes in search of him to find out why. In the process, he learns that in the 450 years since Connor and Kell's encounter in Glenfinnan, Kell has taken more than 600 heads and gained enough power to be called nothing less than the most powerful immortal alive. To make things worse, neither Connor nor Duncan are strong enough to face Kell alone.
On his way home, Conner bears witness to his apartment exploding in an elaborate set up, killing his adopted daughter in the blast. Filled with remorse and loss of hope, Conner goes to a sanctuary in a monastery where he and other immortals are held in a state of hibernation by the monks to avoid the prize from being won. (Even though the prize was one at the end of the first film but, oh well.)While in hibernation, Conner has a memory of how his mother was convicted of witchcraft due to Conner's immortality by the townspeople Conner had been expelled from. Conner set out to rescue her in the ancient village but they were both taken over by the priest and his son, Jacob Kell, Conner's former friend. Conner's mother was tied to a stake and set ablaze while Conner was locked in a prison cell and forced to watch. He did escape his prison and kill many attackers but was unable to save his mother. He then killed the priest believing the priest to be attacking him, and was then attacked by Kell, who he mortally wounded- thus making him an immortal inadvertently. Conner mourned the death of his mother and returned home.With the flashback over, the monastery is laid siege to by a group of immortal bikers. The monk guardians are all killed, and the bikers' leader, Jacob Kell, arrives and makes his way into the sanctuary. One by one, he decapitates all the sleeping immortals, making his way to Conner who has begun to awaken and is trying to escape...Before we can learn of Conner's fate, we are then introduced to Duncan MacLeod, Conner's relative who is disturbed by a vision of killing during his training. He then goes to visit his friend, fellow immortal, Methos, who tells him of the Sanctuary. Duncan is in disbelief that Conner would ever desire to go there, but Methos concludes that Conner would do so as to protect the last living members of the people he loved. After the bloody sanctuary aftermath, Guardian Matthew Hale, observes the bloodshed and tells his men that they will now seek out "volunteers" to avoid the battle from continuing and the prize from being won.Duncan then has a memory of his adventures with Conner in Kildare Ireland in 1712, and how they rescued a beautiful lady named Kate from being waylaid by Highwaymen. Duncan later married Kate, and Conner arrived to tell him that Kate had the opportunity to become an immortal if killed suddenly. Of two minds about the issue, Duncan is unsure as to what to do of the matter. Conner encourages him to let Kate go, but Duncan is unable to. In a fit of impulse he kills Kate suddenly, only for her to awaken and scream in horror at what her husband is done. She flees his life and does not return.Duncan then travels to Conner's abandoned wreck of a home and is attacked by Kate who is still angry at Duncan for making her an immortal. After a battle with more immortals who attack, Kell arrives. However, before anything else can continue, Duncan is shot many times by an impatient immortal and falls out of a window where he is collected by Hale's men. The impatient immortal is executed by Kell for his actions in allowing Duncan to escape. Duncan finds himself being strapped to a hibernation device by Hale, but is unable to escape. Hale leaves and Duncan is taken over by sleep after Hale injects him with a drug. While out, Duncan has a memory of the time Conner appeared to him the moment Duncan became an immortal after a swift death in a battle. Duncan awakens to find himself being rescued by watcher Joe Dawson and Methos. They travel to a graveyard where Duncan enters alone and finds Conner, who tells him that Kell had the opportunity to kill him in the sanctuary but let him live in order to continue terrorizing him. Kell and Kate arrive. Kell taunts Conner, explaining that it has been him all along who has been killing everyone Conner loves in recompense for Conner killing his father the priest.Kell challenges Conner to a fight where they stand, and Conner accepts despite Duncan reminding him that it is against the Immortal's code of honor to fight on holy ground. The battle is very short and one-sided as Kell easily overpowers Conner and beats him to the ground, continuously taunting him, before leaving with Kate. Duncan offers to help Conner but Conner leaves in a huff, knowing that Kell will try to kill Duncan in order to make Conner';s life more miserable. That night, Duncan tracks down Kate in her modeling career and asks her why she is working with Kell. She explains that she only feels hate towards Duncan and sees that parallel with Kell in his hatred for Conner. However, after Duncan goes home and tries to sleep, Kate follows behind and enters his home. Despite initially fearing that she is there to kill him, Duncan then realizes that Kate is not here for that reason. The two then have passionate sex, paralleling the erotic experience they shared on their wedding night decades earlier. Afterwards, Kate's ill feelings toward Duncan return and she storms out of his home, only for her to track her down and tell her that it is not too late for forgiveness.Kate arrives back at Kell's lair where she and the other immortals realize that Kell will soon kill them and take their quickening when he no longer needs their services. Soon after, Kell gathers them all together in a mock representation of the last supper and decapitates them all one by one, finishing with Kate. Duncan has a vision of Kate's death and is struck with grief. He is then confronted by Conner on a nearby rooftop, who explains that Kell will not stop until both of them are dead, and that together, neither of them will beat Kell, and one must kill the other. Duncan refuses, prompting Conner to attack him. The two battle with swords all the while Duncan begging Conner not to continue. Conner then locks Duncan into a sword move to which Duncan is invincible against his opponent. Seeing what is conspiring, Duncan begs Conner not to continue, only to be met with Conner's last signs of humanity and love. Duncan tearfully tells Conner that he loves him and Conner smiles sadly, nodding in agreement. Duncan wrests his sword free from Conner's grip and swiftly decapitates him, killing Conner once and for all. Duncan then receives Conner's quickening and is overcome with emotion with the memories he sees of Conner's past lives.Duncan, strengthened with Conner's quickening, goes after Kell and the two do battle in an abandoned power plant. Kell beats Duncan around and comes close to killing him but hesitates in order to taunt him further. Duncan then tries his invincible move upon Kell but Kell deflects his move with a hidden dagger, and beats him down once more. However, Duncan's voice alters to that of Conner's as does his face which distracts Kell. Duncan then leaps over Kell and decapitates him in one bold stroke of his sword, before kicking his body off of the parapet and into a pool stating defiantly (in Conner's voice) "There can be only one, and you are not it!"Duncan is struck with Kell's overwhelmingly powerful quickening and is overcome with power and might. He collapses, spent to his knees, before making his way up as the victor, having finally gained the prize. He then visits Conner's grave, for which is in Scotland and tearfully pays his respect to Conner's memory saying, "I hope you've found peace, Conner."
