The detective genius Conan must solve a series of bombings or his true love will die!
Detective Shinichi Kudo was once a brilliant teenage detective until he was given a poison that reverted him to a 4 year old. He's taken the name Conan Edogawa so no one (except an eccentric inventor) will know the truth. Now he's got to solve a series of bombings before his loved ones become victims. Who is this madman and why is he doing this. Only the young genius can save the day but will even he be up to the task?
One day in Tropical Land , when Kudo Shinichi (17) solved the murder in Mystery Coaster (see movie 4 captured in her eyes) Kudo was caught and forced to take poison Apoptoxin-4869 (invented by Miyano Shiho, Sherry, Haibara Ai) and become Edogawa Conan (7). Conan is 10 yr younger than Shinichi and Ran. so 4 yr old is surely wrong.
Kudo Shinichi solved the ex-mayor, Okamoto, when his son claim driver BUT stretch his left hand to take car lighter when police record was lighter got right fingerprints. Nishi-Tama city Development scheme was being rejected after mayor Okamoto resigned. The Architect inside, Teiji Moriya (47), began to challenge Kudo by setting bombs, Could Conan solve them before they explode ? Finally the Beika City battle, could Ran solve the "red or Blue" line? Why she did not cut the other line?
There was a drunk drive accident from Mayor Okamoto(52) son, Kohei (21). Kudo Shinichi (17) Teitan High Student, doubt that case and decided to re-check the whole matter. Finally Kudo Shinichi(17) solved when Kohei (21) stretched his left hand and took the car lighter. Okamoto (52) have to resign and the Nishi-Tama City Development Scheme was being rejected. Teiji Moriya (47) was very angry of Kudo Shinichi and began to set bombs to challenge Shinichi. Conan have to solve the bombs before they explode. Could Conan do them?
Starting - Kurokawa residence.a Kurokawa hospital head was found dead near keyboard with bloodstains. Monitor Showed JUNMori kogoro persist that his wife did that because she born in June. June is water(Rain)less month.Conan found that...Kurokawa wish to type Kana. JUN in Kana is Megure, MA-NA-MIimg838.imageshack.us/img838/421/manami.jpgYes Manami the slave did that"I was actually the wife of a patient which Kurokawa killed in operation last yr. I complain to hospital staff but ppl fear kurokawa, I kept seeking revenge, I even changed my hairstyle &amp; changed name to Manami to work for him just to kill him. Today is my husband first decease anniversary but I did not regret coz I revenged!"img842.imageshack.us/img842/2650/shinichi.jpgKudo Shinichi solved the ex mayor drink driving case when his son pretend that he was driver but used left hand to take car's lighter. then Kudo Shinichi keep getting attacked/challenged by the architect Teiji Moriyaimg832.imageshack.us/img832/2650/shinichi.jpgNow Teiji Moriya (47) is seeking his revenge towards Kudo Shinichi due to that mayor's resignation made his Nishi-Tama city redevelopment scheme cancelled...img828.imageshack.us/img828/2650/shinichi.jpgCould Conan really find all the bombs out before they explode.img836.imageshack.us/img836/2650/shinichi.jpgFinally, what is meant by the extra 3 minutes Teiji Moriya wished Conan to know?img827.imageshack.us/img827/2650/shinichi.jpgimg843.imageshack.us/img843/2650/shinichi.jpgimg841.imageshack.us/img841/2650/shinichi.jpg
