Two criminals, Keats and Moses, end their friendship, when Keats turns out to be an undercover cop. Many years later, the two are forced to work together when Keats is assigned to protect Moses as a witness.
An undercover police officer named Rock Keats befriends a drug dealer and car thief named Archie Moses in a bid to catch the villainous drug lord Frank Coltan. But the only problem is that Keats is a cop, his real name is Jack Carter, and he is working undercover with the LAPD to bust Moses and Colton at a sting operation the LAPD has set up.
Rock Keats and Archie Moses are the best of friends and have spent the past year together performing various small time criminal acts. This all changes when they become involved in a major drug smuggling operation. Rock Keats turns out to be Jack Carter, an undercover police officer and tries to arrest Moses during a failed attempt to catch criminal mastermind Frank Colton. However, Moses ends up shooting Carter and makes an escape. Moses is later caught and agrees to turn state's evidence on Colton with one condition, Carter escorts him in. When they meet, both are bitter towards each other. Unknown to them, Colton's men have orders to take out Moses and arrive to shoot down the transport plane. Carter and Moses end up by themselves in the countryside with Colton's men closing in. Will they survive?...will their friendship?
The criminals Rock Keats and Archie Moses are best friends and have been stealing cars together for one year. Archie invites Rock to join the gang of the drug lord Frank Colton without knowing that Rock is indeed the undercover detective Jack Carter, assigned to get evidences against Frank. During the police raid against a heroin shipping of Frank, Archie accidentally shoots Jack in his head. Once recovered, Jack declares Archie his enemy, and arrests him. But the former mates have to join forces against Frank's gangsters and many dirty cops.
Archie Moses (Adam Sandler) is a small time crook and thief who lives in Los Angeles, and he is working for a local drug lord Frank Colton (James Caan). He is unaware that his best friend Rock Keats (Damon Wayans) is actually an LAPD undercover cop, whose real name is Jack Carter, and who's seeking evidence against Colton, and he is trying to infiltrate Colton's gang.One night, Jack goes out with Moses and gets him drunk, and manages to get info from Moses, and he finds an address for one of Colton's fronts. During a raid on Colton's warehouse, Archie realizes that Jack is a cop, and he tries to escape the warehouse during the police raid, during which an out of control crane hits Moses in the back and he accidentally shoots Jack in the head, but he miraculously survives and makes a full recovery with the aid of his physical therapist Dr. Traci Flynn (Kristen Wilson). Moses then flees the state, and is subsequently found and arrested later on. Moses is brought into custody, and he agrees to testify against Colton, but the trial is at the other side of the country. After Jack's recovery, his superior officer Jensen (James Farentino) orders him to get Moses to transfer him personally to the courtroom.Having been bitter about the accident, Carter harbors resentment against Moses, and problems get escalated since a simple transfer has gone awry when Colton learns through bribed federal agents and Los Angeles Police Department officers of Moses's attempt to testify against Colton. Carter and Moses slowly mend their friendship and are successful in returning back to their local police department. However, Colton apparently holds Flynn hostage, and blackmails Carter into turning Moses over in order to save Flynn. Carter and Moses pretend to comply with Colton and shoot their way through Colton's guards. It is later revealed that Flynn was responsible for leaking Carter and Moses's whereabouts to Colton and was actually on Colton's payroll. Carter manages to distract Colton after Moses gets shot in the shoulder by Colton and after apprehending Flynn and Moses manages to kill Colton. Moses gives the incriminating documents on Colton to Carter, and he heads to Mexico, where he becomes a bullfighter, with Carter and Moses's mother later accompanying him.
