The Peanuts gang prepares for the holidays in their own unique ways.
As the holiday season rolls around and all the Peanuts gang are getting ready for it. Whether it be Charlie Brown struggling to raise money for his girlfriend or Sally and Peppermint Patty struggling to rehearse and memorize their one word lines for the Christmas pageant, these kids try to keep with the Christmas spirit while Snoopy has his mischief to do.
Linus slides down a hill in a cardboard box. Charlie Brown tries to sell homemade Christmas wreaths door-to-door. Eventually Sally helps him with a sales pitch but they remain unsuccessful. Peppermint Patty has to read a book over Christmas vacation, although she is worried that if she reads too many books her head may fall off. Her delaying tactics include building a snowman, watching TV, and attending a performance of Handel's "Messiah". Snoopy rings a bell, collecting money for charity, but uses a horn to get some extra attention. Sally has to write a theme on "The True Meaning of Christmas" and she writes about the joy of getting. She also writes a letter to Santa Claus and his wife, Mary Christmas. Linus tries to teach Sally about Christmas, but she doesn't listen.Charlie Brown tries to buy gloves for Peggy Jean, but they cost twenty-five dollars which he doesn't have. Lucy suggests selling Snoopy. He sells his comic book collection and Joe Garagiola autographed baseball and earns the money, but Peggy Jean has just bought herself gloves, so the gloves go to Snoopy.Peppermint Patty wants to be Mary in the Christmas play, but Marcie already got the part. Sally will play an angel, but she explains that she only has one line, "Hark!" and then Harold Angel sings. Peppermint Patty has to play a sheep, but she muffs her cue and overrides Marcie as she speaks. She also forgets which animal she is playing, trying barking and meowing instead of "baa"-ing. Sally also muffs her line, saying "Hockey Stick!" instead of "Hark!" Later, Harold Angel knocks on the Brown's door to see Sally.
