Twin Town opens with wide sweeping shots of seaside Swansea; to be the place of action for the next one and a half hours. The serene setting with miles upon miles of old semi-detached housing is suddenly cleaved apart by two young lads tearing through the neighbourhood in a two tone BMW 525. Julian and Jeremy are in deep trouble. Their dysfunctional family scrapes together a living from their dole money and odd-jobs offered to their father. The boys have long since turned to drug abuse and car theft leading a happy-go-lucky life in downtown no-hoper city. In due course the plot thickens as the boys are out for revenge against wealthy club owner Bryn who is not particularly helpful in providing compensation when their father is hit by an accident when working on his premises. The boys are fairly imaginative when it comes to planning their strike, culminating in scenes which all dog-haters and karaoke loathers will love.
Julian and Jeremy, two brothers known as the "Lewis Twins", prefer to spend their time on drugs and joyriding. When their father, Fatty Lewis, breaks his leg working for local bigwig Bryn Cartwright, they show up demanding compensation. Underestimating the vicious humour of the twins Bryn brusquely refuses to pay for the un-insured Fatty and unleashes a ferocious feud.
In the small welsh town of Swansea boredom is high and the only relief's are getting a "massage" at the Gentlemen's Executive Health Spa, karaoke, as well as dealing and using skag (heroin for those who don't know what skag means.) The top family is the Cartwright's. Bryn Cartwright is the skeezy Rugby club own with a rod up his a*s, and is secretly a drug king pin; Bryn's wife, Lucy, is the victim of this story from both ends of the spectrum, Bonnie; their daughter, is a self involved karaoke singer who is quite snobbish, as well as banging Dai Reese, the self proclaimed karaoke king.
all I want to do is add is the sentence.. said by the Father,to his sons while the watch him make a model boat.. it says it all about this crazy film.. he says "get yer own f*%%%ing glue!" love it!
You just have to watch this film, once in your life!
Close your eyes on the poodle bit!
You just have to watch this film, once in your life!
its the best, you will laugh cry and just love it..
You just have to watch this film, once in your life!
Awesome film, well acted and hilarious You just have to watch this film, once in your life!
