When a boy prays for a chance to have a family if the California Angels win the pennant, angels are assigned to make that possible.
Roger, who has lost his mother, is living separated from his father. As he and his friend J.P. are fans of the California Angels baseball team, he has got only two dreams: living together with a real family and seeing the Angels winning the Pennant.
Roger Bomman lives in a foster home along with his best friend J.P., but when Roger's dad comes to visit him, a little bit of hope grows back into Roger's heart about him going to live with his dad. But his hopes suddenly die down when his dad says that they can be a family again when Roger's favorite baseball team, the California Angels, win the pennant, but the team is in last place in their division. So Roger prays to heaven and ask if the angels up there can help the Angels (baseball team) win the pennant so Roger can have the family that he always wanted, and because of his prayer, he just might.
The California Angels are currently the worst team in their division. It seems that the players have a little trouble with their teamwork. Manager George Knox would like nothing better than to dump all of them, which the owner says is impossible. Roger is a boy whose mother died and is currently living in a foster home. His father feels that it would probably be in Roger's best interest if he becomes a ward of the state. But Roger would rather that he and his father get back together, and when he asks his father if that is possible, his father's reply is "when the Angels win the pennant". Roger then prays and asks if they could help the team. When Roger goes to a game, he sees some angels come down from the sky and they help the players make some astounding catches and hits. When Roger tells Mr. Knox about it, Mr. Knox decides to keep him at every game, and it seems that Mr. Knox's faith is put to the test because it seems that the angels are going to help if he uses his worst players, but it seems to be working.

