Casey Ryback hops on a Colorado to LA train to start a vacation with his niece. Early into the trip, terrorists board the train and use it as a mobile HQ to hijack a top secret destructive US satellite.
Seal Team Commander Casey Ryback has retired from the Navy since the conclusion of the events in the first movie, and is now a chef at the Mile High Cafe in Denver, Colorado. Ryback is taking his niece Sarah Ryback on vacation, to reconnect and commiserate with her after the death of her parents. They board a train traveling westbound through the Rocky Mountains from Denver to LA. With the help of gun-for-hire Marcus Penn a couple dozen of his mercenaries, ex-CIA brain (and mentally unstable) Travis Dane commandeers the train, takes the passengers and crew hostage, and sets up a mobile control center. He hacks into the CIA database and gains control of a Top-Secret defence satellite he designed during his Agency days that has just been deployed. Funded by various foreign interests, he stands to make 1 billion dollars for using the space weapon to blow up the Eastern seaboard by targeting a nuclear reactor housed beneath the Pentagon. Dane taunts the Joint Chiefs in the Pentagon Situation Room by using it to blow up a Chinese chemical weapons plant and the two stealth planes sent to intercept him, secure in the knowledge that he cannot be stopped because his location can't be traced as long as the train keeps moving, his location can't be fixed. Ryback, aided by young porter Bobby Zachs, is the only ones who can take out the bad guys, rescue the hostages, and prevent the destruction of the eastern seaboard before Dane can realise his dastardly plans!
Casey Ryback has now retired from the Navy and is now a chef at the Mile High Cafe in Denver, Colorado. Ryback taking his niece Sarah Ryback on a vacation. They board a train traveling through the Rocky Mountains from Denver to Los Angeles. Travis Dane takes the train hostage and starts using the train as a control center in his effort to take control of a top-secret government outer space super-weapon. Dane built the weapon but was fired by the government before it was deployed. He has since hooked up with shadowy Middle Eastern terrorists who have offered him 1 billion dollars to use the satellite to blow up the Eastern seaboard by targeting a nuclear reactor that is located underneath the Pentagon. Dane lets the Pentagon know that he's got control of the weapon by using it to blow up a Chinese chemical plant. Officials can't stop him because they can't locate his headquarters. As long as the train keeps moving, his location can't be fixed. Ryback enlists a porter named Bobby Zachs to help him go after Dane.
Casey Ryback is traveling with his niece on a train, which is hijacked by terrorists. The terrorists need a moving headquarters, so they can take over a satellite capable of vaporizing anything in its path. The government can't stop them from destroying Washington and also rupturing a nuclear reactor, killing millions. Casey Ryback uses his Navy-Seal training to take out all of the terrorists in an action-packed ride.
Grazer is a high tech satellite that's just been deployed and it's spying ability is working. Now the two military technicians who know the access code, are seeing each other on the side and are off for a week-end getaway. They board a train. Later the train is hijacked, and the two of them are brought to the leader, Travis Dane, the man who designed Grazer but was fired by the government before the project was completed. He is now working for some terrorists; he takes control of Grazer and uses it's weapon system to attack some installations over the world. He then reveals himself to the people who fired him and announces his plan to hit the pentagon, which will cause the nuclear reactor that's under it to crack thus destroying Washington. Dane has managed to keep his whereabouts a secret but unfortunately for him and his cohorts, Casey Ryback, the Navy Seal turned cook is on board with his niece and is causing all sorts of problems for them.
Commandos take over a passenger train in a remote, mountainous region and install computer and radio equipment so that it becomes a moving command post for the control of a incredibly destructive military satellite. Their plan: have foreign governments give them one billion dollars in exchange for the destruction of targets like Washington. But Casey Ryback is on board, and attempts to communicate to the outide world where the bad guys are, and stop them before they can carry out their plan of destruction.
Casey Ryback (Seagal) has retired from the Navy and is a chef at the Mile High Cafe in Denver, Colorado. Ryback is taking his estranged niece Sarah Ryback (played by a then-unknown Heigl) to Los Angeles to visit the grave of Ryback's brother, who was Sarah's father. They board a train traveling through the Rocky Mountains from Denver to Los Angeles.
As the train proceeds through the Rockies, two people wave it down. The driver and an engineer step out and are killed. A group of mercenaries led by computer genius Travis Dane (Eric Bogosian) and mercenary leader Penn (McGill) hijack the train. Dane is a satellite programming expert who worked on a top secret satellite laser weapon called "Grazer One". Dane was fired and faked his death. They herd the passengers and staff into the last two train cars and cut the train's phone lines. Two of Dane's former Department of Defense colleagues are on board the train, hiding their romantic relationship that goes against DoD regulations. Dane has them brought to him and threatens to have one of his mercenaries insert a burning needle into their eye, causing it to explode, unless they give him the codes needed to take over Grazer One. They give him the codes and Dane has them killed.
Middle Eastern terrorists have offered Dane one billion dollars to destroy the Eastern seaboard by using Grazer One to target a nuclear reactor located under the Pentagon. Dane blows up a Chinese chemical plant in order to demonstrate Grazer One's capabilities to his investors and, after one investor offers an additional 100 million dollars, Dane destroys an airliner carrying the investor's ex-wife.
The US government cannot locate Dane's headquarters and cannot target Grazer One because Dane creates fifty "ghost satellites" to hide the location of the real Grazer One. When officials destroy what they think is Grazer One, it turns out that they destroyed the NSA's best intelligence satellite. As long as the train keeps moving, his location cannot be fixed. Ryback, who has discovered the plot, takes matters into his own hands. Ryback enlists an eager porter named Bobby Zachs (Morris Chestnut) to help him. He also sends a message to the owner of the Mile High Cafe, with whom is is friendly. Ryback kills the mercenaries one by one, including one of his former men (Peter Greene).
After Penn takes Sarah as bait for Ryback, Ryback confronts Penn, who is aware of Ryback's military past. Ryback ultimately disarms and kills Penn by breaking his neck. He then finds Dane who is about to depart in a chopper hovering over the train. When Dane informs Ryback that there is no way to stop the satellite from destroying Washington, Ryback shoots him, the bullet destroying his computer and injuring and knocking Dane out a window, causing him to fall out of the train and off of a bridge. Control of the satellite is restored at the Pentagon and it is destroyed by remote control one second before it would have fired on the Pentagon.
The train collides with a freight train carrying several gasoline tank cars, resulting in a massive explosion. Ryback escapes from the train by grabbing a rope ladder hanging from the chopper above. The bloodied Dane, who is revealed to have survived, has also caught the ladder and attempts to climb onto the helicopter while screaming for his life. Ryback slides the door shut, severing Dane's fingers and causing him to fall to his death. Ryback informs the Pentagon that the passengers are safe, as he previously detached the passenger section from the rest of the train. Ryback and Sarah pay their final respects at her father's gravestone.
