In 1943, the crew of a B-17 based in UK prepares for its 25th and last bombing mission over Germany before returning home to the USA.
It's May 1943 at a US Army Air Corps base in England. The four officers and six enlisted men of the Memphis Belle - a B-17 bomber so nicknamed for the girlfriend of its stern and stoic captain, Dennis Dearborn - will soon start their twenty-fifth mission, having completed their previous twenty-four successfully with nary an incident, while fewer and fewer other planes are coming back from their missions at all. If they complete their next mission successfully, they will be the first Army Air Corps B-17 Crew to complete their tour of duty. Visiting communications officer Lt. Col. Bruce Derringer wants to publicize and highly tout their accomplishment, even before it happens, as a long term good news campaign at a time when there is little good news to report. Derringer's plan is against the wishes of the base commander, Col. Craig Harriman, who would prefer to treat the ten as any of his other hard working men. The previous success of the Memphis Belle is despite the disparate natures of the ten men, whose personalities and backgrounds could not be more different. Each of the ten has a differing view of Derringer's publicity campaign as well as to the probable success or failure of what will be their last mission regardless, a dangerous one into enemy territory over the skies of Bremen, Germany.
1943. The air war over Germany is at its zenith. In the 8th Air Force is a B-17 bomber whose crew are about to complete their 25th mission, the first to do so. After this mission they will be rotated back to the US on a marketing drive. However, their 25th mission is far from a milk run and they will need all the skill and luck they can muster to back it back alive.
The "Memphis Belle" is a World War II bomber, piloted by a young crew on dangerous bombing raids into Europe. The crew only have to make one more bombing raid before they have finished their duty and can go home. In the briefing before their last flight, the crew discover that the target for the day is Bremen, a heavily-defended town that invariably causes many Allied casualties.
It's May 17, 1943; the day before the Memphis Belle's, a B-17 bomber, 25th and final mission. After their final mission, they crew of ten men get to go home. Since they would be the first crew to finish all 25 missions in the 8th Airforce, there were already plans to make the 10-man crew big stars back home for the war effort. But the mission hadn't been flown yet. With the target being Bremen (not Dresden), which was a target heavy in surface-to-air artillery, the flak wouldn't be easy to get through. With weather, nerves, and dreams all playing a part in the finishing of the mission, the crew has to become the lead plane in the squadron and get the job done of bombing a Nazi supply factory, if they get it wrong, many innocent people could be killed.
The story of the American bomber crew of the "Memphis Belle", the first US airmen to complete a full tour of 25 missions during the air battle of Europe during the Second World War. The film begins the night before the Belle's last mission, and follows the crew through the hectic flight that they must endure, and survive, in order to go home.
The B-17 bomber "Memphis Belle" is nearing the historic 25th mission, which is a tour-of-duty for American bomber crews. She is the first plane to survive long enough to achieve this feat, and her crew is likely the first to return successfully to the States.Captain Dearborn (Matthew Modine) and his crew are not at mission #25 though. As PR man Lt. Colonel Derringer (John Lithgow) hovers around, waiting to capture the glorious moment of triumph, the Memphis Belle has to complete her last mission. The top brass are not going to give them a "milk run" over France that they could easily survive either-- their group's next target is Hamburg, Germany.Over Germany, the plane is rocked by anti-aircraft fire, attacked by enemy fighters, and a member of the crew is badly wounded. They all eventually make it back on the battered Memphis Belle, and are feted as heroes in the American press.The film provides considerable insight into the daily lives of airmen whose service careers often lasted only a few missions. Various men have good-luck charms for protection, while others write many letters home to assure family and friends that they are alive. The British, for their part, host dances which give the airmen an opportunity to dance (and sometimes more) with pretty English girls. The actual missions provide a sense of how quickly German fighters could pounce out of the sun, and how FLAK could rip apart even a mighty "Flying Fortress."
