Edmond Dantes is unjustly sent to prison for 18 years. He escapes to reclaim his fiancée Mercedes and revenge against his nemesis, Mondego.
A TV mini-series adaptation of the classic Alexandre Dumas novel. Edmond Dantes is falsely accused by those jealous of his good fortune, and is sentenced to spend the rest of his life in the notorious island prison, Chateau d'If. While imprisoned, he meets the Abbe Faria, a fellow prisoner whom everyone believes to be mad. The Abbe tells Edmond of a fantastic treasure hidden away on a tiny island, that only he knows the location of. After many years in prison, the old Abbe dies, and Edmond escapes disguised as the dead body. Now free, Edmond must find the treasure the Abbe told him of, so he can use the new-found wealth to exact revenge on those who have wronged him.
Paris, 1830. A mysterious nobleman appears in the world of the salons. Styling himself the Count of Monte Cristo, he uses his vast wealth to try to secure a place for himself in society. No-one knows him, nor what his motivation is. The mysterious individual is actually Edmond Dantès, a widely-travelled sailor, and the victim of an evil conspiracy twenty years earlier, when he was falsely accused on his wedding day of loyalty to Napoleon, and sentenced to life imprisonment. He owed his years of suffering in the dungeon of the Château d'If to three scheming, so-called "friends" -- Fernand, Danglars and Caderousse -- one of whom wanted to deprive him of his wealth, another of his bride. His arrest was also very timely for Villefort, an ambitious magistrate whose career chances he was unwittingly obstructing. Inside the prison, Dantès is connected via a secret underground passage to the occupant of the neighbouring cell, Abbé Faria, who becomes his teacher and mentor. Before his death, the Abbé bequeaths to Dantès a valuable treasure buried on the island of Monte Cristo, and Dantès then succeeds in escaping from the prison by disguising himself as his late friend's "corpse". The wealth and knowledge imparted to him by the Abbé now enable Dantès, a man cheated out of half his life, to finally put his long-cherished and merciless plan of revenge into action ...
A young sailor is involved into an intrigue by his friends and sent to prison while he is not guilty. Twenty five years later he gets the chance to return into society being a rich man, under a fake identity. One by one he takes revenge on his so-called friends from the past.

