Unable to witness the injustice and brutality inflict on the residents by a tyrannical gangster, Katya, in a small Indian village in India; Kashinath alias Kashi decides to single-handily take a stand to fight for his and the villagers rights. What follows is a series of violence and unlawful activities which not only endanger the life of those very villagers but also that of Kashi's love ones.
Shambunath was revolutionary in India's freedom struggle currently living with his son Kaashi in Benaras.Shambunath along with Kaashi comes to Mumbai for his treatment of throat where he sees that the colony where his brother stays is terrorized by Katya and his brothers. Kaashi meets Gauri and the both started liking each other. Once Kaashi gets in fight with Katya's man when he rescues Malti whose husband was killed by them thus making her unstable.Kaashi then decides to fight for rights of people living in fear of Katya.
Kashinath (Khashi) a simpleton from Benares comes to Mumbai to seek medical treatment for his father. It's there he encounters Katya, a notorious gangster who along with his brothers instills fear onto the poor and weak. Unable to bear this injustice, Kashi on numerous occasions challenges Katya and his family. Their feud eventually escalates into the point in which only Kashi's life becomes threatened, but also his loves ones are at stake including his father, brother, and his love Gauri.
Shambunath lives with his younger son Kaashi in his village.,They both come to Mumbai for treatment of Shambunath where he is suppose to live with his elder son Shiv.Upon reaching they find that curfew has been imposed in the place where Shiv lives and there is nobody around until a cop helps them.Kaashi finds that the area has been terrorized by Katya who wants the land of the shopkeepers and everyone fears to speak against him.Kaashi saves a mad women from Kathya's brothers bashing them badly.Thus bringing him in his bad books and staring a war between them.
A small community in India is terrorized and held to ransom by a notorious gangster named Katya, who will kill anyone who stands in his way. When Katya finds out that Sachdev is attempting to rally the local residents against him, he has him brutally killed in broad daylight, and thus ended whatever opposition was there against Katya. Then Shambu Nath and his adopted son, Kashi Nath come to this community to visit his brother, Shiv Nath, as Shambu has to seek medical treatment, and is hospitalized. When Kashi witnesses the oppression and abuse inflicted on the residents by Katya and his men, he decides to oppose it, not knowing that he is endangering the lives of vulnerable Shambu, Shiva, and Shiva's wife and children.

