In order to evade the law, a ruthless don tries to kill his lookalike; a chef and tries to take his place.
Bablu (Shah Rukh Khan), an aspiring chef, works in a hotel where Sonia Kapoor,(Juhi) works with him as banquet manager at the restaurant. His look-alike Manu (Shah Rukh Khan), a gangster, robs a bank along with his friend (Gulshan Grover) but gets caught. He comes out of prison and discovers that his cohort has double-crossed him. He murders his partner and escapes from the scene of the crime...without the money. Bablu stumbles on the money and keeps it. Manu's lover Lily (Sonali Bendre) mistakes Bablu to be Manu and spirits him away. Manu takes shelter in Bablu's house and realizes that he can use their resemblance to his advantage.Then starts the fun-ride with Babloo constantly being mistaken for Manu. With both Sonia and Lily after him, Manu furious and the Law taking him to be Manu, Babloo faces a tough time. And then, Manu kidnaps Bibi (Farida Jalal) Babloo's mother and holds her hostage.
Shahrukh Khan plays the roles of Bablu and Mannu. Bablu wants to become a great chef and win the heart of Sonia(Juhi Chawla) while mannu is a criminal who wants revenge. Lily (Sonali Bendre) plays mannu's love interest. When mannu finds out that bablu is his look-alike, he tries to kill bablu and take over his life so that he can escape the law.
Simple minded, naive and somewhat of a klutz, 26 year old Bablu Chaudhary (Shahrukh Khan) lives with his mom (Farida Jalal) and calls her "Bebe". Though his ancestors have been body-builders and wrestlers, he wants to be a chef. On the way to an interview he meets with Sonia Kapoor (Juhi Chawla), who happens to be the Banquet Manager at the very same restaurant where he is headed for theinterview, and she hires him. Both start to fall in love with each other. One day Inspector R.K. Thakur (Tiku Talslania) arrests Bablu on a variety of criminal offences. Bablu is shocked and in disbelief, and baffled because the police keep on refering to him as "Manu". At the intervention of his mom, along with identification papers and photographs, Bablu is released and provided with an identity card so that the police know he is not Manu. Manu, who is the exact look-alike of Bablu, comes to know of this, and takes away Bablu's id. card, and takes on the identity of Bablu, leaving the hapless Bablu to be arrested again by the police. This time they will not release him under any circumstances. Meanwhile, Manu carries on with his "business" as Bablu, and he seems unstoppable.

