In this live-action prequel to The Flintstones (1994), the Flintstones and the Rubbles go on a trip to Rock Vegas, where Wilma Slaghoople (Kristen Johnston) is pursued by playboy Chip Rockefeller (Thomas Gibson).
The Flintstones are at it again. The Flintstones and the Rubbles head for Rock Vegas with Fred (Mark Addy) hoping to court the lovely Wilma Slaghoople (Kristen Johnston). Nothing will stand in the way of love, except for the conniving Chip Rockefeller (Thomas Gibson), who is the playboy born in Baysville, but who has made it in the cutthroat town of Rock Vegas. Will Fred win Wilma's love?
Young bachelors and best friends Fred Flintstone and Barney Rubble have recently qualified as crane operators at Slate &amp; Company. Soon to be employed, now they want girlfriends, and a little green alien called The Great Gazoo, exiled to Earth by his species, offers to help, although only they can see him. Meanwhile, Wilma Slaghoople states that she'd like to live a normal life and do regular activities, like bowling, however her mother Pearl objects and states she should marry Chip Rockefeller, who is an owner of a casino. Wilma runs away screaming and goes to a Bronto King in Bedrock. Waitress Betty O'Shale mistakes Wilma as "caveless", and kindly offers to share her apartment, and gets her a job.Fred and Barney are in love with the waitresses and are invited to a carnival, with Fred dating Betty and Barney taking Wilma. After Fred wins a carnival game, he gets a prize of an egg which hatches into a baby dinosaur, who he decides to name "Dino". However, he does not really feel connected to Betty, nor does Barney feel with Wilma, until both men switch dates. Wilma invites her new friends home to her father, Colonel Slaghoople's for his birthday. Fred decides to propose, but after he meets Chip who criticizes him for his job at Slate &amp; Company. Pearl dislikes Fred, Barney, and Betty, but the Colonel accepts Fred and Barney, pleased Wilma is happy, and privately gives her a pearl necklace that once belonged to his great-grandmother. Fred and Barney mess up at dinner thanks to Dino running after them, Wilma nevertheless expresses her pride and follows them out.Chip "congratulates" Fred on attracting Wilma and makes a false apology for the humiliation of Fred's job and invites the four to his Rock Vegas resort as a peace offering. However, Fred has no idea that Chip is playing a dirty trick on him and Wilma dumps him and Fred sees if he can to win big so he can impress Wilma with money like Chip's. Chip and his girlfriend Roxie are visited by two gangsters named Big Rocko and Little Rocko to collect a lot of money owed by Chip, who claims his upcoming marriage to Wilma will get him access to the Slaghoople fortune, and the gangsters consider that plan creditable, so they decide to suspend the operation until the wedding is over. Gazoo eavesdrops on the conversation. When Barney tries to tell Fred to stop gambling, Chip sends Roxie to seduce Barney for an escort to a buffet.Chip keeps Fred gambling to miss his dinner date with the others. Betty sees Barney wipe whipped cream from Roxie's chest and mistakes his activity as a way of saying 'no'. Mick Jagged comforts the weeping Betty and offers her to go on a date. Wilma breaks up with Fred over not spending any time with her. Chip warns her about burglaries and arranges that Fred loses everything before slipping Wilma's pearls in Fred's pocket and asks him to look inside them. The security staff arrests Fred for robbery. In defense of Fred, Barney states to the guards that Fred would not commit a crime, and that Fred would not even be able to crack his own knuckles without help, Chip accuses Barney of being Fred's accomplice and has him arrested too. Wilma is infuriated and hooks with Chip.While the two are in prison, Fred and Barney get a visit from Gazoo and he explains to Fred and Barney that Chip is in trouble with the mob, has a girlfriend and Chip was the one who framed Fred for the crime and wanted to marry Wilma in order to embezzle the money Wilma and her family have. Barney decides to slip through the prison bars, steals the guard's keys, and unlocks the cell. Now hunted by casino security, Fred and Barney disguise themselves as dancers, but are quickly recognized. Escaping into Mick Jagged's dressing room, Barney tells Betty he loves her, and they reconcile after the misunderstanding involving Roxy at the buffet is cleared up. Now understanding Chip's true colors, Betty realizes that someone must warn Wilma. Angry that Barney and Betty are getting back together, Jagged tries to get things straight, but Barney knocks Jagged out with a guitar.Fred disguises himself as Jagged in an order to reconcile with Wilma. Chip proposes to Wilma, but she doesn't answer. Fred emerges on stage disguised as Jagged, sings to Wilma and apologizes for his earlier behavior before proposing to her. Knowing that she still loves Fred, Wilma happily accepts the proposal and rejects Chip, and the two get married in the Rock Vegas Chapel of Love, while that's going on the gangsters get mad and get ready to force Chip to pay them in their own manner. After the pastor proclaims them husband and wife, everyone sings "Meet the Flintstones". While Jagged sings "Viva Rock Vegas" at a party, Betty catches Wilma's tossed bouquet and kisses Barney. The couple drive away with Dino and Gazoo and receive waves of goodbye from their friends, family, and even receive some goodbyes from Chip and Roxie.
