Alfalfa is wooing Darla and his "He-Man-Woman-Hating" friends attempt to sabotage the relationship.
The story begins with Spanky, who is the president of the "He-Man Woman Haters Club" with many school-aged boys from around the neighborhood as members. His best friend, Alfalfa, has been chosen as the driver for the club's prize-winning go-kart, called "The Blur", in the annual Soap Box Derby style race. However, when the announcement is made, Alfalfa is nowhere to be found. The boys catch Alfalfa in the company of Darla -- "a girl!" Alfalfa isn't like his friends because he's in love with Darla, and unfortunately threatens the very existence of their "boys only" club. The club's members try their hardest to break the two apart, eventually causing their beloved clubhouse to burn down. Darla is mistakenly led to believe Alfalfa feels ashamed of her, so she turns her attentions to Waldo, the new rich kid whose father is an oil tycoon. Further trouble ensures when their prized go-cart "The Blur" is stolen by local neighborhood bullies Butch and Woim. How can they win the big race and its prize trophy?! In addition to having to rebuild the clubhouse, the boys now need a new set of wheels. They band together to build "Blur 2: The Sequel." Prior to race day, Spanky and Alfalfa reconcile and decide to ride in the two-seat go-kart together.
With the upcoming challenging go-kart race, the members of the private "He-Man Womun Haters Club" definitely have a lot on their minds. With this in mind, things will take a turn for the worse, when Alfalfa, the club's best driver who has won the trophy for three consecutive years, breaks the fraternity's fundamental rule--that is, to hate women--and falls for the flirtatious Darla's charms. As the traitorous Alfalfa tries to win a woman's affection, before long, not only will he have to make a choice between his companions and the beautiful Darla, but also compete against a newcomer for the lady. How will Alfalfa get out of this mess?
Spanky and the members of the He-Man Woman Haters Club find out that Alfalfa has been courting Darla. After a trial they sentence him to forget about her and other girls forever. Alfalfa is having trouble with his punishment, partularly since the new rich kid is moving in on his territory, and he works to win her back. Meanwhile Butch and Woim are trying to steal the gang's prized go-cart for the big derb coming up. The gang has monetary problems too, since they need to build a new clubhouse, but are having a hard time raising the money.
Based on the classic theatrical "Our Gang" short subject series. The sanctity of the He-Man Woman Haters Club is threatened when one of its most respected members, Alfalfa Switzer, falls in love with (of all things!) a girl, Darla Hood. It's up to Alfalfa's pal Spanky McFarland to set his pal straight before Alfalfa's indiscretions jepordize the club's chances of winning the big go-cart race in a few weeks.

