The March sisters live and grow in post-Civil War America.
Louisa May Alcott's autobiographical account of her life with her three sisters in Concord, Massachusetts in the 1860s. With their father fighting in the American Civil War, sisters Jo, Meg, Amy and Beth are at home with their mother, a very outspoken women for her time. The story tells of how the sisters grow up, find love and find their place in the world.
Four sisters and their mother at home. Their father is fighting in the war. Louisa May Alcott semi-autobiographical novel has captured young women and the young at heart for years. On Christmas evening they receive a lovely dinner by their nieighbor James Laurence. Jo meets the old mans grandson at a dance. Jo, Amy, Beth, and Meg befriend him. Join in the hope, joy, surprise, disappoints, and love in one of my faves Little Women. Also the books Litttle Men, and Jo's Boys and how they grew up.
With their father away fighting in the Civil War, Jo, Meg, Beth and Amy grow up with their mother in somewhat reduced circumstances. They are a close family who inevitably have their squabbles and tragedies. But the bond holds even when, later, men friends start to become a part of the household.
The March sisters contemplate a gloomy Christmas. Their father is serving as a chaplain in the Civil War and their mother, "Marmee," must work to support the family. Meg and Jo, the two oldest sisters, also have jobs. Meg is a governess and Jo is a companion to their wealthy relative, Aunt March. The two younger sisters are Beth and Amy. Beth is too shy to attend school and is taught at home. Amy attends school but the teacher is very strict.On Christmas morning, the girls eagerly look forward to a hearty breakfast. But Mrs. March sends word that she is helping a poor family with several children. The girls decide to take their breakfast to the family. As they leave the house, they are spotted by their neighbor, wealthy old Mr. Laurence, and his teenage grandson Laurie. The girls aren't acquainted with the Laurences but Jo impulsive waves at them. Mr. Laurence remarks that the Marches were "once one of our first families."Sometime later, Jo and Laurie meet at a dance. He doesn't go to school but is tutored by young Mr. John Brooke. Jo and Laurie become best friends and soon he is the brother the March girls never had. He participates in their amateur theatricals, written by Jo. She wants to be a writer and has a studio in the attic.Amy is disciplined by her teacher and refuses to return to school. Marmee agrees as long as Amy will keep up with her lessons at home. Jo has a hard time with Aunt March because the old woman is very critical of her. She forces Jo to read dull books aloud, but as soon as she drops off to sleep, Jo switches to more interesting ones.Meg feels the family's poverty much more keenly that her sisters. When she is invited to a weekend at the wealthy Gardiners' home, her sisters and mother help her put together a suitable wardrobe. Aunt March is visiting and insists that Meg must marry well, so she can help her family. But Marmee wants her girls to marry for love, not money. While at the Gardiners', Meg discovers that her "best dress" is far too simple. Sallie Gardiner offers to loan her a dress for the dance and along with her maid, transforms Meg into a fashionable girl. Laurie attends the party but is put off by Meg's face paint and low-cut dress. When she begins drinking champagne, he stops her and she storms off. Later he apologizes and Meg admits to feeling like a fool. When she sprains her ankle, Laurie packs it in snow and gives her a ride home in his carriage.Amy often feels left out when Meg and Jo go places with Laurie. She is furious when Jo refuses to let her tag along to the theater. While Jo is gone, Amy burns all her writings. When Jo discovers the damage, she vows she will never speak to her sister again. Marmee advises not letting the sun go down on her anger, but Jo is unrelenting. Then Amy falls through the ice while skating and nearly drowns. Jo is very sorry for her actions and vows to keep a tight rein on her temper.A telegram arrives with grim news. Mr. March is gravely ill in a field hospital. Marmee must go to him at once and sends Jo to borrow the train fare from Aunt March. Not wanting to endure her aunt's criticiscm, Jo sells her long hair instead. The Laurences come to the family's aid. Mr. Brooke offers to escort Marmee, which pleases Meg. It is obvious that they are in love with each other.While Marmee is away, Beth falls ill with scarlet fever. Mr. Laurence sends for a doctor, who advises that Marmee come home. Meg and Jo care for Beth as best they can, but she doesn't really improve until her mother arrives. Unknown to the family, the illness has weakened Beth's heart. On Christmas Eve, Beth is allowed downstairs for the first time and Mr. March returns home. Mr. Laurence gives Beth the piano that belonged to his own daughter, who died many years earlier. Meg and John announce their engagement, but it is another three years before they marry.The story picks up with Meg and John's wedding. Beth is now a semi-invalid. She tires easily but never complains. Amy has taken Jo's place as a companion to Aunt March. Jo's writings are now selling but she is not satisfied. She longs for excitement and adventure. After the wedding, she goes for a walk with Laurie. He proposes marriage, which she refuses because she doesn't think they are suited to each other. After an emotional scene, Laurie stalks off. Later he goes to Europe, which has always been Jo's dream.When Aunt March announces she is taking Amy to Europe with her, Jo is heartbroken. Marmee suggests she stretch her wings by taking a job away from home. Jo finds a position as governess in New York City. Her charges are the children of a boarding house owner. She meets Fritz Bhaer, a professor from Germany who is raising his two nephews. He is much older than Jo. When he discovers that she loves music, he invites her to an opera. He can't afford tickets but the stage manager is a friend of his and gives them seats backstage. Jo confides in Mr. Bhaer that she is selling her stories to magazines and newspapers of doubtful repute. He is alarmed by this and urges her to stop. But the pay is good and Jo is able to send money home for Beth's medical care. Mr. Bhaer reads one of her stories and pronounces it terrible. Jo is hurt and offended. Before she can confront him, she receives a telegram. Beth is very ill and won't live much longer. Jo instantly sets out for home.On arriving home, Jo discovers that Meg is several months' pregnant. When asked why she didn't write to Jo with the news, Meg replies primly that one doesn't speak of such things. Jo takes care of Beth until her death. The family is devastated, especially since there was no time to send for Amy.In Europe, Amy is taking a painting class and enjoying a romance with one of Laurie's wealthy friends, Fred Vaughn. Laurie comes to their hotel but Amy is put off by his attitude. She thinks he is running with a wild crowd and wasting his grandfather's money. He privately asks Aunt March if Amy and Fred are engaged. She says not yet. Laurie flirts with Amy and tries to kiss her but she won't let him. He asks her not to rush into an engagement she may later regret and departs for London.Meanwhile, Jo is regretting having refused Laurie's proposal. When she writes with the news of Beth's death, she asks him to come home. But Laurie only reads the first few lines before rushing off to be with Amy in her time of sorrow. Luckily she has refused Fred's proposal and before long she and Laurie fall in love. She wants to go home but Aunt March is too ill to travel.Jo begins writing a novel based on her family. She titles it "My Beth" and sends it to Professor Bhaer. He in turns sends it to a publisher, who accepts it. Jo is ecstatic and can't wait for Laurie to return home so she can tell him the good news. But when he arrives, he brings a wife -- Amy! Jo tries to cover her shock as the two explain that they were married several weeks earlier. After a while she realizes it is right and is able to congratulate them.Aunt March dies and leaves Jo her estate consisting of a large house and several acres. Jo decides to open a school for orphans.Professor Bhaer unexpectedly arrives during a family get-together. He thinks Jo and Laurie are married but is relieved when Jo explains that is not the case. In a few weeks he is leaving for the west to accept a position at a college. Impulsively he proposes to Jo and she accepts. They kiss as the rain pours down around them.
