An ordinary American family goes on vacation to Europe. Because of the Cold War they are stuck in the U.S. Embassy surrounding by the Soviet forces.
Somewhere behind the early 1960s Cold War iron curtain, the Hollander family cause an international spying incident when Walter photographs a sunset in a sensitive region. In order to stay out of jail, the Hollanders take refuge in the American Embassy, which is temporarily being run by the absent Ambassador's diplomatically incompetent son, Axel.
It's 1961 during the height of the Cold War. Mr. Magee is the US Ambassador in one of the smaller European postings behind the Iron Curtain, it, and others like it, whose work is instrumental in trying to end the war. His son, Axel Magee, falls far off the tree as despite being part of the diplomatic corps currently stationed at the same embassy as his father and having a Harvard degree, he is a total screw-up as a diplomat. Regardless, when Ambassador Magee needs to head back to Washington for several weeks in the possibility of being promoted to a position back in the States, he appoints Axel head of the embassy during his absence despite other embassy staff, such as Mr. Kilroy, being far more qualified and capable. Axel's skills as a diplomat are tested when the vacationing Hollander family - caterer father Walter, housewife mother Marion, and their recent college graduate daughter Susan - of Newark, New Jersey, are forced to take refuge in the embassy in the charge by the Communists of Walter being an American spy for innocently taking a photograph of the wrong place at the wrong time. The Hollanders' stay at the embassy is complicated by Walter's delicate palate - Chef Oscar's exotic cuisine of the region which is not to Walter's liking - their encounters with another embassy guest, Father Drobney, who has not left the embassy in six years as a refugee and who welcomes people new to the embassy on which to practice his magic tricks, and the imminent visit of an Arab Emir and his large entourage who would otherwise take up a large part of the embassy resident quarters. Axel has to come up with a diplomatic solution to get the Hollanders out of the embassy and back to the States, without his father's knowledge or assistance if possible. If diplomacy is not possible, especially as the Communists are determined to make an example of the Hollanders, Axel may have to think outside the box for a solution. A further factor is Axel and Susan's burgeoning attraction to each other, which exists despite Susan being engaged to a boy at home.

