Muskaan (Kajol) is an orphan girl living on a farm run by her overly-protective older brother, Vishal (Arbaaz Khan) and their 'Chachu' (Dharmendra). Muskaan's childhood friend, Ujaala (Anjala Zhaveri), has been carrying a torch for the brooding Vishal since childhood, but he won't give her the time of day. Later on Muskaan decides she wants to go to university in the big city and has to persuade her brother to let her go. Once in the big city Muskaan falls for Suraj (Salman Khan). Vishal does not support this, because his terms and conditions of his future brother-in-law are very strenuous physically. And he decides to bring Muskaan back on the farm. Suraj obviously pursues her and starts working on the farm as a stable boy after a chance meeting with 'Chachu'. And then Vishaul decides to put him to the test, and he is rejected. Vishaal wants Muskaan to marry the brother of Thakur Vijay Singh (Nirmal Pandey), not knowing that Thakur Vijay Singh is doing this to merely extract vengeance against the Thakur family for a previous humiliation his own family received. So Suraj must now prevent this from happening and he must also be able to win Vishal's heart if he is really interested in marrying Muskaan (Vishal's sister).
Beautiful, talented, young and attractive Muskaan has an only guardian in her life her strict and stern brother Vishal Thakur, both reside on a farm in the Country area. Vishal enrolls Muskaan into the City College, where she meet a prankster Suraj Khanna, who have been neglected by his wealthy parents. Suraj and Muskaan fall in love slowly and then it was time for Muskaan to return to the Country area, Suraj follows Muskaan all the way to her house where he meet with Vishal who object to there marriage but when Suraj save the life of an elder Thakur Ajay Singh he is taken in and must undergo certain tests before Vishal will accept him as his brother in law.
After the death of her parents Muskaan is brought up in a discipline atmosphere by her brother, Vishaal and their Chachu. She receive numerous marriage proposals from some of the most eligible bachelors - who are all rejected as Vishaal wants a physically fit brother in law. When Muskaan fall in love with Suraj Khanna she invites him home only to introduce him to Vishaal - Suraj is then put through Vishaal's test only to be rejected. Vishaal then plans to get his sister marry to Thakur Vijay Singh's brother. What Vishaal is not aware of is that Vijay Singh is doing this in order to extract revenge from their family as he has an Axe to grind against them since eon.
A bachelor Thakur Ajay Singh has taken care of his brother's kids Vishal and Muskaan as his own.Vishal is very possessive about Muskaan and is known to loose his temper when anybody messes with her.Muskaan decides to go and study in city top college Vishal agrees to it for sake of his sister's love.Suraj is a handsome college guy who falls in love at first sight with Muskaan after few interactions they both fall in love.But surprisingly Vishal arrives in college to meet Muskaan and bashes Suraj and takes her back home.Suraj is deeply in love with Muskaan and follows her to her village where Vishal throws him out of the house. Suraj coincidentally saves life of Takur Ajay Singh who gets him home.Suraj now tries to impress everyone from Vishal to her uncle in order to marry Muskaan.
Muskaan is an eligible young lady, who is not only attractive, but talented as well. She receives many proposals of marriage from many eligible young men and/or their families. But her picky brother, Vishaal, rejects them all - one by one - as his terms and conditions of his future brother-in-law are very strenuous physically. When Muskaan falls in love with Suraj Khanna, she introduces him to her family, and Vishaal puts him to the test, and even Suraj is rejected. Vishaal wants Muskaan to marry the brother of Thakur Vijay Singh, not knowing that Thakur Vijay Singh is doing this to merely extract vengeance against the Thakur family for a previous humiliation.

