A murderer begins killing off teenagers at a horror movie marathon they have organized in an abandoned theater.
A "Leatherface" type murderer who wears other people's faces, kills at an all-night horrorthon at an old theatre put on by a bunch of film students. Maggie, the lead character, believes it's really Lanyard Gates, a crazed film maker who killed his family live on stage, fifteen years ago. And now he's back to kill his daughter, Sara, who is believed to be really Maggie.
A group of teenagers preparing an old horror movie show in an abandoned theatre discover a recording made by an actual murderer who died long ago. Very soon a shadowy figure resembling the killer starts stalking them one by one...
Maggie (Jill Schoelen) has nightmares about a man, and tells so to Suzanne, (Dee Wallace-Stone). She's preparing a script about a girl named Sarah, so she doesn't have time for Mark (Derek Rydall). Mr Davis (Tony Roberts) will find his students' film with three Z-series films with surprises. The students agree: Tina (Freddie Marie Simpson), wheelchair-bound Bud (Malcolm Danare), Leon (Elliot Hurst), Joanie (Ivette Soler), Cheryl (Kelly Jo Minter) and Toby (Tom Villard). The films will be broadcast at the Dreamland, an old theatre destroyed by the fire. Dr. Mnesyne (Ray Walston) will provide all the propsDuring the preparations, they find Possession, a film about Lanyard Gates (Mat Falls), a crazy mad who recorded his attempt to sacrifice Sarah. Maggie will discover he was his father, and Suzanne saved herself and her from the fire. Suzanne goes to the theatre alone at night because of some threatening calls she's been lately suffering.Mark goes with Joy (Karen Witter) that night to the cinema, but seeks Maggie. Somebody has killed Mr Davis, with the mosquito model. Disguised as Mr Davis, that person kills Tina. Then, disguised as Tina, that person kills Bud. Disguised as Leon, that person kills Leon himself.That person confronts Maggie. Suzanne is alive, but can't move and has a gun in her hand. Maggie discovers Toby is the killer. He was disfigured at the fire, and wants to recreate Gates' sacrifice. Mark talks to Toby's landlord (Will Knickerbocker), and runs back to the theatre to save Maggie.Cheryl and Joanie throw Joy and a bearded guy (Scott Thompson) out of the theatre, because they have quarrelled with Mark. They lock the door, so Mark has to climb the façade to enter-.Toby represents the film Possession while broadcasting it. The audience laughs when Maggie says "it ain't a film". Mark saves her by killing Toby with the sharp-tongued mosquito model.Toby and Maggie kiss each other while giving their evidence to the police.
