In early 1970s England, a Pakistani father finds the authority he has previously maintained challenged by his increasingly Anglicized children.
In 1971 Salford fish-and-chip shop owner George Khan expects his family to follow his strict Pakistani Muslim ways. But his children, with an English mother and having been born and brought up in Britain, increasingly see themselves as British and start to reject their father's rules on dress, food, religion, and living in general.
Zaheed Khan was born in Pakistan and had got married for the first time there. Seeking better prospects, he immigrated to Britain, fell in love with Ella, a Caucasian, married her, and eventually became the father of six sons and one daughter. He wanted all of children to follow Islamic tradition, and would parcel them in the "Masjid van" every Friday for prayers and religious incantations. Arguments with Ella are one-sided and always end when he threatens to bring "Mrs. Khan" from Pakistan. His eldest son, Nazir, comes to know that his dad was going to arrange his marriage and runs away from home. Zaheed, who now calls himself George, disowns him. While the children have all settled down in the community and have had their respective romantic flings, they do not know that their father has plans to marry off two of his sons to two Pakistani sisters. Nevertheless, the family prepare themselves, and her sons are introduced to these women. After recovering from the initial shock of seeing the women face to face, the family settles down, leaving Khan to negotiate the details. Noticing that the apartment was very small, the brides' mother proposes that both boys should settle in their house after marriage. Watch how chaos takes over, and the manner in which the overbearing Khan attempts to bring his family in line - or at least tries to, all this in the midst of Enoch Powell's announcement that his political party will expel all immigrants and send them back to their respective motherlands.
In early 1970's England, a traditional Pakistani father (Om Puri) finds his family spinning in decidedly non-traditional directions. His brood consisting of six sons and one daughter all move in independent-minded directions set off when the eldest son runs away from home rather than keeping to his fate of an arranged marriage. When the next two sons also find out that their father has secretly been arranging marriages for them, they rebel and set off repercussions that forces the family to totally reconsider their family structure.

