Two Cuban brothers bring a new music to the 1950s USA. They are as different as the problems that await them.
Musician brothers Cesar and Nestor leave Cuba for America in the 1950s, hoping to hit the top of the Latin music scene. Cesar is the older brother, the business manager, and the ladies' man. Nestor is the brooding songwriter, who cannot forget the woman in Cuba who broke his heart.
1952. Brothers Cesar and Nestor Castillo are musicians playing the local clubs in Havana, Cuba. Cesar convinces Nestor to move to New York City with him, where they hope to revive their music careers playing the downtown clubs. However their goals are different. Outgoing Cesar wants to be among the biggest names in Latin music, names such as Tito Puente or Desi Arnaz. Sensitive Nestor just wants to settle down and open a small club. While Cesar embraces all that America has to offer, including a largely sexual relationship with vivacious cigarette girl Lanna Lake, Nestor pines for his old girlfriend back home, Maria, who married Luis, the owner of the club where he and Cesar worked. Regardless, Nestor believes Maria is still his destiny, writing several version of a love song to her called "Maria of My Soul". Nestor eventually meets Delores Fuentes, who is working toward becoming a teacher, the two who end up marrying. Delores knows about Maria, Delores who may or may not make Nestor forget about his life back in Cuba. Cesar has a few secrets of his own, one in relation to why he was so desperate for Nestor to leave Cuba with him. These secrets could drastically alter what is the loving relationship between the brothers, Cesar who will do anything for Nestor, especially protecting him from the same traps that he did unwittingly fall into back in Cuba.
Cesar (Armand Assante) and Nestor Castillo (Antonio Banderas) are popular musicians on Havana's club circuit, but when they make enemies of the wrong people, they are forced to leave for New York City, the moody Nestor leaving behind his true love. In New York, the brothers work as meat-cutters during the day as Cesar tries to organize a band and make inroads into the lively New York music scene. Soon, as The Mambo Kings, they get club bookings and Cesar falls in love with a sharp-tongued cigarette girl, Lanna Lake (Cathy Moriarty), and Nestor with the beautiful Delores Fuentes (Maruschka Detmers), who wants to be a teacher. Cesar concentrates on singing and managing the band, while Nestor plays the trumpet and writes emotional songs of love. All seems to be going well until Cesar antagonizes the money men on the Latin nightclub circuit and they finds themselves playing in a bar. But after they're discovered by Desi Arnaz (Desi Arnaz Jr.), the group is prominently featured on I Love Lucy. Their popularity soars and they cut a successful album called "Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love." Cesar is glorying in his success, but Nestor is disappointed and longs to return to Cuba.

