Upon moving into a bigoted neighborhood, the scientist father of a persecuted black family gives a superpower elixir to a tough bodyguard, who thus becomes a superpowered crimefighter.
[Also known as In Your face]In what passes for an affluent neighbourhood, two female neighbours, Mabel Otell (Dee Turguand) and Blanche Jacobson (April London) are discussing their ex-neighbours, a writer wannabe which dedicated all his time to parties, and they hope for something much better. One of them says that the realty agent had told her that a successful doctor and his family are moving in. Mabel is eager to introduce this family to her country club and invite them over for coffee. When the moving truck and the family car appear, Blanche comments that the car must have cost a fortune. Mabel is distraught when she sees an African American family, but has hopes that they are the maid and chauffer of the successful family. But they are not the servants - they are Dr. Kenneth "Ken" Kincade (J. Walter Smith), his wife (Roxie Young) and their two children, Tommie (Tony Rumford) and Debbie (Gladys Lum). Mabel gets hysterical and threatens to set fire to the house herself.The Mayor (Nelson Meeker) wants the family out, but he can't do openly because Dr. Kincade is the recipient of a federal funded grant. He advises the board to buy the Kincade's home, even if it is at double the house value. The news reach the radio (Fred D. Scott's voice), and this brings this problem to some black activists' attention. Two councilmen (Richard Corrigan and Syd Marks) offer the Kincade's a big offer for their home. Dr. Kincade refuses to go, as this is the third attempt of the family to live in peace. Bigots demonstrate outside until a group of violent motorbikers appear to disperse the crowd. They belong to the Black Front Union, a violent movement led by John Abar. However, when Dr. Kincade refuses to move back to the ghetto to support the black community, they abandon the Kinkades to their fate. The secretary (Felicia Cruse) finally supports the idea.The doctor does some research at hospital. That night, somebody has killed the Kinkades' pet dog and hanged it over their front door. Two youngsters (James Dickson and Chuck Cumminsky) attack Dr. Kinkade but Marco (William Carrol Jr.) saves him. He convinced the doctor to talk to him about helping the black community. Marco likes to speak publicly; he says that the doctor is as guilty as the racist white people, as he abandoned his community. However, they talk in private and they drive around the derelict houses at the ghetto.Uncle Jim "Jimmy" Kincade (Rupert Williams) appears in the middle of the night with Susan (Tina "Lonnie" James), which makes Dr. Kincade scream. Jim and Ken end up fighting on the floor in the dark. The newcomers want Ken to return to the ghetto. Ken tries to convince his brother of selling. Two criminals try to enter the home. That night, they dream of a Western-cinema duel Ken versus all the whites if necessary. Ken kills many of the gunners.Ken visits Snake (Cal Williams), who introduces him to Abar (Tobar Mayo).Abar expresses fear for the loss of the federal grant. Abar thinks that IT will help them.Tommie and Debbie play all over the place. Once, their frisbee ends up at Mabel's front garden, which causes hysterics on her. Another time, Tommie discovers a young man trying to plant a bomb behind their home. When he runs away, he runs over Tommie. Tommie dies, which leaves the family completely broken. Neighbours stare at the family without any sympathy. Mrs Kincade wants to leave the house and seems to be starting to package a suitcase. Just this time she will give her husband an ultimatum.Ken takes solace in his research. He'll make somebody indestructible. Marco shoots a rabbit and a hen... to no avail. However, Ken is afraid of the possible misuses of his discovery, as Abar has become the first person to which he has applied his research.That night, bikers lurk threateningly. Agar notices a dead man at a cul-de-sac which has graffitted DEAD-END on its walls. John Agar sees a killer cop (John Kerry) killing somebody, and when he steps forward as a witness, he's shot as well. The killer cop greets his sargent (Odell Mack) as though nothing out of the ordinary had happened.The Black Front Union members find Abar meditating, or something. Police arrive fast and threaten to shoot on sight, but bullets won't hurt him, so he won't even bat an eyelid. The police fight among themselves for some reason - maybe because he's influencing them telepathically, or something.Abar notices a drunk homeless man (Charles Green) who's fighting against others for a bottle of licour. Immediately, Abar forces them to drink milk. Abar also pushes a pocket-lifter (Frank Doubleday) to run and leave behind the purse of a lady and then turn it back to her. He also pushes a young lady prostitute to defend herself from her fat pimp. He almost leaves some graffiti-artists almost deaf (and myself as well), and forces them to whitewash the wall until it's spotless clean. He transforms somehow the fancy car of a priest into an old-fashioned hansom powered by a brown horse. A gang of teenagers who are betting, playing dice, smoking pot and dancing on the streets become a high school fresh graduates in graduation day. He transforms a dish of food into slugs crawling in somebody's mouth.Finally, Abar comes back to Ken's laboratory - he has already heard of all the events. Abar thinks that his powers are of divine origin. He is not the only one who could abuse his powers, as Dr. Kincade has also plenty of power.Abar hears the clicking clock of a bomb at Dr. Kincade's. He goes there to stop the bomb. The Mayor's aide (Edward "Ed" Cross) has planted it and left in his car, but Abar puts the bomb inside the aide's car. It goes off far away from anybody else's car.Abar is fed up about the situation in the Kincade's neighbourhood. He creates a gale which pushes all the dwellers in a group in the middle of the street. An invasion of rats appear, and a huge snake wakes up sleeping Mabel, who also runs to the street.Ken has gone home to see what's happening because of what Abar said. His wife and children also arrive tosee all the neighbourhood in turmoil. The mob of neighbours can't even walk properly because of the gale, until they are all pushed out of the way and calm returns. Ken hugs his family. Mabel comes up to apologise. Mabel admits to being black herself, but she was passing as black all those years. Ken, Debbie and Mrs Kincade forgive her.Everybody is happy while we listen to a voice over of the  I Have a Dream  speech.
