Misfits form their own opposing team to an elite peewee football team, coached by the elite team coach's brother.
In Urbania, Ohio, snobby ex-football star Kevin O'Shea conducts try-outs for the town's Peewee football team, the Urbania Cowboys, which will compete for a chance at the state Peewee football playoffs. Kevin slights his younger brother Danny O'Shea by rejecting Danny's daughter Becky "Icebox" O'Shea, who is a good player. Kevin rejected her simply because she's a girl. Becky and some of her friends, boys who were also rejected, get the idea to start up their own team, to be coached by Danny. After Kevin tries to put a stop to that plan, Danny gets Kevin to agree to a game to decide which team will represent Urbania, because each town is allowed only one team. Danny and Becky scour the town in search of willing players, and they gather a crew of kids who have limited skills and no team spirit. They luck out when Becky discovers Junior Floyd expertly passing rolls of toilet paper right into a shopping cart at the supermarket, as though he's passing a football. With Becky and Junior on board, the new team, the Giants, has a chance to make a good showing, and they begin their training. But low morale continually threatens to break up the team. A chance visit by former NFL football coach John Madden and four NFL football stars -- Steve Entman, Bruce Smith, Emmitt Smith, and Tim Brown -- leaves the team with several tips on how to create an advantage. Becky develops a crush on Junior Floyd, and she's jealous when her cheerleader cousin Debbie flirts with Junior. Becky decides to compete for Junior on equal terms, so she puts on make-up and a cheerleader outfit, joining the cheerleaders and abandoning the team. But the Cowboys will be coming into the game with a vicious new player named Spike Hammersmith. Will Becky be there for the team if they need her?
Danny O'Shea has forever lived in the shadow of his brother, the great football player Kevin O'Shea. Kevin was stronger, faster, and more popular. But when his daughter is cut from Kevin's pee-wee football team, Danny brings together a squad of picked-lasts and losers to prove to Kevin that he can still learn a lot from his brother.
Kevin O'Shea (Ed O' Neil) is an early retired Football Star, who now coaches a pee-wee league team. When Kevin excludes his niece, Becky O'Shea (dispite her being the best player), she convinces her dad Danny O'Shea (Rick Moranis) to coach a pee-wee team, and beat Kevin's team. Danny accepts in an attempt to show Urbainia that Kevin is not invincible, and that there is another O'Shea in town. Danny picks a team of players that have never been given a chance, and Danny no-longer wants to be Second Best.

