A Chinese movie actress, in France to star in a remake of "Les Vampires", finds petty intrigues and clashing egos on the set.
French filmmaker René Vidal was once a renowned director, but most see his career on a quick downward slide based on his last several films. In Paris, he is just starting to film his latest movie, a remake of Les vampires (1915), and has hired Hong Kong based Chinese actress Maggie Cheung as the title lead, "Irma Vep" (an anagram for "vampire"), despite she knowing no French and she not being an obvious choice to most. Maggie has never worked with Vidal before and knows little about his movies, but many of his primarily French crew are part of his regular stable. As such, Maggie may become isolated among the cast and crew, unless there are those who bring her into their English conversations, they who may have somewhat ulterior motives in doing so. There are also factions within the cast and crew, who, based on their history, have a poisoned sense of what is going on. With Vidal, he is dealing with some personal issues while he tries to regain his film making form. He may transfer his thoughts of Irma Vep to Maggie, who he hired because he too sees her as strong and sexy like the skin-tight latex clad Irma. And Maggie may take her research for the comic bookish character to an extreme.
Rene Vidal, a director in decline, decides to remake Louis Feuillade's silent serial "Les Vampires." Believing no French actress can match Musidora as Irma Vep (an anagram for vampire), he casts Hong Kong action heroine Maggie Cheung, though she speaks no French. On the chaotic set, she's aided by Zoe, the wardrobe mistress with a crush on her; she defends Vidal to a Parisian journalist who trashes all French film and praises John Woo and Schwarzenegger; she befriends Vidal when he goes over the edge; and, in costume, she breaks into a hotel suite to steal jewels as her victim talks on the phone. We also watch the making, the rushes, and the remains of Vidal's unfinished film.
Director René Vidal [Jean-Pierre Leaud] has been charged with the remake of Louis
Feuillade's 1915 silent French movie Les Vampires. The star of Les
Vampires, Irma Vep, was played by a French actress named Musidora. In a
search for an actress to play Irma, René has become impressed with Chinese
martial artist, Maggie Cheung [herself], because of her beauty, her grace, and her
presence, he says. Maggie is hired and flies to Paris from Hong Kong.
Unfortunately, she is three days late in arriving, which is causing havoc
with the filming. It also doesn't help that Maggie does not speak French.First thing on the agenda is for Maggie to be fitted in her costume,
a skin-tight latex catsuit, much like the one worn by Halle Berry in
Catwoman. Next, Maggie grabs some lunch with costumer Zoé [Nathalie Richard] and learns
that René Vidal's reputation as a director is going downhill. To Maggie,
however, he seems to believe in the remaking of Les Vampires, so she
isn't worried. Then comes the shoots. They shoot the scene where Irma is
chloroformed and a double substituted in her place. At the viewing of the
shoot, however, René is so P.O.ed that he stomps out of the theater.That night, following the viewing, everyone drives off and leaves
Maggie behind until Zoé happens by and offers Maggie a ride on her
motorbike. They go to a friend's house for dinner, where everyone is
dissing René in French and Maggie has no idea what they are saying.
Meanwhile, out in the kitchen, Zoé and a friend are discussing Zoé's
attraction to Maggie, and the firend advises Zoé to go for it. When she
gets Maggie alone, the friend tells her that Zoé wants to have sex with her.
Maggie is very embarrassed.When Maggie gets back to the hotel, she finds a half dozen messages
from René, who's been calling every few minutes, asking her to call back.
He asks her to meet him at his house. By the time Maggie arrives, the
police are buzzing in and out. René has had a huge fight with his wife,
and the doctor on call has given him tranquilizers. As René is in the
middle of explaining to Maggie her role in the movie, he passes out.Maggie goes back to her hotel room. Almost as though she is possessed
by the spirit of Irma Vep, she puts on her catsuit and sneaks into the
room of a hotel guest where she finds a pile of jewelry and takes it with
her. Like Irma Vep, she flees to the rooftop where she drops the jewelry
over the ledge. The next morning, Maggie is so tired that she sleeps
through her wakeup until Zoé shows up with the hotel passkey to see if
Maggie is okay. When Maggie gets to the studio, she rehearses the scene
where Irma kills the Great Vampire.Meanwhile, René has come up missing, and the entire crew is in
distress. It turns out that René has had a nervous breakdown and has been
admitted to a rest home. René's director friend, José Mirano, is going to
take his place. What Mirano cannot comprehend is why René chose a Chinese
actress to play Irma Vep, the epitome of the Paris Underground. Mirano
agrees to take over direction but only if he can replace Maggie.Maggie is given a ticket to New York where she is to meet with Ridley
Scott and then fly on to Los Angeles. Mirano views the film as it's been
edited by René. The film is a total mess (although some reviewers claim
that it's a "love sonnet" from René to Maggie). [Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl]
