Brad is about to hook up with the girl of his dreams, but runs into a problem, no condom. So Brad sets out into the night to find one, running into many obstacles along the way, while not knowing his best friend, Leah is in love with him.
Brad thinks he has found the girl of his dreams with Brooke. On the night when he thinks all of his dreams will come true, he runs into a problem, no condom. On his search to find one, he realizes that maybe it isn't worth the trouble. Brad is robbed, beaten up, arrested, and everything else imaginable trying to get just one condom. His best friend Leah is disgusted at his behavior, because she wants Brad all to herself and can't see why Brad would want someone like Brooke. Will Brad find what he wants or will Leah get what she has always wanted, Brad?
High school student Brad (Friedle) has had an unrequited crush on a classmate named Brooke (Marley Shelton) for years. After she asks him to come over one night to tutor her, she ends up wanting to have sex with him. But she only wants safe sex, and he does not have a condom. (The use of Trojan in the title is an obvious pun on the condom brand.) In his quest to buy some condoms, he runs into all sorts of trouble; his dad's Jaguar gets stolen and then wrecked, he has a run-in with a crazy bus driver (Anthony Michael Hall), he is held hostage, he is pursued by a school janitor (Paulo Tocha) who accuses him of tagging, an odd pair hispanic siblings (Christine Deaver and Mike Moroff) who think he's David Hasselhoff, Brooke's dog, Brooke's jealous boyfriend Kyle (Eric Balfour), and a homeless man (David Patrick Kelly) who wants two dollars from him (and secretly stolen his wallet), and he is nearly arrested.After all of this, he realizes that the perfect girl has been there for him all along: his best friend Leah (Jennifer Love Hewitt), who has had feelings for him for a long time unbeknownst to Brad. Finally, Brad realizes his own feelings for Leah while also discovering Brooke is not as great as he thought she was, after he finds out that she only wants a one night stand with him instead of a relationship. Brad runs out to find Leah and admits his feelings to her.After the end credits, Brad's parents are shocked by the sight of what is left of their car after the tow truck driver brings it back.
