The story of the discovery of the AIDS epidemic, and the political infighting of the scientific community hampering the early fight with it.
This is the story of the first years of the AIDS epidemic in the United States and focuses on three key elements. Dr. Don Francis, an immunologist with experience in eradicating smallpox and containing the Ebola virus, joins the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to try and understand just what this disease is. They also have deal with bureaucracy and a government that doesn't seem to care. The gay community in San Francisco is divided on the nature of the disease, but also what should be done about it. Finally, this movie deals with the rivalry between Dr. Robert Gallo, the American virologist who previously discovered the first retrovirus and his French counterpart at the Pasteur Institute, Dr. Luc Montagnier, that led to disputed claims about who was first to identify the AIDS virus.
In yhis story of the first years of the AIDS epidemic, this film follows Dr. Don Francis, an immunologist who joins the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) as they attempt to understand this disease. They deal with a bureaucracy - and a government which doesn't seem to care. San Francisco's gay community is divided on not just the disase, but what should be done. The film also tells of the rivalry between Dr. Robert Gallo, the American virologist who previously discovered the first retrovirus and his French counterpart at the Pasteur Institute, Dr. Luc Montagnier, which led to disputed claims about who was 'patient zero'; the first to identified victim of the AIDS virus.
In 1981, epidemiologist Don Francis learns of an increased rate of death among gay men in urban areas. The startling information leads him to begin investigating the outbreak, which is ultimately identified as AIDS. His journey finds mostly opposition from politicians and doctors, but several join him in his cause. As it becomes apparent that people have personal reasons to turn the other cheek, Francis persists. Meanwhile, the number of deaths continues to grow.

