Jack is in the midst of a major robbery, which leaves him injured and his accomplices dead. Jack manages to hide the $500,000 from the robbery before he makes his way to his death bed.
It's _The Good, the Bad and the Ugly (1966)_ meets Simple Men (1992). George is a small-time crook. His brother Michael makes a living scamming the elderly by selling them nonexistent burial plots. When their father steals half a million dollars, the brothers find themselves on the run from the police and a local crime boss. But when Dad is killed, George and Michael have to team up to find the hidden loot. fix it to look like this: It's _Buono, il brutto, il cattivo, Il (1966)_ meets Simple Men (1992). George is a small-time crook. His brother Michael makes a living scamming the elderly by selling them nonexistent burial plots. When their father steals half a million dollars, the brothers find themselves on the run from the police and a local crime boss. But when Dad is killed, George and Michael have to team up to find the hidden loot.
Two estranged brothers discover that family secrets can have a high value on the wrong side of the law in this crime drama. Jack McCallister (Seymour Cassel) is an aging career criminal whose luck is about to give out; Jack and his henchmen are ambushed by police in the midst of a major robbery, which leaves Jack severely injured and his accomplices dead. Jack manages to hide the $500,000 from the robbery before he makes his way to his death bed, where he speaks with his two sons, George (Treat Williams) and Michael (Paul Schulze). George has followed Jack's example as a thief, though his violent recklessness suggests that his career will not be as long as his father's, while Michael makes ends meet as a con man, selling burial plots that don't exist to the elderly and gullible. George and Michael have never gotten along and don't trust each other, but before Jack dies, he gives each of his sons an important clue as to where his final windfall is hidden. If they are to find the money, George and Michael will have to put aside their differences and help each other, but of course they're not the only ones in town looking for the missing half-million.Hand Gun is an amusing indie crime caper flick that's slick and well-acted by the outstanding ensemble cast. This was the auspicious film debut for television director and screenwriter Whitney Ransick. It's set in NYC, and starts out with a blazing shootout between security guards and a gang of armed robbers. The leader of the gang is an aging career criminal just released from prison, Jack McCallister (Seymour Cassel), who escapes from the botched robbery with a half a million while his partners are either killed or arrested. Jack could have saved some of his henchmen, but instead ran for the money and deserted them in an ambush.Jack goes into hiding after stashing the loot in a Coney Island warehouse locker. His cellmate from prison, Benny, hides him in a dumpy apartment as a return favor from prison days, but wants him to leave quickly as both the cops and the mob are asking too many questions. Jack won't leave until he sees his lady friend Laura (Levine) and his estranged sons he has been a terrible father to. Jack and George (Treat Williams) don't even recognize each other as he falls into Mikey's place bleeding from the stomach. George, his eldest, is also a violent gun toting career criminal, who is just out of prison on a legal technicality. While Mikey (Paul Schulze), his youngest, is non-violent and so far jail free but an oily con man who sells burial plots that don't exist to the elderly.Mikey is tracked down by relatives of an elderly man he cheated, as one of them (Rapaport) gives him a wicked beating. While lying in an alleyway to lick his wounds, Earl and his gang descend and politely tell Mikey in gangster lingo that they're looking for his dad and it would be profitable if he called them when he makes contact. Meanwhile, George is taken down to the police station and questioned about a handgun found in the apartment of the lady he was sleeping with. Two crooked cops, Roy (Caban) and Ted (Huss), recognize him from the newspaper photos of the heist and decide to follow him after his release and see if he could lead them to his dad and the stolen money. While buying pot and a handgun from his low-life dealer friend, the crooked cops try to arrest him but in their nervousness they fatally shoot the drug dealer as George escapes.
