An avenging cop seeks out his brother's killer and falls for the daughter of a businessman who is involved in a money-deal with his father.
In this modern day Romeo and Juliet, kung fu action star Jet Li plays Romeo to hip-hop singer, Aaliyah Haughton's Juliet. Li is an ex-cop investigating the murder of his brother, who had ties with the Chinese mafia in America. Aaliyah plays the daughter of the American mob boss. Neither side approves of their romance, so, obviously, kung fu action ensues, with a soundtrack by Aaliyah.
The death of Han Sing's little brother catapults him out of a Hong Kong jail to the Oakland-San Francisco waterfront, where he vows to find his brother's killers. His quest lands him in the middle of a three-way deal between Chinese, Black and White "businessmen" who will stop at nothing to create a new money-making stadium. Han finds help from Trish, a woman with close connections to the Black mob, and together they work to find their brothers' killers.
Han Sing is an ex-cop who went to prison in Hong Kong to let his father, a Chinese crime lord, and his brother escape to San Francisco. When his brother is killed, seemingly by a black gang headed by Isaak O'Day, Sing breaks out of prison and gets to America to discover his brother's killer and avenge his death.
When a Chinese gang lord's son is murdered in Oakland, his brother, Han, breaks out of a Hong Kong prison to find out how it happened and to avenge his death. He arrives on controlled turf, a waterfront run by the rival gang-lords Ch'u Sing (Han's father) and Isaak O'Day, and their respective Chinese and African-American crime organizations. When it is clear that something bigger is involved, Han teams up with O'Day's daughter Trish to continue the hunt for justice.
Two rival gangs, one Asian, the other African American, are locked in a fierce and brutal turf battle, vying for control of Oakland's waterfront properties. But when the first casualty is the Asian warlord's son Po, the gang war becomes more dangerous than either side ever imagined.News of the murder gets back to Po's big brother Han (Jet Li - Lethal Weapon 4, Kiss Of the Dragon), a legendary ex-cop currently imprisoned in a Hong Kong jail. In a world of vicious rivalries and violent betrayals, Han has no choice but to escape and declare war himself. But unlike others, who can only use weapons, Han IS a weapon. And falling into his sightlines can be a deadly mistake.
