A journalist comes to the aid of a murderer with a life sentence when she makes an appeal in court and although he is given his freedom, they soon discover that there is a grim reason behind his release.
Journalist Roma Singh is the daughter of a jailer. While taking a tour of the jail, she is molested by some of the inmates, and an inmate, Vishal Agnihotri comes to her assistance. She finds out that Vishal is in for four homicides, and decides to investigate further. She finds out, with the help of the owner of her publications, Jindal that Vishal was compelled to take the law in his own hands when the courts failed to punish the assailants of his sister and sweetheart. Soon, Vishal is released from prison, and begins to work for Jindal. It is then that he realizes that he has just walked from a walled prison, to an open prison, as the truth behind his release slowly but surely starts to dawn on him.
Tony gets addicted to drugs and this result in his fiancée, Rita being raped by four young guys. When this news reaches Rita's brother-in-law Vishaul, he took the help of the law but fails, frustrated at this act he decides to take the law into his own hands and is given death penalty, while in custody, he rescues a journalist, Roma who were taking a tour around the jail, befriends her and with the help of her boss Jinhal she finally gets Vishaul released. Here is where he became a cold-blooded murderer accepting contracts to kill from Jinhal, thinking that he is evading crime from the city but what he does not know is that he is merely a pawn in the hands of Jinhal.
Roma Singh is employed as a journalist at Samadhan and is the only daughter of a jailer. While taking a tour around her dad's jail she is molested by some inmates and a kind hearted inmate Vishaul Agnihotri comes to her rescue. She realizes that Vishaul is kind hearted and that the actual place for him is not jail and with this she decides to question him as to how he reaches the dungeon. As per her realization she does find out that Vishaul was compelled to take the law into his own hands as the law abiders fail to punish the four young guys who murder his girlfriend and her sister. Thus with the help of her publication Mr. Jindal she gets him free from the law. To return Mr. Jindal's favor Vishaul begins to work for him by killing smugglers and gangsters. But will this path of Vishaul help him remain out of prison or will it take him to the same prison Roma freed him from?
Vishal Agnihotri is imprisoned for four homicides but is soon released from jail as a result of an appeal made in a court of law by a journalist named Roma Singh and her boss, Mr. Jindal. To pay back Jindal's favor Vishaul is forced to work for Jindal in seeking revenge from Jindal's perpetrators. Soon Vishaul comes to know that he is only a pawn in Jindal's game plan and he himself is not what he claims to be.
Vishal Agnihotri (Sunil Shetty), a convict, is imprisoned for the murder of a group of four criminals who had brutally raped and killed his sister-in-law. Vishal tries to get justice in court, but is unsuccessful and the men are released from prison with the help of a corrupt lawyer. The criminals then visit Vishal's home because he tried to file a case against them. The four criminals try to rape Vishal's wife Priya (Poonam Jhawer), but she kills herself with a knife. Angered at all this, Vishal decides to take the matter into his own hands and murders the four criminals himself. He is sentenced to life in prison for the crimes.When journalist Roma Singh (Raveena Tandon) visits the jail for a report that she's writing, a few of the convicts try to rape her. The attempted rape reminds Vishal of his misfortune and he intervenes and saves Roma. Roma hears Vishal's story and decides to help free him. She is heard by a blind businessman - Mr. Jindal (Naseeruddin Shah) who tries to recruit Vishal as a hit-man. He wants Vishal to kill some anti-social elements in the city, mainly the two powerful drug lords Jibran (Raza Murad) and Tyson (Gulshan Grover) and all the people who work for them. Mr. Jindal tells Vishal that these drug lords are responsible for creating people like the group of four men he killed in the first place, by bringing drugs to the streets and corrupting the locals. Vishal refuses at first as he has just got out of prison, and now wants to live a normal life. However, the memories of his murdered family come back to haunt him as he spends a day alone in his home, and he agrees to work for Jindal.Inspector Sahoo (Paresh Rawal) is very greedy and becomes an informer for Jibran, one of the targeted drug lords. He discloses all internal matters of the police department to Jibran in return for money.Police Inspector Amar Saxena (Akshay Kumar) is trying to catch the drug-trading suspects. He is unhappy about the release of Vishal, who he believes deserves to be in prison because of the murders he committed. Things become even more complicated when Amar finds Vishal at most of the murder scenes of criminals involved in drug-trading. Vishal goes on a murder spree, until he realizes that even the Commissioner (Sadashiv Amrapurkar) thinks that the unknown murderer is doing more to help society than police could ever do. Vishal refuses to kill the Commissioner, thus angering his boss, Jindal. Vishal attacks Jindal with a paper-weight, but Jindal dodges it. Vishal then realizes that Jindal is not blind and is the real antagonist, as he was pulling the strings all this time.Jindal tells Vishal that Jibran and Tyson were his rivals. He also confesses that he murdered his wife Pooja (Priya Tendulkar) and Inspector Karan Saxena (who happens to be Amar's father), to cover up the truth, and faked his blindness to throw the police off his trail. Jindal, who has now partnered with his former enemy, Jibran, leaves Vishal to die. Vishal escapes, only to be confronted by Amar. Vishal subdues Amar and tells him the truth. Inspector Sahoo, who is brought to Jindal by Jibran to give him important information about Vishal, tells him that Vishal is alive and will tell the entire truth to Amar and the Commissioner by the next morning. Then Jindal kidnaps the journalist, Roma, and kills the sub-editor Siddiqui, who tries to save Roma. Amar, Vishal and the Commissioner go to Jindal's home to arrest him, but they find the sub-editor, Siddiqui, brutally murdered at his home. They discover that Jindal has kidnapped Roma in order to forcefully marry her. Amar and Vishal find Jindal's den with the help of Inspector Sahoo and corner him.After a melee, Jibran is killed. Jindal tries to kill Amar, but Vishal takes the bullet and dies in Amar's lap. Amar kills Jindal and avenges the death of Vishal and his father.
