A nephilim (half-man/half-angel), guided by visions and aided by the ex-arch angel Gabriel, finds himself hunted and forced to confront Pyriel, the Angel of Genocide.
The conclusion to The Prophecy Trilogy. Once again, Christopher Walken returns as the Arch-Angel Gabriel. As the War in Heaven and on Earth rages on, Pyriel, the Angel of Genocide, rises to power, intending to destroy all of mankind. The only one who stands in his way is Danyael, who was born of an Angel and a woman, but Danyael is unaware of his purpose, until he runs into Gabriel, who has now become a human after the events of The Prophecy 2, and is acting as his secret guardian. Now, the fate of the world hangs in the balance as Danyael sets out to confront Pyriel and finally fulfill his destiny.
Danyael Rosales, a street preacher who thinks God doesn't care about anyone because of the death of his parents Valerie Rosales and the angel Danyael from the previous film. He is then forced to face his destiny. As a Nephilim, he has some of the angels' abilities, such as regeneration, and can only be killed if his heart is removed. One night, a blind assassin shoots Danyael as he preaches before a crowd, but the assassin is driven off before he can take out Danyael's heart. As punishment for his failure, Zophael kills the assassin and starts going after Danyael himself with an extendable bladed weapon (the blade can be turned into a three-pronged hook) with which he plans to use to remove Danyael's heart, killing him for good. However, Danyael is protected by Gabriel, a now-human fallen angel who killed Danyael's father and performed many misdeeds. After being defeated by Danyael's mother, Gabriel was turned into a human as punishment. He has spent eighteen years as a human, and realized how wrong he was in the past so has now switched sides.Zophael manages to convince Danyael's girlfriend Maggie to work with him on killing Danyael, but she realizes she's on the wrong side and tries to shoot the angel. It has little effect on Zophael, and he tells her what he is. Frightened, Maggie agrees to help him, and the two catch up to Danyael on a Native American reservation, where he is going to confront Pyriel, another angel who wants to overthrow God. Danyael briefly meets Mary, a Native American woman (first introduced as a child in the first film). Mary informs Danyael that she dreamed of his coming, and that she believes he will be victorious against Pyriel. After parting from Mary, Danyael is attacked by Zophael, crashing Maggie's truck and badly injuring her. He then faces off against Danyael in battle, and seemingly defeats him by impaling his chest with a motorcycle tailpipe, but the angel gets back up and uses his weapon to impale Danyael from behind. Before Zophael can remove Danyael's heart, Maggie empties her gun into him, stunning him. Danyael takes his chance and removes Zophael's heart through the hole he created earlier, finally killing him.Danyael heads off to face Pyriel, armed with Zophael's weapon while Gabriel watches over Maggie. He confronts Pyriel, but is no match for him, although he succeeds in impaling him with Zophael's weapon. Danyael is about to lose when God seemingly sends down a lightning bolt, electrocuting the weapon and, through it, Pyriel, weakening him. Danyael extends the blade into its prong form and removes Pyriel's heart with it, killing him and apparently ending the war in Heaven. He returns to Gabriel and Maggie, who is on the verge of death. Maggie is saved when Gabriel's angel abilities return to him once again; he heals her wounds on his way back to Heaven. Then Danyael comes to realizes that God is not indifferent and does care.
