Emperor Kuzco is turned into a llama by his ex-administrator Yzma, and must now regain his throne with the help of Pacha, the gentle llama herder.
In this animated comedy from the folks at Disney, the vain and cocky Emperor Kuzco (David Spade) is a very busy man. Besides maintaining his "groove", and firing his suspicious administrator, Yzma (Eartha Kitt), he's also planning to build a new waterpark just for himself for his birthday. However, this means destroying one of the villages in his kingdom. Meanwhile, Yzma is hatching a plan to get revenge and usurp the throne. But, in a botched assassination courtesy of Yzma's right-hand man, Kronk (Patrick Warburton), Kuzco is magically transformed into a llama. Now, Kuzco finds himself the property of Pacha, a lowly llama herder whose home is ground zero for the water park. Upon discovering the llama's true self, Pacha offers to help resolve the Emperor's problem and regain his throne, only if he promises to move his water park.
Kuzco (David Spade) is the bratty, narcissistic ruler of an ancient South American empire, who also has an attitude problem. After firing his devious advisor Yzma (Eartha Kitt), she transforms into a llama, after a botched attempt at killing him. Soon, Kuzco must turn to a local farmer to help him become human again.
Vain, pampered and spoiled rich Emperor Kuzco (David Spade) goes about another day in which he is bowed and scraped to by myriad servants.After being unable to find a suitable bride from the regiment chosen by one of his staff, Kuzco finds his advisor Yzma (Eartha Kitt) sitting in his throne. Even though this upsets him, Kuzco decides to fire her from her position due to her age, causing Yzma to storm off in a rage with her assistant Kronk (Patrick Warburton) following close behind.Kuzco then meets up with Pacha (John Goodman), who is the head of a nearby village. Pacha is shown a model of his village, and asks to know where the most sun is. When Pacha gives his opinion, Kuzco horrifies the man when he places a large structure on top of the model that he dubs "Kuzcotopia." Kuzco then explains that the next day at his Birthday celebration, the entire village will be destroyed for his new summer home. Upset at such a thing, Pacha tries to interject, but is taken away.Meanwhile, Yzma is still upset over being fired by Kuzco, and decides to do away with him. As there's no apparent heir to the throne, she figures she can easily take over, and going to her secret lab, finds a potion she intends to poison Kuzco with at dinner.However, at dinner, Kronk picks the wrong potion, and instead uses 'Extract of Llama,' which turns Kuzco into one. Yzma sends Kronk out to kill Kuzco, but unable to bring himself to do so, the bag containing the Emperor ends up falling onto the back of a cart belonging to Pacha.Pacha returns to his village, but is unable to tell his family what Kuzco said about the destruction of their home. Eventually finding the bag containing Kuzco as a llama, Kuzco then demands that Pacha take him back to the palace. However, Pacha refuses to do so unless Kuzco moves his summer home to another place.Kuzco refuses, and wanders off into the nearby jungle. He is almost attacked by a gang of panthers, until Pacha comes to his rescue.Back at the palace, Yzma has taken control of the kingdom, but grows irate when Kronk lets slip that he did not actually kill Kuzco. Yzma then accompanies Kronk to find Kuzco.
