The Hotel Splendide is on a remote and cold island, accessible only by a once-a-month ferry. It's a dark and dreary spa created by the late Dame Blanche, whose grown children now run the hotel according to her specificiations, serving up ghastly seaweed and fish-based food and enema treatments. Kath, once the sous chef, arrives when she receives an anonymous letter telling her of the matriarch's death. Will she bring light into the place with her wonderful cooking?
The Hotel Splendide, located on a remote and desolate island accessible only by ferry that operates once a month, is a family owned and operated business - a health spa resort. It had long been managed by Edna Blanche on her unusual vision. When she died a year ago and her chronically constipated husband Morton Blanche retired, Dezmond Blanche, one of their offspring who suffers from skin flaking on his face, assumes management of the hotel. He believes the strength of a family business is a consistency in vision, he who runs the hotel exactly the way his mother did. Dezmond has since implemented a new largely closed heating system in honor of his mother, what few inputs, byproducts of the hotel operation, being converted to heat. Also in management positions are Dezmond's two siblings. Ronald Blanche is the head chef, who only makes and serves eel and seaweed based dishes. Meek Cora Blanche is head of spa services, she focusing on colonic and other such treatments which do not require touching any of the guests. One of the newer among the dwindling number of guests is young Stanley Smith, sent to the hotel by his parents so that he can overcome his fear of water. People who leave the hotel never return... that is except Kath, the former sous chef, who left five years ago. Kath and Ronald were in love but she left without telling him because of disagreements with his mother. Ronald has never forgiven her for leaving. Her return is because Ronald sent her a letter asking her to come back, but they will all learn that Ronald never did write that letter. They have to find out the true identity of the letter writer, and the reason he or she wanted Kath to return. Despite Ronald not wanting her there, Kath is forced to stay at the hotel until the next ferry in a month's time. Kath's return does have an affect on all the Blanches, the hotel operation and the other guests, especially Stanley. But Kath's positive outlook may not be able to overcome the spirit of Edna Blanche, who still seems to be operating the hotel in her unusual vision from the beyond.

