In a desperate attempt to win a basketball match and earn their freedom, the Looney Tunes seek the aid of retired basketball champion, Michael Jordan.
Swackhammer, owner of the amusement park planet Moron Mountain is desperate get new attractions and he decides that the Looney Tune characters would be perfect. He sends his diminutive underlings to get them to him, whether Bugs Bunny and Co. want to go or not. Well armed for their size, Bugs Bunny is forced to trick them into agreeing to a competition to determine their freedom. Taking advantage of their puny and stubby legged foes, the gang selects basketball for the surest chance of winning. However, the Nerdlucks turn the tables and steal the talents of leading professional basketball stars to become massive basketball bruisers known as the Monstars. In desperation, Bugs Bunny calls on the aid of Michael Jordan, the Babe Ruth of basketball, to help them have a chance at winning their freedom.
After winning the third championship with the Chicago Bulls, Michael Jordan announces his retirement from basketball and declares his intention to play baseball. Meanwhile, deep in space, on another planet called Moron Mountain, an outer space theme park, Mr. Swackhammer sends five tiny aliens known as the Nerdlucks to go to Looney Tune Land and capture all the Looney Tune characters and take them to Moron Mountain. But the Looney Tunes think of a plan to find a way to escape slavery on Moron Mountain. And Bugs Bunny decided to defend themselves by challenging the Nerdlucks to a basketball game. Then the Nerdlucks use their strange powers to steal the talent of five NBA stars such as Charles Barkley, Patrick Ewing, Muggsy Bogues, Larry Johnson, and Shawn Bradley which they'll ultimately transform themselves into the tallest and muscular Monstars. It's up to Michael Jordan to help the Looney Tunes play a basketball game vs. the Monstars. But if the Monstars win, then Swackhammer gets the Looney Tunes, and along with Jordan to Moron Mountain.
Retired basketball NBA champion Michael Jordan teams up with the Looney Tunes and forms a basketball team with them. The tune squad challenge the monstars from moron mountain to a basketball game and makes a deal with Michael Jordan. If the Monstars lose they have to give Michael Jordan's other retired players their talent back. If Michael loses then he will be signing autographs all day. Who knows what the outcome will be in this epic battle of basketball.

