A commitment-phobic man goes in search of a bride, including his fed-up girlfriend, to inherit his grandfather's $100 million inheritance.
James Shannon III (Chris O'Donnell) is seeing his single friends get married one by one. He isn't too worried until his girlfriend Anne Arden (Renée Zellweger) catches the bouquet at his friend Marco's (Artie Lange's) wedding. Suddenly, his wild mustang days are numbered. He finally decides to propose to her, but he sticks his foot in his mouth and botches the proposal. Being insulted by the defeatist proposal, Anne leaves town on an assignment. After she's gone, he finds out that his recently-deceased granddad James Shannon's (Sir Peter Ustinov's) will stipulates that he gets nothing of a multi-million-dollar fortune unless he's married by 6:05 p.m. on his 30th birthday: tomorrow. Not being able to find Anne, Jimmie begins backtracking through his past girlfriends to find a wife.
James Shannon III (Chris O'Donnell) is a man who is somewhat gullible at keeping relationships with his girlfriends. But one day, he meets Anne Arden (Renée Zellweger) and suddenly his life is changed. It is then that the night he was supposed to propose to her that he returns back to his old self again. This upsets Anne completely. Soon, his Grandad James Shannon (Sir Peter Ustinov) dies and leaves Jimmie an inheritance of one hundred million dollars with one huge condition: Jimmie must get married on his 30th birthday by no later than 6:05 p.m. Pacific time or else his San Francisco-based pool table company goes under, and/or will be sold, his bank accounts will be frozen, and employees will be laid off completely. Jimmie must now use every attempt to learn from his foolish mistakes, find his true love, get married, and save the company in one day.
James Shannon III (Chris O'Donnell) is a man who has had dozens of girlfriends and they all break-up with him because he is unwilling to commit. But when he meets Anne Arden (Renée Zellweger), he starts to loosen up a bit, but is still a little hesitant. Even his blustery Grandad James Shannon (Sir Peter Ustinov), who is concerned of the fate of the Shannon line, is nagging him to get married and have children. So he decides to take that step, but he is so nervous, that he botches the proposal. Anne is disappointed in him. When his grandfather dies and the will is read, they discover that he has left Jimmie one hundred million dollars, but only if he gets married by 6:05 p.m. on his 30th birthday, which is the next day. Jimmie then decides to propose to Anne again, and this time does a little better, but when Anne questions his eagerness and if he truly wants to marry her, he freezes, she then gets on a plane for Greece. She gets off the plane at the last minute and goes to visit her parents. Jimmie then learns that if he doesn't get the inheritance which includes the business, a company that has a reputation of buying a business and then stripping it for all that it is worth and then laying off the employees, will buy it and lay off all of the employees. Jimmie is adivised to find someone else to marry, so he goes through his black book and proceeds to ask every girl he has dated to marry him, only some of them are still stinging from his breaking up with them, others think that it's a travesty what he is proposing, or he just continues to propose badly.

