Kelly's grandfather, Harry, invites the gang for a vacation at his hotel, the Hawaiian Hideaway, in Honolulu, but they soon discover that a rival threatens to put Harry out of business and scheme to help save the Hideaway.
Kelly's grandpa invites the whole clique to his little hotel "The Hideaway" in Hawaii for summer vacation. They expect a marvelous time at the beach - without Belding. Arrived there, the learn quickly that not only Belding's there too, but they also have to help grandpa against the mean capitalist Worthington, who plans to ruin him to get his land to build a new apartment house complex. Meanwhile Zack meets (again) the love of his live, Jessie and Slater bet with Lisa that they won't fight and Screech gets kidnapped by the Pupuku clan.
The gang of Bayside goes to Oahu, Hawaii for two weeks of R&amp;R during the summer. Meanwhile, the principals of L.A. are taking a tour of Hawaii and their leader is none other than Mr. Belding. While at the airport, Lisa bets Slater and Jessie $50 each that they can't get along without fighting for two weeks. Also at the airport Zack meets Andrea Larson, a 22-year-old citizen of Hawaii, and it's love at first sight for Zack. But when her boyfriend, Derek Worthington, picks her up, Zack doesn't think that he'll ever see her again.The gang stays at the Hideaway Hotel which is run by Harry Bannister, Kelly's grandfather. Mr. Belding stays with the other principals at the fancier Royal Pacific. Harry tells the gang that he may have to sell to the Royal Pacific for their expansion because they have driven away the other guests and put him out of business. The gang helps him by becoming his volunteer staff, and they spend the rest of the day on the beach.The next morning on the beach, Screech and Lisa are kidnaped by members of the local Pupuku tribe and are brought to their village near the Hideaway. The tribesmen tell Screech that he is their new chief. Apparently over 100 years ago, their chief Monaleo told them that his descendant will save them whenever there is a crisis, and the statue of Monaleo looks a lot like Screech. The tribe is afraid that the Royal Pacific will steal their land and build on it. But they have no deed to prove they own the land.Meanwhile, Zack comes with a plan to get more business for the Hideaway. The gang goes over to the Royal Pacific dressed as Royal Pacific staff and give terrible service to the principals of Mr. Beldings group. Slater impersonates a clumsy waiter, while Jessie pretends to be a rude German-accented maid, Kelly and Lisa pose as lifeguards who yell "shark" to the beach guests, and Zack and Screech are two goofy Wayne and Garth type exterminators. After hearing of the complaints from the group, Mr. Belding (on the advice from Zack) decides to move his group to the Hideaway.While at the Royal Pacific, Zack sees Andrea there. She is the activities director and her boyfriend Derek, is the son of the ruthless owner Charles Worthington.Later, Harry's lawyer, Brian Hanson, hits on Kelly and they get very close immediately while the gang tries to appease Mr. Beldings' tour group. Zack and Screech take a bunch of them out on a boat trip, but the boat runs out of gas. But Andrea suddenly appears on a speedboat passing by and gives them a tow back to land. Slater tries to demonstrate the Hawaiian fishing techniques, Kelly and Lisa attempt to teach hula lessons, and Jessie is stuck in the kitchen. When Jessie accidentally burns the ham they plan to serve, the Pupukus show up with a pot of stew for Screech and the gang serves it instead.A few days later, Brian takes Kelly out on his boat for a trip around Oahu. Here, Brian convinces Kelly that Harry selling the Hideaway is probably her grandfathers best interest.Meanwhile, Jessie, Slater and Screech take Belding and his group in a minibus for the ride to the Cultural Center, where Lisa is already there, shopping the day away. But they get lost in the jungle and they end up with the bus getting stuck in the mud, once again throwing verbal volleys against each other.Zack and Andrea are spending a lot of time together on the beach, and he's falling in love with her. She then introduces him to her four-year-old daughter Jennifer. Zack gets along great with Jennifer and he and Andrea get even closer.
Meanwhile, Kelly (on Brian's advice) convinces her grandfather to sell the hotel.At a luau that night, Screech brings the Pupuku tribe members over and there is a major turnout for Mr. Belding's tour group who like the events. Harry tells Kelly that after seeing the turnout, he won't sell after all no matter how bad business gets for him. After the luau, Lisa overhears Brian talking on his portable phone to Charles Worthington about a loan extension. Brian turns out to be working for Worthington, who is out to hurt Harry by making him lose everything.The next day the gang comes up with a plan: Mr. Belding poses as a elderly professor of Polynesian culture at the university and Zack makes a fake deed to the land of the Pupukus to give to Brian. Then Slater and Screech sneak into Mr. Worthingtons office dressed as maintenance men who secretly set up Screech's video camera in the room. The camera captures Brian, Charles and Derek Worthington burning the deed. The next day, at the proposed demolition of the Hideaway, Zack shows the tape to Worthington who then backs down from buying the Hideaway and the Pupuku land in fear of exposure to his ruthless plans. Andrea quits her job at the Royal Pacific when she finds out what jerks Derek and his father are, and Kelly punches Brian in the face.The next day, it's time for the gang to leave. Harry offers Andrea a job as his new manager, and the Pupukus become his new staff. But Zack is heartbroken about leaving Andrea and Jennifer behind. He tells her that he will move to Hawaii as soon as he graduates. Andrea tells Zack that it would not be a good idea and everything will work out with her and Jennifer remaining at the Hideaway. And of course, Jessie and Slater lose the bet to Lisa who walks away with $100. The gang and Mr. Belding fly back to California.
