A soap opera writer gets hit on the head and wakes up as a character in his own show.
Jack is the head writer for a successful soap opera, and he's sweet on the show's star, lovely Laura. It's easy for everyone but Jack to see that she's playing him for a sap. But a conk on the head brings Jack some new insights - and some new powers. He finds himself in Ashford Falls, site of his fictional soap opera -- and everything he writes comes true! It's a fantastic opportunity to get Rachel, Laura's character, to fall in love with him. But life isn't easy even in the fictional world, and even when you're the author!
In New York City, Jack Gable (John Candy) grows irate waiting for the cable television repairman to arrive at his apartment. When the signal is finally restored, he turns on "Beyond Our Dreams", a daytime soap opera, explaining to the repairman that he writes for the show.Later that morning, Jack goes to the production office for a meeting. There, he stumbles into Louise (Mariel Hemmingway), a demure actress who intends to audition for the role of "Janet Dubois." After insisting that "Janet" is no longer part of the story, Jack storms into Lou (David Orbach) and Arlene Sherwood's (Renee Taylor) office. The two executives distract him by reminding him to "kill off" the character of "Rachel Hedison," played by the temperamental Laura Claybourne (Emma Sams). Jack, who has a crush on the beautiful actress, refuses. Lou pats him on the shoulder and tells Jack that everything will work out. After Jack leaves, Arlene calls writer Arnie Fetterman, who assures her that the "Janet Dubois" scenes are complete, and that he is working on writing "Rachel" out of the show.After "Beyond Our Dreams" wraps up shooting for the day, an infatuated Jack asks Laura Claybourne what she thinks of the future story-lines he created for her, but the self-absorbed actress is unhappy with how he turned her rich heiress character into a working girl. Jack returns home and packs for a weekend trip to Vermont. Laura Claybourne calls, seeking Jack's attention. When he tells her he is about to leave, she invites herself along. Jack is thrilled, until she changes her mind at the last minute.En route to Vermont, Jack gets into a car accident, awakening in the hospital on "Beyond Our Dreams." The doctor (David Rasche) introduces himself as "Paul Kirkwood," amusing Jack, who presumes that the actor, Dennis Graham, is playing a trick on him. However, when the writer goes to the window, he is shocked to see the town of "Ashford Falls" bustling with activity. Jack deduces that he is dead and living in hell. When the nurse threatens to give him a shot, Jack plays along and insists he is feeling better.Leaving the hospital, he encounters "Janet Dubois," who recognizes him as Wall Street tycoon "Jack Gates," a character created by Jack, but who has yet to be introduced on the show. Across the street, a man with an eye patch (Charles Rocket) observes Jack and Janet, before driving away to a mansion. There, he proudly informs his father, billionaire Carter Hedison (Raymond Burr), that Jack Gates is in town. Carter Hedison dismisses his son, Ty, as a dreamer, and asks Ty's yuppie brother, Blake, to investigate.Meanwhile, Jack tries to make sense of his situation in his hotel room. Janet informs him that he is in Ashford Falls to purchase her father's pharmaceutical formula, which Carter Hedison also hopes to acquire. Jack insists he is a writer, not a businessman, provoking Janet to retort that he should write his life as he sees it, rather than argue with her. She storms out, and Jack decides to test her advice. He types a scene on his typewriter, and realizes that whatever he writes comes true in this alternate reality. After encountering a dismissive "Rachel Hedison" downtown, Jack decides to use his newfound power to make her fall in love with him.That afternoon, Rachel goes horseback riding with her boyfriend, Dr. Kirkwood. Suddenly, her horse breaks into a gallop. Just as she is about to careen over a cliff, Jack appears on his own horse and rescues her. He does not reveal his identify, and Rachel swoons as he rides away.That night, Carter Hedison and his three children-Rachel, Ty, and Blake-discuss making a fortune from a new fat-burning pill. Blake notes that their scheme will be ruined if Jack Gates acquires the drug formula. Later, Janet Dubois calls Jack and informs him that someone broke into her father's laboratory. She accuses him of working for the Hedisons, but Jack protests. Just then, she realizes someone is still in the lab. Hearing her screams, Jack quickly types a rescue mission featuring himself as the hero. Afterward, the love-struck Janet invites Jack to have dinner with her.A few days later, the Hedison family hosts a benefit auction in the town square. Jack stuns everyone when he drives up in a flashy sports car. Against her father's wishes, Rachel leaves with Jack, who tries to impress her by driving recklessly at high speed while blindfolded. That night, Janet grows despondent while waiting for Jack to arrive for dinner. Someone knocks on the door and introduces himself as "Jack Gates," but he is not the Jack she knows. The two confront Jack at his hotel. The writer recognizes the stranger as Robert Wagner (himself), a prime time soap opera star who was originally to be cast as Jack Gates. Unknown to the trio, Ty Hedison lurks outside with a gun, stalking Jack Gates. However, he misfires, and Robert Wagner is killed. Jack grabs his typewriter, reviving Robert Wagner and sending him away on a trip.Out of concern for Janet, Jack writes her a new story line in which she is a research scientist in Africa. In the days that follow, Jack sequesters himself in his hotel room, where he drinks alcohol and writes preposterous scenes in hope of winning Rachel's affection.During a party at the Hedison mansion, Jack plays a virtuoso piano piece, saves a choking man's life, and performs a dance routine with Rachel. Much to his surprise, Janet Dubois returns to Ashford Falls. She makes an elegant appearance at the party, before learning that she, not Rachel, is Carter Hedison's daughter. Chaos ensues as the Hedison family turns on each other. When Janet is accidentally shot by Blake Hedison, Jack admits his feelings for her. As she is rushed to the hospital, Blake informs Jack that Dr. Kirkwood plans to botch the surgery. The writer returns to his hotel room, but before he can write a new scene, Robert Wagner walks in and shoots him.Jack awakens in a hospital bed on the set of "Beyond Our Dreams". Actors Laura Claybourne and Dennis Graham comfort him, but he accuses them of being insincere, before realizing he is back in New York City, with the whole experience in Ashford Falls just a dream (similar to the twist ending of 'The Wizard of Oz'). The next day, Jack confronts the Sherwoods at their office and insists they allow him free reign in writing the character of "Janet." Arlene chokes on her sandwich, and Jack forces her to agree to his terms before rescuing her with the Heimlich maneuver. After arranging for Louise to be cast as "Janet," Jack writes "Rachel" off the show and looks forward to creating new narratives for the residents of "Ashford Falls."The film ends with Jack and Louise going ice skating in Central Park as the end credits roll.
