Five warriors challenge Ogami to duels. Each holds a part of information needed to complete the assassination of a mad clan leader.
Fifth film in the Lone Wolf &amp; Cub Series. 5 warriors challenge Ogami to duels. Each has 1/5th of Ogami's assassin fee and 1/5 of the information he needs to complete his assassination. His mission is to kill a mad Daimyo before he destroys his clan!
In this fifth 'Lone Wolf and Cub' movie, continuing his travels on "the Demon Path in Hell," Ogami Itto is confronted by a series of five messengers who represent a clan wanting his services. Each assassin in turn administers a specific test of his abilities, and when bested, gives Ogami partial payment for the job and, as per his usual stipulation, discloses some of the "secrets and reasons" for the killing. By the time Ogami has defeated all the messengers, he has been informed of a conspiracy to disguise a daimyo's illegitimate female offspring as a prince, while the clan leader's official offspring, a son, is kept concealed. A letter uncovering the plot is being delivered by a monk to the shogun, which would mean the dissolution of the clan, leaving retainers, samurai, and vassals without an organization to support them -- a disastrous end. Ogami is to intercept the Buddhist monk carrying the letter; the monk will be traveling under the protection of his arch enemy, Yagy Retsud, further complicating the mission. On a stopover at a town festival, Itto's three year old son, Ogami Daigoro, is separated from his father and gets mixed up with a notorious female pickpocket, known only as 'Quick Chance' due to her ability to change her clothing and appearance to avoid being caught, being chased by constables. She asks him to promise not to divulge her identity, and when he is confronted he keeps his promise. The law officers publicly flog him in front of the townspeople, until the pickpocket surrenders herself and confesses. Still Daigoro keeps his word. Finally the constables release him, impressed by his stoic courage and honor. On route to intercept the monk, Ogami is contracted to kill the senile old lord, his concubine, and the young daughter. After securing the letter, he confronts the daimyo, and kills him, his concubine, and the young girl, fulfilling his contracts and preserving order.
