Astronauts, and their robotic dog AMEE (Autonomous Mapping Evaluation and Evasion), search for solutions to save a dying Earth by searching on Mars, only to have the mission go terribly awry.
In the near future, Earth is dying. A new colony on Mars could be humanity's only hope. A team of American astronauts, each a specialist in a different field, is making the first manned expedition to the red planet and must struggle to overcome the differences in their personalities, backgrounds and ideologies for the overall good of the mission. When their equipment suffers life-threatening damage and the crew must depend on one another for survival on the hostile surface of Mars, their doubts, fears and questions about God, man's destiny and the nature of the universe become defining elements in their fates. In this alien environment they must come face to face with their most human selves.
In 2055, earth is no longer viable enough for food production. A promising algae experiment on Mars runs into trouble, so a small Air Force-civilian scientific-technician team travels there. The emergency landing is a nearly-fatal disaster: provisions losses and equipment threaten both survival and return capacity. Even AMEE, a navigation drone, is accidentally switched into its dangerous military mode. As if that weren't bad enough, errors, suspicions and emotions like guilt make the men on mars an woman on watch in the ship behave erratically. Yet some startling discoveries and Robby Gallagher's inventiveness rekindle hope, at least for earth.
Mission Commander Kate Bowman (Carrie-Anne Moss - The Matrix) is the pilot and commander of the most important mission of the 21st century - saving the human race.It's 2050, Earth is dying, and colonizing Mars is the only alternative to obliteration. But what happens when Bowman and her crew get there is far more terrifying than anyone could have guessed: a crash-landing leaves them without scientific, communication or escape equipment: and causes their military mapping and exploration robot to malfunction into an enemy.But as the landing team explores the harsh new planet they make the most baffling discovery of them all: Mars may be barren, but its not uninhabited.
