An American agent, under false suspicion of disloyalty, must discover and expose the real spy without the help of his organization.
Based on the hit T.V. series. Jim Phelps was sent to Prague for a mission to prevent the theft of classified material. His wife Claire and his trusted partner Ethan Hunt were members of Phelps' team. Unfortunately, something went horribly wrong and the mission failed, leaving Ethan Hunt the lone survivor. After he reported the failed mission, Kettridge the head of the agency suspects Ethan of being the culprit for the failed mission. Now, Ethan uses unorthodox methods (Which includes the aid of an arms dealer going by the name "Max") to try to find who set him up and to clear his name.
Ethan Hunt and his IMF team go undercover to bring down the Noclist, a list of every agent and spy in the IMF. Hunt's team is ambushed and only him and Claire Phelps survived. But the CIA believe that Hunt was aware of the attack, yet he was not. The mission, should Hunt choose to accept it is to team up with two disavowed IMF agents, to track down and take back the Noclist before the identity of every agent is comprised. Its Impossible.
Movie based on the television series finds Jim Phelps and his team charged with stopping a traitor from stealing and selling classified material. Everything was going well until the man they are following and all of the team are inexplicably killed except for Ethan Hunt. Ethan then calls the Director and goes to meet him when he discovers that the whole mission was to ferret a mole that they have been suspicious of for some time. The Director shows evidence that hints that Ethan's the one they have been looking for but Ethan knows that he is not, so he escapes. Ethan then arranges to meet the buyer and whom he warns against using the material he has and when they meet he offers to get what he paid for in exchange for telling whom the mole is. Ethan, along with Phelps' wife Claire recruits two disavowed agents to help him which won't be easy.
Ethan Hunt is a secret agent framed for the deaths of his espionage team. Fleeing from government assassins, breaking into the CIA's most impenetrable vault, clinging to the roof of a speeding bullet train, Hunt races like a burning fuse to stay one step ahead of his pursuers . . . and draw one step closer to discovering the shocking truth.
A big-screen remake of a prior American television show, modernized and updated with all of the eye-popping special effects that a Hollywood mega-budget can buy. The show's Jim Phelps is the leader of the 'Impossible Missions Force.' In this 'episode,' Ethan Hunt is the point man for an IMF mission to catch a spy in the act of stealing information about the 'covers' of many other covert operatives. In the tradition of the TV show, the viewer is led down many plot twists, turns, and reversals, while the IMF members employ the latest in technology, disguises, and spy gadgetry to accomplish their mission.
Ethan Hunt (Tom Cruise) is an agent and "point man" for an Impossible Missions Force (IMF) team, an unofficial branch of the CIA, led by Jim Phelps (Jon Voight). In Kiev, the team is working on a mission: a disguised Hunt is interrogating a Russian agent who has been tricked into believing he murdered fellow IMF agent Claire Phelps (Emmanuelle Béart), Jim Phelps' wife. Claire has been given a drug to make her appear dead but the team doesn't have much longer before Claire will be beyond reviving. The Russian finally gives up the name they're looking for and is taken away after the name checks out. Claire is revived, asking if the ruse was successful; Ethan assures her it was.While in flight, Jim Phelps is given a tape containing a covert mission for his team. The team assembles in a Prague apartment/safe house to prevent an Eastern European diplomat, Golitsyn, from stealing a Non-official cover (NOC) list - a comprehensive list of all covert agents in Eastern Europe. They go over every details of the plan and the equipment they will be using.The mission runs smoothly, everyone achieves their mission goals and the team obtains video evidence of Golitsyn stealing the NOC list and exiting the building. Unfortunately, that's when everything goes inextricably wrong. Over their radio frequency, Ethan hears his teammate Jack (Emilio Estevez, uncredited), dying from getting impaled on a spike after losing control of the elevator he had been riding all night, which also happens to be the one Golitsyn used to escape. His other teammates Hannah Williams and Claire are killed when their car is bombed with them inside. His mentor Jim Phelps is killed by an unseen assassin that he had reported was following him on the Charles Bridge. Sarah follows Ethan's order to pursue Golitsyn but finds him being stabbed to death; the assassin grabs her and kills her as well. Ethan arrives too late only to find them both dead and realizing the disc Golitsyn has used is gone.Fleeing the scene, Hunt stops at a pay phone to call his agency and alert them of the tragic outcome of their mission. Eugene Kittridge (Henry Czerny), the CIA-based director of the IMF, tells Ethan to meet him at a local cafe. Ethan is surprised to find out that Kittridge is in Prague too. An hour later, Ethan, very much in shock from the previous events, meets with Kittridge but soon realizes they are not alone; another IMF team is surrounding them, people Hunt recalls seeing at the embassy. When he questions Kittridge about it, Hunt is disturbed to learn that a mole has infiltrated the IMF with a cover name known only as "Job 314" and that the Prague operation was meant to ferret out the mole by allowing him to acquire the NOC list and attempt to sell it to Max, an illegal arms dealer known for corrupting IMF agents. The NOC list found in Prague was a fake, the real list is being held at the CIA headquarters in Virginia. With Hunt being the sole survivor, Kittridge assumes he is the mole they were looking for. Realizing he'll be taken into custody before he can clear his name, Hunt mounts a daring escape from the cafe using exploding "red light/green light" chewing gum to blow up a huge fish tank, fleeing into Prague's Old Town Square.Ethan returns to the IMF safe house, where he uses the internet to seek out Max. Looking over the screen of his laptop, he sees a Bible on a bookshelf above the screen and deduces that "Job 314" actually stands for the Book of Job, chapter 3, verse 14. Ethan then assumes the web entity of Job314 on several different biblical websites and discussion boards and sends out emails to as many Max entities he can find in all kinds of languages before falling asleep. He suddenly awakes to the sound of footsteps in the lobby and an intruder entering the apartment; he hallucinates that it's Jim, bloody and dying, but it turns out to be Claire, still alive and having survived the mission. She reveals she wasn't in the car when it exploded. He tells her about the mole mission, how he's been disavowed by the Agency and that he needs to contact Max to seek out the mole called "Job".Ethan receives a reply to one of his emails, telling him to go to a specific intersection in Prague. He is taken to a meeting with Max, finding out that she's actually a woman. Ethan tells her that the disc she received from Job is a fake and likely has a tracking device on it that will activate as soon as she tries to read the disk, allowing the IMF to find them. Ethan's hunch is correct and they flee the apartment, narrowly escaping Kittridge and his team. Ethan then offers to retrieve the real NOC list for Max in exchange for a cash advance and arranging a meeting with Job, Max agrees to the deal. Ethan uses Max' money to assemble a team of blacklisted or disavowed intelligence agents, including computer expert Luther Stickell (Ving Rhames) and pilot Franz Krieger (Jean Reno).Disguised as a team of firefighters, they infiltrate the heavily fortified headquarters of the CIA in Langley, Virginia,under the pretense of a fire alarm created by Luther, who also monitors their movements. After Ethan neutralizes a security guard and Claire slips the tech that works the vault terminal a poison that makes him nauseous, Ethan is lowered by Krieger into a highly secured chamber housing the only computer terminal holding the NOC list. While he avoids touching the pressure-sensitive floor and keeps the noise from his theft below a certain decibel level, Krieger spots a rat approaching in the ventilation duct. He momentarily lets Ethan drop and kills the rat, catching Ethan before he hits the floor. For several minutes, Ethan hangs only inches above the floor, watching almost helplessly as his perspiration drips down his glasses, threatening to set off the alarm. Eventually, Krieger is able to pull Ethan up. At the top, Krieger drops his small folding knife, which embeds itself in the terminal's desk just as the tech deactivates the alarm system. After the man discovers the knife, he sounds the alarm, but Ethan's team is able to escape. Kittridge later tells one of his agents to send the tech to Alaska.The team retreats to a London hotel. Once there, Hunt accidentally finds out that the Bible he took in Prague belongs to the Chicago's Drake Hotel, where Phelps claimed to have stayed for a "recruitment" session. After seeing on the news that his uncle and mother have been falsely arrested for drug trafficking in an attempt to lure him out, Hunt is infuriated, and contacts Kittridge, who offers to drop the fake charges the moment Hunt surrenders himself to authorities. Hunt hangs up the phone after allowing Kittridge to trace him to the London area, turns around and walks right into Jim Phelps.Phelps, looking very ill, reveals that Kittridge was the one who tried to kill him, that he is the mole and that he is tying up loose ends by trying to apprehend Hunt. Ethan listens carefully to Jim while in his mind piecing together the clues he discovered leading up to his own operation and realizes that Phelps is Job himself. Hunt also realizes that Krieger is also involved when he remembers that Krieger uses the same kind of knife that was used to kill both Golitsyn and Sarah. His thoughts however are not so clear about Claire's involvement in the conspiracy. He pretends to buy Jim's story and keeps their meeting a secret from everyone else.The next day, Max and Ethan arrange to meet aboard the high-speed TGV train en route from London to Paris, with Claire and Luther aboard to provide backup. Kittridge is also aboard, having recently arrived in London and receiving tickets for the TGV and a video watch from Hunt. In the train, Ethan delivers the NOC list to Max, who directs him to the luggage compartment to find his money, and Job. Max then attempts to transmit the NOC list to a remote server, an operation hindered by Luther, who keeps jamming the signal to prevent the upload. Claire, observing Kittridge's presence aboard the train, vacates her seat and meets with Phelps in the luggage car, confirming that she really is part of the conspiracy. A silent "Jim" slowly peels away his mask... revealing himself as Ethan. Suddenly, the real Phelps appears, armed and demanding the NOC list money. Ethan surrenders the money before pulling out a pair of glasses. He slides them over his eyes, activating the camera inside and transmitting Phelps's image to Kittridge, proving beyond doubt that Phelps is still alive and outing him as the mole IMF was looking for.Phelps, now revealed as a traitor, shoots Claire in anger when she speaks against killing Ethan. He then subdues Ethan before escaping to the roof of the train, where Krieger, also a traitor, waits to extract him with a helicopter. Ethan recovers and follows Phelps, impeding his efforts to escape and tethering Krieger's helicopter to the train as it heads into the Channel Tunnel. The fight continues, with the helicopter now following the train inside the tunnel. The two fight atop the wind-swept train before Phelps disconnects the helicopter from the train and attempts to escape. Ethan follows, leaping onto the helicopter's landing skids and attaching explosive "red light/green light" gum to the windshield. The ensuing explosion destabilizes the helicopter which crashes killing both Phelps and Krieger while Ethan is propelled forward by the explosion and lands hard on the train. The helicopter crashes into the rear of the train and one of the worn down rotor blades stops short of impaling Ethan. Inside the control room, the engineer faints.On board the train, Luther hands the NOC disc over to Kittridge. Kittridge, satisfied that the mole has been neutralized, the NOC list has been retrieved and he's now holding Max's true identity, reinstates Luther as an IMF agent and drops his investigation against Ethan, who has supposedly resigned from the IMF.In the final scene, as Ethan flies home, a flight attendant approaches him and through a coded phrase offers him a new mission.
