A veteran detective gets stuck with a rookie cop when in pursuit of a German crook.
Nick Pulovski (Clint Eastwood) is a cop, who is presently assigned to the auto theft division and who for the most part of his career has not done anything worthwhile. But when he discovers that a man named Strom (Raul Julia) is the brains behind a major car theft and chop shop ring, he sees this as his opportunity to do something. After his partner Powell (Hal Williams) is killed, the case is then transfered to homicide, so he is taken off the case. And he is assigned a new partner, David Ackerman (Charlie Sheen). a cop who has just recently been promoted to detective. But Pulovski feeling as if Strom is his, and decides to continue pursuing him, but Ackerman who tries to play by the rules is not sure what to do, and he is also a little afraid because of a childhood incident.
David Ackerman (Charlie Sheen) is a recently promoted plain-clothes detective in Los Angeles, and he's lugging around a lot of emotional baggage. He's estranged from his wealthy father Eugene (Tom Skerritt) because of his career choice, and he's having troubles with his live-in girlfriend Sarah (Lara Flynn Boyle). David is still haunted by the accidental death of his brother years ago, an accident for which David was responsible, and as a result, David is still racked with guilt. David has chosen to work in the auto theft division, believing it offers a chance for quick promotion, and his partner is Nick Pulovski (Clint Eastwood), a former race car driver who is now a veteran cop. David always keeps his emotions in check while the hard-drinking Nick can explode at the drop of a hat. David and Nick set out to break up a massive auto theft operation that's being run by German crime boss Strom (Raul Julia) and his partner Liesl (Sônia Braga). Strom is the man who murdered Nick's previous partner Powell (Hal Williams), and Nick is determined to bring Strom down. As Nick and David do a stakeout, their hatred for one another slowly decreases, and David sees that he can learn something about police work from Nick. When Nick is later kidnapped by Strom's gang, David has to rescue him, and he relies heavily on the crude techniques taught to him by Nick, ripping Los Angeles apart in the process.

