"Rambo" parody in which Topper Harley leads a rescue team into Iraq to save Iraqi war prisoners and all of their previous rescue teams.
Topper Harley is found working as an odd-job-man in a monastery. The CIA wants him to lead a rescue mission into Iraq, to rescue the last rescue team, who went in to rescue the last rescue team who... who went in to rescue hostages left behind after Desert Storm. The President is Tug Benson, who also likes to be in on the action. Basically, it's a send-up of all the big shoot-em-up Rambo/Robocop/T2/Commando-type movies.
Topper Harley has retired again, now living in a budhist monastery, and again he's asked to lead a special operation into Iraq, to rescue the guys who were sent to rescue the guys who were sent to rescue some prisoners left behind after the Persian Gulf War, where he will meet again with his beloved Ramada while he tries to uncover who the traitor is and kill as many Iraqis as he can.
In a covert government mission to rescue hostages from Operation Desert Storm, a group of U.S. soldiers fail to assassinate Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein (Jerry Haleva) and are captured by Iraqi forces. Because the mission has failed twice before, the eccentric and absent-minded former U.S. Navy Admiral Thomas "Tug" Benson (Lloyd Bridges), now the President of the United States, suspects the team is being sabotaged and decides to send retired Navy war hero Lieutenant Sean "Topper" Harley (Charlie Sheen) to intervene.Presidential Military Advisor Colonel Denton Walters (Richard Crenna) and Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) official Michelle Rodham Huddleston (Brenda Bakke) locate Topper in Thailand, fighting as a boxer and practicing Buddhism. He refuses to help rescue the imprisoned soldiers, still troubled by the abandonment of his lover, Ramada Rodham Hayman (Valeria Golino).Two weeks later, Topper learns that Colonel Walters has been captured during yet another botched hostage rescue. He reconsiders the CIA's plea and arrives at the White House during a diplomatic dinner with the Japanese prime minister. After the event, Michelle Huddleston seduces Topper in the backseat of her car and they return to her house to make love (a spoof of 'No Way Out').When Michelle and Topper arrive in Iraq, they assume control of the operation from Commander Arvid Harbinger (Miguel Ferrer), the sole escapee of the second failed raid. Harbinger informs them they only have eleven hours to free the prisoners. Michelle orders Topper and Harbinger to lead Officers Rabinowitz (Ryan Stiles) and Williams (Michael Colyar) through the jungle, promising to meet them later. In the forest, the men encounter an intelligence contact that turns out to be Topper's former lover, Ramada. She explains she was married to Dexter Hayman (Rowan Atkinson), a CIA training pilot who was long presumed dead, and left Topper when she learned he was still alive. Although Topper and his team survive an Iraqi attack on their river patrol boat, Michelle informs President Benson they have gone missing.As they move toward the prison camp, Topper suspects Harbinger of being the saboteur, and Ramada reveals her husband is among the hostages. Sneaking inside the grounds, they steal the guard's keys and release Colonel Walters. Tired of fighting, Harbinger begins to cry. Satisfied he is not the traitor, Topper briefly stops to console him before resuming fire on hundreds of Iraqi guards. Ramada is shot in the crossfire, but a locket around her neck stops the bullet. Topper realizes the locket contains his photograph, and Ramada admits she never stopped loving him.Topper continues to Saddam Hussein's palace, where the dictator challenges him to a sword fight. Topper's sword breaks, but he resumes the duel using a cordless telephone antenna. Meanwhile, President Benson devises a new rescue mission in which he will personally SCUBA dive through Iraqi waters to reach the palace. He appears just in time to save Topper from being sliced open, and continues fighting in the younger man's place with a new sword. While President Benson distracts Saddam Hussein, Topper frees Dexter Hawley from his cell.Colonel Walters and the remainder of the team prepare to leave in Michelle's rescue helicopter, but Ramada stops upon seeing the CIA agent, who once was her college roommate. Michelle reveals herself to be the mole, declaring that she remains bitter over a past misunderstanding with Michelle and acted out of jealousy over Topper's affections.Inside the palace, President Barton sprays Hussein and his pet Yorkshire terrier with a fire extinguisher, and the pressurized nitrogen freezes their bodies, which shatter into thousands of tiny splinters (spoof of 'Terminator 2'). The pieces liquefy from the warmth of the fireplace and reform into Hussein, who is now adorned with his dog's fur, ears, and nose.Colonel Walters handcuffs Michelle and puts her on the helicopter back to the U.S. Once Topper reunites Ramada with her husband, Dexter, he urges his former lover to escape while he goes back for the president. Before they leave, Dexter insists on taking a photograph of Topper and Ramada, but falls backward over a cliff while attempting to frame the shot. President Benson catches up to Topper and the team, with Hussein in close pursuit. While the helicopter struggles to lift off, Topper lightens their load by pushing a grand piano overboard. The fallen instrument crushes Hussein (spoof of the house dropping on the witch in 'The Wizard of Oz'), and Topper kisses Ramada as they fly away on the helicopter into the sunset.
