A schoolteacher teams up with with a priest to stop a town being overrun by vampires.
Cindy and Lucy are eighteen and going away to college. As a ritual they must rid themselves of the dirt of their small home town (Allburg) by swimming in an abandoned church crypt. They jump in and begin talking about sex when Lucys crucifix falls into the water and drifts down to land on Czakyr's (an ancient vampire) head, apparently waking him up. Some time on-wards a school teacher from a nearby town, Mark, gets directed to Allburg to help Lucy and her grandmother, who are suspected to be in trouble. Lucy becomes the target of a town turned vampire because of her 'virgin blood'. Mark, Lucy and an old wino shack up in an abandoned building outside of town but eventually get lured back to Allburg by the locals. There, with a giant glowing cross spearing the front of their Toyota, they take the town on and battle Czakyr. They win and life is restored to its original normalcy.
In the quiet town of Allburg, USA, Lucy Barret and her grandmother Hillary Barret welcome Lucy's friend Cindy Thompson, who lives with her mother Karen Thompson in River Junction and will spend a couple of days with Lucy. Cindy invites Lucy to go to swim in the crypt of the church on the Cherry Street, in River Junction, in a weird ritual. When the teenagers are swimming, an evil creature is revived and attacks Cindy. Later, in River Junction, Father Frank Alden summons his friend and school teacher Mark Gardner and shows Cindy and Karen locked in a room turned into vampires. Father Alden asks Mark to travel to Allburg to find the source of vampirism. Mark arrives late night at Hillary's house and he finds that Lucy is trapped in her room since her grandmother has also turned into a vampire. Sooner Mark and Lucy learn that the locals of Allburg has turned into vampires by the ancient vampire Czakyr, who is thirsty of the virgin blood of Lucy, and the only chance to save the dwellers is destroying the powerful vampire.
Legend says that, if a teenager wants to get away from peaceful Allburg, USA, he or she must swim the water-filled crypt under the church on Cherry Street. When it becomes Cindy Thompson [Maya McLaughlin] and Lucy Barrett's [Ami Dolenz] turn to try, Lucy loses her necklace in the water. Unfortunately, her necklace is a crucifix, and it awakens a vampire who has lain submerged since the crypt was first flooded 50 years ago. Within 3 days, Lucy, teacher Mark Gardner[Peter DeLuise] and wino Matty [Garrett Morris] are the only humans left to rid the town of the evil.
