When the skeleton of his murdered predecessor is found, Sheriff Sam Deeds unearths many other long-buried secrets in his Texas border town.
John Sayles' murder-mystery explores interpersonal and interracial tensions in Rio County, Texas. Sam Deeds is the local sheriff who is called to investigate a 40-year-old skeleton found in the desert....As Sam delves deeper into the town's dark secrets, he begins to learn more about his father, the legendary former sheriff Buddy Deeds, who replaced the corrupt Charlie Wade. While Sam puzzles out the long-past events surrounding the mystery corpse, he also longs to rekindle a romance with his old high-school flame. Sayles' complex characters are brought together as the tightly woven plot finally draws to its dramatic close.
Sam Deeds is the Sheriff of Rio County, TX and to some extent, he lives in the shadow of his late father, the venerated former sheriff, Buddy Deeds. Sam had always had a difficult relationship with his father, especially during his teenage years when Buddy absolutely forbade him to see a pretty Hispanic girl, Pilar Cruz. Local mythology has Buddy Deeds, when only a sheriff's deputy, murdering the corrupt and violent sheriff of the day, Charlie Wade. When Wade's remains are found in the desert, Sam finds himself investigating his father and slowly peels away at the story from the perspective of its long-term residents including a local bar owner, Pilar's mother and the current mayor. What Sam learns shows his father in a different light and has a direct impact on his own life choices.
In the small Texas town of Rio County, a body is found and on it is a Rio County Sheriff's badge. Now the consensus is that the body is Charlie Wade, the Sheriff who terrorized and shook down most of the minorities during his time. One day he just disappeared. Now some people suspect that one of his deputies, Buddy Deeds, who stood up to Wade killed him and buried him. He would succeed Wade as Sheriff and be extremely revered. Now the current Sheriff is Deeds' son Sam, who didn't exactly have good relationship with his father, so he's leaning towards his father killing Wade.

