Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh pursue a former LAPD officer who uses his knowledge of police procedure and policies to steal and sell confiscated guns and ammunition to local street gangs.
Martin Riggs finally meets his match in the form of Lorna Cole, a beautiful but tough policewoman. Together with Roger Murtaugh, his partner, the three attempt to expose a crooked former policeman and his huge arms racket. The crooked cop (Jack Travis) thwarts them at every turn, mainly by killing anyone who is about to talk, but Murtaugh has personal problems of his own as his family are brought into the equation.
Police officers Riggs and Murtaugh team together for the third time. This time they must track down a guy who has robbed weapons from the Los Angeles police depot. Riggs and Murtaugh also have to deal with Leo Getz, the hectic guy from Lethal Weapon 2 and Riggs has very special problems with a young and beautiful female police officer.
Los Angeles police sergeant Roger Murtaugh and his partner, Sergeant Martin Riggs, arrest Billy Phelps for trying to rob an armored truck, this being just 8 days until Murtaugh is scheduled to retire. In the interrogation room, Billy is murdered by Lieutenant Jack Edward Travis, a vicious former cop who now sells guns that are stolen from evidence storage facilities. The investigation of Travis teams Riggs and Murtaugh up with Sergeant Lorna Cole of the Internal Affairs Division. Leo Getz, who is now a legitimate real estate agent, gets involved when he sees Travis's face on a paused videotape then says he recognizes Travis. Riggs finds himself falling in love with Lorna. Later, in a shootout against a street gang, Murtaugh kills a gangster who turns out to be Darrell Smithers, the best friend of Murtaugh's son Nick. A guilt ridden Murtaugh later tries to drink himself to death, but Riggs helps him realize that they must go after Travis, the man that Darrell's gun came from.
Riggs and Murtaugh are back. This time after another one of Riggs' goofs, they are busted down to patrolmen. But they come across a robbery and they catch one of the robbers and discover that he has in his possession armor piercing bullets. Which means that no cop is safe. They go and try to speak to the man but Lorna Cole, a cop from Internal Affairs also wants to speak to him but Riggs is obstinate, so they go to the Captain, who not only backs them up but reinstates them as detectives. But when they go to see him, they find the man dead. But the learn who the killer is, a former cop named Jack Travis. But when they learn about this Cole shuts them out. But they get a lead from Leo Getz but unfortunately he gets away. Later Murtaugh shoots a boy who is armed with an automatic weapon and becomes despondent. Riggs is confronted by Cole who tells him that she should have been informed of the lead he had on Travis. Riggs then counters that she should tell him what is going on. She then tells him and they go out to try and find Travis.
Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) are sergeants with the Los Angeles Police Department's homicide division. As the story opens they respond to a call of a bomb at the ICSI Building. The building had already been evacuated and the bomb squad had been called, but Riggs wants to go in and check it out himself. Murtaugh is just one week from his announced retirement and he does not have any desire to risk his life to go check on a potential bomb, especially when the bomb squad was on the way. Riggs notes that the bomb squad never arrives on time and charges ahead anyway. Murtaugh feels obligated to accompany him, since they are partners.They find a large bomb inside a car in the parking garage. Riggs opens the door and pulls back a blanket that partially covers the device. There is less than 10 minutes on the timer. Riggs speaks confidently about being able to disarm the bomb, simply by cutting the red wire. He produces a pair of scissors from his Swiss army knife and is about to clip the blue wire, when Murtaugh says wait. He wants to know if Riggs is absolutely sure. Riggs is not sure, so he changes his mind and prepares to cut the blue wire. Murtaugh is about to go crazy with panic.They are startled when a stray cat jumps on top of the car. Riggs finally cuts one of the wires, which causes the timer to accelerate, rather than stop. Murtaugh grabs the cat and the run for their lives. They barely descend the steps in front of the building when it explodes. They take cover behind their car and the building collapses in on itself. Shortly afterward, well within the original time remaining if Riggs hadn't have tampered with the bomb, the bomb squad arrives. At least they managed to save the cat.The next day, they are both busted to the uniformed service and they venture outside to start their patrol. They start arguing about the previous day's screw-up and can't even remember whether it was the red or blue wire that Riggs cut. The argument gets physical and Riggs grabs Murtaugh, stopping only when he discovers Murtaugh is wearing a man's girdle. He had to wear one so he could fit into his old uniform again.Riggs decides to harass a jaywalker, preparing to write the man a ticket, prompting the man to argue with Riggs and Roger. Riggs pretends to lose his mind and prepare to shoot the man, scaring him off. He and Roger enjoy a hearty laugh until Riggs suddenly notices some armored car guards arguing with a bank manager. Two men approaching an armored car are not recognized by one of the guards already inside the vehicle. When he challenges the two who are approaching, one of them draws a gun and shoots the guard. Riggs is already charging the scene, and as the impostor prepares to shoot again, Riggs knocks the gun out of his hand with his billy club. The associate of the impostor has taken the wheel of the armored car and screams off. Riggs had jumped inside the back of the vehicle and starts fighting with the bad guy.Murtaugh joins the female driver of a second armored car as she follows the stolen car. The lady driver immediately finds Murtaugh to be a very attractive man and starts flirting with him. Even though he tells her he's married, she persists.Riggs eventually tosses the bad guy he's been fighting out of the vehicle, then makes his way forward to the cab, where he forces his way in and starts fighting with the driver, taking over the wheel. Riggs buckles his shoulder belt and slams the brake pedal, resulting in the suspect flying through the windshield and coming to rest on the hood. The man is taken into custody, with his first stop being the hospital.The next morning, Riggs arrives at Murtaugh's house, as they are getting ready for the house to be viewed by a potential buyer. Murtaugh and his family, and Riggs, are all hiding in the kitchen. Murtaugh becomes upset when Riggs tries to light up a cigarette, knowing the smell would probably turn off the potential buyers. He hands Riggs a box of dog biscuits to chew on to help with his craving.As it turns out, Leo Getz, their old witness protection client, is Murtaugh's real estate agent. Leo brings the married couple into the house and he starts telling them about the car that crashed through the front wall of the living room and the upstairs bathroom that exploded when a bomb detonated. Murtaugh is about to lose his mind and he and Riggs get into another argument. They end up in a clinched position just as Leo and the buyers come through the kitchen door. The couple can't get away from the scene fast enough.Murtaugh begins choking Leo for telling the couple all about the home's recent history. Leo protests, telling Murtaugh that the couple couldn't afford the house anyway and he has to tell them about any damages in the interest of full disclosure. When Riggs reminds them of the time Murtaugh shot someone with a nail gun in the house, Leo asks if the addition of the room over the garage were properly permitted. That infuriates Murtaugh even more, but Leo quickly says he'd arrange for some backdated permits so that the sale, when they find a buyer, won't hit a snag.Before they leave for work, Murtaugh and Riggs see Murtaugh's son, Nick, talking to his best friend, Darryl, who'd dropped out of school and became a gang member. Murtaugh is very concerned about that but realizes that Nick is a smart and savvy teenager who won't get mixed up in crime like his friend has.At a housing development in the desert outside Los Angeles, a man named Tyrone (Gregory Millar) meets the foreman of the project, Jack Travis (Stuart Wilson). He explains that people will buy the houses because they don't want to live next to people like Tyrone. He then calls over Smitty, who it turns out is the armored carrier impersonator that got away. Travis found out about the attempted heist, and he tells Tyrone and Smitty that doing something like that would jeopardize their project. He then has his men knock Smitty down and pour concrete over him, smothering and killing him. Travis forces Tyrone to watch.While heading to work, Riggs looks across the way and sees what looks like Murtaugh's eldest daughter, Rianne (Traci Wolfe) being held at gunpoint. Riggs charges over, followed by Murtaugh. Riggs punches the guy and knocks him down, only to find out that the scene is a film production, and Riggs just ruined the scene. The director is livid and fires Rianne, but Riggs lightly roughs up the director and forces him to re-hire Rianne, with a pay raise.At work, as they change into their patrol uniforms in the locker room, Murtaugh accidentally discharges his firearm. Riggs immediately starts kicking lockers and making lots of noise, so that the other officers who came running to see what happened will think he's having a tantrum. The two head to the shooting range, where they meet some of their comrades, including Officer Edwards (Jason Rainwater), who is fresh out of the academy and is an incredible shot, impressing Riggs. Riggs shows them a new bullet just came into circulation on the streets: a Teflon-coated .357 Magnum armor-piercing bullet that the bad guys called "cop killer", demonstrating how it can penetrate a Kevlar vest. The bullets were found in the gun of Billy Phelps (Mark Pellegrino), the armored car suspect they caught. Riggs had him moved to Interrogation, so he and Murtaugh could question him.Jack Travis arrives at the police building, where he reveals the credentials of an LAPD Lieutenant. In the meantime, Riggs and Murtaugh go up an elevator with Lorna Cole (Rene Russo), a female detective who is with Internal Affairs. At their mutual stop, it is revealed that Internal Affairs is taking over the Billy Phelp's case. Angered by this change, Riggs and Murtaugh force Cole to go with them to see Captain Murphy (Steve Kahan) and the head of Internal Affairs to clear things up. They decide to have Riggs, Murtaugh and Cole work together on the case. Riggs and Murtaugh are also restored to their former positions as homicide detectives.While Riggs, Murtaugh and the others are in their meeting, Travis enters the interrogation room to talk to Billy Phelps, but it turns out he's not there to talk, but to kill Billy. He produces a handgun with a silencer and quickly dispatches Billy, then calmly walks out.Riggs, Murtaugh and Cole arrive at the Interrogation Room and find Phelps dead in his seat. Cole reveals that there recently were cameras covertly installed in every interrogation room, so they are able to see a close-up of Travis. Murphy tells them Travis is an AWOL cop who they correctly surmise has gone rogue.Leo Getz walks in on them to tell Murtaugh that the house has termites. Leo glances at the video and tells them he recognizes the man in the video. He thinks about it awhile, then says he once got the man some Los Angeles Kings hockey tickets. As a result, the three go to a Kings game to see if they might find Travis there. Riggs cleverly makes use of the PA system to call Travis out. Ultimately, Leo sees Travis trying to run and he takes off after him, actually jumping onto Travis. Their struggle carries them onto the ice and Travis shoots Leo in the arm. Riggs follows Travis out of the arena, but loses him. Leo is taken to a hospital for a minor flesh wound, but Riggs persuades the doctor to admit Leo for a few days to keep him out of their hair. Before leaving the hospital, Riggs grabs Leo's chart and adds "proctology" under the treatment section.To celebrate their re-promotion, Murtaugh takes Riggs to a friend's lunch shack. The friend allows Roger to step behind the counter and make some hamburgers for them, Riggs notices something at a nearby construction site: several gangsters in an apparent drug deal. He wastes no time deciding to intervene. One of the gangsters immediately opens fire with a MAC-10, forcing Riggs to take cover. When he looks around to get a clear shot, he's hit in the back of the head by a 2-by-4. Murtaugh arrives to assist, but most of the gangsters escape. One takes refuge in a shed and Murtaugh orders the man to surrender, but a hand extends through the door holding an automatic weapon and fires at Murtaugh. Murtaugh returns fire, shooting several rounds through the aluminum wall of the shack. The man crawls out, having been shot several times. He collapses just beyond the door, and dies. Murtaugh turns the man over and takes off his sunglasses: it is Nick's friend Darryl. Murtaugh is instantly distraught and quickly leaves the scene.The call comes in to the Murtaugh residence, where his wife picks up, and finds out about Darryl. Murtaugh arrives home in his car, and starts to get out, but reconsiders and drives away, still upset, unable to face his family. The next day, when Murtaugh doesn't arrive at work, Riggs covers for him with Captain Murphy and the precinct's psychologist.Lorna Cole insists on speaking with Riggs. He drags her into the men's restroom, where she dresses him down for interfering with the Internal Affairs investigation, but Riggs turns it on her, saying she's the one that hasn't been forthcoming. They decide to work together. In Cole's office, they look up information on the gun that Darryl had. It is a MAC-10 stolen from an LAPD impound lot several months before. The reason Internal Affairs was on the case is because they believe Jack Travis was stealing guns and ammunition from LAPD impound and selling them on the black market.Riggs and Cole go to the address listed for a phone that Billy Phelps had called several times. They encounter a seemingly vicious Rottweiler guard dog. Riggs gets down on all fours and starts acting like a dog. He also has some of those dog biscuits that Murtaugh had given him to munch on, giving them to the Rottweiler, who gives a friendly bark and cuddles up to Riggs. Lorna looks on in astonishment at their newfound friendship.Cole and Riggs then go on inside the building to discover a bunch of guys loading a truck with boxes full of stolen weapons. They initiate a fight, where Cole shows extraordinary hand-to-hand combat skills. Cole and Riggs end up stealing the truck, pausing to wait for the Rottweiler who runs after them. They head back to Cole's place so she can dress up his wound. She's not very sympathetic to his moaning, and shows him one of her old scars. That leads them to alternately taking turns showing various old scars. Things get heated, and they end up making love. Riggs briefly stops himself because of a possible "serious ethical breach", only for Cole to tell him to shut up.As it turns out, the aforementioned Tyrone was the intended buyer of the guns Riggs and Cole recovered. Jack Travis convinces Tyrone to give him another chance to get his guns and ammo back, saying he'll have to pay a visit to the LAPD again.That afternoon, Rianne arrives at Riggs' beachfront mobile home, where he has brought his new Rottweiler friend inside with his other dog. Rianne tells Riggs that her father had yet to return home, since the incident with Darryl. That night, Riggs heads to the marina, where he finds Murtaugh aboard his boat. He was drunk. He is not dealing with the killing of Darryl very well.Initially Murtaugh is angry that his daughter went to see Riggs at his beach home, since he's always worried that Riggs would seduce Rianne. Riggs works to snap Murtaugh out of his funk with rhetoric about how they share the same problems, and they need to stick together. Riggs finally talks Murtaugh down, reasoning that Murtaugh had no choice but to kill Darryl, since Darryl was shooting at him, with intent to kill him and anyone else who came along.The tension resumes when Murtaugh convinces Riggs to share a problem that might be giving him trouble. When Riggs reveals he "slept with somebody he shouldn't have," Murtaugh punches Riggs, knocking him off the boat, assuming he meant Rianne. After pulling Murtaugh into the water with him, Riggs explains that he was speaking about his liaison with Cole, though he had to clarify that he meant Lorna, as her uncle worked in the Traffic department. Riggs and Murtaugh attract the attention of an LA County Sheriff boat officer, who tells them to clear out of the water.The next morning, Murtaugh finds Nick attempting to shave, getting ready for Darryl's funeral. Murtaugh helps his son stroke the razor correctly. Nick tells his father that he loves him and he doesn't blame him for having to kill his friend.The Murtaugh family, Riggs and Cole all attend Darryl's funeral. When Murtaugh goes to express his condolences to the parents, Darryl's mother slaps him in the face. The boy's father gives Murtaugh an admonishment: find the man that gave Darryl the gun.Riggs, Murtaugh and Cole then begin a series of raids, tracing the path of Darryl's gun. First they strike one of Darryl's gang buddies, whom Murtaugh dresses down about "genocide", and black people killing each other. That leads them to Tyrone, who in turn directs them to one of Travis' associates, Herman Walters (Alan Scarfe). Cole once more shows her hand-to-hand combat skills, this time for Murtaugh to see and much to the delight of Riggs, but Walters gets away. They were able to take one of Travis's henchmen, Hubie, into custody.Travis is on his way to the LAPD, where he takes Captain Murphy hostage and forces his way back into the LAPD's storage facility to get more guns and ammo. Meanwhile, Riggs, Murtaugh and Cole return to the precinct, where Murtaugh asks Riggs to show him some hand-to-hand combat techniques. Riggs demonstrates a roundhouse kick, but he positions Murtaugh such that he tries it out, he kicks a water cooler over, leading to a brief run-in with the psychologist.Some more research leads them to Mesa Verde Construction, Travis' cover operation. Leo Getz returns from the hospital, promptly going through a tirade about hospitals because of an unnecessary rectal exam he received, before Murtaugh calms him down and sends him off to research Mesa Verde.As Travis finishes loading up the guns and ammo he's stealing, still holding Murphy hostage, Cole is on a computer and discovers that the files on the very same guns and ammo had just been accessed and deleted. She also mentions that her division had moved all the cop-killer ammunition to one central location: downstairs in the very building they're all in. They hurry down to the storage room, with Edwards tagging along for extra help. Riggs tells Edwards to stay behind him and seek as much cover as he can.Travis attempts to escape via the subway, which was still under construction. The group discovers the guns missing, and traces them down into the subway, where a firefight ensues. The bad guys attempt to kill Murphy, but he manages to push his immediate captor onto the rails, electrocuting him on the third rail, and gets away. Edwards is killed when he takes cover behind a barrel, and gets shot by Travis, who is armed with the cop killer bullets.Riggs chases Travis and Walters, who are getting away with the guns on a truck designed to ride the subway rails. He jumps onto the front of the lead subway car and directs the driver to move up on the truck. Once above ground, Riggs jumps off the subway and commandeers an LAPD motorcycle, then continues his pursuit of the truck, which has by then left the rails and taken to the streets. Murtaugh races in his vehicle to catch up. Riggs pursues Travis on the wrong side of a freeway, then into a section that was under construction. Travis manages to get stopped, but Riggs flies off an unfinished ramp, hanging by some cables. The cables give way, and he falls through several platforms, to the ground. He's okay, despite dislocating his unstable shoulder again and cursing heavily about how Travis got away from him twice.Leo arrives on the scene. He announces that he has the location of Mesa Verde's desert construction project, Rancho Royale. Leo wants to go with them, but Murtaugh shoots out his car tires, preventing him from tagging along.Riggs and Murtaugh head to Rancho Royale, where they are joined by Lorna Cole. Murtaugh intends to use Darryl's gun to finish off Travis. They use Cole's empty car as a decoy, then attack the development. Riggs inserts a hose in the gas tank of a truck and siphons it to start a flow, then he drives through the housing frames, spilling fuel all over the place. Murtaugh ignites the fuel, setting the development ablaze.Travis shoots Cole and she goes down. Murtaugh fights through some of Travis' men, then finds a loose crate of cop killer bullets and loads up Darryl's gun with them. Riggs fights hand-to-hand with Travis, then gets pinned down as Travis tries to run him over with a front-end loader. Murtaugh takes out Walters, then tosses Darryl's gun to Riggs, loaded with the cop killer bullets. Riggs shoots through the bucket of the front-end loader, killing Travis.Tending to Cole, Riggs finds that she was wearing two bullet-proof vests. She was still badly hurt, but they prevented fatal injuries. Riggs goes with her as she is taken by helicopter from the scene. He then lectures her on how you're supposed to live "for" somebody, not "because of" them, declaring his love for her.Murtaugh's final day of work arrives, and he is taking a bubble bath when his family comes in to celebrate his retirement. He breaks the news that he's decided not to retire after all. Leo Getz then comes marching into the bathroom and says he's finally sold the house, but when Murtaugh tells him about his decision not to retire, Getz gets upset and Trish Murtaugh (Darlene Love) has to usher him out.The movie ends with Riggs arriving and saying goodbye to Rianne as she heads to her own work. He's also started smoking again, because of his "dog biscuit problem". Murtaugh is again suspicious that Riggs has designs on Rianne, but Riggs eases his fears by saying that things are getting serious between himself and Cole, who he is picking up from the hospital later that day. They already have a dog, after all.In an post-credits scene, Riggs and Murtaugh arrive at the scene of another bomb threat. As soon as they exit their vehicle, the building explodes. They quickly get back in the vehicle and drive off like nothing happened, both cursing their bad luck.
