A pregnant doctor's life is made hell by the deranged patient to whom she gave a hysterectomy, without the patient's consent.
Dr Eva Warden (Beth Broderick) has a patient, Tracey, whose dying wish is to become a mother. Eva performs a surgery on Tracey, only to find out that she has cancer and to save her life she'll have to do a hysterectomy. When Tracey wakes up and realizes that her chance of becoming a mother is forever gone, she's utterly distraught, and although her husband suggests an adoption, it's not a possibility for Tracey. When her sorrows's over, anger get's the upper hand and Dr Warden unawarely becomes the target of Tracey's wrath. With Dr Warden in the danger zone, one more life is also automatically put in mortal danger...
Tracy Patterson is a hospital volunteer in the nursery. She loves taking care of babies and is desperate for one of her own. But she and her husband Stan are experiencing difficulty. Someone gives her the name of a fertility specialist, Dr. Eva Warden. Stan is reluctant to visit yet another doctor, but Tracy reminds him of how much she wants a baby. She grew up in foster care and there was no one who looked or acted like her. Dr. Warden meets with Tracy and Stan, explaining that first a laparoscopy will be performed to rule out any physical problems. She warns them that only a small percentage of women become pregnant, even if everything checks out. Tracy is determined to be one of those women. While out with her friend Sabrina, she buys an antique crib. Stan is disapproving, saying it is too early. During the procedure, Dr. Warden finds a malignancy on one of Tracy's ovaries. Stan has his wife's signed consent to make decisions for her. He orders Dr. Warden to proceed with a hysterectomy. She is reluctant to do so without talking to Tracy first but Stan, backed by Sabrina, insists it would be too hard a decision for Tracy to make. Tracy is enraged when she wakes and hears from Dr. Warden what happened. She thinks it was Dr. Warden's decision to perform the hysterectomy. When she tries to sue the doctor, she learns that it was Stan who gave permission. On arriving home, Tracy finds Stan outside cutting bait. She flies at him in a fury but he explains that he refused to gamble with her life. There is no sign of cancer in her body so he knows he did the right thing. He tries to embrace Tracy but she shoves him away. He slips on a piece of bait and hits his head on a log, dying instantly. After the funeral, Tracy learns that Stan has left her very well off financially. She still wants to sue Dr. Warden but her lawyer says unless a lot of patients complain about the doctor, nothing can be done.Dr. Warden is on a TV talk show about pregnancy. Tracy watches and learns that Dr. Warden is herself pregnant. She is taking shots of progesterone to strengthen and nourish her body. Tracy is so outraged that she flings a carton of ice cream at the set. Eventually an idea comes to her. She returns to her volunteer job at the hospital, working alongside her friend Julie. After obtaining Dr. Warden's home address, Tracy drives to the house. Seeing a "for sale" sign, she returns the next day with the real estate agent, posing as a buyer. She tours the house and abruptly says it is not what she is looking for. Having memorized the lock box code, Tracy pays several visits to the Warden home. She rummages through Dr. Warden's clothing and personal items, leaves a tape player on, learns that the doctor's husband Gary is an out-of-work architect, throws a doll into the swimming pool, and replaces the progesterone with cooking oil. Dr. Warden sees the doll floating in the pool and thinks it is a real baby. She dives in to rescue it, risking her pregnancy. Gary thinks one of the neighborhood children left the doll but Dr. Warden is beginning to feel spooked. She accuses the maid of snooping through her belongings, then apologizes. Using her maiden name,Tracy gets a job at the lab where test results of Dr. Warden's patients are sent. She changes the results of several pregnancy tests, causing a rush of complaints about the doctor. Dr. Joe Reilly, Dr. Warden's boss, asks her what is going on. Then Dr. Warden begins spotting. Tests reveal that nothing is wrong but the lab discovers that the progesterone is really cooking oil. At this point Dr. Warden knows someone has been inside her home. Gary tries to reassure her but she feels someone is out to get her. Tracy spots Dr. Warden leaving the grocery store and shoves a bank of shopping carts at her. She is hit and taken to the hospital, but her injuries are superficial. Gary calls the police, who don't take it seriously. They think Dr. Warden is overly paranoid because she is pregnant and that the shopping cart incident was an accident. Dr. Reilly insists that Dr. Warden take some time off because of all the complaints about her. Tracy begins working for Sabrina, who works from home as a real estate developer. She has business cards printed, again using her maiden name, and contacts Gary Warden about a job. Sabrina overhears her making arrangements to meet with Gary at a deserted construction site. She recognizes Gary's name and realizes Tracy is using her to get to Dr. Warden's husband. Arriving early at the construction site, Sabrina confronts Tracy, who accuses her of siding with Stan about the hysterectomy. Then, in a fit of rage, she kills Sabrina by pushing her down an empty elevator shaft. After meeting with Gary Warden, Tracy invites him to accompany her to San Francisco about another project. They will be gone overnight. Gary is reluctant to leave his wife, but Dr. Warden assures him she will be fine. This is too good an opportunity for Gary to turn down. In San Francisco, Tracy invites Gary to dine in her suite and tries to seduce him. He turns her down and returns to his own room. The next morning, Tracy drives them to a deserted area where a building will supposedly go up. Gary gets out of the car and Tracy tries to run him down. He takes off, she drives after him and eventually hits him. Then she drags him into the car. When he doesn't return home as scheduled, Dr. Warden calls the police. The doorbell rings and she runs to answer it. Gary is there but he collapses, obviously seriously injured. A car is heard driving away. Dr. Warden calls an ambulance. At the hospital, she goes into labor and is delivered of a healthy baby girl. But she is frantic with worry about Gary and fears someone will kidnap the baby. Dr. Reilly assures her that the police are with Gary. He personally takes the baby to the nursery, where Tracy has just come on duty. Julie remarks that she had thought Sabrina would be back from her business trip by now. Tracy makes an off-hand comment about how Sabrina always loses track of time. When the nursery is deserted, Tracy signs the baby out to Dr. Warden's room. Dr. Warden was so upset that she was sedated but it is beginning to wear off. Tracy wrestles her onto a gurney and hides the baby underneath. She wheels the gurney down to the maintenance area of the hospital. A workman asks what they are doing there but Tracy knocks him out with a large wrench. Dr. Warden instantly recognizes her. There is a struggle and Dr. Warden tries to lead her away from the baby. Tracy says she is taking the baby since Dr. Warden took her chance to have one. Dr. Warden reminds her that she can have a family, there are other ways. When Dr. Warden and the baby are discovered missing, hospital security is alerted. Julie realizes Tracy has snapped. Down in the maintenance area, Dr. Warden runs from Tracy and presses an emergency button on the wall. The women once more struggle and this time Dr. Warden overpowers Tracy and knocks her out. Some time later, Gary Warden is shown at home holding the baby. There is a cast on his leg. Dr. Warden comes in and they briefly discuss what has taken place. She wonders if it could ever happen again. The last scene shows Tracy in a padded cell, holding a doll, obviously insane. She sings a lullaby to the doll and vows to find another baby sometime.
