Two dim-witted, inseparable friends hit the road for their ten-year high school reunion and concoct an elaborate lie about their lives in order to impress their classmates.
Romy and Michele have been through it all, including being tortured by the Popular crowd when in high school. When they receive word of a 10 year reunion, they come to realize their lives aren't as impressive as they'd like them to be. Instead of staying home they go to the reunion with business outfits, cell phones, and one heck of a bogus success story.
Best friends since they were children, single, unambitious late twenty-somethings Romy White, a Jaguar dealership cashier, and unemployed Michele Weinberger are roommates living in Los Angeles, which, in and of itself, they see as being a good life compared to the alternative of living in their backwater hometown of Tuscon. They are both stereotypical ditsy blonds, although Romy is slightly more aware than perpetually happy Michele, who has no idea that they were not popular when they were in school. Their high school life included being the butt of jokes by the popular clique led by Christie Masters, Romy being in love with Christie's boyfriend, jock Billy Christianson, and back brace wearing Michele being pursued by ultimate geek Sandy Frink (nicknamed the Frinkazoid) which did not sit well with bright but always angry, chain-smoking Heather Mooney who was in love with Sandy herself. When Romy runs into Heather, who is now a successful Jaguar-driving entrepreneur but is still a chain-smoking, angry woman, Romy discovers that their ten year reunion from Sagebrush High School in Tuscon is upcoming in two weeks. Romy and Michele decide to go, but Romy believes that they have to have the perfect lives to show up especially Christie and that group. That perfect life includes being professionally successful which for Michele means getting not just a job but a good job, losing some weight and having an equally perfect man in each of their lives. Barring any of these things actually happening in two weeks, they have to come up with the perfect stories to perpetuate that great life. In doing so, Romy and Michele may put their own friendship to the test as they try to become people they are not.
Romy and Michele are two former schoolmates who have also been roommates for ten years after the time they graduated, and their lives are far from successful, they can't even get a date. As the 10-year class reunion approaches they try to do something to make an impression on other former schoolmates and finally decide to act as though they are very rich business women who invented Post-Its.

