Two drag performers and a transgender woman travel across the desert to perform their unique style of cabaret.
Two drag-queens (Anthony/Mitzi and Adam/Felicia) and a transgender woman contract to perform a drag show at a resort in Alice Springs, a resort town in the remote Australian desert. They head west from Sydney aboard their lavender bus, Priscilla. En route, it is discovered that the woman they've contracted with is Anthony's wife. Their bus breaks down, and is repaired by Bob, who travels on with them.
Three friends, three lives, one persuasion and a pink bus named Priscilla head into the Australian desert with their colourful, extravagant show in a road movie that brings culture clash to the forefront of a comedy of errors. A mixture of vast landscapes, narrow minds and a melancholy, reflective mood that with the help of a larger than life gal that is Priscilla she more than widens the comfort zones and finds not just new horizons but also finds that is lost.
Anthony, nicknamed Tick, is a Sydney-based drag queen who performs under the name Mitzi. After he gets hired to perform at a resort in Alice Springs, he invites two people along both for company and to be part of the show. They are fellow drag queen Adam, who performs under the name Felicia, and middle aged transsexual Bernadette, who was born male with the name Ralph, and whose much younger husband has just passed away. Tick believes this trip will be be a distraction for Bernadette, a former "Les Girls" in "his" younger days. This threesome is not a totally cohesive group, with overly boisterous Adam/Felicia being the one who will probably get on the others' nerves, he only being invited because Felicia does add an extra something to the stage. Adam largely uses his trans status to guilt his mother for money, which is how he is able to buy the highway coach that he names Priscilla, in which the three will travel to Alice Springs. They get into one misadventure after another based on their queer fish out of water status in many of the small outback towns through which they travel, those misadventures for which they not only need to provide support for each other in every sense of the word, but also solidarity. But perhaps more importantly, they help each other with the issues they are facing in their personal lives, Tick's biggest which are currently waiting for him in Alice Springs.

