Gopinath lives a struggling life with his son, Tinku, wife, Chanda and mother. He works in the police force and is a long-time employee but has never received an award or granted promotion since he does not discharged his duty properly. Everyday he prays to Lord Hanuman to grant him his wish and one day when he visits the police station he finds that he has been promoted and is to be given higher wages, he decides to visit the temple and thank Lord Hanuman. From here on Gopinath finds that all his encounter is being conducted successfully with him doing nothing but gets promoted and his salary is rising up more and more. When Tinku is kidnapped by a gangster, Sawant. Gopinath must now go to negotiate the release of his son and here is where he will comes to know that he has a look-alike, Kishen, who may be responsible for getting him promoted and conducting his encounters. Will this new errant prove to be dangerous for Gopinath or will he prove to be a boon?
Employed by the Indian police force for a number of years Havaldar Gopinath remains a merger due to his slacker ways of discharging his duties. His family life consists of his vendor wife, Chanda, a school-going son, Tinku and his mother. Out of the blue he finds himself praise for arresting criminals one day; this leaves him to ponder over this progress; one by one all his assignments gets completed successfully. Unknown to him that he has a look-alike, Kishen who is responsible for the progress entail over his life. This reality comes to light when Tinku is abducted by a notorious gangster, Sawant - whereby Kishen is forced to aid Gopi once again this time for the last time by assisting him in rescuing Tinku.
Barkha (Karishma Kapoor) is the only daughter of the City's Police Commissioner (Satyen Kappu) and is spoiled, to say the least. One day her pranks get her in trouble with the law, and she is arrested and held in custody by Inspector Gopinath (Sunil Shetty). Enraged by the arrogance of Gopinath in arresting his daughter, her dad storms in to the Police Station and get's his daughter released. Barkha admires Gopinath's guts and his sense of duty and falls in love with him. Eventually Gopinath also falls in love with her. Unknown to Gopinath, he has a twin brother, Kishan (also Sunil Shetty), who is married to Chanda (Shilpa Shirodkar), and has a son, Tinku (Master Imran). Kishan and Chanda are naive, but honest. Kishan is often mistaken for Gopinath and very often impersonates him. Gopinath's duties take him to question Choudhury (Suresh Oberoi), who he knows is his biological father. His mom, Geeta (Aruna Irani) also knows of this, but prefer to keep this secret to themselves. Choudhury and his henchmen, including Sawant (Mohan Joshi), are irritated by Gopinath's interference in their criminal activities, and abduct Tinku, thinking that they have kidnapped Gopinath's son. Will Kishan be able to secure the release of his son? Will Gopinath's duty come before him, when he negotiates the release of Tinku?

