In Victorian-era London, a troubled clairvoyant police detective investigates the murders of Jack the Ripper.
It is 1888 in London, and the unfortunate poor lead horrifying lives in the city's deadliest slum, Whitechapel. Harassed by gangs and forced to walk the streets for a living, Mary Kelly and her small group of companions trudge on through this daily misery, their only consolation being that things can't get any worse. Yet things somehow do when their friend Ann is kidnapped and they are drawn into a conspiracy with links higher up than they could possibly imagine. The kidnapping is soon followed by the gruesome murder of another woman, Polly, and it becomes apparent that they are being hunted down, one by one. Sinister even by Whitechapel standards, the murder grabs the attention of Inspector Fred Abberline, a brilliant yet troubled man whose police work is often aided by his psychic abilities. Abberline becomes deeply involved with the case, which takes on personal meaning to him when he and Mary begin to fall in love. But as he gets closer to the truth, Whitechapel becomes more and more dangerous for Abberline, Mary, and the other girls. Whomever is responsible for the grisly acts is not going to give up his secret without a fight. Will they be able to survive the avenging force that has been sent after them from Hell?
The infamous Jack the Ripper case set in London of 1888. The Ripper has been running amok in the Whitechapel district murdering and dissecting prostitutes. Scotland Yard Inspector Fred Abberline, aided by his partner, Peter Godley, are on the case to figure out who this serial killer is and why he is killing these women in such a brutal manner. Abberline is an opium addict and when "chasing the dragon" he is able to have visions of the future, a certain psychic ability that allows him to solve cases. As Abberline and Godley investigate the crimes, they become acquainted with the prostitutes who were friends and colleagues of the victims. Abberline begins to fall in love with Mary Kelly, one of the prostitutes, or as the nobles called them, "unfortunates", being hunted down by Jack the Ripper. Abberline digs deeper and deeper into the conspiracy and attempts to solve the case before Mary Kelly is the next victim.
In 1888 London, prostitutes living in London's poor and decrepit East End are being butchered by a killer who has come to be known as Jack the Ripper. Scotland Yard Inspector Frederick Abberline and Sergeant Peter Godley investigate the gruesome killings. The evidence suggests that the killer may have had some medical training, but there is reluctance in some quarters to the suggestion that a man of education and class could be involved in such atrocities. Abberline has drug-induced visions, from smoking opium or drinking absinthe, that guide him, but as the investigation continues, he finds links between the aristocracy, the Freemasons, and the senior ranks of Scotland Yard and the medical profession. For Abberline, he develops affections for the beautiful Mary Kelly who is perhaps destined to be the Ripper's last victim.

