A computer hacker breaks into the computer system of the Seabourn Legend cruise liner and sets it speeding on a collision course into a gigantic oil tanker.
Annie Porter, the woman who was held on a bus with a bomb attached to it that will go off if it slows down. She dated the cop who saved her but broke up with him because he was constantly putting his life in danger. She would then date a guy named Alex who is also a cop but told her that he does a mundane assignment. But she eventually learns that he works for the same unit that the other guy worked for and is also addicted to danger. She wants to break up with but he surprises her with a cruise. She agrees to go. And he's planning to propose to her. But when he notices another passenger act peculiar, he can't help but try to find out what's up with him. He's Geiger, a computer man who designed the ship's systems, who was fired. He then takes over the ship's systems and sets it on a course that will send it into a tanker. Alex tries to stop him.
Annie and her policeman boyfriend Alex decide to take a romantic ocean cruise together. Once at sea, however, one of the passengers, a disgruntled computer genius named Geiger, disables the ship. Alex must now foil Geiger's plans and bring everyone back safely to shore, but how can he outwit a man who can control the entire ship from his keyboard?
Annie Porter is thrilled when her boyfriend Alex Shaw presents her with two tickets for a cruise to the Bahamas on a Norwegian luxury liner. The trip is a peace offering presented because Annie has just learned that Alex is a police officer who's been lying to her about his choice of profession. Alex lied because Annie didn't want to date any more cops after what happened with the bus in Los Angeles. The cruise ship's passengers include members of a diamond dealers' association, who have filled the ship's vault with valuable diamonds. Little do they know that passenger John Geiger, the designer of the ship's computer system, has planned to take over the ship, steal the diamonds, and set the ship on a collision course with an oil tanker anchored at the island of St. Martin. Geiger was fired and cast aside by the computer company he worked for, and he wants revenge. Now it's up to Alex to stop him.

