An American spy behind the lines during WWII serves as a Nazi propagandist, a role he cannot escape in his future life as he can never reveal his real role in the war.
Howard W. Campbell, Jr., an American expatriate playwright, Nazi radio propagandist, and Allied spy, writes his memoirs during his pre-trial confinement in 1961 Haifa and learns that people are what they pretend to be.
Howard W. Campbell Jr., an American living in Germany since childhood, is recruited by the United States to become an informer during the upcoming Second World War. What he does become, is one of the leading anti-semetic news broadcasters of Nazi Germany. After the fall of Hitler's Germany, Campbell's government friends arrange for a quiet life in the United States. His life is quiet until a complex web of spies and neo-Nazis draws him back into the life which he once lead. Eventually captured by the Isralies, Campbell's one defense was: "I was an American Spy."
"Make love when you can...when you're dead, you're dead". the morals of the story and the philosophies of Howard Campbell Jr. Howard is writing his story from an Israeli prison.
Howard is an American by birth who moves to Germany as a child with his diplomat father and mother. As Hitler takes power, Howard, now an adult, remains in Germany and becomes a well known playwright. Married to the German Helga, Howard has no real political leaning. However, as WWII breaks out and Germany declares war on the United States, howard is recruited to become a spy for his native land. He reluctantly agrees and plies his trade through propaganda radio broadcasts for the Nazis, becoming accepted by Goebbels, the director of propaganda for the Third Reich.
His broadcasts become so convincing that he is branded a Nazi war criminal and captured by American Soldiers.
Howard's OSS contact arranges for his escape from custody and moves him into a dreary flat in New York City.
Thinking that his beloved wife has been killed, Howard leads a drab existence and makes only one friend...a friend who later betrays him to Israeli war criminal hunters.
Before the betrayal, Helga appears at his door and he begins to live again, only to find that it is not Helga but her younger sister Resi. After his hopes are dashed, he resigns himself to capture and ultimately to go to his punishment.
