A young woman is murdered in the White House. Homicide detective Regis/W.Snipes investigates while Secret Service works against him. He's assigned agent Chance/D.Lane. She eventually cooperates after a man's framed.
A 25 year old female White House staffer, Carla Town, is murdered in the White House. D.C. homicide detective Regis is assigned to investigate, only to find evidence suppressed by the Secret Service. After suspecting a cover-up, Regis convinces Secret Service Agent Nina Chance to assist in uncovering the truth. The President's son Kyle Neil is a prime suspect, as he was having sex with Carla within an hour of her murder. While the investigation ensues, the President, Jack Neil, is holding meetings with top military personnel regarding North Korea's holding 23 U.S. military personnel hostage. Regis confronts top Secret Service Agent Spikings at his home shortly after Spikings returns with evidence leading to the murder. The home is attacked and Spikings is killed, but Regis makes it out alive with Agent Chance's assistance, and with the evidence tape. White House adviser Jordan presents false evidence to the President that his son killed Carla and forces the President to say he will announce his resignation at 10 p.m. the following day. Regis and Chance break into the White House via underground tunnels, stop the President from resigning, and arrest Jordan for conspiracy to murder. Jordan pulls a gun, injures Agent Chance, and is killed by multiple Secret Service agents. A news briefing states there were false rumors of the President resigning, and also falsely state that Agent Spikings was killed in the gunfire exchange between Jordan and the Secret Service.
At a time of international incident, the body of a young female staffer is found in a White House wash room. Homicide detective Harlan Regis is called in to investigate the murder only to discover the secret service had taken hold of all the evidence for their own investigation. A frustrated Regis becomes suspicious of a cover-up and convinces secret service agent Nina Chance to aid him. The remainder of the plot is spent following Regis and Chance as they uncover the answers as to who is behind the conspiracy and why.
D.C. detective Harlan Regis is called to the White House after a young woman is murdered in the White House. Regis realizes this won't be a typical investigation as he keeps running into a brick wall with the Secret Service. He is only able to get the help of Agent Chance. All of this is occurring while a hostage scandal in Korea threatens to destroy the President's term.
Detective Harlan Regis and Secret Service agent Nina Chance are investigating the murder of secretary Carla Town, whose body is found in the White House. Meanwhile there's political crisis in the US as president Jack Neil can not decide whether he should attack North Korea, which is holding US soldiers hostage. The story of murder leads Regis to some dark political secrets and he has to defend the USA and the whole world from danger.
When the murdered body of a young woman who works in the White House is found, homicide detective Harlan Regis is called in. Upon arriving Senior Secret Service Agent Spikings objects to his presence, but he has the support of the National Security Advisor. Preliminary investigation suggests that it might be a sex crime. And Regis learns that the President's son has a history of similar acts. He tries to get more info while Spikings is impeding him but he is determined to find out what happened. Secret Service Agent Nina Chance tries to help him.

