A young, clairvoyant woman has a vision of a murder and sets out to uncover the truth before the killer finds her.
Gifted with powers to oversee incidents much before they happen; Devi attempts to uncover the secrets of her sister Rama's death whose body was discovered in one of the walls of her multi-millionaire husband, Ram Kumar bungalow. Devi's investigations lead her to discover that Ram Kumar was involved in the death of her sister - while she has another vision - such a vision that will make her a target by an unstoppable assassin.
Devi is gifted with extra sensing powers where in she is able to gets visions of things even before it could happen.Once Devi gets a vision that her sister Rama has been killed few days later Rama gets killed and no one is aware about her death as her body has been buried inside the wall of a huge mansion closed for years.Five years later Devi meets Kumar a rich businessman they both fall in love an get married soon which doesn't go well with her best friend Sunil who loves her.Kumar lawyer at his wedding presents him the key and papers of their old mansion which had a court case.Devi along with Balam goes to the mansion to arrange the things its the same mansion where Rama's body was buried.Devi starts to see things in reality in the mansion of which she had visions while Balam is away Devi finds a suspicious wall upon breaking it a skeleton pops out of it.Devi is sure it belongs to Rama due to a necklace in the neck of skeleton while police continue their investigation to confirm weather the skeleton belongs to Rama,Devi now gets different visions where she also sees a woman getting killed.Devi takes the help of Sunil to solve the mystery behind her visions which will also lead her to Rama's murder.
Devi is gifted with Extra Sensory Perception (ESP). Her gift comes to light one day while playing tennis with her friend, Sudha, when she has a vision of her sister, Rama, being shot to death by a man in a black raincoat. She telephones Rama, finds she is safe and is relieved. Shortly thereafter Rama disappears, the police are notified, but are unable to find any trace of her. Devi then meets multi-millionaire, Ram Kumar, both fall in love and get married. She moves into his once abandoned and legally disputed bungalow, and that's when she starts having visions again. These visions lead her to a wall that is loosely plastered. She breaks down the wall with a pick-axe and finds a skeleton of a woman, who is later identified as Rama. Now having come to know that her premonitions are more or less accurate, Devi starts to have another vision - this time of a woman being stabbed by a bald man. Together with Ram and her friend, Sunil, Devi attempts to unearth the truth, which can be found only on a video cassette marked "100 Days", knowing fully well that she may well be the next target of an unstoppable assassin.

