A juror in a Mafia trial is forced to convince the other jurors to vote not guilty by an obsessive mob enforcer.
When Annie Laird is selected as a juror in a big Mafia trial, she is forced by someone known as "The Teacher" to persuade the other jurors to vote "not guilty". He threatens to kill her son if she doesn't commit. When the trial is over, he can't let her go...
Annie Laird (Demi Moore) is a sculptor who lives in New York with her son Oliver (Joseph Gordon-Levitt). Annie works as a data entry clerk. Oliver has a crush on Annie's friend Juliet (Anne Heche), who has a son named Jesse (Brett Barsky).Annie is selected to be a juror in the trial of mob boss Louie Boffano (Tony Lo Bianco), who is accused of ordering the murders of Salvatore Riggio.Annie meets a man named Mark Cordell (Alec Baldwin). He buys some of Annie's artwork, then wines and dines her before Annie discovers that Mark is better known as "The Teacher." He is Boffano's enforcer, and the material perpetrator of the hit job for which Boffano is being prosecuted. Mark tells Annie to convince the jury to acquit Boffano, or Oliver, Juliet, and Jesse will all die.An extremely frightened Annie does convince the jury to acquit Boffano. After the trial, Boffano wonders if maybe Annie should disappear, because Boffano sees Annie as a loose end. Mark has a problem with this because he has developed feelings for Annie.In order to exert further pressure on Annie, Mark goes after Juliet, who has been his lover. After the two have sex, Mark reveals himself to Juliet as being Annie's stalker. He pulls a gun and forces Juliet to take a fatal drug overdose.Mark boasts of Juliet's murder to his partner Eddie (James Gandolfini).Annie hides Oliver in T'ui Cuch, Guatemala with her friend Boone (Matt Craven). At the same time, the district attorney wants Annie to turn state's witness so they can go after Mark, who now plans to take over Boffano's empire.When the DA's office has her wear a wire, Annie removes it and gives it to Eddie, instructing him to leave her and Mark alone. Annie then succeeds in getting Mark to incriminate himself in a boastful rant on his ambitions, which were recorded on a hidden tape recorder. She then uses the tape to tip off Boffano to Mark's plans. Boffano schedules a meeting to "deal" with Mark.Eddie arranges the meeting, but Mark kills both Boffano and Boffano's son Joseph (Michael Rispoli), along with their henchmen. He also slashes Eddie's throat. Mark is furious at Annie for setting him up. He calls her, revealing his knowledge of Oliver's whereabouts and his intention to travel to Guatemala to kill Oliver.In Guatemala there is a showdown when Mark arrives. After Mark chases Oliver into a structure, natives shoot Mark. Annie, who has a pistol, fires eight more shots, killing Mark, and ensuring Oliver's safety.(Source: Wikipedia)
