Reena is a young, gay Indian-American woman who lives and works in New York. Her sister Sarita, who is married, discovers that she is infertile. Reena offers to be a surrogate mother for her sister's baby, hoping to improve her relationship with their mother, who disapproves of Reena's sexual orientation. Reena has second thoughts when her girlfriend Lisa feels left out.
When married Sarita discovers she can't have children, for the first time in their lives Reena can do something her perfect sister Sarita can't: get pregnant. Obsessed with helping her sister and winning her mom's approval, Reena decides she'll have the baby and then give it to her sister and brother-in-law, Mitch. Now she just needs to convince her commitment-phobic girlfriend to go along with the idea. With Indian traditions on the one hand and modern New York City values on the other, Chutney Popcorn is a provocative new comedy that shows you can find family somewhere between the two.
Gay love story finds a New York photographer and her lover deciding to have a baby after the photographer's married older sister is determined to be incapable of having a child. The photographer initially offers to act as a surrogate for her sister, but changes her mind as the birth draws closer. The photographer's Indian mother, who has barely acknowledged her daughter's existence since she disclosed her sexuality, is brought back with her daughter with the impending birth.
A New York based Indian-American family consists of a mother and her two daughters - Sarita and Reena. The mother, though conservative, has accepted the American way of life, and did not raise any objections when Sarita, the elder of the two daughters, decided to marry Mitch, a white man. But her acceptance went no further once she found out that Reena is gay, and has a white girlfriend, Lisa, with whom she would like to spend the rest of her life. Their lives become even more complicated when Sarita finds out that she is unable to give birth. Reena offers to be the surrogate mother, which Sarita accepts. And then Sarita finds out that Mitch is taking an extra special interest in Reena.

