Fictional chronicle of Squanto's life prior to and including the arrival of the "Mayflower" in 1620.
Squanto (Adam Beach) is a high-born Native American from a tribe on the Atlantic coast of North America which devotes its life to hunting and rivalry with a neighboring tribe. Everything changes forever after a ship arrives from England, prospecting the region's commercial potential for the rich Sir George (Sir Michael Gambon), who uses all his wealth and influence only for ever greater profit. When it returns, several Indians find themselves captives on-board, including Squanto. The arrogant "Christians" consider themselves utterly superior to the "heathen savages" and treat them as brutally as they do beasts. Squanto fights a bear in a circus, not understanding how men can be so cruel to that creature either, and manages a spectacular escape, but where must he go? He finds shelter and help in a rural monastery, where it takes his protector some effort to prevent the others considering the unknown as diabolical. In time, Sir George's men come looking for him most brutally, but he escapes again, now determined to find a way back home, across the ocean.
In the seventeenth century, a group of British sailors lure the Patuxet tribe in the New World and kidnap an Indian called Squanto (Adam Beach), together with Epenow (Eric Schweig) from the Nauset tribe. They are brought to England to become the attraction of a circus, but Squanto succeeds in escaping in a row boat that sinks. Squanto is found by monks and brought to the monastery where he learns English and white man behavior. Squanto misses his beloved wife Nakooma (Irene Bedard), and when he has a chance, he returns to the New World with Epenow. But he discovers that his world is no longer the same.
This movie tells the story of Squanto (Adam Beach), who has been taken to England against his will from his New England homeland. He escapes his captors, stealing a boat and heading to sea. After his boat wrecks in a storm, he's found by some friars and stays in their monastery until he gets a chance to return home. He finally gets back, only to find his people decimated by a plague and English people living in what was once his home. He's faced with the choice of joining another tribe in their attack on the Pilgrims or trying to make peace between the two sides.
Set in the early 1600s, a New England Native American named Squanto (Adam Beach) is captured and subsequently enslaved by English settlers, but survives a shipwreck and returns to America to teach the Pilgrims how to survive in their strange new land. Driven by a passion to be free, he risks everything to escape his captors, braving the wilderness and triumphing, finally, as a great leader.

