A tug-of-war between Elmo and his friend sends his blanket to faraway Grouchland, a place full of grouchy creatures and the villainous Huxley. Elmo embarks on a rescue mission, learning important lessons about sharing and responsibility.
Elmo loves his fuzzy, blue blanket, and would never let anything happen to it. However, a tug-of-war with his friend Zoe sends his blanket to a faraway land, and Elmo in hot pursuit. Facing life without his cherished blanket, Elmo musters all of his determination and courage and heads off on an action-packed rescue mission that plunges him into Grouchland, a place full of grouchy creatures, stinky garbage and the villainous Huxley. Along the way, Elmo learns an important lesson about sharing, realizing that he was selfish with his friend and responsible for what happened.
Elmo the fuzzy little red monster wakes up one morning to stick together with his favorite fuzzy blue blanket. Elmo learns a lesson when he refuses to share his blanket with his best friend, Zoe, then loses it in Oscar's can, where it goes all the way to Grouchland. And now for the first time ever Elmo musters all of his determination and courage and heads off on an action-packed rescue mission that plunges him into Grouchland-a place full of grouchy creatures, stinky garbage and the villainous man alive named Huxley. He asked a kind girl named Grizzy to help Elmo get back his blanket. Grizzy decided she wanted to stop helping because Huxley's house is on the top of Mount Pickanose which is far, far away. Elmo is now on his own. All the people from Sesame Street come to Grouchland to get Elmo back.
The cute little red monster Elmo loves his cozy blue blanket. But after a guy of war with his friend Zoe, Elmo's blanket gets thrown into Oscar the Grouch's can. While trying to get it back, Elmo is whisked away from Sesame Street to the disgusting Grouchland. Once there, he finds that his blanket has fallen into the hands of the greedy Huxley, who steals everything in sight. With help from Big Bird and the Sesame Street gang and learning the values of friendship and responsibility, Elmo must do his best to rescue his blanket and stop Huxley from keeping it for his own.

