A female cop is gunned down and wrongly accused of using excessive force in a hostage rescue attempt. Maniac cop returns from the dead once more to seek revenge, destroying everthing and anyone that stands in his way.
Officer Matt Cordell's third ride from beyond the grave has him looking for a girlfriend. His ideal date should be nice, tender, and dead. He soon finds one in the person of a female officer killed by shop robbers. This gets him in trouble with some living officers, though...
Houngan, a voodoo-esque priest, recites a chant while surrounded by candles. As he stabs a decapitated human head, Matt Cordell, the so-called 'Maniac Cop', is lying dead in his coffin when he opens his eyes and punches though the casket.The next day, Detective Sean McKinney talks to Officer Kate Sullivan on a shooting range. She complains about being in trouble with her stiff superiors for using excessive force (she has been dubbed "Maniac Kate") Since it is her birthday, McKinney gives Kate a wristwatch and she thanks him since he is one of the few cops whom is casually nice to her.McKinney goes to a crime scene where a headless corpse is found with a dead chicken stuffed inside. The detective talks about Palamayumbe, a ritual which uses heads; the chicken is left inside the body to let the soul "take flight".That evening, Kate and her partner are at a scene where a crazy man named Frank is inside a store, shooting anyone who enters. Reporters Bishop and Tribble are nearby and listening to the police scanner for stories and they are exited to hear that the notoriously aggressive Kate Sullivan is at the scene. After Kate's partner is killed by Frank, she runs inside with an automatic rifle and shoots at Frank until he runs into the pharmacy (with bullet-proof glass) for refuge.At the same time, McKinney describes to Houngan (standing by a barrel of fire) a symbol resting next to the corpse, and Houngan says that it is the symbol of "anti-justice".Back at the pharmacy, Kate runs to the roof, loads hollow-point bullets into her revolver, and jumps through the roof and into the pharmacy. Frank holds the girl from the pharmacy as a shield, and Kate shoots him without hesitating. The girl says: "You shot Frankie!" Kate realizes that she had buzzed Frank into the pharmacy and they are both involved with the shooting spree. They both open fire and the girl is hit in the head and Kate is also hit as the two reporters are filming everything.Meanwhile, Cordell goes to see Houngan and the man tells the undead cop that he allowed himself to bring him back to life because his spirit is not at rest. Cordell hears the news of Kate on the radio (the video of the incident at the pharmacy has been edited by the dirty reporters to make it believe that Kate killed the pharmacist's assistant in cold blood and that the woman was innocent). Cordell is angry and leaves.At the hospital, McKinney asks Dr. Myerson about Kate and he tells the detective that Kate is brain head due to being in a coma from the shooting. Outside the hospital, a man says uncomplimentary things about Kate when Cordell arrives and throws him and shoots the man in the air.The next day, McKinney talks to his friend, Willie, and learns that the pharmacist Frank is using the police due to Kate using illegal weapons. Frank has been giving a six-month suspended sentence in exchange for dropping the lawsuit. McKinney goes to the hospital and asks Dr. Susan Fowler if he can talk to Frank. The detective tries to help Frank remember more about the shooting at the pharmacy by cutting off some of his oxygen.A comatose Kate dreams of walking down a church aisle to meet an ugly and decomposing Cordell at the altar. She opens her eyes and grabs a nearby McKinney when she sees Cordell behind him. The detective tells Susan about her movement and her heart monitor speeding up, but the doctor sees no change in Kate's physical being. Regardless, Susan tells Myerson what has happened and asks for another brain scan, but Myerson think that it would be a waste of time and money.Later, Myerson is enjoying some time with a woman in the doctor's lounge, and Cordell knocks on the door. When the doctor comes out, Cordell shocks him with defibrillator pads. He chases Myerson to the roof, where he places the pads on the doctor's face, killing him. Afterwards, Susan sees Cordell lurking around the hallways and follows him to the basement, but he disappears. Later, after the police discover the body of Myerson, Susan tells McKinney about seeing a cop leave Kate's room. McKinney goes to the basement and finds the old church altar with Houngang, who talks to the detective about resurrection. He says that McKinney and Cordell walk the "same path".Hank Cooney, a local police official, goes to the hospital to see Dr. Powell and tells him that by cutting off Kate's life support would save the city some trouble. Cooney shows that he has a letter of consent, signed by Kate's mother. Powell says that he can take care of it later that afternoon. A little later, Powell hears glass break in the X-ray room where Cordell grabs him and straps him underneath the X-ray machine for a fatal treatment with repeated blasts with high-powered X-rays. Cordell takes the letter of consent and crumples it.That evening, the dirty reporters, Bishop and Tribble, go to the scene of a drive by shooting (which sounds intriguing since it was reportedly a child shot). At the scene, Bishop callously interviews the brother of the young victim. He then looks for Tribble, finding him dead inside an ambulance with two dead attendants. Bishop is stabbed through the back by Cordell.The next day, McKinney watches the unedited version of the pharmacy shooting and sees that the girl killed by Kate had buzzed Frank in.Back at the hospital, Cordell places a gun by Frank's pillow, uncuffs him and leaves him the keys. As Cooney and Gina Lindey, Frank's lawyer, discuss clearing Frank's long criminal records (so he can get the benefits of film or literary rights), Frank and his two hospitalized criminal roommates escape and shoot and kill Cooney, Lindsey and the guard on the floor. Cordell then goes back to Kate's room where he picks her up and carries her away. McKinney arrives back at the hospital and seeing the dead bodies, hides under a hospital gurney and shoots and kills Frank's two criminal associates. He follows Frank to the women's restroom where he kicks a stall door, and is grazed by a bullet from Frank (hiding behind a woman on the toilet), and finally kills the trigger happy criminal.Susan bandages McKinney's arm and they kiss. The detective is told that Kate has been taken away. McKinney and Susan run to the basement church were Houngan is standing over Kate's comatose body and Cordell is standing behind him with a shotgun. Houngan says that Cordell has ordered him to resurrect Kate, but McKinney tells Cordell that Kate is now at peace since all the people responsible for her condition are dead and to "let her go". Cordell tells Houngan to "finish it". Houngan says that he cannot "recover" Kate because Kate will not allow him, and Cordell shoots Houngan, knocking over some candles which set fire to Kate's body. Cordell picks up Kate's flaming body and they burn together as McKinney and Susan run outside and avoid an explosion.McKinney and Susan get into an ambulance to get away as the whole building begins to burn. But as they are driving down a road, a flaming Cordell follows them in another car. The ambulance driver jumps out and McKinney gets behind the wheel as the burning Cordell tries to reach his hand inside and literally pushes cars out of the way. McKinney tosses an oxygen take in the backseat of Cordell's car, but the maniac cop latches his arm onto the passenger's side door. The detective drives by a road sign, slicing Cordell's arm off and the ambulance flips over. Cordell stops the car, turns around and slams it into drive, but the car explodes when the oxygen tank explodes. McKinney lights a cigarette with Cordell's flaming severed arm.In the final scene, the burned-to-a-crisp bodies of Cordell and Kate lie side by side on tables in the morgue, and Cordell lovingly touches Kate's still body.
