In a besieged land, Beowulf must battle against the hideous creature Grendel and his vengeance seeking mother.
This post-apocalyptic future story is based on the 8th century Saxon epic poem about the knight who battled a monster in a medieval castle. In this story, Beowulf is a wanderer who learns about a man-eating creature called Grendel which comes in the night to devour warriors trapped at the Outpost. The Outpost is ruled by Hrothgar. He has a daughter, whose husband may have been murdered by the Outpost's master of arms.
In a medieval land, a outpost is surrounded by a army so all those who lives in the outpost cannot leave alive as a flesh-eating creature called Grendel is killing off all those who live in the outpost. That is until the arrival of Beowulf, a mysterious mercenary who offers Hrothgar, the outpost's ruler, help to hunt Grendel and knows what has been happening in the outpost. Hrothgar, Roland, Master of Arms and Kyra, Hrothgar's daughter thinks Beowulf has been hired by the family of Kyra's murdered husband to avenge the death of their son. But Beowulf has dark secret, he can sense Grendel's presence in the outpost and he can heal his own wounds very quickly. Beowulf not only does battle with Grendel, he also fights Grendel's evil mother and reveals to Kyra, who has fallen in love with him, who he is.
In a castle somewhere in the future or the past, Evil itself has spread. The army has put up a ring of quarantine around the place, and nobody is allowed to leave the place alive. A strange man, Beowulf, arrives one day and offers his help. Since any man is helpful, he is allowed to hunt the threat, which comes at night in a shapeless blur with the sole intent to kill. But Beowulf also seems to have a dark secret: His fatal wounds heal quicker than small ones of others, and he is the first one ever to wound the beast. So, courage is building up in the rows of the few that might live to see another day.
Set in a post apocalyptic future instead of a 16th century England, a perimeter of a nameless castle in a nameless kingdom, a murderous cult guards camped outside. The beast Grendel attacks the castle but disappears in the shadows when the king Hrothgar challenges him. A woman tries to escape the kingdom but is captured by the cult and set to be killed. She is rescued when a lone warrior named Beowulf arrives and orders them to release her. They refuse and he fights the cult until the leader agrees to let them go so long as they both enter the castle. Beowulf agrees but the woman tries to escape again but is decapitated by the cult. Beowulf enters the castle and is looked down upon the guards but does not try to deny his guilt. He meets the king telling him that "the Darkness" has brought him here.He meets Hrothgar's daughter Kira and the two converse. She tells him of her dead husband and he suspects there is something more she is not telling him. The captain of the guard Roland is unkind to his men as well as to Beowulf. Grendel attacks and kills the blacksmith that night. Beowulf investigates upon discovering evil is there and the weapon's master is also found killed. He meets with the blacksmith's nephew Will, whom he befriends. Beowulf is challenged by Roland who is jealous of Kira's interest in him but is easily beaten by Beowulf. That night King Hrothgar is approached by a beautiful mysterious woman who licks his face and has sexual intercourse with him. Grendel attacks and all the women and children are set in a church for protection but all are killed by Grendel who attacks Beowulf. Beowulf fights back but no weapons can hurt Grendel and has his chest ripped open by Grendel in the process. Grendel escapes when Hrothgar challenges the beast.Later, Hrothgar has sex with the woman again. Kira notices that Beowulf's injuries have healed and suspects there is something he is not telling her. Will crafts a new weapon for Beowulf. Before leaving to fight Grendel, Kira confesses to Beowulf that she had killed her husband when he became drunk and tried to beat her. She fears that Grendel is her husband brought to life but Beowulf does not believe this. He tears off Grendel's arm with the weapon Will made for him in the ensuing battle.That night, Beowulf and Kira express their romantic feelings for each other and Beowulf explains that he is the son of a god of evil. He explains that the only thing that keeps him from becoming evil is fighting it. Roland is seduced and killed by the woman that Hrothgar has been banging. The cult leaves the castle believing that the monster is killed. One-armed Grendel kills everyone in the castle including Hrothgar but is killed by Beowulf. The mysterious woman reveals herself to be Grendel's mother, a witch who seduces men. She transforms into a monster and attacks Beowulf who kills her by setting the torch burners out of control which consume her in flames. Beowulf and Kira escape the castle as it burns to the ground.
