'Circle Of Friends' is set in 1950's Ireland. The movie focuses on Benny Hogan and her best friend, Eve Malone. The story centers around Benny and Eve as they enter student life at University College, Dublin. Here Benny and Eve reunite with their childhood friend, the ice-cool Nan Mahon, the 'college belle'. They also encounter the handsome and charming Jack Foley, whom Benny quickly falls for.
This is a charming romance about three girls from an Irish village whose coming of age happens as they all attend college in Dublin not long after WWII. Seemingly unmarriageable Benny is the daughter of a wealthy shopkeeper mortified by the attentions of her dad's shop assistant, while her Dublin beau, Jack, is a wealthy star athlete and medical student. Their story centers on the hardships of a long-distance relationship.Orphan Eve was raised by nuns and put through college by the village's patron family. Her Dublin beau is Aidan, who is deliberately given no backstory by the creators of the film. Neither is self supporting, and they work side by side to make a cottage in the woods -- Eve's inheritance from her dad -- livable.They soon discover that celibate cohabitation before they can afford to marry is harder than they believed.Nan, raised in a family suffering from domestic violence, believes she can glamourize herself to snare a powerful gent and then raise her standard of living. She is the love object of Simon, son and heir of the patron family of her village. Her plan to get pregnant, marry, and become the new mistress of the manor house falls flat when Simon buys her off to end the affair.Benny is soon in the throes of despair when her father dies, her pursuer is more forceful about inheriting both her and her dad's business, and Jack breaks off the relationship when Nan fibs that he is the father of her child.Eve manages to straighten everything out except Benny's pursuer, whom she gets rid of herself by discovering he has been stealing from the family business. At the conclusion, Jack and Benny are to marry, Eve and Aidan are to remain celibate cohabiters of the cottage until they can afford to marry, and Nan goes abroad on Simon's money to deal with her pregnancy.
