A man raised in the jungle by apes falls in love with a wealthy American heiress.
Baby George got into a plane crash in a jungle, stayed alive and was adopted by a wise ape. Ursula Stanhope, US noble woman is saved from death on safari by grown-up George, and he takes her to jungle to live with him. He slowly learns a rules of human relationships, while Ursula's lover Lyle is looking for her and the one who took her. After they are found, Ursula takes George to the USA.
This is the story of a baby named George, who got into a plane crash in a jungle, stayed alive and was adopted by a wise ape. Life in the jungle is pretty sweet for George, until a beautiful, blonde American heiress, named Ursula Stanhope has traveled to Bukuvu from San Francisco is search of adventure. Her intended, Lyle Van de Groot, pursues her in hopes of capturing the legendary White Ape who is supposed to exist in the mountains. Ultimately, a romance blooms between Ursula and George, an extremely clumsy gorilla boy raised by an erudite ape. After they are found, Ursula takes George to the USA in San Fransisco. Meanwhile, Lyle and his devious trackers pursue schemes of their own to kidnap George's elephant "doggie."
A fun look at life for the "King Of The Jungle". In the opening animation, we learn that George is displaced from his family during a horrible plane crash that has only little boy George being lost from the rest of the passengers. Life in the jungle is pretty sweet for George, until our hero meets the lovely Ursula. Our adventure travels from the jungles of Africa to the jungles of San Fransisco.
Heiress Ursula Stanhope treks off to Africa for adventure, and to get away from fiance Lyle Vandergroot. He follows her anyway. Ursula is rescued from a lion attack by George, who whisks her to his jungle tree house. There they are smitten by each other. Returning with her to San Francisco, it is George's turn to be bewildered by the urban jungle. Meanwhile, Lyle and his devious trackers pursue schemes of their own to kidnap George's elephant "doggie."

