Two homies, Smokey and Craig, smoke a dope dealer's weed and try to figure a way to get the $200 they owe to the dealer by 10 p.m. that same night.
It is Friday and Craig Jones (Ice Cube) is unemployed, having, yesterday, been fired. . This has lead to trouble with Smokey's supplier, Big Worm, who now wants his money, or his product back, or Smokey is a dead man. Then there's Deebo, the local bully, plus Craig's jealous, psychotic girlfriend, Joi, and Debbie, the neighbour Craig has a crush on. A lot can happen while lounging around your house on a Friday.
Craig and Smokey are two guys in Los Angeles hanging out on their porch on a Friday afternoon, smoking and looking for something to do. Encounters with neighbors and other friends over the course of the day and night, and their ensuing antics, make up the rest of the movie.
Having just been canned from his job on his day off, Craig and his best friend Smokey spend the day smoking up in their South Central neighborhood while dealing with a neighborhood bully, relationship troubles, an angry drug dealer, and a lot of other odd characters.
An African-American family wake up one Friday morning and get ready for an average Friday of work and school. Craig (Ice Cube) gets a call from his former girlfriend, abusing him and accusing him of going out with another woman. He gets out of his bed, angry and frustrated, and goes and gets cereal, then his Dad (John Witherspoon) says the all famous line: "Every time I come in the kitchen, you in the kitchen. In the goddamn refrigerator. Eatin' up all the food. All the chitlins... All the pigs' feet... All the collard greens... All the hog maws. I wanna eat them chitlins... I like pigs' feet". Craig's friend Smokey (Chris Tucker) puts his head through the window and they sit on the front porch and start making conversation. They Perve on the local mothers and neighbours. They see the local bully, Deebo (Tom 'Tiny' Lister Jr), and hide all their valuables. Deebo talks Smokey into helping him break into his next door neighbour's house. After that the boys get high. They then get shot at by some people that Smokey owes money to. They finally leave and they see the girl that Craig wants getting hit by the bully. So he pulls a gun out on the bully to scare him, this doesnt work, so hit hits him over the head with a brick and then he gets knocked out, the movie ends.
