A rich businessman's assumption that his new colleague is gay leads him to ask the man to keep an eye on his mistress. However, the man is not gay, and begins to fall for the woman himself.
A rich businessman, Dylan McDermott, mistakenly believes that Matthew Perry, who is bidding on a $90 million restoration contract, is gay and asks him to keep tabs on his mistress, Neve Campbell. Perry, who is not gay, falls for Neve in a big way but she thinks he's gay.
Oscar Novak is an idealistic, young architect on the rise. Boyishly handsome and funny, Oscar and his business partner, Peter Steinberg, have just landed a career-making opportunity-Chicago tycoon Charles Newman has chosen them to compete for the design of a multi-million dollar cultural center. In a ploy for publicity, Newman has pitched Oscar and Peter in a neck-and-neck competition with their arch rivals and former colleagues, the hugely successful (and equally ruthless) Decker and Strauss. Impressed with Oscar's feverish dedication to winning the job, Charles assigns him the additional task of spying on his mistress, Amy, a woman who Charles guards as jealously as he guards his investments. Oscar's bumbling attempts at surveillance fail, but he does develop a crush on Amy, a beautiful and headstrong artist, who begins to return his growing affection. Much to his chagrin, Oscar may have finally found the woman of his dreams. But Oscar's dream is short-lived when he discovers that the jealous Charles has assigned him this special job only because he (mistakenly) believes that Oscar is gay. Oscar's frustration compounds when he realizes that Amy also believes him to be gay. In short order, Oscar's friends, his family, even strangers on the street believe that he is gay. The very heterosexual Oscar Novak becomes the most famous gay man in Chicago and his entire life is turned upside-down. When he is honored as Chicago's Gay Professional of the Year, Oscar has to make a decision-will he continue the lie and hold on to the job of a lifetime and a warm but frustrating friendship with the girl he loves, or is it time to face the consequences of coming out of the closet and telling the whole world that he is secretly - straight?
Oscar is an architect, he and his partner, Peter are competing with another pair for a restoration job. Charles Newman, the pompous businessman, who will decide who among them will do the job. He instructs them to build a model of their proposals, he will decide then which one will get the job and they have to pay for it themselves. Now Oscar and Peter are struggling but Peter decides to mortgage his apartment so they can get the job. Now Peter who is gay and after being caught in a "compromising" position with him, Oscar is disbelieved to be gay. Now Charles who has a mistress, Amy. Now she is surround by several male friends, Charles is a little insecure; when he learns that Oscar is gay, he "asks" him to keep an eye on her. Oscar is taken with her but when he learns that they think he is gay and knowing that it could jeopardize the job allows them to continue thinking that. But things go out of hand when a newspaper reporter outs him. And Oscar, who has fallen for Amy and who disapproves of her relationship with Charles, is uncertain of what to do.

