With only the plan of moving in together after high school, two unusually devious friends seek direction in life. As a mere gag, they respond to a man's newspaper ad for a date, only to find it will greatly complicate their lives.
Enid and Rebecca after they finish the high school. Both have problems relating to people and they spend their time hanging around and bothering creeps. When they meet Seymour who is a social outsider who loves to collect old 78 records, Enid's life will change forever.
Best friends Enid and Rebecca have just graduated from high school, although Enid has to take a summer school art class, which she failed during the regular school year, to graduate officially. Their plan since seventh grade has been not to go to college, but rather move in together after graduating, which now entails them getting jobs to pay for that independence. As Enid is constantly drawing things which she witnesses in her day-to-day life in her notebook for her own pleasure, that art class failing grade is only one demonstration of the contempt both Enid and Rebecca have for anything that is mainstream, which includes the structure of school and most of their classmates. Their "people", as Enid confirms, are the freaks, sickos and weirdos of society. Just for fun, they decide to respond to an "I Saw You" personal ad to see what loser placed the ad, who, he believes in attending the date, would be stood up by the woman for who he is looking. He is forty-something Seymour, who would admit that he beats to his own drummer and too cannot tolerate being with people who he just doesn't understand. Although Enid does not admit to Seymour that she and Rebecca were the ones that answered the ad, Enid becomes his friend based on their shared sensibilities. As Enid and Rebecca move on to the post-graduation phase of their lives, Enid slowly begins to alienate all around her, including Rebecca and possibly Seymour as she subversively begins to direct things in his life to thwart anything that is remotely mainstream. Enid believes that life as she knows it will be all right as long as she has one touchstone which to return, that touchstone which may not be as permanent as she believes.
Enid and Rebecca are best friends having difficulties with the social attitudes of other people. After graduating high school, they decide to get jobs and rent a house of their own. However, Enid needs to attend Arts summer school to graduate but her anti-social behavior makes her lose her job. Meanwhile, Enid and Rebecca play a prank on Seymour, a middle-aged collector of rare 78 records who also has difficulties with relationships. Seymour and Enid eventually become friends. As time goes by, Enid reaches maturity and develops a different view of life.
Set in the summer after graduation, Enid and Rebecca are both outsiders in a world slowly being engulfed by fake 50's diners and Starbucks. Enid must attend an art class to officially graduate high school as Rebecca gets a job. When the two play a mean joke on a much older, geeky record collector, Enid finds a fellow soul and begins to discover the complexities of becoming an adult in the modern world.
This is a tale of 'angst' based in 'hicks'ville America with many resident colourful and amusing characters.In essence, a girl-meets-boy story, or rather disillusioned and cynical girl meets socially inept man - a sort of coming of age tale - where the main protagonist - Enid - finds actions have consequences!A refreshingly, (for once) non-lefty story of a teenager's voyage into adulthood and the inevitable emotional/relationship mishaps that occur on the way.A dark story indeed, but nonetheless very much on the nail!!!
