The rumpled owner of a dry-cleaning firm joins forces with a nun to care for an abandoned baby.
Caterina è una suora ed ha preso i voti provvisori da una mese quando andando per un parco incontra un uomo che ha trovato un neonato abbandonato e glielo affida per portarlo in ospedale. Dopo averlo fatto, Caterina comincia ad andare a trovare il piccolo e gli si affeziona tanto da tentare di risalire alla madre tramite il maglione in cui era avvolto. Arriva così fino ad Ernesto, quarantunanni, proprietario di una lavanderia lasciatagli assieme ai debiti dal padre. Ernesto è scontento della vita ed è tutto centrato sui suoi problemi tanto da non ricordare neanche i nomi delle sue collaboratrici. La madre del bambino è forse Teresa, sua ex dipendente ed Ernesto è forse il padre. Inizia così per Caterina una crisi sul suo stato di suora e per Ernesto la consapevolezza di non essere l'unico uomo disgraziato sulla terra.
Caterina is a nun near Milan; soon she will take permanent vows and go to Latin America. She studies Spanish. Her certainty is upended when a jogger in a park hands her an abandoned infant, wrapped in a sweater. She takes the baby to hospital, then tries to find the child's mother, using a dry cleaning tag on the sweater. At the cleaners, she meets Ernesto, the owner, melancholy and middle-aged. The sweater is his, loaned months before to a former employee. Caterina persists, visiting the baby daily, checking in with Ernesto, and using his few clues to search for the mother; he goes with her sometimes, and as they form an odd friendship, her vocation comes into doubt. Is she of this world?
Caterina has been a nun for only a month when in the park she meets a man who found an abandoned newborn and entrusts her to take it to a hospital. After this event, Caterina begins to the baby and develops a fondness for it. She thinks she can find the mother by using the sweater in which the baby was wrapped when found. Then Ernesto, the 40-year-old proprietor of a laundry burdened with debts from his father, shows up, dissatisfied with life and its problems so much that he cannot remember the names of his partners. The mother of the child may be Teresa, his former employee - and Ernesto is perhaps the father. So begins for Caterina a crisis about her devotions and for Ernesto the consciousness that he is not the sole unfortunate man on earth.
