A 19th century woman, who has become one of the undead, acts as a hired killer in modern times. When she starts knocking off part of the elite businessmen, "The Illuminati", who secretly are taking over business and the government, she becomes the target of a hired Scotland Yard detective. Of course, the head of "The Illuminati" is the vampire who first gave her immortality.
Lilith Silver [Eileen Daly] was made a vampire in the 19th century when she attempted to
stop a duel between a human and the vampire Sethane Blake Christopher Adamson]. Sethane shot
and killed the human, Lilith shot Sethane, Lilith was shot, and Sethane
rewarded her by making her a vampire. Lilith's first meal as a vampire was
on the human who shot her.Nowadays, Lilith dons her black, skintight, leather jumpsuit, leaves
her breasts a-heaving, paints her lips blood red, and hires herself out as
an assassin working for a man she calls Platinum [Kevin Howarth]. She is known as the
Angel of Death, and her current hit list revolves around a select cadre of
wealthy and influential people who call themselves the Illuminati, who
claim ancient roots on par with the Freemasons, and who wear rings that
look like eyes. Each time Lilith kills, she uses the same modus operandi.
She drinks their blood and then mangles their necks to obscure the bites,
and she brings back the telltale ring. For such service, she is paid
£250,000 [about what she needs to keep herself in leather].Unbeknown to Lilith, the head of the Illuminati is none other than
her sire, Sethane Blake, and Sethane is concerned that the cadre is being
systematically knocked off. He suspects that the assassin may be a vampire
because of the testimony made by a witness to Lilith's last killing. She
saw Lilith drinking her husband's blood and then followed Lilith to Club
Transylvania, a nightclub for vampire wannabees. Sethane has set Detective
Inspector Raymond Price [Jonathan Coote], also a member of the Illuminati, to look for and
stop the vampire angel.
Things begin to heat up when Price gets closer and closer to Lilith.
He hires a photographer to photograph the 'vampires' at the Club, a move
that yields Price a photo of Lilith but yields the photographer a bite on
the neck. Price brings in Lilith for questioning, but his superior comes
to the conclusion that Price is looney and releases Lilith. Not to be
daunted, Price sharpens a few stakes and sets up watch outside of Lilith's
house, but all he gets is a stake in his own gut.Meanwhile, Lilith receives a package in her post. It's a videotape of
Platinum asking Lilith to return the last payment of 250,000 pounds
because she was unable to produce the ring from that assassination (it
fell into the bathtub and she didn't want to get her leather gloves wet).
Platinum is bound and bleeding and says that, if Lilith returns the money,
his captors will let him go. If not, he will be killed. Since Lilith has a
sexual thing going with Platinum, she complies.It's a trap. As Lilith cuts the cords that bind Platinum, a dozen
guns appear and fire on her. Wounded and bleeding but still standing, of
course, Lilith gives Platinum a gun and tells him to split. Lilith then
proceeds to take out those who are gunning for her. Unfortunately,
Platinum decided to hang around a bit longer so that he could take out a
few of the gunners. He winds up being confronted by Sethane.
As it happened back in the 19th century, Lilith appears just in time
for the duel between human and vampire. Sethane shoots Platinum. As
Platinum lay dying, Sethane offers Lilith a choice. In her wounded
condition, she needs blood. She can either take what's left of Platinum's
blood or she can give to Platinum what's left of her blood and, thus, save
Platinum's life.Lilith makes the correct choice and, after a swordfight with Sethane
in which she almost succeeds in beheading him, she only nicks his neck.
Sethane looks up amazedly and says, 'You've got good.' The vampire lovers
embrace and congratulate each other on yet another game successfully
played. [Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.]
