An international spy teams up with an arms dealer to escape from a penal colony and rescue his family from a terrorist.
Counterterrorist officer, Jack Quinn misses his target, Stavros, on the eve of his final mission. From there, he is sent to the colon;y; a rebirth for presumed-dead assassins. He breaks free from there, and seeks the aid of Yaz, a weapons dealer, for his final battle with Stavros.
Having retiring from the CIA, where he was an anti-terrorist operative, Jack Paul Quinn spends his days poolside at his house in Nice, France with his pregnant wife Katherine Rose Quinn. But international terrorist Stavros, an old enemy of Quinn's, has resurfaced, and the CIA wants Quinn to come out of retirement, and go after Stavros. Quinn reluctantly accepts the assignment. Quinn goes to Antwerp, Belgium and hooks up with flamboyant arms dealer Yaz, who has the newest fully-automatic weapons. With Quinn's assembled delta-force, an ambush is set for Stavros at a local amusement park. Stavros arrives, and greets his girlfriend...and his son. Quinn finds himself unable to shoot Stavros with his son. This moment of hesitation is costly, and Quinn's entire team is killed off in a shoot-out with Stavros' men -- a shoot-out in which Stavros's son and girlfriend are both killed. Quinn chases Stavros into a nearby hospital, and they battle it out in a nursery full of newborn babies. Quinn is knocked out cold, and Stavros escapes, vowing revenge on Quinn for the deaths of his son and girlfriend, not knowing that Quinn was not the agent who killed them. When Quinn comes to, he finds himself in "The Colony," a place where "those who are too valuable to kill and too dangerous to set free" use their special skills around the world as "the last line of defense against global terrorism." Using virtual reality and mouseless-graphical-user-interfaces, they solve all the world's bombings, hijackings, and terrorist attacks. The only problem is that no one can ever leave The Colony. That's why Quinn's superiors tell Katherine that Quinn is dead. Not long after his arrival, Quinn finds evidence that Katherine is being targeted by Stavros, and so Quinn hatches an elaborate plan to escape from the Colony so he can protect Katherine. Once out of The Colony, Quinn hooks up with Yaz, and they learn that Stavros has kidnapped Katherine and taken her to Rome, planning to get revenge on Quinn through the baby, which Katherine has given birth to. Quinn and Yaz set out for Rome to rescue Katherine. It all comes to a head in a Roman coliseum in a showdown featuring a tiger, land mines...and the baby.
Jack Quinn, Yaz, and Stavros don't belong to any army and they don't play by any rules. This action-espionage thriller ignites in the cloak and dagger world of international spies, covert agents and high-tech terrorists.
Jack Quinn is top counter-terrorist, and before his final mission he misses terrorist Stavros. Stavros had his son killed in earlier fight and as revenge he is hunting Quinn's pregnant wife. Quinn joins forces with vivid arms dealer Yaz to fight Stavros.

