After his happy life spins out of control, a preacher from Texas changes his name, goes to Louisiana and starts preaching on the radio.
Eulis 'Sonny' Dewey is a preacher from Texas living a happy life with his beautiful wife Jessie. Suddenly his stable world crumbles: Jessie is having an affair with young minister Horace. Sonny gets enraged and hits Horace with a softball bat, putting him into a coma. After that he leaves town, takes a new name, 'Apostle E.F.' and goes to Louisiana. There he starts to work as a mechanic for local radio station owner Elmo, and Elmo lets him preach on the radio. E.F. starts to preach everywhere: on the radio, on the streets, and with his new friend, Reverend Blackwell he starts a campaign to renovate an old church.
After the Evangelical preacher goes on the lam for committing a heinous crime, he starts a new congregation among the poorest and most downtrodden.Despite his good deeds eventually he has to pay for his crime but he still doesn't lose his love for God or his love of preaching.
Written and directed by Robert Duvall, The Apostle also features Duval as the central character in this biopic of Eulis F. Dewey, a self-proclaimed holiness preacher who admits to his wife, played by Farah Fawcett, to having a "wandering eye" and actual infidelities, but also adamantly declares his love for his wife, his children, and his Lord. Beginning at the scene of a tragic automobile accident, Dewey pulls over to surmise the situation. His mother, (June Carter Cash) remains in the car at his bidding as he makes his way to a vehicle out in the tall grasses of a field, almost, as it were, led by a spiritual force. Upon finding a young man at the wheel, and his motionless girlfriend at his side, he speaks only to the young man's spiritual condition, the need to repent and believe upon Jesus for the salvation of his soul. An officer approaches and insists that he must leave the scene and finally succeeds in getting him to return to his car. He drives his mother home, readies to leave, but she pulls what apparently is her usual stunt of requesting her blanket, and he returns to find her on the floor. He simply covers her and says that he has to go, and jokes about her speaking to St. Peter for him in glory. To be continued...
