An engaged couple leaves for an exotic vacation on a tropical island and finds happiness and love - just not with each other.
An uptight Wall Street yuppie, Gordon Perkins, and his unhappy lawyer fiancee, Sydney Wayne, find themselves marooned on a tropical island in the middle of their exotic vacation. They seemed destined for disaster until they run into Bill Buzell, a former New York stockbroker, now living in paradise, who rescues Sydney from her vacation gone wrong, not to mention her fiancé - just as Gordon meets the luscious Tarita, a lonely native who shows him around her beguiling home. Hijinks ensue as the straight-laced couple find out how much fun - and how funny - a friendship of four people can be. Tarita inspires the uptight Gordon to loosen up while Bill reconsiders a more profitable career to support his new girlfriend in this hilarious case of mate-swapping mayhem.
New York yuppies Gordon Perkins (Mark Linn-Baker) and Sydney Wayne (Lisa Hartman) are both hard-working, over-stressed, and engaged and decide to take a short cruise. However, they end up getting lost and stranded on a tropical island named Luhana. While there, they meet an American named Bill Buzell (Gregory Harrison) who has resided on the island for three years and also owns this paradise. Eventually, Sydney begins to fall in love with Bill. They take walks together and swim in the ocean. They wind up making love under water. Meanwhile, Gordon is confined since hurting his back after chopping down a palm tree to make a boat out of wood. Gordon meets Tarita (Charlotte Lewis), a lonely native who turns out to be Bill's girlfriend. When Sydney finds out about this, she becomes furious.The two couples end up playing Monopoly like they are at war. Gordon begins to fall in love with Tarita, who gave him a massage earlier which cured his back. Eventually, the couples switch partners for the better. But then Sydney finds out that Bill has been hiding on the island because he's wanted for insider trading. She decides to turn him in to the police who eventually show up to rescue her and Gordon. She then decides not to, as she has grown very fond of him. She and Gordon begin to head back home, but Gordon then jumps ship and swims back to Tarita. Sydney returns to New York, but realizes she misses Bill. She gets on a ferry to take her back to the island. Bill surprises her by showing up on the ferry, clean shaven and wearing a suit, to return to his original life in the city. He informs her that he was framed and that his case has been settled. As the film ends, Sydney and Bill kiss each other, and Gordon now owns Luhana.
