A village girl agrees to a marriage to a king she has never met after he sends her a photograph of himself. But the man in the photograph is not the king but his most loyal slave, the handsome but mute Shankar.
Mute Shankar slogs day and night to satisfy the lust of wealthy businessman Raja Saab who has underworld contact. Raja Saab would like to marry the young and street-wise, Gauri, however Gauri would like to see a picture of her would be husband but is instead shown Shankar's picture, she immediately falls in love with him and agrees to marry but at the wedding altar, Gauri gets a shock when she sees Raja Saab, refuses to continue with the rituals of the marriage and is locked forever in a room. Circumstances forced Shankar and Gauri to elope but both is caught by Raja and his men, who beats Shankar and throw him to his death and Gauri is taken back to Raja Saab mansion and must undergo preparations to get married to him.
With an intention of satisfying his sexual lust the elderly Raja Saab would like to get marry to a beautiful village belle named Gauri. Gauri is apprehensive about marriage but relents and asks for a photograph of Raja Saab; Raja Saab instead sends a photo of his dumb servant Shanker. But on the day of the wedding Gauri realizes that she is getting married to Raja Saab instead of Shanker and runs away with Shanker. Gauri and Shanker will be fated to run all their lives as Raja Saab is not willing to let Gauri slipped out of his hands that easily.
Elderly Rajasaheb wants to marry young and comely Gauri to satisfy his sexual lusts, Gauri, who has never seen Rajasaheb, refuses to marry unless she actually sees a photo. So Rajasaheb sends a picture of his faithful but deaf and dumb servant, Shanker. Shanker and Gauri are married but in name only, and Gauri must spend the rest of her life with Rajasaheb.
Shankar (Shahrukh Khan) is a handsome mute man, raised by the powerful Raja (Amrish Puri), to whom he is completely loyal. However, Raja treats him like a slave. He is also tormented and unnecessarily beaten by Raja's younger brother Brijwa, a sadistic and violent psychopath. The elderly Raja is a ruthless and cruel man with a large appetite for young women who kills anyone who dares to defy him, however lately he has proven to be unable to perform in the bedroom and continues to fall asleep as he is bored of his beautiful secretary Bindiya, who lusts after Shankar. His doctor suggests a younger woman, who may be able to satisfy him.One day Raja sees Gauri (Madhuri Dixit), a happy young innocent village girl, and begins to dream about her and wishes to marry her, however, despite her greedy aunt and uncle wanting her to marry Raja, Gauri wants to see a picture of her future husband first.Aware that Gauri would instantly reject the elderly Raja, he sends her a photo of Shankar. Gauri instantly falls in love with him and the wedding proceeds. However, before the ceremony is completed, she discovers that it's not Shankar whom she is marrying and faints; Raja orders the priest to continue with the ceremony, even though the marriage would be invalid while Gauri is unconscious.When Gauri regains consciousness, she discovers Raja trying to "consummate" with her and learns they're married, which shocks her. She refuses to submit herself to him by attempting suicide, so he imprisons and tortures her. One night Gauri tries to commit suicide, however Shankar and his friend save her and she finally meets Shankar. She slaps and accuses him of ruining her life. however. Shankar's friend reveals that Shankar was innocent in this whole affair, a shocked Gauri tries to apologize, but Shankar leaves before she can.One night, Bindya (Deepshika) is frustrated by Raja's inability to perform and goes to Shankar, but instead finds Raja's brother Brijwa waiting for her. He attempts to rape her, but Shankar stops him. Not being able to proceed thrashing his master's brother, he takes a beating and gets framed for attempting to rape Bindya by Brijwa and is badly beaten by Raja. Bindya confesses that she went to Shankar and is then sent to a brothel controlled by Chandi Bai (Himani Shivpuri) as punishment by Raja.When Gauri's brother Ashok (Mohnish Behl) comes to see her, Raja forces her to lie to him which she does and says that she is happy as Raja threatens to kill him if she refuses, however Shankar reveals the truth to him and Raja kills him when he comes to rescue her. Moments before he dies, Ashok makes Shankar promise him to save his sister; Shankar and Gauri flee Raja's mansion.An enraged Raja begins a murderous search to find Gauri and Shankar, however, after a long chase through the mountains and jungle, Shankar uses the survival skills he learned as Raja's servant to kill Raja's men, Raja and his men leave due to being disadvantaged.During that time, Gauri and Shankar begin to fall in love. But unexpectedly, Raja, who has returned with reinforcements, sees Shankar and Gauri near a waterfall and manage to capture them by shooting Gauri in the arm.Shankar is brutally beaten by Brijwa and the corrupt DIG (Pradeep Rawat) and Raja slit his throat, then leave him to die in the mountains; Gauri is sold to a brothel. There, Bindya saves Gauri from what had been done to her, and in the process she eventually gets killed by Brijwa. Shankar is found and saved by a healer, who operates on his throat while he is still unconscious. The healer, who discovers that Shankar is not mute by birth, is able to repair some of the damaged nerves in Shankar's throat, enabling him to speak.Shankar recalls that when he was a boy, his father discovered diamonds in the coal mine, however he and his wife were murdered in front of Shankar by two mysterious men; when young Shankar threatened to tell everyone what they did, someone came up from behind him and shoved hot coals into his throat, rendering him mute. Shankar recovers and returns, first he kills Brijwa and is reunited with Gauri after rescuing her from the same men that killed his parents, and bought Gauri. Shankar, in the process, discovers that Raja was the person who made him mute and who ordered his parents to be killed so he could steal their wealth.He kills Raja's two henchmen and the DIG, then finally manages to corner Raja, who finally apologizes to Shankar for his wrongdoings to him, but Shankar disregards this and kills him by setting him on fire. At last, Shankar and Gauri embrace each other, finally at peace.
