A successful psychotherapist loses his mind after one of his most dependent patients, an obsessive-compulsive neurotic, tracks him down during his family vacation.
Doctor Leo Marvin, an egotistical psychotherapist in New York City, is looking forward to his forthcoming appearance on a "Good Morning America" telecast, during which he plans to brag about "Baby Steps," his new book about emotional disorder theories in which he details his philosophy of treating patients and their phobias. Meanwhile, Bob Wiley is a recluse who is so afraid to leave his own apartment that he has to talk himself out the door. When Bob is pawned off on Leo by a psychotherapist colleague, Bob becomes attached to Leo. Leo finds Bob extremely annoying. When Leo accompanies his wife Fay, his daughter Anna, and his son Siggy to a peaceful New Hampshire lakeside cottage for a month-long vacation, Leo thinks he's been freed from Bob. Leo expects to mesmerize his family with his prowess as a brilliant husband and remarkable father who knows all there is to know about instructing his wife and raising his kids. But Bob isn't going to let Leo enjoy a quiet summer by the lake. By cleverly tricking the telephone operator at the doctor's exchange, Bob discovers the whereabouts of Leo and his family. Despite his phobia about traveling alone, Bob somehow manages to talk himself onto a bus, and he arrives in New Hampshire. Leo's vacation comes to a screeching halt the moment he sees Bob. With his witty personality, his ability to manipulate people, and his good sense of humor, Bob quickly becomes an annoyance to Leo, but not to Fay, Anna, and Siggy, because they think Bob is fun while Leo is dull. Fearing that he's losing his family to Bob, Leo frantically tries to find a way to make Bob go back to New York, and it's not as easy as Leo had hoped. Leo finds himself stepping outside the law to try to get Bob to stay away from Fay, Anna, and Siggy--Leo slowly goes berserk, and makes plans to kill Bob.
A new patient appears at a psychotherapist's door. He has every possible insecurity in the world. The amazingly successful shrink gives him a copy of his new book and goes off on vacation. Bob, the patient, discovers where the doctor has gone and appears at the vacation site, forever changing the shrink's family relationships.
Bob Wiley is a neurotic and manipulative man who has a habit of clinging onto his therapists. His last one, not being able to deal with him, sends him to Leo Marvin. After having just one session, Bob thinks the world of Dr. Marvin. However, the doctor's leaving to spend the rest of the summer with his family, which throws Bob into utter despair. He calls the doctor constantly demanding to see him, but the doctor says he is on vacation and cuts Bob off. He manages to find out where he is and goes there. The doctor's family takes a liking to him, but the doctor feels that he is just intrusive. And no matter what he does, Bob just won't go away, and everybody thinks that Leo is being mean.

