A lazy law school grad adopts a kid to impress his girlfriend, but everything doesn't go as planned and he becomes the unlikely foster father.
Sonny Koufax is 32 years old. He's a law school graduate. He's got a nice apartment in Manhattan. There's just one problem. He does nothing, except sit on his butt and live off an investment that was the result of a meager lawsuit he won a year ago. But after his fed up girlfriend leaves him, he comes up with the ingenious idea to adopt a five year old boy to showcase his newfound maturity. But things don't go as planned, and Sonny finds himself the unlikely foster father that will change his perspective on just looking out for himself.
Thirty-two-year-old Sonny Koufax has spent his whole life avoiding responsibility. But when his girlfriend dumps him for an older man, he's got to find a way to prove he's ready to grow up. In a desperate last ditch effort, Sonny adopts five-year-old Julian to impress her.
Adam Sandler stars in this comedy about the importance of fathers. When his friend Kevin is on a business trip in China, Sonny discovers that Kevin has a son. In an attempt to help, Sonny offers to take care of the child, while thinking it will help his relationship. In the process, he grows to love the child and tries to get custody.
Sonny Koufax graduated from law school years ago but chose not to take the bar exam. Instead he works as a toll booth collector, and spends his day loafing around. One day his grilfriend decides that she has had enough, and tells Sonny that things have to change or else it's over. When Sonny's roommate Kevin leaves for China, a boy is dropped at their place and is told that he is Kevin's son but Kevin doesn't know his mother. Sonny takes care of him, and after spending sometime with him decides to adopt hoping that maybe his girlfriend will be impressed. But when he learns that she has a new boyfriend, Sonny tries to have the boy sent back to his mother but when he learns that she died and that he would be sent to an orphanage, Sonny decides to take care of him.
After failing at a last minute ploy to save his relationship with his fed up girlfriend, a man ends up taking care of a 5 year old boy who is his best friend's son. His best friend is out on a business trip and the man ends up developing a relationship with the boy. Soon after, he learns what responsibility is about.

