A group of martial arts warriors have only six days to save the Earth from an extra-dimensional invasion.
Mortal Kombat is an ancient tournament where the Earth Realm warriors battle against the forces of Outworld. Liu Kang and a few chosen fighters fought and defeated the powerful sorcerer Shang Tsung, their victory would preserve the peace on Earth for one more generation. Taking place now where the first movie left off, the Earth realm warriors live a short period of peace when evil forces from another dimension come to invade and wreak havoc on Earth. They are guided by the forces of Outworld leader, Shao Kahn and his generals such as: Motaro, Rain, Ermac, Sheeva and Sindel. Now Liu Kang, Raiden, Jax, Sonya and Kitana must defeat Shao Kahn in six days before the Earth realm merges with the Outworld.
A group of martial arts warriors have only six days to save the Earth from an extra-dimensional invasion before the Elder Lords, the evil Outworlders wreak hell on Earth. Which is led by the mighty Shao Kahn, their gruesome goal is humanity's complete and utter extinction. But Earth's last and only hope is the mighty martial arts warrior Liu Kang and his ferocious friend fighters. They're all that stand between life and...annihilation!
Where the original movie left off finds Liu Kang, Sonya Blade, Rayden, Princess Kitana and Johnny Cage up against emperor Shao Kahn and his extermination squad led by Ermac, Motaro, Sheeva and Rain. Kahn's plan is to merge Earthrelam with Outworld into one realm by resurrecting Kitana's mother, Queen Sindel. After the death of Johnny Cage, the warriors flee from Liu Kang's temple where Rayden tells them there are no more rules because Shao-Kahn broke them and the only way they can defeat him is to bring peace into Sindel's spirit and they have seven days to do it. Rayden then sends Sonya to find her partner Jax, while Kitana and Liu Kang go looking for Nightwolf so he can help them defeat Shao Kahn.
Shao Khan, the Emperor of the Outworld, has illegally opened the portal between that realm and Earth. If it remains open, on the seventh day, all of mankind shall be destroyed. Now the Lightning God Rayden and four mortals - Liu Kang, Sonya Blade, Princess Kitana and Jax, have 6 days to find a way to close this portal and save the Earth, battling the evil forces of the Outworld as they proceed.
The evil Emperor Shao Kahn has broken the rules of the Mortal Kombat tournament and, with his generals Motaro, Sheeva, Ermac, and Sindel (former queen of Edenia, once a beautiful kingdom, now the ravaged outworld), engineers the merger of the Earth and Outworld realms, destroying life as man knows it. The destruction will take place in six days, unless Lord Rayden, Liu Kang, Princess Kitana, Sonya Blade, and their companions can thwart the Outworld squadrons.
The sequel to Mortal Kombat, where if you never played Mortal Kombat 2 or 3, you will be so lost.
