While doing a thesis about violence, Ángela finds a snuff video where a girl is tortured until death. Soon she discovers that the girl was a former student in her faculty...
Why is death and violence so fascinating? Is it morally correct to show violence in movies? If so, is there a limit to what we should show? That's the subject of Ángela's examination paper. She is a young student at a film school in Madrid. Together with the student Chema (who is totally obsessed with violent movies) they find a snuff movie in which a young girl is tortured and killed. Soon they discover that the girl was a former student at their school...
Fascinated and, at the same, repulsed by violence, the young graduate student of communication sciences, Ángela, prepares her thesis on a controversial subject: the exploitation of brutality on visual media. Before long--as Ángela starts her research project in the university's audiovisual archives, searching for hideous images or videos depicting human suffering--she unearths a dust-covered videotape of what appears to be the epitome of a repulsive underground film genre: an appallingly genuine snuff film. Now, as blood stains the faculty, only Ángela's reluctant friend--the gore-obsessed horror aficionado, Chema--can help her shed light on the gruesome death of the movie's protagonist, as, more and more, she fears that she could be next. Can a murder look good on video?
Ángela (Torrent) is a film student at the Madrid's University Complutense. Searching for research material for her Thesis (hence the film's title) on audio-visual violence, she attains the friendship of Chema (Martínez), a fellow student and introvert with an encyclopedic collection of violent and pornographic films.After her professor dies while watching a film she steals the videotape, discovering that it is a snuff film featuring a girl whom she and Chema recognize as another student at the university - and a former girlfriend of current student Bosco (Noriega). Investigating the origins of the tape, they are drawn into the operations of a chilling snuff ring.
