In this sequel to Apocalypse (1998), police officer in search for answers, Thorold Stone, joins a rebel group of Christians to thwart the Antichrist's plan to use virtual reality to solidify its power.
This is the sequel to Apocalypse (1998). In this movie Thorold Stone is still looking for his family. The Christians, whom the rest of the world has started to call The Haters, are being framed for many murders and terrorist acts. Thorold and his partner go to investigate the location of the detonator of one of these acts. They find a group of Christians holding a service. He arrests them and one of them hands him a disk from O.N.E. , One Nation Earth. He finds men in the building who aren't Christians. They chase them around and one of them is killed. Then he meets with Mr. Parker who works for Franco Malacousso. Parker shoots them both but Thorold doesn't die. He is then framed for the shooting of his partner and he goes to a computer programmer with the disk. Virtual Reality is used to bring the Day of Wonders to fruition. There is something odd about the CD that the woman gave Thorold because the programmer can't get access to it and they take it to the Christians headquarters. Further things develop and throughout the film there are repeated attempts to convert Thorold to Christianity. It isn't until he meets up with the Anti-Christ that he makes up his mind one way or the other. When they find out what the Day of Wonders is, they try to destroy the program that will run it.
Thorold Stone's family was among those who vanished three months ago, and he is still stung by that fact. Since childhood, he has always been logical and suspicious, and, of course, he's uncertain whether Franco Macalousso is the Messiah he claims he is. Stone works for Len Parker, who runs One Nation Earth, the organization that rounds up the Haters who stand in Macalousso's way. Soon, however, he realises that the Christians have been framed, and he has been set up. To prove Macalusso's true colours, he must band with his own enemies - the Haters themselves, led by Helen Hannah.

