Plump kids are lured into joining a posh fat camp with the promise of quick weight loss and good times, only to find that the facility is a woodland hellhole run by a psycho ex-fitness instructor.
11-year-old Gerald "Gerry" Garner lives in Long Island, New York, and he's overweight. Gerry's parents Maury and Mrs. Garner decide to send Gerry to Camp Hope, a camp for overweight boys. The camp is owned by kindly Harvey Bushkin and his equally kind wife Alice Bushkin. When the Bushkins file for bankruptcy the camp has to be sold, it is bought by a wacko named Tony Perkis. Tony plans to force the campers to lose as much weight as they can, and he also intends to document the marathon shedding of weight and use it for an infomercial for his slenderizing program. In the eyes of the campers, Tony has made Camp Hope a living hell. As Gerry and counselor Pat Finley lead the efforts to overthrow Tony, the campers prepare for the Apache Relay against arch rival Camp MVP. The Apache Relay is a kind of race in which Camp Hope has never defeated Camp MVP before.
Jerry, an overweight pre-teen, is sent to a "fat farm" for the summer, lured by the promise of go-karts and swimming fun. When he arrives, however, he finds that the camp has been bought out by an exercise/fitness guru whose mental stability quickly deteriorates. Jerry and his friends--including a counselor whose been there 18 years--finally make a stand.
School's out for the summer, and Gerry Garner eagerly forecasts weeks of lazing around the house. That is, until his parents inform him that they have signed him up for a holiday at Camp Hope, a "fat camp" that, unbeknownst to Gerry, is about to be bought out by mentally unhinged exercise guru Tony Perkis, and turned into a rigorous fitness facility for youths. Tony pumps the fun out of the whole summer, and, with his assistant Lars, punishes anybody who tries to break his totalitarian grip on the camp. Together with his new friends and the camp's original staff, Gerry must stop Tony's brutal regime, and take back the camp at all costs.

