A US Marine sniper is partnered with a SWAT member to take out rebel leaders in the jungles of Panama.
Tough guy Thomas Beckett is a US Marine working in the Panamanian jungle. His job is to seek out rebels and remove them using his sniper skills. Beckett is notorious for losing his partners on such missions. This time he's accompanied by crack marksman Richard Miller, who's more of an office-type. Together they plan to seek out an important rebel leader, whilst avoiding a rogue marksman who frequents this part of the jungle.
Master Gunnery Sergeant Thomas Beckett is a sniper stationed in Panama. Although skilled, he has lost several men under his command. Beckett is teamed up with a SWAT member named Miller, who has not earned any confirmed kills, to eliminate a top Panamanian rebel leader. Tensions emerge between the two on how to conduct the mission, coupled with running into numerous challenges during the mission.
Thomas Beckett is a no-nonsense Marine. He is a gunnery master sergeant "Gunny," with lots of wear and tear, specializing in carrying point on two-man sniper teams in the jungles of Panama. A veteran sniper, Gunny has at least 74 confirmed kills. In his long career, he lost several spotters; he carries these Marine's spare dog tags on a ring which he employs like worry beads. Some Marines believe Beckett is callous about his lost comrades, but the dog tags are like metal scabs over wounds that will never totally heal. On a particularly vital mission, Beckett has to team with Richard Miller, a wet-behind-the-ears NSA desk jockey. The Feds believe the hype that he is a crack shot due to an Olympic silver medal, but Gunny can figuratively smell his inexperience. Gunny is certain when Miller takes credit for a kill he did not complete. Beckett immediately assesses that Miller has never had a single kill. Although Miller tries to pull rank on Beckett, Gunny treats him like a young puppy, but without using a rolled-up newspaper. The sniper code is "one kill, one shot." The real question is: who is going to get shot and who is going to kill?
A Panamanian rebel leader is meeting with his financier/drug lord. The U.S. government seeks to "disrupt" the meeting by eliminating them both. Thomas Beckett, an ace sniper stationed in the area, is sent to perform the mission. Since his spotter was killed by a mysterious mercenary sniper, he must be accompanied by Richard Miller, a SWAT trained sniper from the National Security Council who has never had a kill. The two must best the jungle and complete the mission, hindered by numerous enemy patrols, "El-Cirujano", a renegade American working for the enemy, the mysterious sniper, and the rough living in a dangerous jungle.

