Governor Jaisingh Sinha is murdered and the needle of suspicion points towards his estranged son, Sahil Sinha who must prove his innocence.
Jaisingh lives in India with his son, Sahil, who dislikes his father. Things only get worse between father and son, when Jaisingh wants him to get married to Sheetal, a woman he has chosen to be his daughter-in-law. But Sahil wants to marry another girl by the name of Isha, and no amount of pressure can get him to change his mind. Finally, an argument ensues between the two, with Jaisingh getting killed. The Police are summoned, they arrest Sahil, try him in the Indian courts, convict him, but instead of giving him the death sentence, they put him in jail for life. A defiant Sahil, who still maintains his innocence, finds a way to escape, with the authorities hot on his tail, and leading this chase is a senior policeman by the name of Udham Singh, who has never been known to fail in his job of apprehending runaways and other criminals.
Sahil (Bobby Deol), the step-son of Governor Jaisingh Sinha (Raj Babbar) has an animosity towards his father. Besides, Gov. Sinha has some covert adversaries either in the family or among his associates. Sahil and his childhood companion Isha (Kajol) are in profound love for each other, while Sheetal (Manisha Koirala) has a secret yet fervid desire for Sahil. Gov. Sinha, considering Sheetal suitable for his son, announces Sahil's engagement with Sheetal on the occasion of Sahil's birthday party. This leads to a violent altercation between Sahil and Gov. Sinha in which the former, in a fit of rage, points a knife at Gov. Sinha while the guests watch. The next day, Gov. Sinha is found stabbed to death by a mysterious killer for which Sahil is framed and sent to jail for 14 years. However, Sahil escapes from jail. The case is brought under the legal charge of an unyielding and resolute police officer Udham Singh (Om Puri). The suspense persists until the real killer is identified.
Murders are taking place in the city with all the victims stabbed to death using dragger. The prime suspect is Sahil Sinha who is also convicted of the crime in court; but manages to escape from prison only to find that the investigating officer Udham Singh is stabbed with the same dragger and some important public personalities are injured and hospitalized. Then Mr. Ishwar Diwan is caught with the same dragger set that is used to commit the murders. Now the question remain is it Ishwar the culprit and if so how come Sahil were present at the scene of all the murders.
Honest, brave, handsome yet hot-headed Sahil Sinha attacks his father at a birthday party with a dagger but not with the intention of killing him. The next day he finds his father stabbed to death, and he is subsequently arrested and sentenced to 14 years imprisonment. But he planned a conspiracy while in jail and manages to escape. He goes out to find the real killer of his father but soon finds another murder on his head, the murder of Dr. Gandhi. The police especially inspector Udham Singh wants Sahil dead or alive. Will Sahil ever find the real killer of his father? Will he be able to solve a very long riddle?
After the death of her husband, Sharda gets married to Governor Jaisingh Sinha. Her eldest son, Sahil resents him, and at a birthday party in front of guests he threatens his stepfather with a knife. The next day he finds his father killed by the same knife, and he is arrested on the spot. In Court everyone of his father's associates, the family doctor, the lawyer, even his own mother testifies against him; he is found guilty and sentenced to 14 years in jail. After a few days in jail, he escapes and a manhunt for him takes place, led by rogue police inspector Udham Singh. One by one all of who had testified against Sahil are either hospitalized in serious conditions or dead like Dr. Gandhi. While trying to extract the truth from Mantri, Sahil finds out that Udham Singh has arrested the real killer, and got a confession out of him. Shortly thereafter, Sahil returns home and his mother forgives him. Then the nightmare re-opens when Udham Singh is stabbed, and no one knows who the real killer is.
Governor Jaisingh Sinha (Raj Babbar) is a prominent political figure, who is known as an upright person. Sinha presides over a meeting attended by influential industrialist Meghnad Chaudhry (Dalip Tahil), Vilas Rao (Sharat Saxena) and minister Mantriji (Prem Chopra), among others.Sahil Sinha (Bobby Deol) is the step-son of Sinha, Sahil's mother Sharda (Priya Tendulkar) began to live with Sinha after the death of her husband. Sahil is an unattached and easy-going young man, who resents Sinha, Sinha has a younger son named Harsh. Ishwar Dewan (Paresh Rawal) is Sinha's Personal Secretary, and his daughter Isha (Kajol) is Sahil's beloved. On the other hand, Sheetal (Manisha Koirala), the daughter of Meghnad Chaudhry, is also in love with Sahil, but it is not reciprocated by him.One evening, Sinha throws a party for Sahil's birthday and announces Sahil's engagement to Sheetal, upon which an argument breaks out. At one point, Sahil tries to stab his father, but is stopped by Sharda. The next day, Sahil gets heavily drunk at the house of Dr Gandhi (Kulbhushan Kharbanda), Sinha's family doctor, who advises Sahil to accept Sheetal as his wife and that Sahil will lead a happier life with her. A drunk Sahil returns home and finds to his shock that someone has stabbed Sinha. Before Sinha can tell the name of the murderer he dies, while Sharda arrives and finds Sahil near his dead step-father holding a knife. Sahil is accused and taken to court, where many of his acquaintances and Sharda testify against him. Sahil is found guilty and sentenced to 14 years in prison. Just before Sahil is transported to jail, he hands over a necklace to Sheetal, implying that it was left behind at the scene by the killer.In jail, Sahil relates his story to an old prisoner, who believes him to be innocent. The prisoner tells Sahil that the jail only has one escape route - a sewage gutter pipe that can be accessed from a flush toilet located in an unused chamber of the jail. Sahil creates a problem with other prisoners, causing the jailor (Tej Sapru) to confine him and two prisoners in the chamber. The three succeed in escaping the jail by sea, with a boat arranged by Sheetal.Police Commissioner Patwardhan (Anjan Srivastav) assigns an unbending and upright police officer Udham Singh (Om Puri) to handle the case of Sahil's re-apprehension. Sahil secretly meets Isha at her home, where he calls Dr Gandhi for advice, and Dr Gandhi invites Sahil to his home. Sahil reaches the doctor's residence and is shocked to find that somebody has stabbed Dr Gandhi. Dr Gandhi's servant finds Sahil near the dead doctor and shrieks, causing him to run away. Dr Gandhi's servant reports Sahil to the police.Udham Singh interrogates Sheetal, with whom Sahil still maintains a good relationship. Sheetal confesses to having spent the previous night with Sahil and also helping him escape jail. Singh does not arrest Sheetal for these wrongdoings.Sahil, to prove his innocence resolves to find the real murderer. He suspects advocate Thanawala, because Thanawala had a very good chance of obtaining Sinha's property upon his death, provided Sahil is out of the picture. He asked Thanawala and beat him and figures that he is not the murderer. Sahil now suspects Chaudhry or his brother, because of Chaudhry's involvement in business fraud. After interrogating him, Sahil realizes that Chaudhry is innocent as well. The next is Vilas Rao, the corrupt Union leader, who points the finger at Mantriji, saying that Sinha's murder was a political assassination. Sahil and Sheetal trick Mantriji into attending a ceremony and kidnap him. Udham Singh is also present there and realizes that Sahil is not the real murderer.Udham Singh finds out that the murders have been committed with two knives of exactly the same build and shape, that could belong to a set. He finds the set of knives at Ishwar Dewan's house and arrests Dewan, who confesses to the killing of Sinha and Dr Gandhi. Dewan divulges to have murdered Sinha because he did not accept Isha as his daughter-in-law; and killed Dr Gandhi to cover up the first crime. At the same time, Sahil was interrogating Mantriji, but Sheetal arrives and tells him that the murderer is Ishwar Dewan, making Sahil release Mantriji.Harsh, Sinha's son, is seen playing with the necklace which Sahil had found at the crime scene. He opens the necklace and finds his and Isha's picture inside the locket. So apparently Isha is the murderer. In the meantime, Isha stabs Officer Udam Singh, who suffers major wounds.Sahil interrogates Ishwar Dewan, who reveals that Isha was the murderer and gives a summary of all the murders she committed, simply because she didn't want to be separated from Sahil.Sahil understands that Isha will attack Sheetal next and calls her and informs her to lock all doors and entrances. Sheetal takes this warning jokingly as Isha arrives. Sheetal is fooled by Isha at first, because she falsely apologizes. Isha attacks Sheetal at her house, where Sahil arrives on time to save her. The police also arrive and end up shooting Isha. Isha and Sahil share a last embrace before she dies.
