Robbie, a singer, and Julia, a waitress, are both engaged, but to the wrong people. Fortune intervenes to help them discover each other.
Robbie Hart is singing the hits of the 1980s at weddings and other celebrations. He also can keep the party going in good spirit, he knows what to say and when to say it. Julia is a waitress at the events where Robbie performs. When both of them find someone to marry and prepare for their weddings, it becomes clear that they've chosen wrong partners.
80's nostalgia flick in which Adam Sandler plays Robbie Hart, a suburban wedding singer who gets dumped at the altar by his fiancee. He meets Julia, who is engaged to the wrong guy, and he falls in love with her. He then tries to figure out how he can make her realize what a jerk her fiance really is.
It's 1985. Junk bonds, Michael Jackson, CD players, wealth. Robby Hart lives in his sister's basement and sings in the band at the reception hall. His dreams of being a singer/songwriter are long gone, replaced now by a burning desire to get married. The problem is that no one seems to want to marry him. His fiancee, Linda, doesn't show up on their wedding day, and his new friend, Julia, is engaged to a wealthy Wall Street broker. Where does Billy Idol fit into all this?
Robby is stood up at the altar by Linda, who decides that the prospect of marrying a guy who sings at wedding receptions doesn't equal the attraction she felt when he was lead singer in a rock band. Robby finds consolation in his friendship with Julia, a waitress at the wedding receptions and bar mitzvahs where he performs. Julia asks Robby to help her plan her upcoming wedding to Glenn, who isn't interested in the details of the ceremony. Robby learns that Glenn also isn't totally interested in Julia and is marrying her because she "deserves it" after sticking with him for years and because he knows she's not marrying him for his money, since she dated him back before he started pulling down the big bucks.
Robbie Hart is an extremely talented wedding singer who, ironically, is left standing at the altar on his own wedding day. Convinced by his friends to go back to work, Robbie befriends Julia Sullivan, a waitress who works at the reception hall where he sings, and who is about to marry a cheating skunk. As Robbie helps Julia plan for her wedding, they begin to fall for each other, and Robbie realizes that if either of them are ever going to be happy, he's going to have to pull off one heck of a show.
Set in the year 1985, Robbie (Adam Sandler) is a young man who has dreamed of one day becoming a big rock star. But instead, he has become one of the most entertaining wedding singers in the small town of Richfield. At Robbie's latest wedding gig, he saves the wedding toast from being ruined by the groom's alcoholic brother (Steve Buscemi), and catches the eye of a waitress at the function, named Julia (Drew Barrymore). Afterwards, they both tell how they are engaged: Robbie to his girlfriend Linda (Angela Featherstone), and Julia to her boyfriend, Glenn (Matthew Glave). Noting Robbie's handling of the situation inside the wedding, Julia wants him to sing at her wedding, which Robbie happily agrees to.Eventually, Robbie and Linda's wedding day arrives, and everyone is there, except for Linda. It soon becomes apparent that Linda has decided not to go through with the wedding, leaving Robbie heartbroken and despondent.After the wedding is called off, Linda meets with Robbie, expressing her concerns of ending up being stuck in Richfield, married to Robbie, and raising kids in his sister's basement.Robbie's brother Sammy (Allen Covert), attempts to get him to snap out of his misery, and play another wedding gig. However, Robbie's sour mood disrupts the wedding toast, in which he insults the bride's Father, and breaks into a dour rendition of the song, "Love Stinks." The result has Robbie getting beaten up by the Bride's Father and other attendees. Afterwords, Julia meets with Robbie outside the building, hoping that he'll still play for her and Glenn's wedding. However, he now expresses doubt about participating.Eventually, Robbie's spirits start to perk up, and he ends up doing a Bah Mitzvah with Julia acting as a waitress. After the festivities, Julia asks Robbie if he'll help her plan her wedding. Robbie agrees, and along with his brother Sammy, and Julia's friend Holly. They do everything from try wedding cakes, to hiring a limo driver (of which Sammy is the only one in town).Robbie eventually goes out for a party with Holly, Julia, and Julia's fiance, Glenn. At the party, Robbie gets to see that Glenn is anything but a nice guy, as he notices Glenn has no problems ogling other women on the dance floor. After everyone leaves, Holly tries to hook up with Robbie, but soon sees that he likes Julia.Robbie grapples with his feelings, and eventually decides to tell Julia his true feelings. However, upon arriving at her place, he sees her in a window, in her wedding dress, speaking into a mirror (unheard to Robbie, she is saying his name, practicing saying she's 'Mrs Robbie Hart'). Robbie then gets drunk, and stumbles back to a bar, where he encounters Glenn. Robbie attempts to punch Glenn, but gets hit instead. Arriving back at his place, he finds Linda there, and they both go inside.The next day, Julia shows up, only to meet Linda, who claims she is 'Robbie's fiancee.' Julia then returns home to Glenn, and decides she wants to get married as quickly as possible. Glenn warms to this idea, and they decide to head off to Las Vegas.Meanwhile, Robbie awakes to find Linda, who says she can adapt to being the wife of a wedding singer, but Robbie explains that he doesn't want to marry her.Robbie attends another wedding the same day, and runs into Holly, who explains that Julia is going to Las Vegas. After pressuring Sammy for help, Robbie gets a plane ticket (in First Class), unaware that he is on the same plane as Julia and Glenn (who are in Coach Class). When he finds out, the people in First Class eagerly help him, with a little help from Billy Idol (playing himself), who is also in First Class.Robbie finally expresses his true feelings to Julia through a song, and eventually, the two are married.
