Col. Guile and various other martial arts heroes fight against the tyranny of Dictator M. Bison and his cohorts.
Col. William Guile leads an army of soldiers into the country of Shadaloo to find traces to lead him to General M. Bison, who has captured many people including three missing soldiers. Among them is Carlos "Charlie" Blanka, in which Bison decides to turn into a hideous mutant. On the other hand, Chun Li is a reporter who seeks revenge against Bison for the death of her father years ago. Then two small time hustlers Ryu and Ken, are arrested along with Sagat, a powerful arms dealer and Vega for dealing of illegal weapons. Guile recruits them in order to find Bison's base. Now Guile, T. Hawk, Cammy, Ryu, Ken, Chun Li, Balrog and E. Honda have three days before Bison murders the hostages and takes over the world.
After months of fighting, a multinational military force of the Allied Nations has managed to enter the city. The AN is fighting against the armed forces of drug-lord turned the evil warlord General M. Bison, who has recently captured a couple of dozen AN workers. Bison makes his demands in a live two-way TV broadcast with William F. Guile, the commander of the AN forces. If he is not paid $20 billion in three days he will kill the hostages! And so Guile and M. Bison will be facing off in the ultimate final showdown!
Based on the popular video game, "Street Fighter II". Dictator M. Bison holds Allied Nation relief workers for ransom. Colonel William F. Guile leads his troops into battle against him. Chun-Li, Balrog and E. Honda are a news crew seeking revenge on Sagat. and his lackey, Vega. Ryu and Ken are two low-rent shysters who get caught in the middle between sides. Zangief and Dee Jay kiss up to Bison, who holds Dr. Dhalsim hostage to create Blanka, a genetic warrior. Cammy and T. Hawk second Guile.
The evil warlord General M. Bison and his troops have kidnapped Allied Nations relief workers along with three U.N soldiers that were assigned to protect them. M. Bison demands that the United Nations pay him ransom money in exchange for the hostages, where M. Bison has given the United Nations 3 days and he threatens to kill the hostages if the United Nations fails to pay the ransom. Learning his best friend, Carlos "Charlie" Blanka is one of the hostages, U.N military commanding officer Colonel William F. Guile leads his army of troops against M. Bison. But Guile isn't the only man after M. Bison. Guile sends low-life martial artists Ryu and Ken Masters to infiltrate M. Bilson's one-eyed arms dealer Victor Sagat and his masked Spanish cage fighter Vega and discover the location of M. Bison's jungle fortress. News journalist Chun-Li Zang and her crew, former boxer Balrog and former sumo-wrestler Edmond Honda are out to settle their scores with M. Bison. M. Bison's unwilling chief scientist Dr. Dhalsim is transforming Blanka into a genetic mutated super soldier, in M. Bison's goal for world domination. Joined by martial artists and fighters from around the world, Guile and his troops engage in combat as they set out to defeat the evil warlord and rescue the hostages from his jungle fortress, before the 72 hours up, as Guile and M. Bison faces off in the ultimate showdown.

