A New York advertising executive travels to a small Southern town to collect an inheritance but finds he must create a gospel choir and lead it to success before he can collect.
A New York advertising executive who is about to land a big account, has his life shaken up when it becomes known that he has lied about having a college degree. After being fired, his life is further shaken by his debtors who had counted on paying after landing the account. Having to go on the run, he is called back to his southern town roots, when his great aunt dies. At the reading of the will, he learns he has been asked to assume the mantle of choir director of his great aunt's church and if he can get the choir in the Gospel Explosion in Atlanta, he will inherit stock worth $150,000. Unfortunately the choir leaves a lot to be desired and he has to start recruiting. Among others, he gets three prisoners to join. More importantly, he gets a "sinner" from one of the local night clubs to join. While initially scorned and resisted, nonetheless her voice wins everyone but the hardcore church busybody.
The Fighting Temptations is a musical, a comedy, and a love story all in one. Cuba Gooding Jr. plays Darrin Hill, an advertising junior executive who is trying to make it big in New York City and a corner office. He finally makes a big ad pitch and is on his way up the corporate ladder; unfortunately, he is fired for misrepresenting his Yale education. He receives a letter informing him that his Aunt Sally has died in his hometown of Monte Carlo, Georgia. Since he is unemployed and broke, he takes a train back home to attend her funeral. As Sally's only living relative, Darrin receives an inheritance of stock worth $150,000. However, to get the money, Darrin must fulfill her last wish, which is to form a gospel choir for the Beulah Baptist Church and take it to the annual Gospel Explosion competition. Darrin tells the preacher that he is a music producer in New York City, and he can build a great choir. There is only one problem, everybody who comes in for auditions are really bad singers. Darrin needs a miracle if he has any chance at all. Then Darrin finds Lilly, played by Beyonce Knowles, who is a beautiful nightclub singer with the voice of an angel. He finds other singers at the barbershop and the prison. After putting together a beautiful sounding choir, Darrin is now ready for the competition. The cast is loaded with singing stars such as: Shirley Caesar, Faith Evans, Angie Stone, Melba Moore, Ann Nesby, The O'Jays, Montell Jordan, T-Bone, Zane, and many others. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
