Raja, a taxi driver, falls in love with Aarti, a rich girl, and marries her against her parents' wishes. Later, her parents try to create differences amongst the couple.
Raja is a poor man who lives in India. He meets with a very rich girl, and both fall in love with each other. The girl's name is Aarti, who lives with her step-mother, who is very cruel, father and and step-cousin, who oppose her having any contact with Raja. But Aarti is stubborn, and gets married to Raja. After their marriage, her step-mother, father and step-cousin pretend to accept them, but actually are planning to bring an end to their relationship.
Rich girl Aarti meets poor boy Raja and they both fall in love. Aarti's father is opposed to their relationship, but after their marriage he forgives them. Meanwhile Aarti's step-mother and her brother have planned to bring about discord in Raja and Aarti's relationship and usurp the family wealth.
Raja (Aamir Khan) is a poor man who lives in India. While Aarti (Karisma Kapoor), lives with her Wealthy dad Mr. Sehgal (Suresh Oberoi) and her step-mother Shalini (Archana Puran Singh), who is very cruel, in a palatial home. Aarti, getting bored at home decides to go on a small vacation to a small hill station named Palankhet in the country area, where her parents had met for the first time. On her journey to that area she however meets with Raja who is the chauffeur of the taxi that she hires. After a brief interval between the two, they fall in love with each other. When Aarti's father learns of the relationship between the two he opposed of there marriage but the two is very stubborn and get married without Mr. Sehgal's blessings. However, Mr. Sehgal forgives his daughter, and invites both newlyweds to his palatial home, unknown to the two that it is a conspiracy by her father, step-mother and step-cousin to create a rift in there relationship by exploiting the boy's jealous, short tempered nature and also to usurp the family's wealth.
Multi-millionaire Aarti Sehgal lives with her father, her step-mother, Shalini, Shalini's brother, Swarg and his son, Jai. On a visit to a small hill-station called Palankhet Aarti meets with a poor taxi driver, Raja Hindustani and eventually both fall in love with each other but unfortunately Aarti's father objects to their marriage so they get married without his blessings without knowing that her step relatives has plans to destroy her relationship with her husband with a motive of acquiring her wealth and assets.
Raja, a poor taxi driver falls in love with the rich young woman Aarti. Against her father's wishes they both marry . It's then when Aarti's family comes together to hatch a plot that will force Raja and Aarti to not only separate but to develop hatred towards each other.
Wealthy Mr. Sehgal (Suresh Oberoi) lives with his daughter, Aarti (Karisma Kapoor), and her step-mother Shalini (Archana Puran Singh) in a palatial home. Aarti wants to go for a vacation at a small hill station named Palankhet where her parents had met for the first time. Once there, she meets with taxi-driver Raja Hindustani (Aamir Khan), and after a short period of time, both fall in love with each other, and get married without Mr. Sehgal's blessings. Eventually, Mr. Sehgal forgives his daughter, and invites both newlyweds to his palatial home, not knowing that his wife, her brother, Swaraj (Pramod Moutho), and her nephew Jai (Mohnish Behl) have plans for him and his daughter that will change their lives forever.

