A Harvard professor is lured back into the courtroom after twenty-five years to take the case of a young black man condemned to death for the horrific murder of a child.
Bobby Earl (Blair Underwood) is facing the electric chair for the murder of a young girl. Eight years after the crime, he calls in Paul Armstrong (Sir Sean Connery), a professor of law, to help prove his innocence. Armstrong quickly uncovers some overlooked evidence to present to the local police, but they aren't interested, Bobby was their killer.
The year is 1986. In Ochopee, Florida, eleven-year-old Joanie Shriver (Barbara Jean Kane) is kidnapped, raped, and murdered. Bobby Earl Ferguson (Blair Underwood) is arrested by officers Tanny Brown (Laurence Fishburne) and J. T. Wilcox (Christopher Murray), who proceed to beat Bobby into confessing to the murder. Bobby is placed on trial, where Bobby's defense attorney McNair (Ned Beatty) puts up a lousy defense for Bobby, and Bobby is sentenced to be executed. Now, eight years later, Bobby hands a letter to his grandmother Evangeline (Ruby Dee) and asks Evangeline to go to Cambridge, Massachusetts, to hire Harvard law professor Paul Armstrong (Sir Sean Connery) to clear Bobby's name. At Harvard, Paul is attacking capital punishment in a campus debate, when Evangeline arrives and hands the letter to Paul. Paul goes home, where his wife Laurie (Kate Capshaw) is throwing a birthday party for their young daughter Katie (Scarlett Johansson). Laurie reads the letter and she encourages Paul to take the case, even though he hasn't practiced law in twenty-five years. Paul, Laurie, and Katie head to Florida, where Paul meets Bobby in the prison. Bobby tells Paul his side of the story and what Tanny and Wilcox did. Paul begins to believe that Bobby was railroaded. Bobby tells Paul to speak to Blair Sullivan (Ed Harris), a man who is also on death row. Blair gives Paul some clues that could prove Bobby's innocence, and Blair's own guilt. But in the process of trying to clear Bobby, Paul learns some disturbing truths about Bobby, putting Paul and his family in a fight for their lives.

