Harbans Rai and Ranjit Rai are two wealthy businessmen who absolutely *loathe* poverty and poor people . As fate would have it , Harbans Rai's daughter Madhu falls for a poor mechanic Raja while Ranjit Rai's son Ajay romances a poor girl Kajal . When Harbans and Ranjit come to know of it they try various ways to separate the lovers .
In order to prevent their children from marrying poor spouses, wealthy Ranjit Rai, and his close and equally wealthy friend, Harbanslal, deceive their children. They get them to sign a marriage certificate, which states that Ranjit's son, Ajay, is married to Harbanslal's daughter, Madhu. But both Ajay and Madhu fall in love with Kajal and Raja who are poor. Ranjit and Harbanslal concoct several schemes but are unable to separate the lovers, and then finally give in to their demands, and arrange their engagement. Things get complicated when intimate photographs of Kajal and Raja surface, and their authenticity is vouched for by none other than Kajal's paternal uncle.
Ranjit Rai and Harbans Lal are two wealthy industrialists and friends who shows a great hatred for the poor. They aspire to get their children, Ajay and Madhu married to each other. So they both forged a marriage certificate, getting them to sign it unknowingly. But Ajay falls in love with a poor young woman, Kajal and Madhu with a poor mechanic, Raja. When there dads learn of this, they both try to the best of there merits to prevent them from marrying there chosen spouses.
Wealthy Ranjit Rai would like his only son Ajay to marry Madhu the daughter of equally wealthy Harbans Lall. But Ajay falls in love with Kajal and Madhu falls in love with a mechanic Raja. When the two rich men learn that there children have chosen poor spouses they deceive them by getting them to sign a document which states that Madhu is legally married to Ajay. Things does not go into there favor and they decided to hatch a plan to prove that Raja and Kajal is having an illegitimate relationship thus making the way clear for Ajay and Madhu to get marry.

