Six unemployed steel workers form a male striptease act. The women cheer them on to go for "the full monty" - total nudity.
In the decaying steel mill town of Sheffield in Northern England, friends Gaz and Dave, both now unemployed and on the dole after the closure of most of the town's steel mills, steal scrap metal from the closed mills to supplement their meager income, often with Gaz's twelve year old son, Nathan, on the days Gaz has custody. Still, Gaz is behind in child support payments to his ex-wife, Mandy. When Mandy threatens to sue for full custody in that Gaz can't support Nathan in any way, Gaz, seeing the long line up of women clamoring to get in to see a touring Chippendales styled dance troupe, thinks he can solve his financial and thus custody problems by forming his own male exotic dance troupe with some of his fellow un- or underemployed ex-mill workers. In addition to Dave, he has in mind middle-aged Gerald, their former foreman who has not told his spending-happy wife Linda that he has been unemployed for six months, and Lomper, a mild-mannered security guard who they just met in the act of him trying to commit suicide in his depression. The obvious problem is that with the exception of Gerald who knows how to ballroom dance, they are not generally stripper material, either in looks, skill or temperament, with especially slightly overweight Dave having body image issues, he believing his wife, Jean, having a wandering eye because of what he considers his unappealing looks. In an open casting among those at the employment office, they are able to recruit further misfits Horse, an older man who does know the contemporary dances of his era, and younger Guy, who can't dance and can't sing but loves Singin' in the Rain (1952) and has a natural gift below the belt. Beyond the many obstacles in being able to put together a dance strip act that women would pay to see, they have to overcome their own individual issues, Gaz's which includes Nathan, who loves his father but with who he just wants to do "normal" father/son activities.
Six unemployed steel workers, inspired by the Chippendale's dancers, form a male striptease act. The women cheer them on to go for "the full monty" - total nudity.
The setting is Sheffield England, once the "City of Steel", home of a massive steel industry and jobs aplenty. Today with the industry in decline and the steelworks closed down there is widespread unemployment and despair. Two unemployed friends stumble upon a Chippendales-like show that's very popular with the local women. Eventually they decide they too would like to give it a go, but they can't dance and aren't what most would call good physical specimens. They have their doubts but are determined to give it a shot. On their way they pick up four other unlikely candidates and begin practising for the big night. To drum up interest, they boast they'll go 'the full monty' (a phrase meaning 'all the way' - nude), something they hadn't planned and aren't sure they can deliver. Will they ?, won't they ?, can they keep their antics from their families ?, can they stay out of trouble ? can they pull a crowd ?. All will be revealed, well maybe.
Sheffield, England. Once a bright community "on the move", the city has fallen into ruin after the steel factories are closed and thousands of men lose their jobs. Gary "Gaz" is a former worker and about to lose his son because he can't pay for joint custody. His friends (and former co-workers) aren't doing much better: Dave is depressed and convinced his wife isn't interested in their marriage anymore; Lomper has to take care of his mom and is suicidal; and Gerald has been lying to his wife for six months about his unemployment. After stumbling across a Chipendales dance club and seeing how many women are paying for it (ten quid times a thousand women equals... "a lot of money"), Gaz realizes that if they can do it, so can he. The guys pull together, adding Horse and Guy to the line-up. But Gaz realizes that they have to offer something that the "real thing" doesn't... so these guys are going "the full monty", which means going totally nude! They not be young, they not be pretty, they not be very good, but they're there, and for one night only, with nothing to lose, they're daring to go The Full Monty!
The Full Monty begins with 6 steelworkers in the North of England being laid off. Gaz, Dave (Gaz' best mate), Nathan (Gaz's son), Lomper (the mill security guard), Gerald (the foreman at the mill before it closed) Horse (a good dancer) and Guy (a well-endowed man who can't dance) decide that after seeing the girls go crazy in the bar for a stripper. However, nobody has ever done 'The Full Monty', so the guys are prepared to give it a go in order to earn some money to pay the bills and live. Gaz also has a son called Nathan, from his ex-wife Mandy, who helps them with the dance routine. Gaz is not a great father, but he does his best. His ex-wife clearly doesn't like him and berates him for picking up his son late and not paying the child support, one of the many bills he can't pay because he is unemployed. Nevertheless, all six boys start rehearsing and audition some other people to join their group. Gaz needs to pay £100 if he wants to book the club to perform on the night, which he can't afford. Luckily, Nathan uses the money from his savings and the gig is back on! Dave drops out as he thinks he is too fat and becomes a security guard at Asda. Gaz spots him on his weekly shop, confronts him, then steals from the shop and runs away. Dave can't catch him. The guys are putting up posters for the show when they are spotted by two girls. Gaz boasts that they are better than other strip-tease acts as they do 'The Full Monty'. In the warehouse where they practice, they do a public dress rehearsal in front of horse's female members of the family. This ends badly as Gaz's son is with them (he is on the music) and the gang gets spotted by a policeman, who is on the beat, patrolling the street. They make a run for it, but Gaz, Gerald, and horse are caught and arrested for indecent exposure. Gaz now can't see his son, Nathan, who he needs to play the music at his strip-tease act. Lomper and Guy escape to Lomper's house where the two look lovingly at each other. Gerald gets thrown out by his wife after the bailiffs come and he goes to stay with Gaz. In the club, Gaz refuses to go on because the policeman is there as well as some other men when it says girls only. His son persuades him to go on and they all have a lot of fun together. The film ends with the strip act!
