Seven toy teddy bears of varying sizes suddenly come to life, getting in all sorts of merry misadventures.
A combination of the story of Goldlocks and the Three Bears with the true story of how Teddy Roosevelt spared a bear cub after killing its mother while hunting, an event which led to the popularization of the teddy bear. Goldilocks goes to sleep in the bears' home after watching six teddy bears dance and do acrobatics, viewing them through a knothole in the wall. When she is awoken by the returning bear family, they give chase through the woods, but she runs to the aid of the Old Rough Rider, who saves her.
An adaptation of the story of Goldilocks and the three bears: When the Bear family leaves their home to take a walk, a young girl walks into their house. After eating the porridge that is cooling on the table, she explores their home. She then falls asleep in Baby Bear's bed. When the Bears return from their walk, they discover the girl, leading to some tumultuous consequences.
In a lonely part of a forest stands a peculiar looking house, the ground and surroundings being covered with snow. In front of the house is a little bear, holding a "Teddy Bear" and dancing with glee. The mother bear emerges from the house and orders the little one inside, to which he pays no heed. As she approaches to
compel obedience, the little one runs around in a circle, pursued by the mother. Unable to catch the little rascal, she calls the old father bear to her assistance, both of whom are pelted with snowballs by the young scamp. The youngster is finally captured and led by the ear into the house. All three soon reappear, dressed for a walk in the forest. Shortly after they disappear, little Goldilocks, out on a ramble in the wood, comes upon this queer-looking
house, and, being inquisitive, she approaches, finds the door open and walks in. The first thing that meets her gaze upon entering is three bowls of porridge on a table. After sampling each, the smaller one seems to suit her taste and she eats the entire contents. Having satisfied her appetite, she proceeds with her investigation, and presently finds her way into a strange-looking room. In searching for a door leading therefrom, she unexpectedly
discovers a peephole, through which she sees something that astonishes and pleases her. In the room beyond are a number of "Teddy Bears" performing all sorts of tumbling, balancing and numerous other acrobatic feats. Becoming impatient, she endeavors to open the door leading into this room, but being unable to do so, tries a
nearby door, which she succeeds in opening, but finds herself in another room. Climbing the stairs before her, they lead her to a sleeping room containing two large and one small bed. Becoming tired and sleepy, she gets upon the first bed, but finds it too hard; tries the next and finds it not to her liking, but when she reaches the small bed, to her surprise, she spies, sitting on a chair at the head, a "Teddy Bear," takes it in her arms, pulls down the
bedcovers, gets into bed and soon is fast asleep. Having finished their walk, the three bears return home. As soon as they enter, discovery is made that someone has been eating their porridge, which had been prepared
for their meal upon return. The little fellow, finding his bowl empty, starts to cry, but is soon consoled. All three then
leave the room, but almost immediately the little one returns for his "Teddy Bear," and sits down in a rocker to amuse himself. His mother opens the door and calls him, but he refuses to accompany her, the consequence of which is a lively chase around the table. At this moment old Bruin enters, captures the young rascal, leads him over to his mother, who administers a good sound spanking. Preparations are now made to retire, and dressed in their night clothes, led by father Bruin with a candle, they start upstairs, but the little one falls down, and after considerable crying and wiping of tears, they proceed. On entering the bed chamber, father Bruin discovers there has been someone on his bed, the mother bear finds her bed in a like condition. Upon examining his bed, however, the little bear discovers the intruder, Goldilocks, fast asleep. Awakening suddenly, she is startled to find three bears in the room, but grasps the "Teddy Bear," jumps up, runs over the three beds, pursued by the bears. She gets to the door, but finds, it locked, darts around the foot of the beds, spies an open window, reaches it, throws the "Teddy Bear" out, hurriedly crawls through and drops to the ground, runs down through the forest with the three bears in pursuit. An exciting chase leads over hills, through deep snow, until finally Goldilocks strikes a road, which she follows. She soon has the good fortune to meet the great hunter, "Teddy," to whom she hurriedly explains her predicament. The bears soon come within range, Teddy takes good aim, fires and kills old father Bruin; fires again and drops the mother bear. The little bear, bringing up the rear, seeing the hunter ready to shoot, drops on his knees and begs to be spared. Goldilocks also pleads with the hunter not to shoot. He accedes to her wishes, approaches the little fellow, fastens a chain to his neck and under the guidance of little
Goldilocks return to the bearhouse. Goldilocks waits outside while the fearless Teddy, with his captive, enters the house. He returns and, after assuring her there is no danger within, they re-enter. In a few moments they all appear, including the hunter and the little bear. Each carries a "Teddy Bear," while Goldilocks has her arms full of "Teddy Bears." -- The Moving Picture World, March 16, 1907
