Pray for safe passage - when two brothers from the noble Albrizzi family fall in love with the same woman, they pledge war against one another to avenge her accidental death.
Two brothers fell in love with the same woman, who was nearly killed by one of them in an accident. After the two men parted in anger, they meet years later when one is a famous pirate and the other one is a soldier who needs to hunt him down...
The Albrizzi, a Milanese noble family, has two very successful sons, both of whom are inseparable and take care of law and order. Ferrante is blond and courageous, and feared for his brilliant swordsmanship, while his brother Ippolito masters every challenge with a combination of shrewdness and intelligence. Both fall in love with Livia, however, the daughter of an enemy family nearby, without knowing it, and a tragic accident occurs when Livia is killed by Ippolito's gun. The two brothers rush towards her prostrate body in horror, and both realize at that moment that they were in love with the same woman. Ferrante cannot forgive Ippolito, even though he fired the shot accidentally. They part company in anger. Years pass, and the two boys grow up into self-confident men. Ferrante, unable to get over Livia's death, has an endless series of adventures and is now a feared pirate, sailing the seven seas together with the notorious buccaneer Devil's Tail. Ippolito also risks his life every day as a spy in the service of the French. One day, fate brings the two brothers together again: Ippolito has been ordered by the French government to track down the most intelligent and feared of the pirates and bring them to justice, and is quite unaware that on of them is his own brother. After a dramatic chase across land and sea the two men finally come face to face. At that moment, however, they realize that their love for each other is stronger than Ferrante's pain and grief at Livia's death, and Ferrante ends up forgiving Ippolito. After so many years of separation, and with two wonderful women at their sides now, Isabella and Malina, the two brothers are happily reunited at last.

