Circumstances have made Shaka a career criminal. When plague empties a town of its inhabitants, he takes the opportunity to burgle a house. He finds nothing except Shanti, a widowed daughter-in-law who has been left to die by her cruel relatives. Shaka nurses her back to health. When her relatives return they are not pleased to find her alive and even less pleased to discover that someone has tried to rob them. Shanti gets the blame and a beating. Shaka saves her from worse, at the hands of brother-in-law, and the pair flee. They set up home in Shaka's house, much to the displeasure of the respectable neighbours who are all too ready to think the worst. Shanti's relatives are dismayed when a lawyer arrives to announce that Shanti has been left a legacy. They hatch a plot to get her back. Meanwhile, Shaka's rehabilitation is proceeding - much to the chagrin of his former criminal associates. Fire and redemption for some, death and handcuffs for others is what fate has in store.
Widowed Shanti lives with her wealthy but parsimonious father-in-law, Jeevan Ram; her mother-in-law, who is cruel and beats her black and blue; and an unmarried brother-in-law, Kalicharan, who would like to have a sexual relationship with her. When the town is over-run with plague, the family takes all their wealth, and leaves an ailing Shanti at the mercy of the disease. Unable to move or take care of herself, Shanti knows now that her end is near. Then a thief, Shaaka alias Shakti Singh, breaks into the house, looking for jewelery and cash. When he searches the house from top to bottom and is unable to find anything of value, he hears Shanti coughing, and goes up to her room, hears about her plight, brings the local doctor, Alopinath, ensures that she takes her medication, and when she is able to walk, takes her with him to his house. It is then Shanti finds out that despite his civility, he is feared and hated by the local townspeople - and it is then she realizes that she may have jumped from the proverbial frying pan into the fire as Shaaka is not likely to let go of her anytime soon. Watch what happens when Jeevan Ram and his family find out that Shanti has inherited some wealth from a distant relative, and the manner they attempt to woo Shanti back to their household.

