When a woman's long-time friend reveals he's engaged, she realizes she loves him herself and sets out to get him, with only days before the wedding.
A woman who, by a promise made years earlier, is supposed to marry her best friend in three weeks, even though she doesn't want to. When she finds out that he's marrying someone else, she becomes jealous and tries to break off the wedding.
Michael O'Neal and Julianne Potter have been friends for years but when Michael rings Julianne to tell her he is getting married to a lady called Kimberly Wallace she finally realizes he has to tell him her true feelings, which are that she loves him. When she gets there she can't do it so she tries to do everything to get them to break up.
When Julianne's best friend tells her that he met a woman and they are getting married in four days, she finds out that she loves him and wants him for herself. So, she sets out to break off the wedding, but things prove to be really difficult, since the bride seems to be "the perfect woman".
It's a story of love revealed when Julianne realizes that she is in love...with a man who is going to be married to someone else. The only thought in her head is that she has to break up Michael and Kimmy. George, her boss, comes to the rescue, but helps her open her eyes to see what she needs to do.
Julianne Potter (Julia Roberts) is a successful and independent food critic. Her closest friend is George (Rupert Everett), who happens to be gay. Over dinner with George, she reminisces about another relationship in her past: her brief romance and long-term friendship with Michael ONeal (Dermot Mulroney), a freelance sports writer. Jules and Michael were such good friends, they made a half-serious promise to each other that if neither found a mate before they turned 28, they would marry each other. Soon afterward, Jules receives a call from Michael, who tells her he has met that special someone -- Kim Wallace (Cameron Diaz), the daughter of a billionaire baseball team owner. Michael is madly in love with Kim, but asks his "best friend" to visit him in Chicago to lend him support. Jules is shocked to hear this news, and suddenly becomes desperate to win Michael for herself. She travels to Chicago, meets Kim, and realizes that this girl really is perfect, not just to Michael. Nevertheless, she embarks on a campaign to turn Michael and Kim against each other. George joins her, and attempts to help her face the truth about what will make her feel good for the immediate moment and in the long term. As the wedding date approaches, Jules becomes more desperate, but her attempts fail. However, just before the wedding, Michael gets a message that throws his relationship with Kim seriously into doubt...and gives Jules her chance to share her true feelings with Michael. This romantic farce features the music of Burt Bacharach.
