A group of teenagers get into a car crash in the Texas woods on prom night, and then wander into an old farmhouse that is home to Leatherface and his insane family of cannibalistic psychopaths.
This is the twisted tale of Vilmer and his crazy family which includes the lovely Leatherface. They have pastime of killing and stuffing people. Unfortunately, Jenny and her friends run into Vilmer and his clan in the middle of the night in the middle of the woods.
A group of prom-going teens take a fatal detour into the Texas woods and get into an accidental car crash. Stranded with no place to go, they seek help in Darla, a seemingly innocent insurance agent whose office is located near by. After Darla calls for help, they set out back to the scene of the crash, and are found and terrorized by Leatherface, his crazy brother, Vilmer, and are taken to an old farmhouse where they meet the rest of the cannibalistic clan.
In this installment, we hear that since 1991 (when the third Texas Chainsaw Massacre took place), the massacres have stopped and for five years Texas has remained silent. This installment takes place in 1996 and starts off with a group of teens at their high school prom. This includes Jenny, who lives with an abusive step-father, her friends and all of their dates.When one of Jenny's friends, Heather, notices her boyfriend Barry is missing, she finds him outside the school cheating on her with another girl. Extremely angry, Heather starts driving away in Barry's car, while Jenny, and her boyfriend Sean, and Barry running after them. Heather finally stops and lets Barry in so she could confront him about the cheating. Driving angrily, Jenny collides with another car on a remote wooded road. The other driver passes out after saying he's not hurt.Heather, Barry and Jenny decide to look for help while Sean stays at the scene of the crash. The trio finds an insurance office and ask Darla, the agent working there, for help. She calls up her husband Vilmar Sawyer to get in his pickup truck and head out to the scene the crash. At the crash site, Vilmar examines the passed out teen with Sean's help, but suddenly breaks the kid's neck and chases Sean down with his pickup.Meanwhile, Heather and Barry head off, leaving Jenny alone. They find a house that ends up belonging to the cannibal family. They're confronted by Leatherface and his brother W.E. Sawyer. W.E. threatens Barry with a shotgun while Heather is put up on a meathook by Leatherface. Barry asks W.E. to put the gun down just so that he can use the bathroom. W.E. gives him permission and Barry goes inside to use the bathroom. He discovers a skeleton in the bathtub as well as the remains of previous victims in the room. He is suddenly hit over the head with a sledgehammer by Leatherface.Jenny, now on her own, is attacked by Vilmar in his pickup truck. He loses her, but knows she'll run into Leatherface. Jenny ends up running into and from Leatherface and decides to take shelter in the house. When she runs upstairs to escape from Leatherface, who is cutting the front door down to get in, she finds a stuffed body of a Texas Ranger. Jenny grabs his gun and fires it at Leatherface, scaring him. She jumps out onto the roof but he follows her. Jenny falls off as Leatherface chases her.Leatherface jumps down after her and she is chased into the woods. Jenny runs back to the insurance office only to have Darla subdue her. Darla stuffs Jenny into the truck of her car, and after driving by a local pizzaria where she orders some pizzas for the family's dinner, she eventually drives back to the cannibal house where she tells Jenny the reason why the family kills people!For the last few thousand years this "family" of extraterrestrials has been on Earth just to be able to kill. They are in business with governments all over the world as a secret agency who kills people across the globe.Jenny then gets knocked out by Vilmar as she tries to escape. She wakes up at the dinner table sitting among the corpses of the whole cannibal family shown in first three movies. Darla tells Jenny that she can't help, since she was subdued by Vilmar and had an explosive device in her head that will go off if she does anything to help her. It is not sure if Darla is telling the truth or if she is just crazy like the rest of the Sawyer family.Darla also tells Jenny about a bureaucrat, named Rothman, who is a powerful politician and businessman whom visits from time to time. Rothman shows up at the house soon afterward, as he occasionally checks up on this and other families around the world.Rothman is furious when he sees Jenny is still alive. He tortures Vilmar using a remote control that activates a device in his leg, giving Jenny a chance to escape in which she kills W.E. who attemps to stop her. After Vilmar regains consciousness, he and Leatherface chase after her.On the road, Vilmar and the transvestite Leatherface catch up to her in which Jenny manages to knock down Vilmar, but is saved when a passing limosine stops for her and Jenny gets inside. It is Rothman whom is her savior. Rothman tells Jenny that Vilmar had really messed up by letting Jenny go, so he decided to rescue Jenny and calls someone over his car phone claiming that it is an assassin to kill Vilmar. Jenny gets angrier as Rothman tells her that he help get her to a nearby hospital and that this was a "spiritual experience". He also claims he will shut down the cannibals killing business world-wide.Once at a hospital, Jenny consults with a cop who tells her that the police will investigate her claims. He also says that they'll figure it all out eventually, since it obviously isn't over. The movie ends with scenes of Leatherface swinging his chainsaw around on the road, angry at the death of Vilmar.
