An unhappy businessman finds a new sense of purpose after he's tasked with helping a quartet of ghosts fulfill their last wishes before moving on to the afterlife.
In 1959, in San Francisco, the telephone operator Penny Washington leaves her three children to work in her night shift. The shy singer Harrison Winslow is afraid of the stage and quits his audition. The waitress Julia is proposed by her boyfriend and she does not accept; then she regrets and leaves her job to seek him out. The smalltime thief Milo Peck tries to retrieve a collection of stamps that he had stolen from a boy. They embark in a bus and the driver Hal distracts while driving and has a serious accident, and driver and passengers die. Meanwhile, Frank Reilly is driving his pregnant wife Eva Reilly to the hospital. Frank successfully escapes from the bus but Eva is nervous and delivers her baby in the car. The souls of the four passengers become the guardian angels and the invisible friends of the boy Thomas Reilly. Seven years later, Penny, Julia, Harrison and Milo conclude that they are harming the boy and they decide to become invisible also to him. Thirty and something years later, Hal returns with his bus to take them four and the quartet learns that they had all those years to resolve the issues of their lives. They ask Hal to stall and give some more time for them to resolve their unfinished lives and they decide to come back to Thomas, who is now a tough businessman and indecisive in his relationship with girlfriend Anne, and ask him to help them to resolve their issues and become free souls. In the end, Thomas also becomes a better man.
In 1959, four people, Milo, Harrison, Penny and Julia get on a bus. The bus driver got distracted and smashed the bus. Everyone on the bus dies. They're now spirits, the driver goes up, Milo, Harrison, Penny and Julia remain on Earth. At the same time, the Reillys, a couple who were on their way to the hospital because the wife is about to give birth. Gives birth right there to a boy. The four of them find themselves attached to their son, Thomas who for some reason can see them. When Thomas is seven and people think he is acting weird because of their presence, they decide to disappear. 25 years later, Thomas grows up and is slightly jaded businessman who has a girlfriend, Anne. One day a bus appears, driven by the driver who caused the accident that led to their death. He says he's come to bring them up. They're irate at him for what he did. But he says that they were given the chance to resolve their lives, which is why they were attached to Thomas because they need him to do what they can't. But they are not aware of this, so the driver thinks he can buy them some time so they can do their stuff. So first they have to make themselves visible to Thomas, which they do. But he stills feels bad that they "deserted" him. Eventually he agrees to do it. So he has to steal some stamps Milo stole from a boy for a crook, he then has to get Harrison to perform on stage because he has great stage fright, and he has to find out what happened to Penny's children but because it was during the 50s, all the records are sealed and to tell Julia's boyfriend whom she kept pushing away that she's sorry. But at the same time all of this actions threatens his relationship with Anne.
1959 San Francisco. Four unrelated and disparate people - Harrison, Julia, Milo and Penny - are the sole passengers on a late night city bus, they who, along with Hal the bus driver, are killed immediately when the bus crashes in a traffic incident. Instead of being sent to heaven, their four souls end up inextricably attached to that of Thomas Reilly, born in another vehicle involved in the traffic incident at the moment of their deaths. Their four souls, their human form which are visible to Thomas and Thomas only, end up being Thomas' guardians, who arguably have more of an affect on his life than any human. But when their presence in Thomas' life, which manifests itself to the living world as Thomas' imaginary friends, begins to cause socialization problems for him when he is seven years old, they decide it may be best for them to become invisible to him, basically disappearing without a trace, albeit being with him in spirit unknown to him. A distraught Thomas ends up feeling abandoned by the four "people" who were his best friends. Fast forward to present day, thirty-three years after the accident. The four just learn, what they were supposed to have been told years earlier, that their purpose for being with Thomas was to tie up loose ends in their respective human lives before they are sent to heaven, and their souls transferred into the body of another creature to be born, their souls which are now required. Thomas was suppose to help them in their tasks. They were also previously unaware that they could take over Thomas' body in the process. Harrison's loose end is singing in public, he who wanted to become a professional singer, but whose stage fright always got the better of him. Julia's is telling her boyfriend John that she loved him, she who kept pushing him away in her own insecurities. Milo's is to return some stolen materials - his last job in a career as a thief - before he went straight. And Penny's is to ensure that her three children ended up being safe and together, which was not a certainty as she was a single mother without any other family. They have to reenter Thomas' life and get him to help them, which may not be easy due to his feeling of abandonment by them at a formative point in his life. That abandonment has manifested itself in Thomas having commitment issues, such as with his longtime girlfriend Anne, since he doesn't ever want to feel like he did when he was seven. And even if they can get Thomas to help them, they don't know how much time they have before they are required in heaven, and thus whether their missions can be accomplished, especially as Thomas has his own human life to lead, which not only includes trying to keep Anne in his life without making that commitment, but also his banking job where he is tasked more often than not in business foreclosures. But one will learn that their mission may not be quite be quite what it appears on the surface.
Harrison, Penny, Julia, and Milo all have unfinished business in this life. Unfortunately they find themselves all aboard a city bus that takes a tumble causing their four early deaths. At the same time, Thomas is born and the spirits of the unfortunate four are delightfully intertangled with Thomas' consiousness. When the four discover that they are to use Thomas to finish their business here on earth, they learn of what was important to each one of them and Thomas learns a lesson too.
In 1959, Milo, Penny, Julia, and Harrison board a bus that later crashes, and all of them die but do not go to heaven right away. A baby is born in town at the same moment the bus crashes. The four dead passengers are tied to the baby, who would be named Thomas. For some reason Thomas can see them, and Thomas grows fond of them but when people think that Thomas might have something wrong with him, they decide not to let Thomas see them, which devastates him. Thirty years later Thomas is all grown and a little jaded when it comes to letting people into his life, and the four of them are still with him even though he can't see them. One day they simultaneously appear to him, and stay by his side until each one completes the final task of their personal lives.

