An ugly duckling having undergone a remarkable change, still harbors feelings for her crush: a carefree playboy, but not before his business-focused brother has something to say about it.
While she was growing up, Sabrina Fairchild spent more time perched in a tree watching the Larrabee family than she ever did on solid ground. As the chauffeur's daughter on their lavish Long Island estate, Sabrina was invisible behind the branches, but she knew them all below... There is Maude Larrabee, the modern matriarch of the Larrabee Corporation; Linus Larrabee, the serious older son who expanded a successful family business into the world's largest communications company; and David, the handsome, fun-loving Larrabee, who was the center of Sabrina's world until she was shipped off to Paris. After two years on the staff of Vogue magazine, Sabrina has returned to the Larrabee estate but now she has blossomed into a beautiful and sophisticated woman. And she's standing in the way of a billion dollar deal.
The Larrabees are a wealthy family, living in a palatial estate on Long Island. Oldest brother Linus (played by Harrison Ford) is the formal, dour businessman, running the family company. David (Greg Kinnear) is a playboy. Among the staff living on the estate is the family chauffeur, Fairchild (John Wood), and his shy, awkward, plain daughter, Sabrina (Julia Ormond). Sabrina has had a crush on David for most of her life but he has hardly noticed her. Sabrina goes to study in Paris and comes back, two years later, a changed woman. She's sophisticated and beautiful and soon catches David's eye. However, David is engaged to Elizabeth Tyson (Lauren Holly), the daughter of a business mogul whose company Linus wants to merge with that of the Larrabees. If Sabrina wrecks the David-Elizabeth relationship it would likely spell the end of the business merger. Linus sets out to prevent Sabrina from getting in the way but in the process falls for her himself.
Sabrina Fairchild is the daughter of the Larrabee family chauffeur. The Larrabees are a wealthy and prominent Long Island family. Maude is the mother, Linus is the elder brother (who took charge of the company after his father died and has devoted his entire life to the company), and David is the younger brother, who has not worked a day in his life and who has had numerous girlfriends. Sabrina is nonetheless enamored with him. But David just thinks of her as the frumpy daughter of the chauffeur. Maude arranges for her to go Paris and work in Vogue. Sabrina's fascination with David grows. David, in the meantime, meets Elizabeth Tyson and tells Linus and Maude that she could be the one. What he doesn't know at first is that Linus wants to go into business with her parents so he encourages the relationship. But when David finds out, he is furious. Linus then tells him that it's about time that he contributes something and that this deal with Tysons is worth a billion dollars. David somehow proposes to her and she accepts. It's not long after that, that Sabrina returns. And David doesn't recognize her at first because she's now a little different. David is also entranced by her. Linus and Maude are concerned that the deal is in jeopardy, if Elizabeth or her parents find out about his pursuit of Sabrina. David injures himself, so Linus tries to distract Sabrina from him. Now Linus finds himself feeling things he hasn't felt in years.
Sabrina Fairchild (Julia Ormond), is the Larrabee chauffeur's daughter. Maude Larrabee (Nancy Marchand) inherited the business, her son Linus (Harrison Ford) runs the business, and her other son David (Greg Kinnear) is the family playboy. Sabrina spends her time watching David from afar, but he doesn't know who she is.On the eve of her departure to Paris, Sabrina confesses her love, but to Linus by mistake. She goes to Paris to work at Vogue Magazine, and falls in love with the photographer, Louis (Patrick Bruel). She begins to mature and understand fashion as well as photography. In the meantime, David falls in love with Elizabeth Tyson (Lauren Holly), who is the daughter of Patrick Tyson (Richard Crenna). Linus sees this as a potential merger with Tyson Electronics.When Sabrina hears of the pending nuptials, she realizes she is still in love with David. She returns home, more glamorous, and sees David. He is surprised and doesn't recognize her and invites her to a party. David becomes smitten with her, much to the chagrin of his family.On the way to meet with Sabrina, David gets hurt, and Linus goes in his stead. They dance and talk, and Linus hatches a plan to get her away from David. Linus takes Sabrina to Martha's Vineyard, under the pretense of photographing a summer cottage that the Larrebee's own. They talk more, and Linus realizes she's bright and interesting. He begins to court her, and she is stuck between David and Linus.Linus decides to take Sabrina to Paris to allow David to marry Elizabeth. Maude realizes he is planning to dump her after the merger, and Linus meets Sabrina. He feels guilty and confesses his plan. She decides to go to Paris, alone. Sabrina tells David, and he confronts Linus. Linus tells David he's willing to sacrifice the merger, and gives David a ticket for Paris.The next day, David interrupts a meeting and tells Linus that he's staying with Elizabeth, and that Linus should go to Paris. Linus takes the Concorde and gets there before Sabrina. He tells her he loves her, and they embrace.The end.
