During a heat wave, a fireman hero/Charlie Sheen has it in for the family next door and whoever else bothers him.
A decorated firefighter has his wife and son leave him because of his violent tendencies, including playing a game of Russian Roulette with his wife. Only trouble is he believes that the loving neighbor couple and their two children are to blame for them leaving by filling his wife's head with nonsense. He then sets out to discipline the family for their failings. But when the couple reports him to the police, the police will not believe the couple because of the fireman's status in the community. Things escalate until he kills a repairman, then the police and finally launches a totally terroristic attack on the family including again playing Russian Roulette with them.
Decorated Los Angeles firefighter Lyle Wilder once saved a baby's life in a crack-house fire, but without anyone knowing it, Lyle left the baby's mother to die in the fire because Lyle thought that any mother who takes a baby into a crack-house is an unfit mother. Lyle is violent, and his wife Marge and son Kenny don't like it. Marge and Kenny leave Lyle because of the violent tendencies, which included pulling a gun on Marge, who has filed a restraining order against Lyle, and Marge and Kenny leaving has caused Lyle to slip over the edge. Lyle believes that the neighboring family Reese Braverton, his wife Catherine, and the Bravertons' two kids Zach and Chelsea are to blame for Marge and Kenny leaving, so Lyle starts terrorizing the Bravertons. When the Bravertons report Lyle to the police, officers Al Calavito and Sandy Tierra respond, and because of Lyle's status as the firefighter hero who saved a baby from a fire, Calavito and Tierra refuse to believe the Bravertons. Things get deadly when Lyle kills a repairman named Ron, then Lyle kills Calavito and Tierra, and finally launches a terrifying attack on the Bravertons in their home, and Catherine and Reese will stop at nothing to protect Zach and Chelsea from Lyle.

