Gonzo is contacted by his alien family through his breakfast cereal. But when the men in black kidnap him, it's up to Kermit and the gang to rescue Gonzo and help him reunite with his long-lost family.
After Gonzo receives messages from his breakfast cereal, he determines that he is an alien and tries to contact his alien brethren, but is captured by an overzealous secret government agency determined to prove the existence of extraterrestrial life. It's up to Kermit and the gang to rescue Gonzo and help reunite him with his long-lost family.
When adopted Gonzo and his rat pal Rizzo embarks on a quest to find Gonzo's real family, Gonzo discovers that his long-lost relatives are actually aliens from a distant planet. After announcing to the world on Miss Piggy's talk show, "UFO Mania," that he plans to find his family and prove once and for all that life on other planets exists, he becomes the target of the evil paranoid government operative K. Edgar Singer. After a daring escape from the Singer compound, Gonzo tracks down his mother's ship and faces the most difficult question of his life: does he climb aboard and joined the family he has always wanted or does he stay on Earth with the family and friends that he has always known and loved?
After several lonely years of being an outcast, the Great Gonzo is mysteriously contacted through his breakfast cereal. He soon finds out that he is an alien. After announcing his true heritage on Miss Piggy's talk show UFO Mania, Gonzo is kidnapped by agents of a secret government organization run by the evil K. Edgar Singer, who seeks to study alien lifeforms. Now it's up to Kermit, Fozzie, Miss Piggy and the gang to rescue Gonzo and help him get to the rendezvous point to meeting up with his alien bretheren before being vaporized by Singer and his men.
After years of feeling alone, Gonzo is contacted by his alien family through his breakfast cereal. Gonzo's soon-persistent belief of his extraterrestrial origins leads his muppet pals to dismiss him as crazy...and draws the attention of an evil government agent who kidnaps Gonzo. Will Kermit and the gang rescue their friend? Will Gonzo finally meet his alien family?

