When a congressman's daughter under Secret Service protection is kidnapped from a private school, detective Alex Cross investigates the case even though he's recovering from the loss of his partner.
Detective/psychologist Alex Cross loses his partner in an out of control 'bust.' He stops working and cannot forgive himself. He is drawn back to work reluctantly when a senator's daughter is kidnapped and the kidnapper seems to want to deal with Alex personally.
The daughter of a senator has been kidnapped. The kidnapper then calls police detective and forensic psychologist, Alex Cross. Cross then goes and tries to help them find the girl. He is aided by the secret service agent who was assigned to protect the girl. But there's a lot more going on.
A girl is kidnapped from a school by one of the teachers. She turns out to be the daughter of a senator, and the kidnapper soon makes a call to a police officer whose partner died eight months ago, involving him in the kidnapping. One of the secret service people that failed to protect the girl at the school decides to help him. But not everything is what is seems, and many surprising twists follows as the two attempt to catch the spider.
A teacher at a school for children of politicians kidnaps a senator's daughter after 2 years. He is revealed to be a criminal wearing a mask of the teacher and contacts a criminal psychologist to play cat and mouse. Cross believes he is being involved to ensure the kidnapper will attain fame. Confirmed by copycat of the Lindenburgh kidnapping and books about the case found in his hideout. However it is a deception using an unsuspecting accomplice and hides another plot the profiler is blind to.
The daughter of a United States Senator is kidnapped from her private school under the nose of her Secret Service agent Jezzie [Monica Potter]. The kidnapper is a teacher who uses the girl's habit for "passing" encrypted notes to her friend, the son of the Russian President, as a pretext for getting her away from other students to repremand her. He drugs her and flees the campus with her in tow.The kidnapper, Mr. Soneji, contacts the famous profiler Alex Cross [Morgan Freeman] to initiate the chase he has so dramatically laid out in his mind, The Secret Service agent, Jezzie Flannigan, who let the kidnappers get away with her charge, Megan Rose, pleads with Cross [Freeman] to let her help retrieve the girl so she can redeem herself. They both follow the clues that allude to the famous Lindbergh kidnapping case. They realize that the kidnapped Megan is being used to lure the real intended target away from his tight security; the son of the Russian president.Meanwhile Megan is being held on a boat and taking an active role in her own rescue, trying to escape and cleverly creating havoc; she takes the battery pack out of the intercom, asks to go to the bathroom, dropping the battery pack onto the stove next to the open flame under the teapot. It explodes, &amp; while Soneji battles the blaze she runs out &amp; jumps overboard. She catches the attention of a fisherman on shore; just as he is about to reach Megan, Soneji shoots him. He hauls Megan back on board...Soneji 1, Megan 0.After Alex &amp; Jezzie are rejected when trying to warn the Russians, they decide to stake out the place anyway &amp; Soneji makes his move against Demetri by tricking him into thinking he's corresponding w/ Megan. Demetri evades his security &amp; goes to a phone booth. Meanwhile, Soneji has killed the 2 patrolmen &amp; commandeered their car. He exits the car, moving toward the phone booth, but Alex &amp; Jezzie see him. Gunfight ensues, Demetri is saved, but Soneji gets away. He returns to the boat to find that Megan is gone.Our erstwhile heroes get a phone call, saying the plan has changed &amp; he wants $10mil in diamonds. There follows a lot of rigamarole w/ Cross carrying around a load of diamonds, following instructions from the voice on the phone. Unaware that Soneji no longer has the girl, Cross is running all over Washington DC, answering phones and running through train stations with the diamonds in a thermos for the complicated "drop", only his new partner on his tail for backup. Defeated, after having handed over the diamonds and getting no girl, the duo returns to Jezzie's apartment to discuss the case when there is a knock on the door. It's Mr Soneji with a Tazer in the Hall! He zaps Jezzie and she falls to the floor. He draws a gun on Alex who must give up his own gun or never find out where Megan Rose is. After a discussion of his miserable childhood &amp; why he is the way he is, Soneji says he's taking Jezzie w/ him, but she wakes up and stabs him in the leg, allowing Cross time to load a shotgun and put an end to him. Jezzie sobs that they will never find Megan now. But Cross reveals to Agent McArthur (Dylan Baker) that Soneji had failed to react to a comment made by Cross about the $12mil ransom, from which he has concluded, since the ransom was $10mil, that Soneji had no idea what he was talking about, Megan is no longer with him &amp; there are other kidnappers in play.Cross &amp; Agent McArthur go over the school tapes, &amp; Cross deduces that Soneji was hoodwinked by the new kidnappers. Meanwhile, we see Megan in her new kidnapper's abode. A faintly familiar face appears in a dimly lit room and is offering food to Megan. It's another Secret Service agent from her school and LO &amp; BEHOLD! it's Agent Devine! He leaves her in her barn location, returning to the main house. &amp; HOLY BETRAYAL! JEZZIE! They had followed Soneji around for a year &amp; divined his plans. She demands to know where Megan is and is annoyed to learn she is still alive. She asks to see the diamonds and explains that Soneji is dead and Cross had twigged on the notion that he was not the sole plotter in the kidnapping. Divine asks if she thinks Cross is onto them. Jezzie says they are not onto the two of them, and blows a hole in her boyfriend's head commenting that Cross is onto HIM.Meanwhile Alex has timed the surveillance tapes from the day of the school kidnapping and puts it together that Agent Divine was essentially an accomplice. He runs to Jezzie's apartment and finds files on her computer that only the plotter would have! Things start to happen fast. Jezzie goes to the barn to get Megan, who initially is glad she's there but soon gets suspicious that there's no one else w/ her...smart girl! A nasty 1-sided gunfight ensues, with Jezzie chasing Megan all over the barn &amp; Megan cleverly evading her. Alex catches Megan &amp; keeps her from yelling while Jezzie slowly enters the trap. Alex comes up behind her, telling her to drop the gun. She doesn't, playing on Alex's guilt over his partner's death, thinking he won't shoot her...big mistake, as she raises her gun, &amp; he does. Alex &amp; Megan walk out of the barn together, his promise to return her to her parents puts smiles on all around.
