A borderline fascistic Dr. Van Helsing unwittingly hires crack smoking gang-bangers to pursue the decadent vampires who secretly control Hollywood and the United States.
Count Dracula is in L.A., running a hideous club scene, and he's angry that a rogue vampire, posing as a streetwalker, is slashing. He's also unhappy that Dallas, a youthful undead and former protégé, is in town. The rogue slasher, Nico, serendipitously picks Dallas as a victim; after discovering each other's nature, they become lovers. In fear of the Count, Dallas's coterie urges him to kill Nico, but he refuses. Meanwhile, a Viennese vampire hunter, Van Helsing, arrives in L.A. and hires the Crips to help him. They're soon following Nico and Dallas. When they capture her, Dallas wants to deal: spare Nico and he'll lead the hunters to Dracula. It's time for stake and bake.
Dallas [Casper Van Dien] is not a very discriminating vampire. Years ago, he turned the
crippled son of famed Viennese vampire hunter, Doctor Frederick Van
Helsing. Twenty years ago, without permission from Count Dracula, he
turned young and waifish Nico, who has since morphed into a rogue L.A.
streetwalker dubbed "The Hollywood Stalker". Even with both Van Helsing
and Dracula on his tail and after 20 years in exile, Dallas can't resist
returning to L.A. to pay a visit to his dearest old friends -- beautiful
Ulrike [Kim Cattrall], urbane Vincent [Udo Kier], artist Richard [Craig Ferguson],
and Richard's ever-pregnant wife Panthia [Natasha Andreichenk]. To celebrate
Dallas's return, the five of them decide to spend
the night clubbing in one of Dracula's many vampire bars. Unfortunately,
Dracula [Robert Pastorelli] is also there. When he sees Dallas is back in town, he gives him
three days to scram or else.Dr Van Helsing [Rod Steiger], leader of Van Helsing's Institute of Vienna, also has
his eye on the band of merrymaking vampires. "It's an infestation," he
concludes and realizes that he can't handle the extermination alone, so he
puts an ad in the newspaper looking for a "strong and brave young man
who's not afraid to get his hands dirty in a cause that is holy." What he
gets is Crip brother Time Bomb [Gabriel Casseus], who doesn't believe in vampires but is
willing to put a stake through anyone's heart for $1,000 a week and a
bonus of another $1,000 for every vampire killed. First vampire to go is
Vincent.Dallas is feeling protective (and a little curious) about his
protegee Nico [Natasha Gregson Wagner], so he drives around Hollywood Blvd that night until he
spots her. After sharing a bit of each other's blood, Dallas explains that
the vampire community is out to get her. They're afraid that Nico will get
herself arrested and then the whole world will know that vampires exist.
Dallas forces her to move from the junked oil tanker in which she sleeps
and to come live with Richard and Panthia who clean her up and take her
shopping for some new clothes.
When they stop for a bite at the Insomnia Cafe, Nico makes a human
friend. But, when they return to Richard and Panthia's house, they find
Ulrike sitting on her car hood, crying. She has discovered Vincent's body.
Knowing that Van Helsing is closing in on them, Dallas takes Nico to see
her mother. Not a good idea, he finds out when Nico has him kill her
stepfather (payback for all that "sex sh*t" he did to her when she was
little) and exchanges heated words with her mother ("You never loved
me!"). As they leave the trailor court, they are attacked by four of
Dracula's henchmen. Dallas and Nico manage to shoot up three of them and
set fire to the fourth.The next night, while Richard, Panthia, and Ulrike are sitting around
the living room and listening to music, Nico gets a call from her new
friend Rachel [ Natasha Lyonne]. Rachel invites her out to party (i.e., sniff spraypaint),
and Nico is eager to go. Meanwhile, Dallas pays a visit to Dracula and
begs to be allowed to train Nico. Dracula will have none of it and advises
Dallas to deliver Nico to him or he and everyone he cares about will die
screaming.Having come to the conclusion that even two vampire hunters may not
be enough against the vampire infestation, Van Helsing and Time Bomb have
brought in three more Crip brothers -- Soda Pop [ Victor Togunde], L'il Monster Cedrick Terrell], and
Trigger [Flex Alexander]. While Nico and Dallas are off doing their things, Van Helsing and
his four employees storm the house and drive stakes through Richard and
Panthia. They tie Ulrike to a bedpost, but she taunts the Crips into
having sex with her before Van Helsing stakes her, too. Little do they
know that to have sex with a vampire turns a person into a vampire.
Suddenly, Nico walks in and is horrified at the carnage. She attacks
Trigger, who pulls a gun and tries to get off a shot. The bullet hits
Rachel instead. Nico grabs the gun and shoots Trigger. Time Bomb subdues
Nico with a rope of garlic, just as Dallas returns home and comes face to
face with Van Helsing. In exchange for letting Nico go, Dallas offers to
lead Van Helsing to Dracula, so the whole bunch of them -- Van Helsing,
Time Bomb, L'il Monster, Dallas, Nico, Rachel and Trigger -- pile into Van
Helsing's van and head for Dracula's house. Unfortunately, Dracula's
henchmen intercept them and take Nico and Van Helsing to Dracula, where he
hooks up Nico to a blood-draining machine and places Van Helsing in a box
with only his head sticking out.
Just as Dracula is about to crack open Van Helsing's skull, Dallas
drives the van through the wall of the club. Dallas and the four Crips,
now vampires, come out shooting. Many bullets and stakes later, Dracula
and his henchmen are destroyed, Nico is set free, Rachel has been made
into a vampire, and Nico, Rachel, and Dallas have decided to move to New
York. In the closing scene, a pajama-clad Van Helsing runs down an alley,
screaming for forgiveness from his son. As he utters a big scream for
help, vampire fangs can be seen. [Original Synopsis by bj_kuehl.]
