Nicole and Chase used to be BFFs, then junior high happened. The high school centennial dance is coming but Nicole gets dumped. So does Chase. They stage a relationship to get at their exes. They visit each other's worlds. Love in the air?
Nicole (Melissa Joan Hart) and Chase (Adrian Grenier) are neighbors but are from two very different worlds. Despite their differences their love lives have a common theme. Their most recent plans for love have fallen through putting them both in a desperate state to fix them. Both Nicole and Chase conspire to pretend to find a romantic interest in each other, with the hopes of attracting the "ones who got away" from them. Leading up to the big school dance, Chase and Nicole find that their scam worked out better than they had planned.
Nicole Maris is a popular high school preppy senior in Utah who gets her life turned upside down when her perfect date, Brad, falls for a cute cheerleader from another school a month before the school's centennial senior prom. After recovering from the shock, Nicole comes up with a solution to save her reputation: find a guy to appear like they're going steady and to take her to the dance hoping to make Brad jealous. Nicole then hooks up with her next door neighbor, prankster and trouble maker Chase Hammond, and tries to model him in her own image while he's looking to make his long-term girlfriend Dulcie jealous too. However, both Nicole and Chase don't expect their charade to lead it where they never expected it to.
Nicole is popular and stylish and has her sights set on one thing, the gala centennial celebration theme for the prom. She has always been into doing good for the planet. Her second sights are on a date to escort her. But when her dream date invites another girl, Nicole must act fast to find a substitute. She decides to go low and asks her grungy next door neighbor to take her there. But first, he needs a little work done to himself. She gives him a fashion make over to show his true handsome self.

