A mystical martial artist/environmental Agent takes on a ruthless oil corporation.
Forrest Taft (Steven Seagal) is an environmental Agent who works for the Aegis Oil Company in Alaska. Aegis Oil's corrupt C.E.O., Michael Jennings (Sir Michael Caine), is the kind of person who doesn't care whether or not oil spills into the ocean or onto the land, just as long as it's making money for him. He even makes commercials that make him look like he cares about the environment. Jennings is almost finished with building his new state-of-the art oil rig: AEGIS-1. The problem is that if he doesn't finish building the rig in thirteen days, the land rights will be returned to the Eskimos and the Alaskan Government. When Jennings finds out that Taft's best friend Hugh Palmer (Richard Hamilton) has a computer disk that contains information about defective equipment on AEGIS-1, he sends out his goons to murder Palmer. When Taft tries to interfere, Jennings tries to kill Taft. But an Eskimo woman named Masu (Joan Chen), who introduces Taft to her father Silook (Chief Irvin Brink), the Chief of her tribe, rescues Taft. With Masu's help, Taft begins a trek through the Alaskan wilderness, heading straight for AEGIS-1 and to destroy it before it destroys all of the forest.
In the beautiful wilderness of Alaska, a fire is raging at an Aegis Oil Rig owned by corrupt oil baron Michael Jennings (Michael Caine) CEO of Aegis Oil Co. Foreman Hugh Palmer (Richard Hamilton) barks at his men to fight the fire. A helicopter flies up and tall, buckskin wearing legend, Forrest Taft (Steven Seagal) who puts out the fire with a set of explosions which deprive the fire of the oxygen it is using. As Jennings and Taft fly off in a company helicopter, Jennings complains about what a pain in the rear the environmentalists will be now that a fire has broken out on his oil rig, and blames Hugh for the issue. Taft reassures him that, "I kind of blew up all the evidence," to which Jennings agrees and grins.That night at a bar, Hugh Palmer comes to Taft and asks him to do him a favor in going into the company's archives to check the safety reports of the oil rig to help prove Hugh's innocence. Taft, starting to believe there is something fishy going on with Jennings' work, agrees hesitantly. He then overhears a busty jerk oil worker say racist remarks to a native American in the bar before assaulting him. Taft intercedes and a fight breaks out between him and the racist and the racist's buddies. He brutally beats them all down and then beats the racist into a bloody pulp, smashing his nose before convincing him to change his ways, essentially beating some sense into him.The next day, Jennings puts on an environmental commercial being very uncomfortable about it and barking at anyone and everyone in his way. He then discusses business with his secretary Liles (Shari Shattuck) and vicious right-hand man MacGruder (John C. McGinley). It is revealed that in 13 days, the Aegis oil company will lose their contract to the ground that Jennings desperately wants to pump oil from, "Meaning millions of dollars a week." The rights will then revert back to the Eskimos if Aegis does not reach the rights in time. At the rig, Aegis 1, Taft checks the computers and sends Hugh the information he has been asking for. MacGruder observes this and Jennings sends him to find the information Hugh has been gathering. MacGruder and a fellow man go to Hugh's home where Hugh is downloading the data sent to him of the rigs' bad conditions. When Hugh refuses to give the records and pipe tally books up, they torture him by smashing each and every one of his fingers with a whale bone before castrating him with a pipe cutter. Hugh is tortured and killed, refusing to give up his information.Taft begins to question Jennings' means and asks him "How much money is enough" bringing to his attention that he knows of the rig's bad compositions and unsafe procedures that will cause much damage to the environment while making Jennings richer. Jennings does not respond and asks Taft to do one last job before answering his question. Taft is brought to an abandoned oil refinery in Alaska where he finds the dismembered corpse of Hugh shortly before the building explodes, revealing that Jennings had set it up to kill Taft. The explosion sends Taft flying into the air where he is injured from the explosion.Later, a tribe of Eskimos find him and bring him back to their village where they nurse him back to health and call him a "Bear" that will rescue Mother Earth from the evil oil barons. He is skeptical at first and even tries to escape only to be stopped by their dogs. He is confronted by them of his actions and explains that people are coming after him and that he is putting them in danger. He becomes acquainted with the Chief Silook (Chief Irvin Brink) and his beautiful daughter Masu (Joan Chen) who bring him to a river where he undergoes a spiritual journey via dream vision. He first sees a female orgy, and then kills a bear (Bart the Bear) and then is forced to choose between a beautiful naked woman and a fully clothed old woman, for which he chooses the latter (the old one). The woman tells him of how mother Nature is being hurt by the oil rigs and shows him water that is transforming into oil. He awakens from the dream, now determined to take down Aegis.MacGruder and his force storm the tribal camp, believing Taft is there but cannot find him. In a brief scuffle, MacGruder shoots and mortally wounds Silook before fleeing. Silook dies peacefully of his wounds after telling Taft that Taft is the warrior that will save them all. His spirit then ascends into a raven. Taft and Masu leave taking a snowmobile which the tribe has. They reach Hugh's trashed house and find Hugh's information which were hiding out in the open. They are attacked by MacGruder's men which Taft swiftly dispatches. He is hunted through the forest by a team of mercenaries led by Stone (R. Lee Ermey) who they outrun. Taft and Masu reach a friend's home where Taft supplies himself with his friend's arsenal of weaponry.Masu tries to convince him not to fight back with violence but he rebuffs her (negating everything he learned in his "spiritual journey") Taft realizes that the oil rigs pump toxins back into the earth, hurting nature even more. He then concludes that they must go and blow up Aegis 1 in order to prevent another ecological disaster (Sure, it would.) That night Taft, with Masu following behind for no reasons, breaks into Aegis rig and kills many oil workers. He sets the preventers to implode to "prevent an oil spill" and sets up C-4. MacGruder attempts to escape with Liles on a helicopter but Taft stops him and disables the chopper. MacGruder tries to plea bargain but Taft flings him into the rotor headfirst, decapitating him. Liles attempts to drive off but smashes into a oil pipe and explodes.Taft blows apart Stone with a shotgun and then confronts Jennings who is trying to keep the rig running. He berates Jennings before tying him upside down over the oil tank. Jennings taunts him to shoot him but Taft instead shoots the cord binding him, dropping Jennings down into the oil, leaving him to drown. Taft and Masu escape as the rig explodes.The film ends with Taft giving a speech about how evil oil companies are and how in pain the world is by how humans prioritize money over the environment, despite having no proof to back up his claims. He is then blessed by a medicine man who says, "The earth is our grandmother."In a mid-credits scene, Taft and Masu canoe out to a middle of a lake. Masu smiles at Taft, who looks up and sees the proud spirit of Silook flying overhead in the form of a raven.
