When jobless Tommy Collins discovers that sequestered jurors earn free room and board as well as $5-a-day, he gets himself assigned to a jury in a murder trial. Once there, he does everything he can to prolong the trial and deliberations and make the sequestration more comfortable for himself.
Tommy Collins is an out of work male stripper living at home with his mother and her boyfriend...until they decide to go to Vegas to get married and take their mobile home with them and leave him behind. Before this happens he gets a letter summoning him to jury duty, which he initially throws away, but when he finds his only other option is to stay with some rather questionable relatives, he retrieves it and heads to jury duty. He makes it a point to get out of any trial that will be over quickly, then gets assigned to a murder trial which might take a few days. Even being sequestered into a dated hotel room in a historical wing that is being remodeled isn't so bad...until be finds he's rooming with his former high school principal...who likes to sleep to motivational cassettes cranked up full blast. In a desperate move, he manages to get down to the front desk and beg to be moved. Since business is slipping badly at the hotel, the manager makes a deal to use him as a marketing tool, and put him in a luxurious penthouse suite as compensation. All is well for him now. The trial is for a guy who is accused of murdering a number of people at a fast food restaurant, and he looks rather psychotic as well. This makes it seem to be an automatic slam dunk to all of the jurors. However, in fear of having nowhere else to go and of losing his pampered lifestyle, Tommy starts stalling and prolonging the deliberations by continuously going over the evidence. He ends up showing the case in a whole new light, and actually ends up changing the minds of his fellow jurors. Just when he finally won the respect and admiration from them, and they are about to find the defendant not guilty, his secret is found out by not just any juror, but a girl he has been infatuated with since day one. Has he lost her forever, or was his prolonging a blessing to everyone?

