Godzilla saves Tokyo from a flying saucer that transforms into the beast Orga.
Godzilla returns in a brand-new movie that ignores all preceding movies except for the original with a brand new look and a powered up atomic ray. This time he battles a mysterious UFO that later transforms into a mysterious kaiju dubbed Orga. They meet up for the final showdown in the city of Shinjuku.
A mysterious organism begins to scout about Japan, while Godzilla makes his return and a family of scientist track his every move. But when trouble soon arises, the king of the monster gets more than he bargained for when that mysterious organism draws it's attention to him all leading up to something they cannot begin to imagine.
In 1995 Godzilla died that same year gamera made a comeback, in 1996 mothra had her own movie since 1961 that same year gamera had a sequel , in 1997 rebirth of Mothra was released that's all , in 1998 rebirth of Mothra 3 was Released as well as roland emmerich version of Godzilla. In 1999 gamera had his third movie and Godzilla made a full comeback. Where Godzilla must fight a UFO which uses his DNA to make the creature orga .
This movie ignores all the other Godzilla movies except the original. Godzilla has attacked Japan twice more in the 60's-80's after his first appearance. Now it's 1999, and the Godzilla Prediction Network (GPN) is studying and tracking Godzilla when he appears on the coast of Nemuro. He completely destroys the city. Earlier that week, a 60 million year old rock was discovered. Without warning it begins to float and heads for a meeting with Godzilla in Tokai Mura. Godzilla uses his ultra-powerful fire breath (incredibly stronger than in the first movies) and breaks the rocks to reveal a UFO!!! The UFO blows Godzilla back into the sea with a hyperblaster but lands and ceases all activities due to the damage caused by Godzilla. Later, the UFO takes off for Shinjuku where the final battle between the UFO and Godzilla takes place. The UFO transforms into a monster dubbed Orga and resumes attacks on Godzilla. Can Godzilla defeat the strange alien creature? What other tricks do these titans have up their sleeves?

