Batman must battle former district attorney Harvey Dent, who is now Two-Face and Edward Nygma, The Riddler with help from an amorous psychologist and a young circus acrobat who becomes his sidekick, Robin.
The Dark Knight of Gotham City confronts a dastardly duo: Two-Face and the Riddler. Formerly District Attorney Harvey Dent, Two-Face incorrectly believes Batman caused the courtroom accident which left him disfigured on one side; he has unleashed a reign of terror on the good people of Gotham. Edward Nygma, computer-genius and former employee of millionaire Bruce Wayne, is out to get the philanthropist; as The Riddler he perfects a device for draining information from all the brains in Gotham, including Bruce Wayne's knowledge of his other identity. Batman/Wayne is/are the love focus of Dr. Chase Meridan. Former circus acrobat Dick Grayson, his family killed by Two-Face, becomes Wayne's ward and Batman's new partner Robin the Boy Wonder.
Batman finds that he must protect Gotham City once again from the combined forces of villains Two-Face and the Riddler. Two Face is also former District Attorney Harvey Dent who was accidentally disfigured in a courtroom incident. The Riddler is former Wayne Tech employee Edward Nygma who is bent on getting revenge for a refused project. Now they join forces to drain the brainwaves of each citizen in Gotham while plotting revenge on Batman. While Batman/Bruce Wayne struggles to fight the dastardly duo, he must also deal with a romantic relationship with a sexy psychologist and the eagerness of a new young ward who becomes his new sidekick Robin.
Batman's third film follows the practice of the second by giving him two villains to face, Two-Face and the Riddler. Two-Face blames Batman for his disfigurement and simply wishes him dead. The Riddler is a disgruntled inventor who worked for Wayne Enterprises and is terribly jealous of Wayne's success and sophistication and uses his riddles to show his superiority over Wayne and Batman. Added to this mix are a sexy abnormal psychologist who is not only studying the criminals, but has a thing for Batman as well and Dick Grayson, (Robin) is introduced. Gotham is still a dark and foreboding place in which Batman begins to come to grips with his own psychology as he relives the deaths of his parents in his dreams.
DA Harvey Dent is hideously scarred down one side, by an acid attack. The result is 2 personalities and 2 faces. Ideal qualifications for a politician you might think, but Two-face's only policy is vengeance on Batman. He teams up with Edward Nygma, a technical wizard who invents a brain-sucking TV and adopts the alto-ego of The Riddler. Meanwhile... in the circus, Dick Grayson witnesses his acrobat family plummet earthwards and get a taste for sawdust. Two-face is to blame but Dick trades his anger for a rubber suit and becomes Robin. Two bad guys, two good guys and 8 persona's.
Batman is back. This time, he faces several challenges. Harvey Dent (Alias Two-Face) who had acid thrown on his face, Edward Nygma (Alias The Riddler) who has invented a device that manipulates human brainwaves and transfers them into his own head, Dr. Chace Maridian, who has a major crush on him and not much his alter-ego Bruce Wayne, and Dick Grayson (Alias Robin), who lost his family at the hands of Two-Face and is taken in by Wayne. Batman, now must train Dick Grayson and confront both Two-Face and The Riddler to save Gotham City.
The legendary dark knight, Batman, has once again personal demons to face and insane
villains who seek to destroy Gotham. But Batman is growing tired of his nightly parade
as Batman and daily existence as the rich and powerful Bruce Wayne. He is haunted by
memories of his parent's death and begins to remember details that he didn't before.Two Face, a psycho killer who blames Batman for his scarred split face, teams up with The Riddler, an
ex-employee of Bruce Wayne Enterprises, who was refused a partnership by Wayne, as
his invention is very dangerous. Bruce/ Batman is thrown into contact with the beautiful
Dr. Chase Meridian who is in Gotham to review the case of Two Face. A romance
develops between the two, as Chase desires both Bruce and Batman, unaware that they
are the same person. Bruce desires Chase more than anyone, knowing that she understands
the human mind better than anyone else. He asks her to the Charity Circus that he is
invited to with the other elite of Gotham. But the event is crashed when Two Face and
his thugs also decide to attend uninvited. A family of acrobats are killed by Two Face,
leaving only the youngest son, Dick "Robin" Grayson, alive and thirsting for revenge
against Two Face.Taken in by Wayne, he soon discovers Bruce's carefully hidden alter-ego, Batman and takes
the Batmobile on a spin, interrupting a date between Chase and Bruce. He begs Bruce
to allow him to be his partner when they finally return to the Bat Cave. Alfred, the elderly
butler, refuses to spurn Dick's need for revenge, telling Bruce that once he was like that too.Meanwhile, an entrepreneur calling himself Edward Nygma, who is actually Two Face's new accomplice The Riddler, is growing more and more rich, powerful and famous because of his invention of a new
3-D way of watching T.V. But he is in fact sucking all the secrets from the citizens of
Gotham and growing extremely intelligent. He is gunning for Bruce as well as Batman and
discovers that they are they same person. Soon the two villains are up against the newly
formed partnership between Batman and Robin. When Chase is kidnapped by the evil
pair, Batman and Robin go to The Riddler and Two Face's hideout on a metal-fabricated artificial island,
after Alfred and Bruce manage to crack the riddles that The Riddler has been leaving him and they discover that Edward Nygma is the green clad villain.In the end Batman is faced with the decision to save either Chase or Robin from the jagged rocks in a pit that they are suspended over by The Riddler. He tricks The Riddler however and breaks the giant hourglass structure that contains all the stored brainwaves of the citizens of Gotham. He saves both Chase and Robin, and uses Two Face's coin to kill the madman, by throwing a multitude of coins instead of only Two Face's special one. Robin understands that it is better that he didn't kill Two Face, agreeing with Bruce that such a crime is far too much too bear. At the end Edward claims that he is Batman, flapping the sleeves of his straight jacket in a grotesque imitation a bat's wings, cackling as Chase makes her way back outside of the lunatic asylum and informs Bruce that no one will ever know he is Batman. She leaves Gotham, never to see our secretive shadow destined hero ever again. Batman and Robin are now partners and the dark knight is indeed always going to the protector of the Gothic metropolis of Gotham.
