A day in the life of a group of teens as they travel around New York City skating, drinking, smoking and deflowering virgins.
Disturbing, dark, low-budget independent film about teen-agers in New York City. The story focuses on Telly (Leo Fitzpatrick), a teen who has a goal to de-flower as many virgins as he can. When one of his old encounters discovers that she is H.I.V.-positive, after only one encounter with a guy, Telly remains undaunted.
Kids follows a group young, unsupervised, not mature, but all-too-grown-up kids in New York. One girl has just been diagnosed with HIV and is trying to notify the boy who gave it to her, who is on a quest to sexually prey upon innocent girls. The film follows these characters and their friends through the day, hanging out, playing, carousing and going to parties. Each scene is intriguing and disturbing -- conveying an urban reality that includes drugs, sex, guns, and disease; and yet never letting you forget these are *kids*, some of them barely in puberty.
A controversial portrayal of teens in New York City which exposes a world which is deeply disturbing. The film focuses on a freckled boy Telly (Leo Fitzpatrick), whose idea of safe sex is to have sex with only virgins. But one girl from one of his past unprotected passion test positive for HIV and soon finds him making love yet to another unsuspecting girl.
A disturbing portrayal of teenage life, AIDS, and the Kids of New York City. Controversial in its content, the film exposes the grim reality of a group of skate-boarders in the space of 24 hours. Primarily the story consists of Telly (Leo Fitzpatrick) a 17 year old slacker whose mission is to de-flower as many young girls as possible, whilst unprotected. Things turn bad when an old flame finds out she has tested positive for HIV and the only person she has had sex with is Telly. She chases through New York to find him but is too late as he has already de-flowered yet another innocent pre-teen.
The movie Kids is a view of a city kids world. You watch Telly, a unsupervised teen in the streets of New York taking advantage of innocent young girls not knowing he has HIV but one of the girls he slept with a year before does. In knowing this she runs the streets looking for him while he plans to deflower another young girl. And in the midst of all this, you see kids as young as 10 or 11 using drugs and alcohol with some of the older kids. Kids is basically a movie that warns you what the hell could be happening to your very own child.
In mid-90s Manhattan, the nihilistic Telly (Leo Fitzpatrick) is busy deflowering virgins. He doesn't just enjoy the sex and act of taking young girl's virginity though -- he believes that he can avoid STDs this way. After finishing with his latest conquest (Sarah Henderson), Telly bums around town with his friend Casper (Justin Pierce) looking for some kind of distraction .One of Telly's former sex partners, Jennie (Chloë Sevigny), and her friend Ruby (Rosario Dawson) receive mixed news at a public health clinic. The promiscuous Ruby is clean, but Jennie (who has only had sex once, with Telly) is HIV positive. The news devastates Jennie, who will spend much of the film searching for the wandering Telly.Telly &amp; Casper have several adventures: buying weed in the park, shoplifting a "40" of malt liquor from a Korean Guy (Johnathan Staci Kim) of whom they make fun of, beating up a man who "disses" them, and finally winding up at a teen party that night. Eventually we find that Telly has seduced a thirteen year old girl, and is busy deflowering her. Jennie (who took a strange drug earlier) arrives and passes out on a couch. A drunken Casper takes advantage of the situation to rape Jennie, perpetuating the HIV cycle.The audience can hear Telly's voice-over explaining that without sex, his life has no purpose. The film finishes with Casper waking up the following morning and asking to no-one in particular, "Jesus Christ, what has happened?"
