Raja (Saif Ali Khan) and Yash Vardhan (Aditya Pancholi) are childhood friends. Though they come from different backgrounds, Raja being poor and Yash being wealthy, they treat each other as brothers. Rani Sharma (Kajol) enters their lives, and they both fall in love with her. Raja and Rani both love each other very much and vow to be together. However Yash, jealous and bitter tragically kills Raja. Rani witnesses what he did and tells Yash that they will be together again and he will not be able to do anything. She jumps to her death, leaving Yash heartbroken. Many years have passed and Yash is unmarried and lives with his Dai Ma (Aruna Irani). Fate brings him to Reshma (Kajol) who looks like Rani. Yash soon discoveres Raju (Saif Ali Khan) who looks like Raja. Yash looks after Reshma but she encounters Raju and remembers bits of her past life. After several other encounters with him she remembers what happened in her past life but Raju does not remember a thing. Yash wishes to marry Reshma and does whatever he can to make Raju leave. Reshma confronts Yash, she escapes him and goes to Raju who is about to leave the city. She explains what happened and he remembers what happened to him. They barely manage to escape Yash, but he is determined to make sure that Reshma stays with him only. Yash chases Raju and Reshma to where Raja and Sharma originally died. Raju is hanging on to Yash's hand, ready to die just like Raja did, but reverses it. Now Yash is hanging on for dear life and just as Yash has Raju convinced, Raju lets go, and kills Yash, and to live with Reshma.
Two close friends, Yash and Raja, share a passion for cars and beautiful women. Both come from different backgrounds, while Yash is wealthy, Raja comes from a poor family. Raja meets with Reshma, who is attending a nearby college, and falls in love with her. Reshma eventually also falls in love with him. When Yash meets Reshma, he also instantly falls in love with her. When Yash finds out that Reshma loves Raja, he has both of them tragically separated. Several years later, Raja is reborn as Raju, Reshma is reborn as Rani Sharma, and Yash is reborn as Yash Vardhan. And again the three form a love triangle, but will this reincartion too end tragically for the two lovers, is a question only the future can answer.

