The life of a simple bookshop owner changes when he meets the most famous film star in the world.
Every man's dream comes true for William Thacker, an unsuccessful Notting Hill bookstore owner, when Anna Scott, the world's most beautiful woman and best-liked actress, enters his shop. A little later, he still can't believe it himself, William runs into her again - this time spilling orange juice over her. Anna accepts his offer to change in his nearby apartment, and thanks him with a kiss, which seems to surprise her even more than him. Eventually, Anna and William get to know each other better over the months, but being together with the world's most wanted woman is not easy - neither around your closest friends, nor in front of the all-devouring press.
William Thacker (played by Hugh Grant) is a bookseller at a shop in the Notting Hill district in West London, who shares a house with an eccentric Welsh friend, Spike (Rhys Ifans). One day, William is minding the store when in strolls Anna Scott (Julia Roberts), a lovely and well-known actress from the United States who is in London working on a film. She buys a book from William, and she is polite and charming in the way a famous actress would be with a star-struck sales clerk. Their relationship would logically end there, if William didn't run out a few minutes later to buy some juice. While dashing back to the shop, he bumps into Anna on the street, spilling juice all over her blouse. Since he lives nearby, William politely offers to let her stop by his house to clean up; since William seems harmless enough, Anna agrees. When Anna has to stop back to pick up a bag she left at William's house, they kiss -- just in time for Spike to show up. A romance slowly blooms as his friends and family (not to mention the world at large) wonder out loud what he's doing dating a movie star.
William Thacker, a travel bookstore owner working and living in Notting Hill, is barely making ends meet. He needs to rent out part of his house, his lodger whom he considers the "stupidest git" in the world. His personal life is equally in shambles as although he has a small group of dear friends, who are on the most part as equally unsuccessful professionally as him, he is divorced - she left him - with no prospect of love on the horizon. His life changes when into his bookstore walks American Anna Scott, arguably the most famous and attractive movie actress in the world. Against the odds, Anna and William become friends with the possibility of romance between the two on the horizon. But the odds of moving their relationship to that final stage are still stacked against them as they live in two different worlds, Anna's under constant public scrutiny of the gossip hungry press, who, along with the public at large, know that Anna is already in a personal relationship with equally famous movie actor, Jeff King.
A lonesome man William Thacker, was walking on the small village but busy street of Notting hill in London, as he always spends his life every day. He is on his way to his house with a blue door who he shared with his wife but left him for man that made his life he called strange half-life. When he went home, his friend and housemate named Spike asked him for help for what he is going to wear for his date, he wears different kinds of funny shirt and asked him which the best is. William find his last shirt was fine than the other. But when Spike turned around, there's a funny quote written in it that makes William laughed. After a few days, on Wednesday, he is going to his little travel bookshop who owned by him, he didn't know that, that is the day that his life will change forever.While he is in the counter and checking his small sales, his gay assistant named Martin, felt sorry for their negative and very low income. William felt a little bit disappointed, and Martin asks him a cup of cappuccino to make him feel a little better, then he went out to buy it. When he went out, suddenly a woman customer came in. William gazed at her who is in the book shelves looking for books to buy. He noticed that the woman was no other than Anna Scott, the most famous film actress in the world. He was amazed when he saw her, he suggested her nice book to be read but Anna didn't show any interest, and then suddenly, when William glanced at the CCTV camera, he saw that someone has shoplifting his books. He leaves Anna for a while and confronts the shoplifter. When the shoplifter saw Anna, he asked her for an autograph. Anna wrote in the autograph that he belong in jail. Anna bought a book and William gave her an extra free book. Anna thanks him and walks away. William was still can't believe about his encounter with Anna Scott. When Martin came back, he told him that he will not going to believe who came in. Martin asked him if it is someone famous. But William didn't say it was Anna Scott. After a moment he went out to buy an orange juice. While walking back, in unexpected event, he was accidentally bumped into Anna Scott and the orange juice was spilled in Anna's clothes. She was upset, and then William asked her if it's okay for her to clean up in his house that right over there. Anna refused and was able to go, but William insisted, then she asked him how many yards is his house. Then William said its 18 yards and he situated his house with a blue door. When Anna finds it near, she went with him. When they entered the house, William felt embarrassed because his house was so messy; he fixes it quickly and tells Anna to go upstairs to clean herself. When she got changed, William felt amused when he saw her wearing her new clothes. He offered her for a cup of tea or coffee but Anna refused. He tried to offer her something to eat but Anna said no. Anna wants to go; he had no choice just to let her go. Anna thank him for his help, When she is about to go out, William told her "Nice meeting you, surreal but nice," Anna just smiled at him and went out. When he closes the door, William felt unsure for his 'surreal but nice' comment. Then after a while, the doorbell rang, when he opens it, he can't believe that it was Anna, she said that she forgot her other bag, she let her in. William gave it to her, and they stared to each other's eyes, and in unexpected way, Anna suddenly kissed him and he kissed her back. After their kissing, William said sorry for his surreal but nice comment, and then suddenly, Spike came in but he didn't notice that the girl who was with William was Anna Scott, he just passed by her. Anna asked William not to tell his friend about her, then she bids goodbye and she went out. William was delighted and can't believe for his brief kissing with Anna. That night he watch Anna's movie in DVD with Spike. He can't still believe that he kissed her and he was starting to fall in love with her.
One day in his shop, after talking to a weird customer, a bus passed by with Anna's huge picture in it, William felt so in love. After a few days, he asked Spike if he has a message for today, and then Spike said it's her mom who called and no one else. William asked him if he is sure that no one else has message him, and then Spike said he has a message two days ago, it was from American girl by the name of Anna. William was stunned and asked him what did she said. Spike told him that she said to call her at Ritz hotel, then that moment, William called her immediately, but the hotel personnel said that there's no such name that check in, then Spike told him that Anna gave another name, its Flintstone. William uttered the word Flintstone to the personnel, and then he connects William right away to Anna's suite. Then he talked to her, he asks her to go out for a cup of tea or something but Anna invites him to come over to her suite instead, William felt good and couldn't believe it. He was excitedly went into Anna's hotel, but when he got there, he was surprised when Anna's analyst greeted him and asked him from what magazine are he from. William didn't know what to say, then he glance at the Horse and Hound magazine that lay in the table, and then he pretended that he is from Horse and Hound. Then the staff accompanies him in the waiting area, and there are so many journalists there who were waiting for they turn to interview Anna Scott, about her new movie. They thought that William is one of them. After a moment, the analyst called him and it was his turn to enter Anna's suite. When he entered, he saw Anna standing there and he said "Hi'. He gave her flower, and they sat down, but they can't able to speak because Anna's PR manager was there, that's why William invented things to say even not relevant.
When her PR went out the suite for a while, they got chance to talk. Anna said sorry for the kissing thing, and asks him if he is okay. William said he is okay, William said that he is like dreaming when he met her. Anna just smiled at him, and then he tried to ask her if she is busy tonight, but Anna said yes, she has a thing to do. William felt sorry for that. After a moment his interview time was up and the PR asks him to go. When he is about to go home, Anna's analyst told him that he need to interview the other cast of the movie, so William interview them even without knowledge at all, after interviewing several cast, William felt tired and wants to go home, but suddenly, the analyst called him again and he was about to say no, but he was surprised when he went back to Anna's suite. He was surprised when Anna told him that she is not busy anymore and she can spend his time with him, then William felt great and fantastic, then he remembers that it was his baby sister's birthday tonight. He thought Anna wouldn't want to come, but Anna said that it's fine and if it's okay for him that she can be his date on her sister's birthday if he wants to. William was amazed.That night on his friend's house was his sister's birthday will took place, his friend named Max who owned the house and his handicapped in a wheelchair wife named Bella, Max said that William called him and he is bringing a girl. Bella asks him who it was, but Max said William didn't mention the name. After a while, the doorbell was ringed, Max opened the door but he didn't notice Anna right away because his cooking was burnt, he went back to the kitchen immediately. Then William introduces Anna to the couple, the couple was shocked when they saw her, they were speechless and offer her some wine. Suddenly, William's sister named Honey arrived, and she can't believe when she saw Anna. Honey approached her and phrases her, she said that William is a nice guy and they can be sister, Anna just smiled at her and gave her gift.
After a moment, another friend came in, his name is Bernie. He asks her some question unknowingly that she is Anna Scott. When Anna went to the bathroom, that was the time that they talk about her, they asked William how did he met Anna Scott. When Bernie finally found out that it was Anna Scott, he felt ashamed for asking her silly question.They eat dinner and share their moments together, Anna was amazed when she saw their friendship, they are just like one family. After the birthday party, when Anna and William went out, they shouted for joy and can't believe that they acquainted with Anna Scott. William took Anna in the park, and there they talk a lot of things, since then they start seeing each other. One day, they watched movies and had dinner.
While having dinner in a restaurant, they heard a group of men sitting in the other side of the table; they are talking about Anna Scott. At first, they were delighted for what they had said about her, but in the middle of their conversation, it seems like they talking not nice about Anna, when William overheard it, he approached them and asked them to stop criticizing Anna Scott, the men just laughed at him and told him that he is just one of Anna's fan. Anna told him not to mind them, but suddenly, Anna approached them and show herself, the men's jaw was dropped when they saw her and felt ashamed.When the two were at the front of Anna's hotel where she is staying in, she asked him if he wants to come up, then William was glad and of course said yes. Anna said she will go up first. After a while, William followed and knocks at Anna's suite, and when it opened, he was stunned when he saw Anna with another man, the man was Anna's boyfriend named Jeff who came from America to surprise visit her. William felt jealous. Jeff asked who is he, and then he said that he is just a room service. Jeff asked him to take away the dirty dishes and he gave him tip, Anna felt sorry for him. William went home very heart broken. Since then, William's life was never being the same again. He didn't get Anna out of his mind, he is always thinking about her. He was madly in love with her and he can't get over with. He talked to his sister and friends about her relationship with Anna, and he told them that Anna has a boyfriend. His friend told him that Anna was a goddess and it's hard to fall in love with a kind of a girl like her, he is just hurting himself. They advised him to move on and see another girl. They tried to introduce different girls to William to forget about Anna Scott, but whatever he do, he never want anyone but Anna. He tried to forget her but he can't, his feeling was devastated and frustrated. But one day, someone bells on his door, and when he opens it, he was surprised that it was Anna, but she looks awful. William comforts her. Anna told him that she wants a place to stay, and William happily offers his house. William became happy again. They get bond together and helps Anna to memorize her script. Then one night, finally they made love. William gets more in love with Anna.
But the next morning, when William got from bed, the doorbell rang, and when he opens it, he was stunned when a lot of lights of the camera flash on him; it was a hundreds of paparazzi was outside his house. He immediately shut the door, then Anna asked him who it was, and she opens the door too. And she was shocked when cameras flash on her. Anna felt bad and upset, she argued with William and hates him, Anna doubted that William told someone that she was in his house, but William said he didn't tell anyone, and he is trying to explained but Anna wasn't believe in him, she was also upset that the paparazzi seeing him wearing in his underwear and it was going to be a big news about her. She called her PR manager to pick her up and she immediately left William. Then again, William felt devastated. William life back to normal but the pain was still in his heart. He never see her again.Her sister came to his shop and handed him a paper with address of Anna's agent in London, that he may contact to track Anna, her sister knew that he still thinking about Anna all the time, she wanted her brother to bring her back, but William think twice and he decided to put the paper in trash. Six months later, they had dinner at their friend's broke restaurant named Tony, and they comfort him for being broke. Then Bernie announces that that he was fired in his job. They felt sorry for him too, and then his sister Honey made also an announcement that she will get engaged, and everyone was surprised especially William, actually it was Spike she engaged with. Then William told them sorry for his behavior for the past six months and he was happy now, but the truth is, he was not. That night they partied even if they are not so cheerful, Tony played piano with sweet tune while Spike danced sweetly. Suddenly, Max told him that he read in the newspaper that Anna Scott was in London to do a filming. He shows the newspaper to William and he can't believe that Anna was in London. Next day, William went to the set to see the glimpsed of Anna. When he got there, the guards doesn't want him to get in, but he saw Anna standing from the afar, he wave at her and she wave back and approach him, then the guards let him in. Anna was about to talk to him but her analyst called her to do her scene, she asked him to wait for her. Then William waited, the analyst asked him to hear the dialogue through headphone so he will not get bored. While William was listening to the dialogue of Anna, after the scene, Anna's co-actor ask her, who is the man who came and waiting for her. Anna said that it was just a guy from the past and she didn't know what he is doing there. And when William heard it, he felt hurt and disappointed. He walks away without telling her.After a few days, while William was in his shop, Martin told him that he has a delivery, William told him to get it by himself, but Martin said that the delivery was for him. And when he came out at the counter, he was surprised when he saw Anna, she brought a gift to him, and (it was a painting). Anna said that yesterday was her last day of filming in London and she will about to leave for America, she just want to see him a little or a lot maybe. But William said that he heard her through headphone. Anna said that she can't say the truth to anyone about her feeling. William doesn't know exactly what to say, and then Anna said something that puzzled him. She said, "I am just a girl, standing in front of a boy asking him to love her," when William heard this, he was immobile and don't know what to react, and Anna said goodbye. William went to his sister and friends, and he told them what had happened, his friends felt sorry for him, they felt that Anna loves him but he turned her down. And then suddenly, William realized his mistakes for not getting her back. Then he asked Max how fast is his car, he wants to go after Anna who about to leave London that day.They all rode in Max car to support William. They squished theme self in Max car.
But they were in the traffic jam. Spike get off and help them to pass through the traffic jam, until they got away, when they got into the hotel. They found out that Anna was not there anymore, William ask the personnel where is Anna, but he didn't want to say it because its confidential, William tried to say Anna's different name, like Bambi, and then the personnel finally told him where is Anna. He said that Anna was in Savoy Hotel doing her press conference before going to airport. They went there right away.
As he enters the hall, hundreds of journalists surround Anna Scott, and asking her some questions. One of them ask Anna when she will leave, and then Anna said she will leave today. After a few more questions, Anna's PR asks them for one last question, they raises their hands and one of them was William. The PR picked him to asked Anna. Then Anna saw him. He asked her a question, regarding about him. His sister and friends was waiting for her answer. Anna stares in his eyes and said that she will forgive him. William felt relief and smiles at her. Then Anna asks her PR to call again the journalist who asks her when she will leave, and then when she was asked, she answered "indefinitely". William was delighted and the people notice that he was a guy in Notting hill who were Anna stayed with. The cameras focus on him with his happy emotion. From then on, Anna was back in his arms again.
