During their college years, Anjali was in love with her best-friend Rahul, but he had eyes only for Tina. Years later, Rahul and the now-deceased Tina's eight-year-old daughter attempts to reunite her father and Anjali.
Rahul Khanna and Anjali Sharma were best friends at college. Anjali realizes that she has fallen in love with Rahul but she's too late because Rahul has already fallen for Tina Malhotra. Heartbroken, Anjali leaves the city. Tina and Rahul get married and soon Tina becomes pregnant, giving birth to a daughter which they call Anjali. Due to complications during pregnancy, Tina passes away. Anjali is brought up by her father, and each year on her birthday he allows his daughter to read one of her mother's letters. Through these letters she learns that her mother (Tina) knew that another Anjali was in love with Rahul, and vows to bring them together again.
On her 10th Birthday Anjali receives letter of her late mother Tina who tells her about her college life and about her father Rahul and his friend Anjali,Anjali a Tom boy girl and Rahul a Casanova were best friends in college,Anjali secretly loves him but Rahul takes her only as a friend.When Tina arrives in college Rahul and she falls in love and heartbroken Anjali leaves the college.At end of the letter Tina mentions her last wish to unite Rahul and Anjali.A little Anjali tries all best ways to unite her father with lost love Anjali.But she is soon to be married to Aman.
Rahul has just lost his wife, Tina, due to childbirth. His daughter, Anjali and his mother is all he is left with. Tina has left eight letters for her daughter to read on every birthday. The eighth one is the most important. Anjali reads the letter and Tina discusses in the letter about his best friend, Anjali. There is an important task that Tina has asked her daughter to carry out. It's up to Anjali to do it.
Kuch Kuch Hota Hai, is the story of Rahul and Anjali. Both of them students at St. Xavier's College. Anjali being a tomboy gets along very well with Rahul and the other boys. Rahul and Anjali are also the best of friends. Being so close to each other, Rahul and Anjali would probably have fallen in love, however they were too busy enjoying themselves being best buddies! And then Tina (Ranee Mukherjee) the Principal's daughter came into their lives. For Anjali, Tina was a third member of their gang, however, for Rahul, his life was never the same after meeting her. He fell in love with Tina. Anjali was finally beginning to fall in love with Rahul, and when she finally does manage to sum up the courage to tell Rahul about her feelings, Rahul tells her in his usual friendly manner, that he is falling in love with Tina. Totally oblivious to him, he broke her heart. Broken hearted Anjali decides to leave the college mid-term making up an excuse. It is at this point that Tina's suspicions come true.
Anjali Sharma (Kajol)is a tomboy, and is very friendly with the local casanova Rahul Khanna (Shahrukh Khan). She thinks that Rahul will eventually fall in love and marry her. Things seem to be going according to plan, then Tina Malhotra (Rani Mukherji) enters their lives, and Rahul falls head-over-heels in love with her, and marries her. This breaks Anjali's heart and she leaves to go and settle far away. The marriage of Rahul and Tina results in the birth of baby Anjali (Sana Saeed), and due to complications following the birth, Tina loses a lot of blood and passes away, leaving Rahul devastated. Anjali Khanna grows up, and finds out that her mom had left her some letters to read, and she does so, and finds out that her dad may have been in love with Anjali instead without realizing it. She then makes attempts to make both of them meet again. She does locate Anjali, only to find out that she is to marry Aman Mehra (Salman Khan) shortly, and Rahul and the heartbreak she suffered is history.
Rahul (Shahrukh Khan) and his wife Tina (Rani Mukherjee) give birth to a baby girl. Tina soon dies due to bleeding organs but before she dies she asks Rahul to name their daughter Anjali. Eight years later, Anjali reads a letter her mother had left for her shortly before her death.The letter tells her daughter about Rahul's best female friends during college, Anjali (Kajol). Tina joined the college in third year and stole Rahul's heart. However, she soon realised that Rahul and Anjali were deeply in love. On realising Rahul loved Tina, Anjali left and completely lost touch with Rahul. Now Rahul's daughter is given a mission to bring Rahul and his old best friend back together but will she succeed?
