When a secret paramilitary organization of African Americans decides a brother advertising executive is selling out his race on Madison Avenue, they abduct him for "deprogramming." With Ving Rhames, Vanessa Williams.
Political satire about an underground militant group that kidnaps African-Americans who have sold out their race. The story follows as the group led Curtis-Hall and Rhames kidnaps an advertising executive (La Salle) who has been providing advertising programs that belittles blacks and women. One advertisement features Spike Lee endorsing Gospelpak Fried Chicken which comes in a bucket with the Confederate flag draped all over it.
"The Drop Squad" is a secret underground group of blacks dedicated to "deprogramming" fellow blacks whom they feel have wandered too far into the white culture, leaving their brothers behind. Their method is to kidnap offenders, subjecting them to deprogramming.ROCKY heads up the squad, but he's in conflict with partner GARVEY over how the deprograming should go. Rocky is for non-violent means, such as subjecting the subject to a barrage of slides, posers, slogans and family photographs that encourage alliance with their black heritage. Garvey favors a more violent approach, subjecting them to torture, humiliation and physical discomfort.Attractive young LENORE JAMISON, 30s, worries about the brother, BRUFORD JAMISON, whom she loves very much. Bruford works for a high-powered ad agency. Successful there, he's currently turned out advertisements filled with offensive black stereotypes. There's an ad for "Mumblin' Jack" malt liquor, featuring a black woman in a bikini straddling a bottle of beer with the slogan, "It Gits Ya Crazy!" Another ad is for a fried chicken franchise that features the "Gospelpack," offering a Bible verse on napkins served with take-out chicken dinners.Thinking her brother needs help, Lenore makes contact with Garvey at a diner, asking that they deprogram her brother Bruford, because she feels he's strayed too far from their family and heritage. Thus, they grab Bruford, hustle him into a van, taking him to a secret location. With Garvey in charge, they subject Bruford to several days of violent beatings, harassment, and torture. There are other black men being tortured there for the same reason, including a corrupt politician, COUNCILMAN JENKINS and a corrupt evangelist, REVEREND BEEKINS.Bruford's backstory is told in flashbacks that are intercut with the Drop Squad torture sequences. We see how Bruford got the job at the agency. We see him in conflict there with fellow black employees, who object to his racist advertisements. It's also shown that Bruford once was close to his good-natured but unemployed cousin, FLIP. Flip asked Bruford for a job at the agency, but Bruford was reluctant to set him up. Bruford figures he himself is safe, whereas he fears Flip will be anything but.The Drop Squad torture and humiliation of Bruford continues. Among other things, they show him old home movies. In spite of his discomfort, he cannot help but be touched and smile at this. Meanwhile, Rocky and cohort TREVOR, travel to Maryland to look into Bruford's past. They talk to his UNCLE, who fills them in on what happened between Bruford and Flip.Flashbacks continue, showing Bruford in conflict about his ads with black colleagues. On a visit home to a family reunion, Bruford shows his fried chicken ad to his family, all of whom find it offensive. It was at this time sister Lenore decided to take matters in her own hands and call the Drop Squad.In the present, Lenore wants her brother released, as she feels it's gone on too long. She doesn't know the violent tactics they're employing. Rocky and Trevor return from their trip, interrupting Garvey's violent session with Bruford. Rocky isn't happy with his tactics. Nonetheless, Rocky has brought something to show Bruford. It's a surveillance video taken at Bruford's company the day Flip showed up looking for a job and telling them Bruford would vouch for him. Bruford didn't take the call, blowing off his cousin, who, riled, was escorted out by SECURITY. Rocky has brought Flip with him, and he forgives Bruford, offering to take him home once Rocky tells Garvey to let him go. Bruford harbors resentment that his sister Lenore turned him in, although she swears she didn't know the treatment that he'd get. She says they wanted him back, but Bruford insists he never went away. Rocky tells Garvey he's moving on, but Garvey stays with the squad, kidnaping yet another black man believed to have moved too far from his heritage.
