A cop goes undercover in Thailand to avenge his brother's death in this martial arts film.
Kahn is a heavy weight kick-box champion, who often kills his opponents in front of the running camera, to sell it on video tape. Jake had to witness once how his brother was killed by him, and now has come for revenge. But first he has to improve his fighting skills; he asks Phang, the only person in the whole world who ever had Khan down on his back, to train him until he is a match for him.
Jake Donahue is a New York cop and an energetic warrior with a destiny ahead of him. However, Jake's cowboy ways are unorthodox, but very effective when it comes to putting the criminal element out of business and after successfully putting a gang of drug dealers out of business, Jake's captain informs him that Interpol needs his help in Thailand to bust up a snuff ring that involves making and selling movies that involve people really getting killed. At first, Jake wants no part in it but after watching a confiscated tape, he is enraged to learn that the person who's starring in these snuff movies is Khan, a mountain of pure muscle, superhuman strength, deadly kicking abilities and most of all, possessing a ruthless fighting spirit. Many years ago, Jake's older brother Sean, who was a heavyweight kickboxing champion had just won his eighth victory in the rings of Thailand, even though someone had told him to throw the fight. Little did Sean know was that victory would be his last, as Khan and his thugs ambush him and his brother Jake. Sean succeeds in defeating the first wave of attackers, but Khan's style of fighting is so fast and brutal, that a three-kick combo puts Sean on his back (and into an early grave). Jake witnesses this and is consumed with rage for the death of his brother. Jake tries to fight Khan, but Khan just kicks the slime out of the youngster and he is orphaned and left for dead. Now an adult, Jake sees that the time for vengeance is perfect and he goes to Thailand, where one of the locals tells him that his skills won't be enough if he's trying to take down Khan. The local tells him that Prang, a drunken hermit with supreme kicking ability is the only one who ever came close to putting Khan on his back and that Jake should see him for training. At first, Prang is reluctant to teach Jake since his motive for going after Khan is vengeance, but decides to train him anyway since Khan is using his skills to kill people on tape. After telling Jake the story of how he lost to Khan, Prang begins Jake's days of training which has many painful trials; including ignoring blows to his body and avoiding Khan's three-kick combo technique. When Molly, a young wannabe model and supposed slave girl of Khan's gets caught up in the mix, Jake and Prang may be the only defenders left to stop Khan and bust up the snuff ring for good.

