An archaeologist unearths an underground palace at Sangramgarh. The locals are afraid of what will happen if they start digging and would like to leave the past alone. It turns out their fears we confounded.
Vicky lives a wealthy lifestyle with his widower dad, J.B., in India. Since he has matured, his dad would like him to get married to Sonia, who is the daughter of his friend, D.D., who is an Archeologist, currently looking for artifacts in Sangramgarh. Vicky and Sonia like each other and have no qualms of getting married. Then a series of events shake-up the crew at the site at Sangramgarh as they find that what appears to be an underground palace. The locals are superstitious and afraid of what they happen if they start digging and would prefer to leave the past alone. They may well be right as an ancient, ageless and cruel entity, Rajkumari Suryalekha, who at one time actually reared a half-man half-beast, cannibals and man-eating beasts to defeat and kill all her suitors as she hated men, save and except for Vikram Singh, who was able to emerge victorious, but ended up rejecting her as she had his friend, Amar Singh, killed. Now she awaits to be resurrected so that she may claim her lover and avenge her humiliation as well end the curse that her mother had put upon her. And Vikram Singh resembles none other than Vicky himself - who is well on his way to be drawn into her dark world - and there is no power on Earth that can stop her from having her way.
Hundreds of years ago there once exist the kingdom of Sangramgarth which is ruled with fairness by Rajmata who one day hope to past on this legend to a male but unfortunately she gives birth to a female, Rajkumari Suryalekha. When Suryalekha starts showing aging Rajmata put forward many marriage proposals to her but Suryalekha hated men and thus she decides to put them through a difficult test which involves defeating half-man half-beast, cannibals and man-eating beasts. The only one who emerge victorious from this deadly game is Suryavanshi Vikram Singh who ended up rejecting her as she killed his friend Amar Singh. Unable to handle this rejection Suryalekha commits suicide and thus the entire palace goes underground. Years later a group of archaeologists headed by D.D, goes to the same sight to conduct researches; quite unknown to them that they have resurrect the spirit of a wondering and cruel Suryalekha who recognizes D.D, son-in-law, Vicky as that of Vikram Singh and is all set to pull Vicky into her world - with no power on earth that can stop her from carrying out this task.
DD an archaeologist and JB a businessman in USA are inseparable friends.JB shifts to India and wants his son Vicky to marry DD's daughter Sonia.Though Vicky not happy with it Sonia still agrees to marry him.DD finds that one of his archaeologist is missing from the site of Sangramgadh they come across a Baba who tells them the town is surviving on curse of princess Suryalekha's soul who wants her lover Suryavanshi (Rajkumar Vikram Singh) in order to free the town.Before the Baba passes away he realizes that Vicky is reincarnation of Suryavanshi.DD,JB,Vicky and Sonia along with the archaeologist's team visit Sangramgadh where they find the missing archaeologist dead they also find ancient script which mentions how evil Suryalekha was.By the end of the script Vicky realizes he is Sooryavanshi and Suryalekha's soul wont attain salvation until he surrenders himself to her.

