The R.A.S. agents, Miss Bianca and Bernard, race to Australia to save a little boy and a rare golden eagle from a murderous poacher.
Cody, a 9-year-old boy from Mugwomp Flats responds to a distress call about a trapped giant Golden Eagle called Marahute. Freeing her, he gains a close friendship with the bird. However, Cody is soon abducted by the murderous poacher, Percival McLeach, who is after that bird which is of a highly endangered species and therefore an extremely profitable quarry. In a panic, a mouse Cody freed from one of McLeach's traps sends a desperate call for help to the Rescue Aid Society in New York City who assigns their top agents, Miss Bianca and Bernard, to the task. With transportation provided by the goofy albatross, Wilbur, the agents arrive in Australia and link up with the RAS' local field operative, Jake the Kangaroo Rat. Together, the trio must race against time to find Cody, stop McLeach, and save Marahute.
Early one morning in the Australian Outback, a little boy named Cody is alerted by some animals he knows about a great golden eagle that has been trapped. The boy scales up a high cliff and frees the large eagle named Marahute (pronounces Mare-a-hoo-tay). The eagle thanks Cody by taking it to its nest, where Cody sees several eggs. When Cody asks where the father is, the eagle looks at him sadly. Cody then takes one of Marahute's golden feathers, and the eagle returns him to a forested area.While in the forest, Cody attempts to free a little mouse, when he is snared in a poacher's trap. The trap calls the attention of Percival C McLeach and his lizard, Joanna. McLeach soon notices the golden feather, and after admitting to Cody that he captured and killed the father, demands to know where the mother and her eggs are. Cody attempts to run off, but finds himself cornered over a pit with crocodiles. McLeach then throws Cody's knapsack in the water, and takes the boy away.The little mouse sees this, and rushes to a nearby area to alert another mouse for help.
