A woman who has lost her memory is taken in by a Los Angeles orphanage, and a private eye is enlisted to track down her identity, but he soon finds that he might have a past life connection to her that endangers their lives.
Mike Church is a Los Angeles private detective who specializes in finding missing people. He takes on the case of a mute woman named Grace who is suffering from a total amnesia and doesn't even know her name. She keeps having nightmares involving the murder of a pianist named Margaret Strauss by her husband, Roman, in 1949. In an attempt to solve the mystery about her identity and her nightmares, Mike accepts the help of an antiquary who arrives to offer his services as a hypnotist. The hypnosis sessions soon begin to reveal some surprises.
In 1949, composer Roman Strauss is executed for the vicious murder of his wife, Margaret, with a pair of scissors. In 1990s Los Angeles, a mute amnesiac woman named Grace shows up at an orphanage, and private eye Mike Church is called in to investigate. Under hypnosis, they both seem to have a strange link back to Margaret's murder.
1990s LA police detective Mike Church took the case of amnesia-suffering mute client' Grace; she was having nightmares about the murder of a pianist named Margaret Strauss by her world-famous composer/conductor husband Roman Strauss in the late 1940s; Margaret had been suspicious that Roman's housekeeper Inga and her disturbed, stammering son Frankie were stealing her husband things; Roman was falsely put to death by electric chair for the murder of his wife Margaret, who was actually stabbed and murdered with a pair of scissors by Frankie, because his mother was in love with Roman; in the present day story, Mike came into contact with hypnotist/antique dealer Franklyn Madson who believed that Grace had suffered trauma in her past life; under regressive hypnosis, it was revealed that there were remarkable similarities and parallels between the stories of Roman and Margaret in the past, and Mike and Grace in the present; it was discovered that Mike was the reincarnation of murdered pianist wife, Margaret; and amnesia-suffering Grace was the reincarnation of executed composer Roman Strauss; the hypnotist (the murderer from the 40s) died when impaled on a large scissor sculpture made by 'Grace' and Mike held his partner 'Grace'.
