Mike Nelson and his robot companions watch and give their comments about This Island Earth (1955).
The mad and evil scientist, Dr. Clayton Forrester, has created an evil little scheme that is bound to give him world global domination but first thing's first. He plans to torment Mike Nelson and the robots by sending them a real stinker of a film to watch called, "This Island Earth." He is convinced that this movie will drive them insane. And since the guys cannot control when the movie begins or ends, they are forced to witness the true horror that is this awful movie that has a lobster creature dressed in slacks. But will this be the ultimate cheese that breaks the boys' spirits? It's up to one test subject's quick wit, sharp sense of humor, and utter intolerance for cinematic garbage to foil the plans of the scientist and to save the Earth.
The evil scientist Dr. Clayton Forrester locks Mike Nelson and two robots in a spacecraft to watch terrible low-budget movies as part of his scheme to conquer the world. He projects 1954 "This Island Earth" (Title (Brazil): "Guerra Entre Planetas") with the intention of driving them crazy. However, the trio laughs and makes funny comments in every scene and dialogs, having good-time instead, and Dr. Forrester's ambitious plan does not work.
This movie is basically a deluxe version of the popular cult-TV favorite 'Mystery Science Theater 3000.' In the movie, as in the TV-series, Dr. Clayton Forrester forces Mike Nelson and his two robots to watch bad B-Movies. As these movies are screened for them (and us), we see the theater seats and them silhouetted against the bottom of the screen. Their running commentary riffs off of the film and each other and their sophomoric jabs at humor form a continuous patter not unlike what might be heard among the audience, if these films were to be shown at a frat party. This particular episode features 'This Island Earth' (1954).
The film, based on the hit television series, opens inside the lab of the evil Dr. Clayton Forrester (Trace Bellieu), a mad scientist residing in the depths of Deep 13. He explains to the audience that because of our curiousness, we have become part of his evil experiment. His experiment involves his captive Mike Nelson (himself) being forced to watch terrible and awful movies released in the past few decades. In this film, Dr. Forrester explains that we are to endure the 1955 Universal sci-fi film "This Island Earth".On the Satellite of Love, Mike Nelson is doing his morning workout and is greeted by the feminine robot Gypsy (Jim Mallon) and Tom Servo. After hearing a suspicious banging noise, Mike and Tom discover that the wise-cracking Crow T. Robot is attempting to tunnel his way down to Earth with a pickaxe, breaking the hull of the satellite. After fixing the hull by placing a bowl on the hole, Dr. Forrester calls Mike and explains what his experiment is. He also mentions that he hasn't bowed down to him in the past few weeks. Therefore, using a questionable force, he makes MIke and the robots bow down to him. He then proceeds to start the experiment after asking them if they needed to use the restroom. He pulls the lever, the movie sign alarm sounds off, and Mike and the robots proceed to the theater to endure the cheesiness of the 1955 film "This Island Earth".
