The evil Grinch who stole Christmas is back to steal Halloween! It's Grinch night and all over Whoville, a horrible storm has started which gives the Grinch a chance to have some fun. But he's soon foiled by a young boy who's on his way to the Uphamisim.
When the sour-sweet wind starts blowing again, the Whos retreat to their homes because they know the Grinch will soon be a'prowlin. Young Eukariah Who has to make a trip to the Euphemism (outhouse), when the wind blows him away to a confrontation with the gruesome Grinch. Eukariah decides that the Grinch must be stopped, so he faces his fears and confronts the Grinch and his spooks.
In this animated sequel to 'How the Grinch Stole Christmas', in the mystical town on Whoville, on a night known as "Grinch Night" (that being October 31... Halloween), which commences when a "Sour-Sweet Wind" blows and a chain of events causes the Gree-Grumps and Hakken-Krakks to annoy The Grinch into terrorizing the Whos. The Grinch leaves his cave home on Mt. Crumpit overlooking Whoville with his loyal, but long-suffering dog, Max, to Whoville to unleash terror upon the town.Meanwhile, a young boy named Euchariah, a polite little Who with a slight astigmatism, goes to use the outhouse (referred to as "the euphemism" in the story), but is swept away to Mt. Crumpit by the wind.On the road searching for a way back home, Euchariah encounters the Grinch, who is busy picking Brickles out of his fur after failing to hunt down the "Wuzzy Woozoo". The Grinch and Max are in the process of bringing a large wagon called the "Paraphernalia Wagon" down to Whoville. Euchariah decides to stall the Grinch from reaching Whoville. After some persistence from Euchariah, the Grinch tricks him into getting into a strange trance by opening the hatch of the Paraphernalia Wagon.Inside the wagon, in the most frightening and intense scene, Euchariah is confronted by surreal scary imagery, numerous monsters, and the Grinch's mocking voice. Although he is scared out of his wits, Euchariah bravely keeps on his toes long enough for the Sour-Sweet Wind to die down, thus forcing the Grinch to pack up and retire to his cave. Max on the other hand, who had been abused and overworked by the Grinch, defects and goes home with Euchariah.Back in Whoville, the residents (including Euchariah's grandfather Josiah and his grandmother Mariah) celebrate the little Who's courage in preventing the Grinch from releasing the Paraphernalia Wagon's full horrors on their town and they, along with Euchariah and the dog Max, sing to cheer the Grinch's defeat. Back up in the mountains the Grinch, who is hauling the wagon home himself, ominously notes that one day there will be another Grinch Night when the Sour-Sweet Wind blows once more and that he will return.
