A convict studies law in prison and becomes a lawyer to seek revenge against the corrupt police officer who framed him on the very day of his marriage.
Ravi Malhotra and Mohini are lovers; they get engaged and are schedule to be married in 4 days' time. Unfortunately on the day of the wedding Ravi is shot by police inspector D'Costa in an encounter, is critically wounded and subsequently hospitalized. When Ravi recovers he is placed before the court and is charged with possession of drugs; this charge carries a penalty of 4 years imprisonment. Mohini feels that Ravi is innocent and decides to wait until he completes his sentence in order to get marry to him. Appalled at the injustice that was done to him by the law and police Ravi decides to study law in prison only to learn that several other inmates wants to avenge the injustice done to them by inspector D'Costa. Meanwhile inspector D'Costa takes a fantasy to Mohini and starts to get friendly with her. Fortunately for Ravi he gets released at the end of 2 ½ years for good conduct and is now a qualified lawyer. Ravi has high hopes of using his lawyer tactics to bring D'Costa to justice; never the less the marriage of Ravi and Mohini is conducted forcing D'Costa to take things to a higher level by opening professing his love for Mohini followed by lust and greed prompting Mohini to lodge a complaint with DCP Mishra but unfortunately DCP Mishra gets murdered by D'Costa himself who try to prove that terrorists who abducted numerous children killed the DCP. Replacing the DCP would be D'Costa due to his years of service and the successes he attain as a police inspector thus he would want to utilized this position to further torment Ravi and his wife so that they will be helpless.
Ravi Malhotra and Mohini are in love and are to get married. After the engagement ceremony, the marriage is scheduled to take place in 4 days time during which Ravi and Mohini must stay apart. On the day of the wedding, Mohini and her family are informed that Ravi has been hospitalized, critically injured when he was shot by Police Inspector D'Costa in an encounter. They are also informed that Ravi has been charged with possession of drugs. After Ravi recovers, he is tried in Court and sentenced to 4 years in prison. Mohini believes that Ravi is innocent, and decides to wait until he completely his sentence and then marry him. Appalled at the way he was treated by the police and law, Ravi studies law in prison, and finds out that there are several other inmates who would like to get their hands on Inspector D'Costa. In the meantime, D'Costa is attracted to Mohini and gets friendly with her. Due to his good conduct, Ravi is discharged after 2 1/2 years and is now a qualified lawyer. Shortly thereafter Mohini and Ravi get married. This does not discourage D'Costa as he still lusts after Mohini. Mohini complains about him to DCP Mishra. Shortly thereafter DCP Mishra is shot dead in an encounter with terrorists, who were holding some children as hostage. With several years of meritorious service, five medals, it is very likely that the next DCP will be D'Costa, and if that happens Ravi and Mohini can rest assured that he will turn their lives into virtual hell - and there will be no one they can turn to for help.

