A man gets a chance to meet up with his dream girl from high school, even though his date with her back then was a complete disaster.
Ted was a geek in high school, who was going to go to the prom with one of the most popular girls in school, Mary. The prom date never happened, because Ted had a very unusual accident. Thirteen years later he realizes he is still in love with Mary, so he hires a private investigator to track her down. That investigator discovers he too may be in love with Mary, so he gives Ted some false information to keep him away from her. But soon Ted finds himself back into Mary's life, as we watch one funny scene after another.
Thirteen long years have passed since that improbable and utterly painful accident that cost gawky teenager Ted the Senior Prom with the bubbly girl of his dreams Mary, nevertheless, after all this time, he is still fond of her. As a result, Ted, now a single writer who's been in-and-out of love in search of the perfect one, decides to hire the raunchy private investigator Pat Healy to track Mary down longing for closure, and hopefully, another shot at love. But as Healy tries every trick in the book to keep Ted in the dark, at the same time, unsuspecting Mary is in for a slick, yet half-baked scam in love. In the end, they say all is fair in love and war, however, what does true love look like?
Ted and Mary were high school sweet hearts who hadn't seen each other since their senior prom. Thirteen years later Ted hires Pat, a private eye, to find his long lost love. Pat finds Mary and himself becomes infatuated. Wackiness ensues.
Having never fully recovered from a prom date that became a total disaster, a man finally gets a chance to reunite with his old prom date, only to run up against other suitors including the sleazy detective he hired to find her.
In 1985, awkward and shy 16-year-old high-schooler Ted Stroehmann (Ben Stiller) lands a prom date with his dream girl Mary Jensen (Cameron Diaz), only to have it cut short by a painful and embarrassing zipper accident. After the ordeal garners the attention of numerous members of the household and community, Ted is finally carted off to the hospital. He subsequently loses touch with Mary.Thirteen years later, Ted is still in love maybe even obsessed with Mary. On the advice of his best friend Dom, he hires private detective Pat Healy to track her down. Healy finds that she is an orthopedic surgeon living in Miami with her friend, Magda, but Healy falls in love with the irresistible Mary as well. Healy resorts to lying, cheating, stalking, and drugging Magda's dog to win Mary but is exposed by Mary's architect friend, Tucker, who is heavily reliant on crutches and speaks with an English accent. Tucker, however, turns out to be a fraud himself, as he is an able-bodied and entirely American pizza delivery boy who is also in love with Mary. Using slander Tucker drives away potential rivals, among them Brett Favre (the football star, playing himself).Ted, aided by Dom, drives down to Florida to reconnect with Mary. Ted seems to have won Mary's love, until an anonymous letter exposes his being less than honest about his link to Healy. While Ted confronts Healy and Tucker, Mary is confronted by Dom, who turns out to be her former boyfriend Woogie, who "got weird on her" back in high school, setting up the original prom scenario. Having found out that Tucker also lied about Mary's former love interest, football player Brett Favre, Ted decides that Mary should be with Brett (who was the only one of the suitors who did not resort to deceit to win Mary). After reuniting Brett and Mary, Ted leaves tearfully. But Mary chases after Ted, saying that she would be happiest with him.The film concludes with the two engaging in a kiss while a guitarist (Jonathan Richman), who periodically narrated the story in song as a Greek chorus throughout the film, is accidentally shot by Magda's boyfriend who was trying to shoot Ted so he could win over Mary.
