Post-apocalyptic surrealist black comedy about the landlord of an apartment building who occasionally prepares a delicacy for his odd tenants.
Centered on a post-apocalyptic society where food is scrarce and used as currency. In an apartment building with a delicatessen on the ground floor. The owner of the eatery also owns the apartment building and is in need of a new maintenance man since the prior one "mysteriously" disappeared. A former clown applies for the job and the butcher's intent is to have him work for as little as possible, and then serve him to odd tenants who pay the butcher in grain. The clown and butcher's daughter fall in love and she tries to foil her father's plans by contacting the "troglodytes", a grain eating sub-group of society who live entirely underground.
Delicatessen is a story of about a small community living within an apartment building during a post-apocalyptic era. After an ex-clown named Louison, played by Dominique Pinon, reads of a handyman position available at the apartment building, he decides to move in. In this new world of famine, food is a rare commodity and people will do whatever is necessary for survival. The owner of the apartment building is also the butcher who works in the butcher shop on the first floor. It is here that the tenants are given their rations of human flesh which is paid for with corn, their primary currency. What Louison does not realize is that his position was opened because the previous handymen have been murdered and eaten, and his new employer does not intend for him to be an exception. However, the butcher's daughter grows quite fond of Louison and interferes with her father's plot to kill him by hiring an underground society to capture and extract Louison to safety.
France, post-apocalypse. Food is scarce and the residents of a block of flats must exist on what they can. Operating out of the ground floor of the building, and living in one of the flats, is a butcher. He has a method for procuring meat - by hiring a handyman for the building and then killing him. Food stocks are once again running low so he hires a handyman, Louison. However, the butcher's daughter, Julie, falls for Louison and will go to any length to prevent him from getting the chop, including getting him kidnapped by some not-entirely competent terrorists/rebels. High jinks ensue.
In a post-apocalyptic world, the residents of an apartment above the butcher shop receive an occasional delicacy of meat, something that is in low supply. A young man new in town falls in love with the butcher's daughter, which causes conflicts in her family, who need the young man for other business-related purposes.

