A cop/flic discovers that he had a twin who just got murdered in Nice, France. In order to find out who did it, he takes his place including the cute girlfriend in Little Odessa, NYC.
A policeman finds out that he had a twin brother who was killed in a violent altercation. He takes his twin brother's place, inheriting his problems and his girlfriend, determined to expose corruption and collusion between the FBI and the Russian mafia.
Allain Moreau, a French soldier is called by his friend, a cop. He goes to see him who shows him the body of a man who looks like him. His papers say his name is Mikhail and that he's from New York. Allain talks to his mother who tells him that she had twins but was forced to give one up. Allain goes to see the lawyer who handled the adoption and when he goes there someone is there and they fight and there's a fire that destroy the records. Allain then decides to go to New York and find out why his brother was killed. He learns that Mikhail worked for the Russian mob. He meets Mikhail's girlfriend, Alex who thinks he's Mikhail. And when members of the mob see him thinking he's Mikhail try to kill him so he goes on the run with Alex. Later he runs into a couple of FBI agents who know he's not Mikhail and offer to help him but Allain doesn't trust them.
Alain Moreau is a cop in Nice, France. Alain is at a funeral that is being held for a fellow cop, and Alain's partner Sebastien shows up. Sebastien takes Alain to a murder scene, where the victim is a man who looks exactly like Alain. There is evidence that the victim was being chased and that the victim was recently tortured. Sebastien and Alain go to the Hotel Chevre D'Or, where they find the victim's ID, which shows that his name was Mikhail Suverov, and Mikhail was born on the exact same day Alain was born on. Mikhail was on his way to the street where Alain's home is located. Mikhail had come to Nice from New York City. Alain visits his mother Chantal, and tells Chantal about this case. Chantal confesses that Mikhail was Alain's twin brother, and Chantal had given Mikhail up for adoption. Mikhail had been on his way to introduce himself to Alain when Mikhail was murdered. On the next morning, Alain and Sebastien go to Paris, so Alain can talk to Etienne St. Denis, the lawyer who handled Mikhail's adoption. Sebastien and Alain head to a building where Etienne's office is on the 6th floor. When Alain and Sebastien get to the 6th floor, they notice smoke pouring out from under Etienne's office door. They open the door - only to see flames everywhere, and an explosion knocks them backwards. Sebastien takes off after a blond haired, red-faced man that he and Alain saw leaving the area. Alain finds Etienne dead and rescues Etienne's secretary, who gives Mikhail's adoption papers to Alain. Outside of the building, Alain and Sebastien read the adoption papers. According to the adoption papers, Mikhail's adoptive father was a Soviet diplomat who lived in Paris for 5 years before moving to the USA in 1968. Alain takes a flight to New York City, where he hails a taxicab that is driven by Davis Hartley, who drops Alain off at his downtown destination, and runs an errand for Alain. Alain talks to Morris, a man who knew Mikhail. Morris explains that Mikhail's adoptive family had a grocery store in Little Odessa, a section of Brooklyn that is controlled by the Russian mafia, and that when Mikhail was 16 years old, he had joined the Russian mafia. Morris tells Alain that there is a nightclub in Little Odessa called The Bohemia. Alain has Davis drive him to the Bohemia, where everyone thinks he's Mikhail. Alain goes inside, and a woman takes Alain to where the payphones are and kisses him. This woman is Mikhail's fiancé, Alex Bartlett, and she thinks Alain is Mikhail. Alex tells Alain to leave, and that she'll see him later. Alain goes outside and is confronted by a group of Russian men led by a thug named Yuri. They tell Alain, whom they think is Mikhail, that Ivan Dzasokhov, one of the higher-ups in the Russian mafia, wants to talk to Mikhail. Alain beats up Yuri and his men, and is picked up by Davis. Davis drops Alain off at a hotel. Alex goes to the hotel and up to Alain's room. Alain tells Alex that he's not Mikhail, and that Mikhail was murdered. Ivan and two of his men show up. Alain and Alex escape, and Dvis picks them up. Davis drives for a couple of more blocks, and then realizes that he's been shot. Davis stops the cab, and Alain gets out of the cab to check on Davis, who dies in Alain's arms. Alex tells Alain that Mikhail once told her that he had a plan that would get him out of the Russian mafia. Alex tells Alain that Ivan won't stop until they are both dead, and that Ivan and his boss, Dmitri Kirov, who has FBI agents Pellman and Loomis in his pocket, are relentless. But, as it turns out, not nearly as relentless as Alain when it comes to avenging Mikhail's murder.
Alain Moreau didn't know he had a brother, even a twin brother - until he found him laying dead on the street. To reveal the truth about his twin, he now has to continue in his footsteps - he simply has to become Mikhail, travel across the Atlantic and sink into the world that ended his brothers days. Here he meets his brothers beautiful girlfriend Alex, who doesn't suspect a thing for starters. She works as a waitress in a pub, owned by the Russian mafia, and when they find out Alain's true intentions, all hell breaks out...
In Niece, France, Mikhail Suverov, a former Russian gangster is chased by two corrupt FBI agents Pellman and Loomis and Mikhail is killed. French police officer Alain Moreau discovers Mikhail is his twin brother he never knew and was given up for adoption. Investigating Mikhail's murder, Alain travels to New York City and assumes Mikhail's identity, where he meets Mikhail's sexy girlfriend Alex Minetti and discovers Mikhail was working for the Russian mob and Mikhail's former boss, Ivan, isn't happy to see Mikhail. Risking everything to discover the truth, and pursued by Ivan, Agent Pellman and Agent Loomis, Alain discovers Mikhail quit the Russian mob and had evidence of the Russian Mob's criminal activities and the two corrupt FBI agent's involvement with the Russian Mob, and Alain sets out to infiltrate the Russian mob and the two corrupt FBI agents and protect Alex, as Alain sets out to avenge Mikhail.

