Duane recovers from his delusional breakdown to find his freakish basket-bound brother Belial will soon become a father. But not everything is joyous as the once tight knit brothers no longer seem to trust each other.
The saga of Times Square Freak Twins Duane and Belial Bradley takes its most bizarre twist yet. It all starts innocently enough when the Bradley boys join kindly doctor Granny Ruth and her family of unique individuals for a road trip through the deep South. The occasion - Belail's about to become a proud monster father, and no basket is big enough to hold this ungodly brood! But when a pair of warped sheriffs deputies kidnap Belial's babies, Granny Ruth and the family strike back. Belial single-handedly decimates the local police station with crazed, Terminator-like fury - and that's just the beginning. Threatened with the loss of the newest additions to their family, Granny Ruth and the others concoct a delicious revenge against their enemies, climaxing in Belial's futuristic one-on-one with the town Sheriff.
The film begins where the second installment ended: Belial and Eve are making love. Susan () has been pregnant for six years but the baby doesn't want to be born, so that puts an end to the hopes of leading a "normal" life sustained by Duane Bradley (Kevin van Hentenryck). Duane sews himself to Belial again, so they are reunited forever. Granny Ruth (Annie Ross) is still taking care of all the monsters.CUT TO THE BEGINNING OF THE FILM
Duane is on a straight jacket, shouting that he's OK now and that he's feeling pretty good. Granny Ruth arrives and tells him that they had to remove Belial from him again. He's not at a sanatorium, but imprisoned at the basement of Ruth's home. Granny will take Duane on holiday. Eve, Belial's girlfriend, is about to give birth. Duane wants to talk to Belial as soon as possible, but Belial needs time to do that. Duane gets upset when he sees a photograph of Susan (Heather Rattray) and her son. They leave on a school bus.Sheriff Andrew (Gil Roper) likes to visit his uncle, called Hal (Dan Biggers), who likes creating complicated machines, for example, one to make coffee with milk.Ruth sings in the bus. They arrive to Peachtree Valley. Ruth stops to buy some things, but Andrew tells her off because the bus is parked in the middle of the street. Duane tries to run away, but he gets stuck. A young girl sees him and questions him. He hides inside the school bus but when she knocks, he talks to her. He tells her that her father, the sheriff, should arrest him and his brother who lives in that basket, none of which she believes, of course. Her name is Opal (Tina Louise Hilbert). Opal tells her father after the bus has left that there was something not right about those two - meaning Ruth and Duane.The bus reaches the mansion of Uncle Hal. Eve breaks water and that floods the bus. Ruth re-encounters her huge son Bailey (Jackson Faw). Ruth frees Duane from the straight jacket. Uncle Hal takes care of Eve giving birth. Belial attacks Hal because he remembered how crazy doctors separated him from Duane and he got confused. Ruth takes him out of the makebelieve delivery room. 12 babies are born... but Belial had to be imprisoned in his basket through delivery.Duane goes to talk to Opal, and he ends up in gaol. The sheriff thinks he tried to rape his daughter. She visits Duane on jail and wants to have sex with him, wearing a dominatrix-like dress. However, the sheriff appears to tell her off: he has told her daughter many times before to let his prisoners be, to which she tries to allege that he tried to rape her, which is a lie. The sheriff returns to Hal's mansion because he's been told that there is trouble there. He shoots the phone on the door. Ruth demands him to return the 12 children. The sheriff meets Little Hal (Jim O'Doherty), Ruth's huge son. Opan and the two stupid sheriff deputies take care of the 12 little monsters.Opal teases Duane with one of the babies. Belial's basket is left outside the police station, so he starts killing deputies Elmo and Renaldo (Rick Smailes &amp; Jeff Winter). Opal frees Duane so that he can stop Belial, who is killing the last of the duputies. That deputy shoots and kills Opal by mistake. Opal falls onto one of the babies, killing it. Duane frees the babies and Belial, who is already speaking to him. A long-armed device designed by Little Hal finishes with the deputies, while calmly Duane has some corn-flakes for breakfast.Ruth and the freaks appear to threaten the Sheriff, in search of the babies. They al go to lunch to the fast food restaurant. The cashier (Beverly Bonner) goes frantic serving off such huge quantities of food. Belial uses Little Hal's machine to fight the sheriff. The sheriff is down, but Belial is too, so are the children the ones who finish with the sheriff.Ruth and the freaks take over a tv station in which freaks are being mocked. She says that freaks are there to stay.
