Two L.A. cops with opposing views on what is the best way to uphold the law have to work together to bring down the Yakuza, while trying to protect a beautiful woman.
Detective Chris Kenner was orphaned as a child as his father was in the service and was killed and lived in Japan. Now he is on the trail of ruthless Yakuza leader named Yoshido, who helped establish a small Japanese area in Los Angeles and is now running a drug ring disguised as a brewery. However, Kenner must team up with a Japanese-American detective named Johnny Murata, and he also must protect a witness named Minako who would testify against Yoshido. But what Kenner will soon discover that he will be in a lot more than what he bargained for.
For 400 years, Japan has been home to a secret criminal organization dedicated to its own supremacy in the underworld. Ruled by an ancient, arcane code of honor, the deadly Yakuza have been among the most feared members of society. Even today, they are immediately recognizable by the stunningly ornate tattoos that cover their bodies, telling the terrifying story of their stature and career in a dark order that knows no mercy. Now the Yakuza are coming to Los Angeles. But in America, they're going to meet their match. Two cops are on their trail. One's an American raised in Japan. He's got the mind and spirit of a samurai, and the body of a human fighting machine. The other's a Japanese-American raised in California's San Fernando Valley. He's into malls, pizza and MTV. But he can disarm five gunmen with his bare feet. One's a warrior. One's a wise-ass. But together they've got what it takes to remove some tattoos from Little Tokyo. "Showdown in Little Tokyo" stars action favorite Dolph Lundgren as Chris Kenner, a man fighting for his adopted heritage and his family's honor; and Brandon Lee, in his first American film role, as Johnny Murata, a guy whose idea of a good time includes knowing where--and how--to get his kicks. Opposites in attitude, once they get on the streets, they're a perfect odd couple. And what they have in common is their enemy--the Yakuza who are bringing a lethal new drug trade to Los Angeles, coupled with a macabre taste for violence and cruelty.
Chris Kenner (Dolphn Lundgren) is a detective working in LA's Little Tokyo. He busts in on an illegal kickboxing operator Tanaka (Philip Tan), but a rival gang led by Sato (Toshiro Obata), attacks and captures Tanaka. Kenner leaps over the getaway car, but loses them. Later, in a Chinese restaurant, Kenner sees the thugs and attacks them. He is hampered by the arrival of Johnny Murata (Brandon Lee), who mistakes him for a criminal. Murata is Kenner's new partner, apparently. They arrest the remaining thug. During questioning, Kenner sees the thug's tattoo and realizes he's Yakuza. He has a flashback to the murder of his parents, apparently by a Yakuza member. The thug breaks his own neck. A mob boss kills Tanaka by crushing his car with him in it.At a party, boss Yoshida (Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa) questions Angel (Renee Griffin) about her tipping Tanaka off, then decapitates her. Kenner talks to the coroner later, and she explains that Angel had enough Ice (an illegal drug) in her to kill her. Kenner and Murata go to one of Tanaka's club, and find out the club has come under ownership. They see Minako Okeya (Tia Carrere) and question her about Angel. She doesn't want to talk, though. Thugs arrive and Kenner and Murago take them out. Sato stops them with a gun and takes them to see Yoshida. Kenner recognizes him as his parent's murderer, but since they're surrounded by goons with guns, he and Murata leave.The next day, Kenner and Murata follow Yoshida to a beer brewery, where Yoshida is importing and distributing Ice. Later, Yoshida shows Okeya a video of Angel's death and takes her hostage. Kenner and Murata see her preparing for suicide, and Kenner goes to rescue her, leaving Murata to trail the departing Yoshida. Kenner wipes out the goons guarding Okeya and rescues her. He lifts a car on its size and shoots it to make it explode, then drives off with Okeya. Yoshida swears vengeance.Kenner and Murata accost Yoshida and his goons in a bathhouse and beat the crap out them. Yoshida gets away, and Kenner and Murata flee the cops. They take Okeya to a remote cabin for protection, and Kenner sleeps with her. The bad guys show up again, and a battle ensues, Murata with guns and Kenner with knives and a crossbow. Sato captures Okeya, and Kenner gives up. Kenner and Murata escape torture, but get stuck in a car crusher, escaping in secret at the last minute.Yoshida starts shipping his drug-laden beer, but Kenner and Murata attack the brewery, spoiling the deal in progress. The good guys shoot the bad guys, Murata beats up Sato, and Kenner faces off with Yoshida, both with lots of fire. Kenner finally kills Yoshida in a swordfight, getting revenge for his parents. End.
