A giant egg is unearthed at a construction site and soon opened, releasing the terrible Ivan Ooze, who wreaks vengeance on Zordon for imprisoning him millennia ago. With Zordon dying and their powers lost, the Rangers head to a distant planet to find the mystic warrior Dulcea.
Six teenagers Tommy, Kimberly, Adam, Billy, Rocky and Aisha have discovered the power to fight the forces of evil. A giant egg is unearthed in Angel Grove. Lord Zedd and Rita Repulsa investigate the egg, and release the creature inside - Ivan Ooze, whom Zordon had trapped him inside the egg six thousand years ago. Once released, Ooze left to seek revenge on Zordon. And now Zordon in his crystalline deathbed is dying because he has no power, without the power then Zordon of Eltar will never existed. Now the fate of the universe is in their hands. But this time the Power Rangers head for a distant planet to meet up with a bikini-clad warrior babe named Dulcea who imparts ancient wisdom and power. But now that they have their powers back and becomes Power Rangers once more they will now get back to business and defeat Ivan Ooze at all costs.
When a giant egg is accidentally digged out of Angel Grove, Ivan Ooze, whom Zordon had trapped him inside the egg 6000 years ago is break free. Ooze left to seek revenge on Zordon at the command center. With Zordon dying and the Power Rangers powerless, Alpha teleports them to a distant planet Phaedos to obtain the great power. Will the Power Rangers get their powers back, save Zordon, Angel Grove, and the universe from Ivan Ooze?
When a mysterious egg suddenly appears from underground by accident, the Power Rangers find that they are up against an evil beyond anything they ever dreamed of. Several years ago, thanks to the Rangers' mentor Zordon and a band of warriors, the tyrannical Ivan Ooze was imprisoned within the egg. But when Lord Zedd interfers, Ivan is freed and exacts his revenge on Zordon by destroying him and the Command Center along with him. With their powers vaporized, the Rangers must journey to a distant planet and obtain a new power source in order to save Zordon. Will the Rangers succeed in time and foil Ivan Ooze's evil plan before it's too late?
The galactically feared, universally despised Ivan Ooze is released from a hyperlock chamber after six millennia. The first thing on his agenda - conquer Earth. A plan which involves revenge on his imprisoner, and mentor of the Rangers, Zordon! The Rangers, stripped of their powers, must journey to a distant planet and seek the fabled Great Power - the only thing capable of saving Zordon and restoring their lost powers. It's a race against time as the rangers, using the power of Ninjetti, struggle to restore their powers, save Zordon and defeat Ivan.

