The story involves Chan Ho-Nam competing for control of Causeway Bay with Szeto Ho-Nam of the Tong Sing gang. Meanwhile, the Chinese-Malaysian governor has set up Ho-Nam involving real-estate fraud.
The film opens with after handover of Hong Kong sovereignty to China, Chicken did not return for this film and Chan Ho Nam is on his own. He finds a beautiful new love interest's (Shu Qi) and has to deal with some young "Tung Sing" triad members trying to make something of themselves. Young and Dangerous 5 after handover of Hong Kong sovereignty to China to of Hong Kong handover ceremony. We see a transition of the "boys" becoming "men" as they develop maturity and go into more business-like dealings.The story describes the Causeway Bay to Central, a Szeto Ho Nam, intent with the status of the Chan Ho-nam compete Causeway Bay jabi it during Ma Nadu Chen Jia Nan deceive Chan Ho Nam intention to cooperate with him and then abusing him then turn with Victoria Harbour, Chan Ho Nam a pedestrian quite angry. An Uncle Seven next to the woman lying fine, Chan Ho Nam to her many feelings, but that she was considerable indignation when to do things to help Chen Jia Nan. Shu Qi determination to help Chan Ho Nam expose Chen Jia Nan embarrassments while the original replacement for Big Brother prison Big Head Young Tim was released from prison he thought of the dull life as a selling newspapers at a street vendor but it is often the Eastern Star strong protection fees Chan Ho Nam secretly help him he was rather reluctant to talk to former gangster related.Brother of the original Mister Chiang, he lives out in Kuala Lumpur (capital of Malaysia) moved to Petronas Towers. He appears series several times after his appearance in fourth movie.The end, after all to come back to Hong Kong by Chan Ho Nam and on winning of Hong Xing from Hong Kong to fight a boxing match with the Eastern Star from Kuala Lumpur and Szeto Ho Nam from Kuala Lumpur privately resolution than a commercial game with winning of Chan Ho Nam. The final bulk of winning boxing matche's Hong Xing also defeated Eastern Star and Chan Ho Nam also defeated Szeto Ho Nam declaring only a "Ho Nam" to Chan Ho Ham congratulations with Mei Ling as girlfriend join Hong Xing total grand prize HK$100 millionaire and Mister Chiang his completed by Chan Ho Nam and Mei Ling goes to limousine back to Grand Hyatt Hong Kong and the movie ends it setting off the events of the first five films of Young and Dangerous.
