Shah Rukh Khan and Sharad Kapoor are the leaders of the two rival gangs. Aishwarya Rai is Shah Rukh Khan's twin sister. Shah Rukh is in love with Priya Gill. Chandrachur Singh is Sharad Kapoor's younger brother who studies in a catering college in Bombay. He comes to Goa to visit his brother and plans to go back and start a restaurant there. He sees Aishwarya and falls in love with her. Chandrachur gives up the idea of going back to Bombay and opens a bakery in Goa. When Shah Rukh comes to know about the romance between Aishwarya and Chandrachur, the fight between the gang turns more violent. How the conflict is resolved is the rest of the story.
In the town of Vasco two rival gangs exist.Eagles a Catholic gang lead by Max Dias and Bichhoo a Hindu gang lead by Parakash Sharma.Their rivalry is to such extent that any one who crosses the boundary line of their area has to face serious beating and consequences.The local priest Father Jacob and Police inspector try to interfere when things go out of hand.Rahul younger brother of Prakash comes to town to run a bakery and meets Max's twin sister Shirley and both fall in love even after knowing the rivalry between their brothers.Rahul finds a secret of Dias family that Max and Shirley are illegitimate children of Alberto Vasco the owner of the town and the whole town belongs to them.Before Rahul could tell this to Shirely,Prakash comes to know about it and wants to kill Max to get his land.
This movie is inspired by the ageless Hollywood musical, West Side Story. Shah Rukh and Aishwarya are playing brother and sister. The movie is about gang rivalry and love. Chandrachur and Shah Rukh happen to be in opposite gangs and Aishwarya is in love with Chandrachur.
In the coastal city of Goa, there are two gangs who rule. One of them is called the Bichoos, while the other is called Eagles. The Bichoo gangleader is Prakash, while the Eagles are led by Max. When Prakash's unknowing brother falls in love with Shirley, the twin of Max, he sets off a war, unprecedented in this city, which gets all the more intriguing when he comes across a secret about Max and Shirley, a secret from their past, that when known will change their lives forever.
The film is set in a town called Vasco in Goa, named after Alberto Vasco, a Portuguese noble who owned most of the town during the colonial era. There are two rival gangs in Vasco, called the Bichhoos (Scorpions in Hindi), who are Hindus, and the Eagles, who are Christians.Bichoo gang's leader is Prakash (Sharad Kapoor), while the Eagles are led by Max (Shah Rukh Khan). They are all enemies, they fight, run, chase, and beat. But they are usually stopped from fights by Father Jacob, or the Town Inspector (Sharat Saxena). One day Prakash's brother Rahul (Chandrachur Singh) comes to visit after 2 years, who is a master-chef working in Mumbai. Rahul loves Goa the more he sees of it, and as he tours around Vasco, he meets Shirley (Aishwarya Rai), the twin sister of Max and he falls in love with her straightaway.Knowing about Eagles and Bicchhoo rivalry, Rahul keeps his mouth closed. He opens a pastry shop 'Treat House' and settles in Vasco. Meanwhile, he becomes part of the Eagles-Bichchoo rivalry, and gets closer to Shirley. The whole situation is unprecedented in this city, which gets all the more intriguing when Rahul comes across a secret about Max and Shirley's past; a secret that will change their lives forever, and that, which leads to a death. He comes to know that Max and Shirley were actually the illegitimate children of Alberto Vasco, the founder of the town. Rahul wants to reveal this to Shirley in a letter but due to circumstances it falls in the hands of Prakash. Prakash plans to murder Max, to get his father's lands worth Rs. 20 lakh. This leads to fight sequence between both, where Max accidentally shoots Prakash while defending himself. Max is arrested and his trial puts a rift between Shirley and Rahul. Max is about to go to the gallows, but the truth is finally revealed by Rahul and he acknowledges his brother's mistake.The story ends with a happy note while Rahul and Shirley are married, Max too marries his love interest Roseanne.
