A lone survivor of a plane crash is haunted by a feeling unworthy of survival. Dead people start coming after her to collect her.
Denise Watson is a TV station worker who is the only survivor of a unexplained, horrific airplane crash in which she is completely unscratched. Soon, Denise becomes haunted by feelings of unworthiness as well as seeing strange people following her and hearing voices calling her name which no one but she can hear. Disregarding warnings from a psychic actress friend, Denise tries to get on with her life while it's revealed that she was supposed to die in the crash, but somehow escaped, now the unseen specter of Death wants to collect her by sending its minions, people that have recently died, to kill Denise and finish the job what death had planned for.
Denise Watson (Anita Skinner), a producer of television commercials, is the sole survivor of an airplane crash. Meanwhile, Karla Davis (Caren Larkey), an actress scheduled to work with Denise on an upcoming coffee commercial, had a premonition about the accident and Denise's fate, but was unable to warn her in time.At the hospital, Denise is under the care of Dr. Brian Richardson (Kurt Johnson), who releases her after eight days. Although she has almost no physical injuries, the doctor advises Denise about the guilt feelings she may experience as a result of a psychological condition known as "survivor's syndrome." Denise leaves through a back entrance of the hospital to avoid reporters who have coined her the "Miracle Girl." While waiting for her friend and next-door neighbor, Kristy Cutler (Robin Davidson), to pick her up, Denise sees a wounded girl standing alone on the hospital loading dock. The young girl stares at her and does not speak. Suddenly, Denise is almost hit by a driver-less truck that backs towards her. Kristy arrives and reassures her friend that faulty brakes probably caused the truck to move.On the way home, Denise tells Kristy about her attraction to the handsome Dr. Brian Richardson. When the doctor telephones to check on her, Denise senses that he may be interested in her as well, and she invites him to watch the filming of the coffee commercial next week. That same night, Denise receives a mysterious phone call from Karla Davis, who warns her to keep her doors locked, then hangs up.On the day of the commercial shoot, Karla Davis struggles with her lines and confirms everyone's impression that she is a washed-up, alcoholic actress. Karla's agent, Blake, apologizes for his client's behavior and says she must have been intoxicated when she telephoned Denise. Meanwhile, Denise is pleased that Brian has accepted her invitation and arrived at the studio. After work, they walk through the park and kiss. The two spend the night together, but Denise is distracted by the image of a peculiar old man, who was earlier staring at her in the park. When Brian mentions that the body of a young girl temporarily disappeared from the morgue, Denise wonders whether it is the same girl she saw at the hospital loading dock.Another day later, while driving to work, Denise swerves to avoid a man standing in the middle of the highway. Similar to the young girl at the hospital and the old man in the park, the zombie-like man in the road stares and says nothing. At the studio, Karla continues to fumble her lines and leaves the set. When Denise talks to the actress, Karla reveals that she is troubled by psychic powers, but is not crazy, as most people believe. She walks away and Denise attempts to follow the actress, but winds up alone in a parking garage where she comes face to face with another zombie-like man, who pursues her. Denise narrowly escapes.That afternoon at a restaurant, Denise tells Brian she feels as if she will be "caught" soon. Brian warns that the majority of sole survivors die within two years of living through a catastrophe because they are often careless and wander into life-threatening situations. Later, Denise is in need of company and goes across the street to Kristy's house, interrupting a game of strip poker with her and her friends. Kristy asks her friends to leave and listens as Denise discusses her recent problems with the coffee commercial. When Denise falls asleep on the couch, Kristy walks to Denise's empty house with plans to invite her friends there. She enters the home and is attacked by a stranger who drowns her in the swimming pool. After Denise awakens, she looks across the street and sees the same man who was in the middle of the highway standing at her front door. She telephones police, but they find nothing suspicious, only a note from Kristy that she is away with friends.At the station, Lieutenant Patterson (Daniel Cartmell) tells Brian that the man Denise identified as the person at the front door was a highway inspector, who died of a heart attack in his car a couple days before. Therefore, he could not have been at Denise's house. Patterson also indicates to the doctor that Denise might be imagining these occurrences, since she was drinking alcohol and taking anti-depressants that evening. When Brian questions her state of mind, Denise insists she was not inebriated and is positive the highway inspector was the same person at her front door and the one standing in the road. While Brian leaves to speak with his contact at the morgue, Denise stays at his apartment and requests that her answering service forward calls there. Karla telephones to apologize for her behavior during the commercial and asks for her job back, but Denise is unable to help. When the actress hangs up, she realizes she finally has a "role" to play and contemplates a razor blade.After speaking with his friend, Artie (William Snare), at the morgue, Brian tries to comprehend why the highway inspector and other recent corpses appear to have been standing or walking after they died as indicated by blood flow to their legs. When he telephones Denise, Brian receives a message that she has taken a cab home to pick up clothes and her car. Rushing there, he passes a cab on the side of the road and finds the dead body of the driver nearby, having been killed by the zombie Kristy.The doctor arrives at the house and calls out for Denise. She appears downstairs and witnesses Brian being stabbed by Kristy's reanimated corpse. Denise drives away, escaping the clutches of another reanimated corpse. When her car runs out of gas, Denise boards a city bus. Panic-stricken, she goes to Karla's apartment, and says the actress is the one person who understands her predicament. As Denise reaches for the telephone to call police, Karla shoots her dead. The actress's reanimated corpse returns to the bathtub where she earlier committed suicide.The final scene has Artie at the morgue with the bodies of Denise, Brian, Carla, Kristy and the taxi driver. Artie continues to be puzzled at how the blood in the bodies of the last three corpses drained into their legs. After talking to a skeptic police detective over the phone over the irregularity, Artie begins to finally suspect something strange is going on. In the final shot, as Artie begins to type out a report of his find, the bodies of Kristy and the others slowly rise up from their slabs behind him... to presumably kill him too in order to keep the supernatural events of the walking dead suppressed.The End
