Two Italian racketeers come to Albania just after the fall of the communists to set up a fictive firm and pocket the grants. They need a stooge. They choose an old one in a jail : Spiro. But the youngest italian, Gino, once alone with Spiro, encounter a few problems. Far from his roots, loosing his identity in deep Albania, he begins to change...
This movie depicts a lesson of history before, during and after Mussolini, a transition between socialism and communism, poverty and early technology in the humanity's timeline. It's a beautiful compilation of both worlds, Italy and Albania, on social conditions, promise of a better future, business partnership, adaptation to a new world. Characters speak either Italian or Albanian or both. Spiro Tozaj, the Albanian name of a dual character, is a political prisoner - a true Italian World War II prisoner who admits he deserted to be with his family - lost track of time and events of the world. In his mind, he still has a boy, Giovanni, of 3-4 years old, and a wife, Rosa. In reality, about 50 years have elapsed. Originally from Sicily, he ended up in an Albanian prison and eventually, a home for elderly people. The racketeers are erroneously recruiting him thinking he's an honest Albanian with no relatives, the perfect candidate for business, giving hope to local Albanians for an honest business of a shoes company, Alba Calzature, a money laundering business. While Gino, the Paisa' (short for 'paisano', peasant, as Spiro calls him) starts an adventure on Albanian territory trying to bring the old man to Italy, he learns that his true name is Michele Tallaricoof, a Sicilian. Personal trouble comes upon both when they separate, the old man almost losing his life in an incident where children almost asphyxiated him with smoke. As he's trying to move on towards Italy, other incidents along the way make the characters grow, communicate and discover true introspection into what life really is. Roles shift onto making the old man become the wise one who finally speaks and gives words of wisdom to the young ones. Trouble comes Gino's way when the business falls apart and he ends up in a jail himself. His precious freedom is negotiated for the head of a corrupt Albanian, Dr Kruja - Mr Croce - and his eventual departure to America brings Gino new endeavors, hopes, dreams and introspection into his own solitude. God made both Catholics meet again on the ship to America where they realize they need each other the most.

