Avenging vampire stalks a king of the vampires in Eastern Europe, slaughters anyone who gets in his way.
A 19th century vampire stalks a more powerful vampire lord in his quest to gain revenge over the death of his mistress. In his search for the vampire lord in Eastern Europe he kills many of his servants and fellow vampires while cursing another to vampirism as well.
Zachary [David Gunn] sees his beloved fall prey to a vampire. Zachary stakes and
beheads him, but it is too late for Rebecca. In his grief, Zachary becomes
a vampire hunter, vowing to destroy his Master's entire bloodline, which
includes the music loving Ash and Ash's Master, Radu (reference is to Radu from Subspecies). Zachary is currently on Ash's trail. His quest takes him to Bucharest where
Ash [Jonathon Morris] is smitten with American concert pianist Sofia Christopher [Kirsten Cerre]. After
attending one of Sofia's performances, Ash invites her to his Club Muse, a
casino/brothel where vampires mingle with human donors, and then he
follows her home, intending her to be his prey. Zachary intervenes in the
nick of time and walks Sofia home safely.Ash returns to Club Muse. The next day, he sends his human business
partner Iris [Starr Andreeff] to request of Sofia a private recital that night at the Club
in exchange for $1,000. Zachary warns her not to go, but she does anyway.
At the end of her performance, Ash acclaims her a "goddess of music" and
offers to make her immortal. She refuses, and Ash makes it clear he will
not accept her refusal. "Embrace me willingly and your passage will be
painless. Resist me, and you will agonize till the end of time," he warns.Zachary, armed with the vampire slaying blade of Laertes, pays a
visit to Club Muse. He offers the blade to Ash in exchange for the life of
Sofia, but Ash claims the blade as well as both Sofia and Zachary's lives.
Ash tempts Zachary with a willing donor and, when Zachary succumbs to the
temptation, Ash takes Sofia to Zachary. Horrified at the discovery that
Zachary is also a vampire, Sofia chooses unlife over death when Ash drinks
of her blood to the brink of mortality. Sofia finally gives in and drinks
Ash's blood, sealing her fate as a vampire.Meanwhile, Zachary and Iris are plotting a way to get Sofia away from
Ash (Iris is jealous). Zachary invades Ash's lair, wounds him with the
sword, and snatches Sofia off their bed. Ash and his chylde Cassandra [Ilinca Goia]
pursue. As dawn approaches, Cassandra fights with Zachary and winds up
being staked. Zachary turns on Ash, who runs away. As the chamber fills
with dawn's early light, Zachary pushes Ash over a balcony, Ash falls into
the direct sunlight and is turned to dust, leaving Zachary and Sofia to
find resting places for themselves. [Original Synopsis by BJ Kuehl.]
