The gruesome murder of a Brooklyn Detective will turn the case into a personal vendetta when the deceased's best friend and fellow officer will unleash an all-out attack against a psychotic Mafia enforcer's brutal gang.
Brooklyn cop Gino Felino is about to go outside and play catch with his son Tony when he receives a phone call alerting him that his best friend Bobby Lupo has been shot dead in broad daylight on 18th Avenue in front of his wife Laurie Lupo and his two kids by drug kingpin Richie Madano, who has been Gino and Bobby's enemy since childhood. As Gino is hunting Madano down, Gino discovers the motive behind Bobby's murder. This is when Gino's hunt for Madano leads to the showdown of a lifetime.
In plain sight and in cold blood, crack addict Mob henchman Richie Madano, executes NYPD's Detective Bobby Lupo in broad daylight, right in front of his wife, Laurie, and their two kids. When Brooklyn Detective Gino Felino hears about the gruesome murder of his fellow officer and best friend by the very hands of Richie, an acquaintance since childhood, he will vow revenge turning the case into a personal vendetta. Without delay, Detective Gino will unleash an all-out attack against the psychotic Mafia enforcer and his brutal gang, as he relentlessly hunts them down across the old neighbourhood's disreputable joints. However, is Gino, the one-man army, ready for the true motive behind his partner's vicious killing?
Drug dealer Richie Madano shoots Bobby Lupo, a policeman in broad daylight and in front of his family. Bobby's friend and partner, Gino Silva upon hearing this, tells his captain that he can find Richie, because he and Richie grew up together but he has to be left alone. So Gino goes to every single one of Richie's hangouts and either misses or was not there when he was. He also leans on everyone who knows Richie. Also Richie's employers are upset with him that they are also looking for him. But it seems apparent that Richie doesn't care if he lives or dies, which makes him more dangerous.
Tough Brooklyn cop Gino Felino storms through his neighborhood looking for a childhood friend who has lost his mind.
