Thrown out by his girlfriend from her apartment, Axel lives for a while with Norbert, a gay man he met some days before.
The handsome young Axel is always on the hunt for women although he already has a girlfriend named Doro. One day Doro catches Axel in the act with another woman. She ends their relationship and throws him out of her apartment. Seeking a new home, Axel is introduced to Walter, a homosexual, who finds Axel quite attractive. Walter takes Axel to a gay party where they meet Norbert, who has a big apartment and is more than willing to let Axel stay for a while because he thinks he can seduce him. Meanwhile, Doro finds out that she is pregnant with Axel's child and now she tries to get him back, not knowing that he lives among homosexuals. This makes for a lot of funny incidents between the gay world and the straight world. But will Doro get Axel back or will he stay with Norbert instead?
Axel Feldmann (Til Schweiger), a very handsome but unfaithful young man, is caught in the act by his girlfriend Doro (Katja Riemann). She immediately breaks up with him and makes him move out of her apartment. After unsuccessfully seeking a place to stay with one of his former affairs, he gets to sleep at Günter's (Horst D. Scheel) for one night. Günter hosts a mens support group at his home to which Walter (Rufus Beck) has been invited to provide his view on things as a gay man, which he accepted to make fun of the group. As Axel is very good looking, Walter invites him to stay with him, which Axel refuses in the first place. But after another day of inconclusive search, he accepts. Walter takes him to a gay mens party at which Axel gets very drunk and yells at Walter that he only wants to seduce him. He decides to leave with Walters friend Norbert (Joachim Król), who keeps on having naive relationships with guys that only exploit his good faith. Meanwhile Doro finds out that she is pregnant by Axel and tries to find him. Axel and Norbert drive to Doros apartment to get his stuff, while Doro's on manhunt. The two men look at old photo slides, one of them showing Axel in a sexy pose. Norbert undresses without him noting it, when Doro arrives back home, so he has to hide in the wardrobe. Doro finds him and is very confused about Axel having a naked man hidden. However she tells him about her pregnancy and resumes her relationship.

