After witnessing his parents being killed by creatures on an island as a child, a young man is brought back to the island a few years later by his psychiatrist, only to be terrorized by the same creatures.
During the 70's, some Komodo Dragon eggs were dumped on the beach of a North Carolina island. Somehow, the baby Komodos survived, and twenty years later they have grown up and taken over the island for themselves. Young Patrick has lost his parents and his dog to the lizards, but didn't see them himself, which has left him traumatized. Now, with his therapist Victoria, who doesn't believe the Dragons are real, he is returning to the island to confront his fears. Soon people are being chomped, and Patrick and Victoria must fight for their lives if they ever hope to make it back home.
A smuggler of exotic animals receives a cargo. As hes traveling to his destination, a strange smells makes him stop and throw the offending eggs onto the side of the road.19 years later, a family arrives by ferry to the Emerald Island for summer vacation. The island is invaded by the an oil company drilling and pumping oil. The son Patrick(Kevin Zegers) takes his bike instead of riding with his parents in the car. The captain of the ferryboat (Michael Edward-Stevens) has befriended Patrick after many years of coming to the island.While the parents settle into the house, Patrick goes out exploring. He finds that something has changed. Something grabs him and scared out of his wits runs home. Meanwhile, his parents are looking for him everywhere. When they arrive home, something very frightening kills them and his dog.A psychiatrist named Victoria (Jill Hennessy) convinces Patricks Aunt and grandmother to let Patrick go back to the island and face his fears. Its the only way the boy can return to normal. They leave for the island and convince the captain of the ferryboat to bring them to the island even after the oil company closed the place down. They arrive at the home safe and sound.Oates (Billy Burke) is cajoled by an oil company exec to go on the island and perform a task. He meets a friend Denby (Paul Gleeson) and they travel about the island checking samples and pumps, within a very heavily screened jeep. They discover that someone else is on the island. The exec wants no witnesses or else Oates goes to jail.As Victoria, Patrick and the aunt are settling in, the aunt hears something. She goes about searching for what caused the noise and is hurt real bad. Victoria finds her like this and soon discovers what caused it. A large reptile drooling at the mouth attacks the aunt and takes her away under the house. Victoria and Patrick barely escape and leave towards the boat in their car. They meet the captain and hes hurt bad, the wounds infected and pussing everywhere. They take him in the car and leave the area. They come face to face with Oates and they crash their vehicles off the road. One of the lizard is killed and Patrick takes the heart of the animal and escapes in the weeds. The large lizards smell the wounds of the captain and they follow them as they walk towards a compound. Inside the compound, the captain dies and Denby is also killed by an attack. Oates tells Victoria that they are Komodo Dragons; a species of lizard on the verge of extinction. He being a biologist and his wife a geologist came to island a few months ago to take samples for the oil company, his wife disappeared around the same time Patricks parents were killed, and he was blamed for her death.Oates figures out where the boy went and they leave the compound for that destination.
They arrive and search for Patrick. Victoria finds him and just in time for him to kill a Komodo before it would kill her. A few more are killed and they manage to escape. The oil exec lands on the island and Oates steals his helicopter. He meets Victoria and Patrick and they leave the island.
