An all too uptight FBI agent must protect a larger than life mobster with a heart of gold, currently under witness protection in the suburbs.
The mobster Vincent 'Vinnie' Antonelli is under the witness protection program and the FBI agent Barney Coopersmith is assigned to take Vinnie and his wife Linda to a house in the suburbs. However their wives leave Vinnie and Barney and the agent gets closer to the gangster and befriends him. Vinnie is a bon vivant and a crook and does not keep the necessary low profile. The District Attorney Hannah Stubbs arrests him but Barney releases him from jail since he needs to testify against the Mafia. Soon Barney falls in love with Stubbs, but Vinnie gets into many troubles calling the attention of two hitmen from the Mafia. The police officer Crystal Rybak protects him and they also falls in love with each other. In the end, the good-hearted Vinnie becomes a prominent personality in the suburbs.
FBI agent Barney Coopersmith is assigned to protect former Mafia figure turned informant Vincent Antonelli. In the witness protection program one is supposed to keep a low profile, but that is something that Antonelli has trouble doing. Coopersmith certainly has his hands full keeping Antonelli away from the Mafia hitmen who want to stop him testifying, not to mention the nightclubs...
Vinnie is a smooth-talking mobster who is relocated from New York City to a suburb of San Diego by the Federal Witness Protection Program in exchange for testifying against the mob. He must start life over in a quiet town with nothing to keep himself entertained - until he runs across some old friends from the Big Apple and they start up a little business of their own. Vinnie's bad behavior wreaks havoc on the life of Barney Coopersmith, the straitlaced FBI agent assigned to protect him. Barney must struggle with Hannah, the local assistant D.A., to keep Vinnie out of prison and safe from the mob before his testimony. Before long, Vinnie is sweet-talking Hannah into dates with Barney and teaching Barney how to dance, dress, and become a lady killer as they run from Mafia hit men and nearly escape murder in Manhattan.
Vinny, a low-level New York mobster enters the witness protection program in a SoCal suburb. His wife abandons him and as he adjusts to his new life he not only finds old habits are hard to break, but he isn't the only one. His exploits get a lot of negative attention from the divorced local DA - Hannah. His FBI custodian, Barney - also recently divorced - works hard to keep him out of trouble. Barney and Vinny teach each other a lot about their different approaches to living. As Vinny's court date approaches, hitmen, and business ventures with some 'new' old friends bring everyone together.
