Lieutenant Frank Drebin discovers that his ex-girlfriend's new beau is involved in a plot to kidnap a scientist who advocates solar energy.
Lieutenant Frank Drebbin returns to save the day once again. This time he's out to foil the "big boys" in the energy business. A top scientist (Dr. Mainheimer) is about to publish his report on energy supply for the future. Things don't look good for the traditional suppliers; oil, coal, and nuclear. To save their industries, the suppliers kidnap Mainheimer and replace him with a decoy with a more favorable report. Jane, the doctor's secretary, is Drebin's old flame. Their passionate love affair is thus rekindled.
The hard-boiled, maladroit, and single police lieutenant, Frank Drebin, is back in action to right the wrongs, this time, in the renewable energy industry. With Dr Albert Meinheimer's program directly threatening all the major oil, coal, and nuclear companies, and with the beautiful Jane Spencer now in the arms of another man, Frank has his work cut out for him, as powerful enemies intend on replacing the clean-energy advocate with a cunning impersonator. Can Drebin, the grizzled eco-warrior, save the environment? Will Jane realise what she's missing?
Lieutenant Frank Drebin loves a mystery. Why are we here? Is there life after sex? Yes, Drebin tackles the big issues, and the biggest of all is how to stop devious Quentin Hapsburg's plan to destroy the environment. Returning are Jane, the woman who can melt a cheese sandwich from twenty paces, the intrepid Captain Ed Hocken, and the man so famous, a beverage was named after him, as hard-luck cop Nordberg.
Lt. Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) works now at the White House, taking care of the security of the President George Bush (Johan Roarke) and his wife (Margery Ross). Representatives from all energy sources are present at the dinner. As usual, Frank wrecks dinner and is implied that he sends Barbara Bush to hospital. Zsa Zsa Gabor (Zsa Zsa Gabor) slaps the bell which is following her. Frank ex-girlfriend Jane Spencer (Priscilla Presley) has a new lover, Dr Albert S. Meinheimer (Richard Griffiths). He's also his boss, because she wors as a PR representative. Norm (Christopher J. Keene) finds a bomb on the white paper basket. He shows it to other guards (Ken Kerman &amp; Al Fann) who set the clock on time and the bomb goes off killing only the guards. Captain Ed Hocken (George Kennedy) investigates the case. Frank sees Jane and stares her in adoration. O.J. Simpson ... NordbergRobert Goulet ... Quentin Hapsburg Richard Griffiths ... Dr. Albert S. Meinheimer / Earl Hacker Jacqueline Brookes ... Commissioner Anabell Brumford Anthony James ... Hector Savage Lloyd Bochner ... Terence Baggett Tim O'Connor ... Donald FenswickPeter Mark Richman ... Arthur Dunwell Ed Williams ... Ted Olsen Peter Van Norden ... Chief of Staff John Sununu Gail Neely ... Winnie MandelaColleen Fitzpatrick ... Blues Singer at Blue Note Club Sally Rosenblatt ... Mrs. RedmondAlexander Folk ... Crackhouse Cop Jose Gonzales-Gonzales ... Mariachi (as José Gonzáles-Gonzáles) Larry McCormick ... TV ReporterCliff Bemis ... Barbecue Dad D.D. Howard ... Barbecue Mom William Woodson ... Hexagon Oil Commercial Announcer Mel Tormé ... Himself - Party Guest Dancing with JaneZsa Zsa Gabor ... Herself Bill Chemerka ... White House Announcer  Tom McGreevey ... Waiter (as Thomas McGreevey) James Gilstrap ... Sam, Blue Note Club Pianist'Weird Al' Yankovic ... Police Station ThugGina Mastrogiacomo ... Monique De Carlo - Sex Shop Worker Jeff Wright ... Sex Shop Assistant C. Lindsay Workman ... Banquet Doorman Gokul ... Apartment Resident (as Datta V. Gokhale) John Stevens ... Banquet Butler Charlotte Zucker ... Banquet LadyDon Pugsley ... Warehouse Thug Carlos Betancourt ... Mariachi #2 Bernardo Márquez ... Mariachi #3 Margarito Mendoza ... Mariachi #4 Lee Terri ... Wheelchair Assault Witness Claude Jay McLin ... Jock #1Manny Perry ... Jock #2 Alex Zimmerman ... Jock #3 Raynor Scheine ... Explosion Thug #1 John Fleck ... Explosion Thug #2 Susan Breslau ... Banquet Woman #1 Leslie Maier ... Banquet Woman #2 Ron Rosenblatt ... Mr. RedmondJennifer Segal ... Barbecue Daughter (as Jennifer Kretchmer) Ryan Harrison ... Barbecue Son David Zucker ... Davy Crockett Robert Weil ... George RussellRobert K. Weiss ... Obstetrician Robert LoCash ... FBI Agent Burton Zucker ... Lab Technician Lewis Friedman ... Lab Technician Bob Reitman ... Lab Technician Gene Mueller ... Lab Technician Gino Salomone ... Lab Technician Robert J. Elisberg ... McTigue, Police Sketch Artist Mindy Newborn ... Slave to the Composer Jan Campbell ... Lady in Waiting Wendy Hogan ... Lady in Waiting Nathaniel Bellamy Jr. ... Basketball Player (uncredited) Lisa Nunziella ... Dancer (uncredited)
