Five inmates break out of a remote minimum security prison for women. Four are hardened convicts, the fifth was wrongfully convicted. As the authorities chase them down, the cons terrorize or kill anyone who gets in their way.
Five inmates break out of a women's prison. Four of them are hardened convicts, but one is a girl who was convicted for a crime she didn't commit. As the authorities chase them down, the cons terrorize or kill anyone who gets in their way.
Dee Randolph (Margie Lanier) drives her boyfriend to a liquor store and waits in the car, unaware that he is committing a robbery until she hears a gunshot that kills the clerk. Dee is too stunned to drive, so her boyfriend hits her, pushes her out of the car, and drives away.Dee is arrested, tried, convicted as an accessory to murder, gets sent to the minimum-security "Correctional Facility for Women," and is assigned to a cabin with three other female prisoners: Paula (Jabie Abercrombe), an African-American prostitute who stabbed her pimp; Toni (Renee Bond), who embezzled from the bank where she worked; and Kat (Talie Cochrane), who murdered her abusive husband. Sheila (Dona Desmond), the trustee who brings Dee to the cabin, tells her that Kat "runs the place." Kat informs Dee that they are ready to escape and that Dee will have to go with them, or else they will kill her. When Toni talks about living the good life with the stolen money she stashed in a hiding place, Paula reminds her that they will all share it together.That night, while Dee cries, Kat crawls into her bed and, despite Dee's resistance, has sex with her. The next night, Sheila leads the other girls to a weak spot in the fence, and all five escape into the forest. Lawmen with dogs follow, but Sheila spreads garlic powder on the ground to cover their scent.The escapees arrive at a "hippie" camp, where two women, Carrie and Calico (Maria Arnold and Janet Newell), dance topless to the rhythm of bongos and guitar. The male leader, Bat (Gary Schneider), invites the strangers to spend the night, and another hippie, Presser (Douglas Frey), offers them wine.The next morning, Bat brandishes a chain, claiming that he still needs "muscle" to preserve his group's freedom by force, even though he believes in peace and love. The hippies donate a change of clothes to each of the escapees and ask them to leave, but when the women take off their prison outfits and bare their bodies, Presser and Bat make sexual advances. Kat kicks Bat, takes away his chain, and threatens to come back and kill them if they alert the authorities. Later, the women fine lice and remove their shirts. They hide until nightfall.Meanwhile, Pop, the caretaker of an airfield, gets a phone call from the sheriff (both played by Edward D. Wood Jr.) telling him to watch out for five female prison escapees. After Pop hangs up, four bikers arrive on motorcycles, harass him, then drive off.A few miles away, the five women hijack a car. Paula and Toni rape the male driver and tie him up in the bushes. The car is low on fuel, but the women see the airstrip and stop at its gas pump. Pop agrees to put gas in their car, but when he hands the pump to Sheila and goes inside to call the sheriff, Kat grabs the telephone and clubs him over the head. As the women leave, the bikers see them and stage an accident farther down the highway. One of the bikers lies in the middle of the road while the others hide in the bushes. When the women stop, the bikers attack, but with Kat wielding Bat's chain and Sheila proficient in karate, the five women overpower the men and leave them unconscious. Meanwhile, the hijacked driver, still hog-tied, crawls to the side of the road and stops the sheriff.That night, the women invade the farm house of a young couple and commandeer a rifle. When Kat resists Toni's attempt to claim Dee for the night, Toni turns her sexual attention to the housewife. Phil, the crippled husband, rams Kat with his wheelchair, but she lays down the rifle and pushes him over. Dee grabs the rifle and shoots Kat. In the confusion, Toni and Paula get in the car and drive to Toni's hiding place.The next morning, as the sheriff and a deputy pick up Dee and Sheila at the farmhouse, the sheriff informs Dee that her boyfriend has exonerated her. Meanwhile, Paula explains to Toni that despite their mutual hate, they need each other to remain free. Toni retrieves a briefcase full of money from beneath a remote, fallen-down shack, but as she and Paula drive away, the sheriff sees them and gives chase. Forced to abandon the car, Paula and Toni run to a gravel pit.On an elevated walkway, Toni pushes Paula over the side and down an embankment. Running through the woods, Toni trips and the briefcase breaks open, sending the money flying into the air. As Toni gathers the bills in her hands, the sheriff approaches from behind and points his rifle at her head and places her under arrest. Toni laughs hysterically.
