Wallace takes a break from trying to decide on a holiday destination only to find he has no cheese for his crackers. The solution to both problems is a trip to the moon, with dog Gromit, because everybody knows the moon's made of cheese.
Wallace and Gromit have run out of cheese and this provides an excellent excuse for the animated duo to take their holiday on the moon, where, as everyone knows, there is ample cheese.
Wallace is a middle-aged inventor from northern England and lives with his beagle and fellow inventor, Gromit. One evening they are searching for holidays in travel guides, they are indecisive, Wallace goes to make some tea along with crackers, but no cheese to go on them. It occurs to Wallace they can holiday somewhere abundant with cheese, the moon is made of cheese. The two construct a rocket ship in the basement, which flies perfectly to the moon, once there they test a sample, but can't decide on it.They discover a coin-operated robot and Wallace puts a coin in but nothing happens, so they keep walking, the robot activates and cleans up their picnic supplies, among them is a holiday guide which the robot reads, it fantasizes about a skiing holiday and wishes to return to Earth. It discovers the rocket and writes up a parking ticket and notes an oil leak. The robot tracks Wallace and Gromit to another picnic spot and nearly hits Wallace over the head with a blackjack, but the money runs out and it freezes in place. Wallace takes the blackjack as a souvenir and places another coin in.They head back to the rocket and the robot jolts to life again, realizing they can get to Earth with the rocket it chases them, Wallace and Gromit seal the rocket behind them but they forgot to light the fuse, the robot cuts at the fuselage with a can opener and lights a match, which ignites the ignition throwing the robot out with some debris and sending the rocket into orbit.The robot is able to shape the debris into skiing equipment and skis across the moon surface as the rocket heads home.
