One stormy night, a doctor offers a ride to a ghostly woman he meets on the side of the road. Later, he discovers his intended bride is identical in appearance to the ghost. Who was she and why does she haunt him?
Dr Anand is depressed after sudden death of his lover Seema.On a stormy night he meets a woman in white clad and asks him for lift.After the woman sits in his car strange things start to happen she gets down at her destination and suddenly disappears in graveyard.On the same night he is called to dilapidated mansion where he sees the same girl as his patient who as passed away .He takes help of cops and finds that everything has been changed when cops arrive and the girl is no where. The cops tell him that such thing has happened many a times at this mansion with many other doctors.Next day he sees that same girl as died in train accident.Anand's marriage is arranged by is mother to Sandhya.On the wedding night Anand is shocked to see that Sandhya is the same mysterious girl he encountered in stormy night.
Anand was a well-known, well-respected doctor. One dark and stormy night, he met a young woman at the side of the road. He gave her a ride. She asked to be dropped off at a graveyard. There, she disappeared singing a love song, "Naina Barse." Anand began to hear that song more and more often. His mother arranged a marriage for him. His bride was the very woman he dropped off at the graveyard! Woh kaun thi? (Who was she?)
Dr. Anand is the sole heir to millions and quite naturally a very eligible bachelor. One night, while driving home he comes across a young woman in distress, and decides to assist her. She accepts his assistance and introduces herself as Sandhya, and asks him to drop him off near a graveyard, which he does. Shortly thereafter Sandhya disappears. Shaken by this incident, Anand decides to investigate further and gets drawn into a web of lies, deception, and an apparition who continues to appear and disappear at will. He gets entangled so very deep in her mystery that even the woman he decides to marry, Seema, looks like her. But is Anand hallucinating or is he really living through this nightmare?

