After a sudden attack on MI5, Johnny English, Britain's most confident, yet unintelligent spy, becomes Britain's only spy.
When a funeral of a British spy is attacked, all of the remaining spies are killed. Only one spy is left and is now Britain's last hope. Johnny English and his sidekick, Bough have been assigned the case of investigating the theft of the British Crown Jewels. The prime suspect is a mysterious French entrepreneur, known as Pascal Sauvage. English and Bough soon find out the horrifying truth behind the theft and Sauvage, but it's not going to be an easy job to bring him to justice.
In an uncertain world, few things are as dependable as the British Secret Service. So when an unthinkable plan to filch the country's beloved Crown Jewels comes to the Service's attention, the best man for the job, the crème de la crème of the organization's super sleuths, Agent Number One, is quickly assigned to the case and is quickly dispatched to six feet under. But unfortunately for the B.S.S., virtually every other able member of its esteemed ranks soon joins Agent Number One in the afterworld when the funeral is being bombed. Now there is only one man remaining who can even hope to protect his country, avenge the elimination of all of the Secret Service's spies and uncover the fiendish plot to make off with the lasting symbols of the once supreme British empire, the Crown Jewels - Johnny English.
By a twist of fate and an unforeseen bomb attack, the maladroit MI7 agent, Johnny English, becomes the United Kingdom's last and only chance to retrieve England's stolen Crown Jewels. As a result, to preserve the monarchy, Britain's only spy and his loyal assistant, Bough, must put their rigorous training to good use, as the prison construction tycoon, Pascal Sauvage, becomes public enemy number one in the eyes of the inexperienced duo. However, is there more to Sauvage than meets the eye? Is the suave French benefactor, indeed, an embittered megalomaniac? Above all, who is Lorna Campbell, the alluring woman of mystery?

