A young Greek woman falls in love with a non-Greek and struggles to get her family to accept him while she comes to terms with her heritage and cultural identity.
Toula Portokalos is 30, Greek, and works in her family's restaurant, Dancing Zorba's, in Chicago. All her father Gus wants is for her to get married to a nice Greek boy. But Toula is looking for more in life. Her mother convinces Gus to let her take some computer classes at college (making him think it's his idea). With those classes under her belt, she then takes over her aunt's travel agency (again making her father think it's his idea). She meets Ian Miller, a high school English teacher, WASP, and dreamboat she had made a fool of herself over at the restaurant; they date secretly for a while before her family finds out. Her father is livid over her dating a non-Greek. He has to learn to accept Ian; Ian has to learn to accept Toula's huge family, and Toula has to learn to accept herself.
Toula Portokalos is a single thirty years old Greek woman, living with her parents and brother in a Chicago Greek community. After convincing her father to go to the university, she meets the non-Greek Ian Miller and they decide to get married. Her father does not accept the wedding of his daughter with a non-Greek man.
The movie opens with 30 year old Toula (Nina Vardalos) being picked up by her father in a rain storm. She flashes back to being different and not fitting in at school as a little girl, because she was (staunchly) Greek and nerdy. Her father wants her to get married and says she is getting so old. Not listening and unhappy waiting tables at her family's restaurant, she meets a new man. It goes no where at first, but she breaks away and convinces her parents to let her run her Aunt's travel agency, while she attends computer school. Toula feels like a caged animal set free, and of course, the new man, Ian Miller (John Corbett) stops by after seeing Toula through the window. The two start dating and dad finds out. Toula's dad Gus, has a fit because Ian is not Greek and has longer hair. So Gus starts inviting Greek men to dinner and Toula has no part of it. Soon, Ian asks her to marry him and the family must accept it! So Gus has Ian convert and Ian's parents go to Toula's parents to meet the family. Of course they have all of the cousin's and other relatives over, loud Greek music and a lamb on a spit in the front yard. Toula's parents and aunt are totally over bearing and scare Ian's parents. Toula's brother and cousin won't stop having Ian speak to the family in Greek, while disguising curse words as greetings. But the wedding is on, and it is big and loud. Gus gives a toast and found that Miller comes from Milo which means apple in Greek. yes, Toula's last name means orange and the joke goes over well. Then Gus gets emotional and reveals the wedding gift. Its a house! Excited, the couple hug her parents and music and merriment break out. Then the movie ends with Ian and Toula living next door with their little daughter who complains about going to Greek School.
