An orphaned teenager is taken in by a Malibu couple but discovers they aren't the caring friends they seemed to be.
When Ruby Baker's parents are killed in a car accident, she and her brother, Rhett, must travel to Malibu, to live with Terrence and Erin Glass, their former neighbors. At first, all seems well. Ruby is making new friends at school and Rhett is getting more video games and flashy toys than he's ever had in his life. When Ruby speaks to her family's estate lawyer, he tells her that her parents have left Rhett and her $4 million. Suddenly, Ruby begins to notice odd behavior from Terry and Erin.
After the sudden death of their parents in a car accident, 16-year-old Ruby Baker and her 11-year-old brother Rhett are sent to live in the posh Malibu house of Terry and Erin Glass, old friends of their parents. But Ruby soon learns that her new foster parents are not all they seem to be. Terry and Erin draw Ruby and an unsuspecting Rhett into deadly mind games and deceptions, and it becomes clear that Terry has set his sights on Ruby and Rhett's $4 million trust fund.
When Ruby and Rhett Baker's parents are killed in a car accident, their carefree lives are suddenly shattered. Moving into an incredible house in Malibu with the Glasses - old friends of the family - seems to be the beginning of a new life for them. But Ruby soon stumbles upon information that leads her to suspect that her new guardians might somehow be responsible for her parents' deaths. Now she finds herself all alone in a duel of wits with the ruthless couple - and she's the only thing standing between them and her $4 million inheritance.
When Ruby Baker and her brother Rhett are suddenly orphaned by the death of their parents, their parents' lawyer tells Ruby that they will move in with the Glasses, their former neighbors. They are getting along well with the Glasses and being pampered with new clothes and toys and video games. Suspicions arise when Ruby overhears Terry's business deals, finds some suspicious letters, and sees Terry and Erin doing mysterious things. She then finds out that maybe all the suspicious actions are connected with her $4 million inheritance.

