A Senatorial candidate falls for a hotel maid, thinking she is a socialite, when he sees her trying on a wealthy woman's dress.
Marisa Ventura is a single mother born and bred in the boroughs of New York City, who works as a maid in a first-class Manhattan hotel. By a twist of fate and mistaken identity, Marisa meets Christopher Marshall, a handsome heir to a political dynasty, who believes that she is a guest at the hotel. Fate steps in and throws the unlikely pair together for one night. When Marisa's true identity is revealed, the two find that they are worlds apart, even though the distance separating them is just a subway ride between Manhattan and the Bronx.
Marisa Ventura (Jennifer Lopez) has made a good life for herself and her ten-year-old son, Ty (Tyler Garcia Posey), even if they dont have a lot of money. One Saturday morning Marisa brings Ty to the Beresford. She asks a co-worker to keep an eye on him for her while she and another maid, Stephanie (Marissa Matrone), attend to their chores. One of the hotel guests, a spoiled socialite, Caroline Lane (Natasha Richardson), asks Marisa to return some designer clothes for her. After Caroline leaves, Stephanie coaxes Marisa into trying them on before taking them back to the store. In an uncharacteristically frivolous moment, Marisa slips into the chic, expensive outfits.Ty appears at the door with the handsome Christopher Marshall (Ralph Fiennes), an aspiring U.S. Senator and one of Manhattans most eligible bachelors. Ty has come to ask Marisas permission to walk through Central Park with Christopher and his dog Rufus. Christopher is immediately attracted to Marisa. Assuming she is a hotel guest, he asks her to join them. She is about to refuse, but Stephanie intervenes and accepts for her.Despite the obvious sparks between them, Marisa is reluctant to encourage Christopher, fearing shell lose all that shes worked so hard to build. But he pursues her, even though it could compromise his political career.As romance, mistaken identity and front-page gossip collide, Marisa and Christopher learn that the bigger your dreams, the better the chance they might come true.
