Two childhood friends, a New York hairstylist and a would-be musician, get caught up with the mob and are forced to deliver $50,000 to Australia, but things go haywire when the money is lost to a wild kangaroo.
Louis Booker and Charlie Carbone are close friends with an association with the mob. After the duo botch a delivery of stolen TVs, the duo are given a second chance by mob leader Sal Maggio, who happens to be Charlie's stepfather. The duo are to deliver $50,000 to a contact in Australia. As simple as the job sounds, complications emerge when a kangaroo steals the money. Now Charlie and Louis must find the kangaroo and get the money back before they find themselves in a worse predicament.
A comedy that follows the misadventures of two friends from Brooklyn who are forced to deliver mob money to Australia. While taking pictures of a kangaroo, one of them places his red jacket on it. When the wild kangaroo bounces off, they realize the mob money is in the jacket and are forced to give chase through the Outback.
This is the story of two best friends Charlie Carbone, a hair stylist in New York and Louis Booker, a down-on-the-luck musician, who both are involved with the local mob family led by Salvatore 'Sal' Maggio. After their first job attempt at delivering stolen televisions to a local warehouse was backfired by brining the heat (the NYPD), Sal, completely upset, gives Charlie and Louis one more chance at redemption. His younger employee, Frankie Lombardo, gives the guys the most important assignment: to fly to Australia and deliver the mob's $50,000 to a Mr. Smith in the exact time. And so begins a cross-content trek of mishaps including: ramming a kangaroo down on the road, flying in a bush airplane and tranquilizing the pilot, walking in the burning desert, and eventually teaming up with a wildlife expert named Jessie to chase down the kangaroo who has the the $50,000 mob money. Can Charlie, Louis, and Jessie survive the heat, get the money, and save the day without getting killed by the mob?

