An emotional saga of a mother who has lost her child and her love.
Anand Kishore (Ajay Devgan), his wife, Kavita (Mahima Chaudhary), and only child, a daughter, Neha (Akshita Garud), live a happy and serene life in Delhi, India. The peace and quiet of this happy family is disrupted when a mysterious woman begins to secretly meet Neha who develops an instant fondness for her. The woman, Nandita (Kajol), is revealed to be Neha's biological mother merely wanting to see her daughter. The plot acquires a new tension with the Anand meeting Nandita, a girl he had shared an intimate night with on a train under strange circumstances a few years ago. Nandita reveals Neha to be a consequence of that intimacy whom she had to part with under family pressure.
Anand Kishore (Ajay Devgan), his wife, Kavita (Mahima Chaudhary), and only child, a daughter, Neha (Akshita Garud), live a happy and serene life in Delhi, India. Their lives are turned upside down when Kavita finds out that Neha is being stalked by a woman named Nandita Rai. When she confronts Nandita, she is told that Nandita is the biological mother of Neha.
Dil Kya Kare is the poignant saga of three individuals who are thrown into the pathos of emotional turmoil at the merciless hands of fate. It is a story about unconditional love - love between child and adult, love between a husband and wife, love between tow lovers - love that knows no parameters, no restrictions.Anand Kishore (Ajay Devgan) is a successful architect who leads a blissfully content life with his wife Kavita (Mahima Choudhary), five-year-old daughter Neha (Akshita Garud) and close friend Somu (Chandrachur Singh) - a billionaire by lineage, poet by choice. A picture perfect family, full of love, laughter and sunshine - life for them is one happy dream. Trouble begins when Kavita discovers that some 'aunty' has been visiting Neha at home and showering her with gifts - without her knowledge. She also learns from Neha's school principal that the same 'aunty' has been visiting Neha regularly at school as well. Kavita gets very disturbed by these happenings, and just when she is at the end of her tether, the mysterious 'aunty' surfaces in person, in the form if Nandita Rai (Kajol).A series of startling revelations - the biggest one being that Nandita is in fact the biological mother of Neha, leaves Kavita disillusioned, Nandita traumatized, Anand devastated and little Neha confused. The once happy and peaceful Kishore family is left shattered and anchor-less. What ensues is a series of events that tests not only the integrity and strength of the Kishore family, but also question the so called set norms of society, and of what is 'right and what is 'wrong'. Nobody is really at fault and everybody wants to see each other happy.The question is... who will finally make the supreme sacrifice and get at least one family together?
