Consequences force an innocent man to get involved in crime after making an error.
SPOILER: Raghunath Namdev Shivalkar (Sanjay Dutt) and his best friend Dedh Footiya (Sanjay Narvekar) struggle to find work in Mumbai. They decide to run a pav bhaji stall.But fate steps in when Raghu accidentally kills a customer who turns out to be the brother of a notorious gangster, Fracture Pandya and end up in the Mumbai underworld. Vitthal Kaanya (Ashish Vidyarthi), a rival gang lord, offers Raghunath and Dedh Footiya protection and later hires them both as hitmen. Raghunath becomes a respected hit man, with Dedh Footiya as his accomplice. With Raghunath in his gang Vitthal Kaanya hits a peak in the Mumbai underworld. He is protected by a politician who uses Raghunath for his needs. While BabbanRao (Home Minister) relies on Raghunath, there are some others who despise Raghunath, and are just waiting in the sidelines to see when Raghunath makes an error. Raghunath does so, and hence becomes an embarrassment for BabbanRao. Soon Raghunath is on the run, both from the police, and BabbanRao's men. Raghunath knows now that he must protect his wife, parents, and family, as they too are in danger. Then Raghunath comes to know that the police have been ordered to kill him in an "encounter", and Raghunath now realizes that there is no escape from this harsh reality. Unable to save himself from police, Raghu comes back to his home and asks his mother to shot him down for a graceful end of life. His mother does the same and his wife doesn't stop her from doing this.
School drop-out Raghunath Namdev Shivalkar is a slum dweller whose attempts in locating a job are fertile. His father furnishes him with cash so that he can start a small food business; one day he witness his friend getting bullied by a male customer; unable to stand this he intervenes and a scuffle ensure leaving the male dead. Raghu's life is threatened when the male ended up being the brother of a gangster named, Bandaya. To get away from the fear of Bandaya; Raghu's friend arranges his stay with a gangster named Vitthal Kaanya who introduces him to crime so much that when Vitthal is murdered by Bandaya; Raghu takes over as the leader of the underworld criminal gang, killing Bandaya and thus making a name for himself by dominating the city of Bombay. He frequents a brothel and is fascinated by a prostitute, Sonia who he marries and who is expecting his child. Raghu find that he can put his family right by working as a hit-man for a politician named Babbanrao Kaddam, who promises to take care of his needs.
Suleiman is Bombay's chief criminal don. All the rackets somehow or the other are linked to him. He has recruited a hitman named Raghunath Namdev Shivalkar, who has made a reputation for himself. While Suleiman relies on Raghunath, there are some others who despise Raghunath, and are just waiting in the sidelines to see when Raghunath makes an error. Raghunath does so, and hence becomes an embarassment for Suleiman. Soon Raghunath is on the run, both from the police, and Suleiman's men. Raghunath knows now that he must protect his wife, parents, and family, as they too are in danger. Then Raghunath comes to know that the police have been ordered to kill him in an "encounter", and Raghunath now realizes that there is no escape from this harsh reality.

