As a result of a drilling accident, a giant man-eating boa constrictor is released into a maximum security prison in Antarctica.
In the highest security prison, located in Antarctica, for the world's deadliest criminals, a mining operation unleashes a giant prehistoric snake with a voracious appetite. It is up to the prison staff, inmates, and two paleontologists to hunt down the beast, escape, or become its prey.
In the middle of Antarctica, a highly maximum security prison called New Alcatraz is fully operational. When a mining crew inside the prison runs across a strange rock formation. What they don't know is that a giant, violent prehistoric snake is inside the formation. After it breaks out of the formation, the snake goes on a killing rampage inside the prison.To get help, scientists and a group of soldiers must eliminate the snake before it takes over the prison, leaving the humans on the bottom of the chain.
In New Alcatraz, the world's most secure prison located in Northeastern Antarctica, a drilling operation occurs which inadvertently releases a giant boa constrictor from the ice. The snake chews a hole through the ice, and security discovers it days later. However, during an inspection of the hole, the snake is let loose into the prison, killing three workers in the process. The prison sends out a distress call which is received by the United States military. They hire paleontologist Robert Trenton, and his wife Jessica to assist a military team in the search. When they arrive at the prison, they discover the only survivors to be head of security Quinn, and prison warden Fred Ryan.After one troop is killed by the snake, the rest of the team, and Quinn go to search for him. However, a gas explosion occurs that kills the rest of the military team, as well as Quinn. This attracts the snake, which chases Robert, and Jessica, and Jessica is seemingly killed. Robert returns to the security room, and convinces Riley to release the prisoners for help. Riley then releases the prisoners, and the group devises a plan to escape. During the escape, one of the prisoners, Kelly Mitich, attempts to save himself, only to be killed by the snake that accidentally causes another gas explosion which kills Riley. Meanwhile, the other group led by prisoner Yuri Breshcov finds Jessica alive, and they take her in. The snake then kills two of the prisoners, and Yuri, and Jessica escape to the surface. Meanwhile, Robert, and prisoner Patricia O'Boyle attempt to escape, although the snake kills Patricia while Robert escapes to the surface. Robert, Jessica, and Yuri attempt to escape on the military plane, although the snake sneaks onto the plane, and kills one of the pilots. In the ensuing battle, Yuri is sucked out of the plane, and falls to his death, as does the snake. Robert, and Jessica, bewildered, ask the remaining pilot if he can still fly, to which he responds to by asking if the snake is still in the back of the plane.
