Bubble Boy's been in a bubble all his life due to no immune system. A cute blonde girl befriends BB. Her boyfriend proposes and BB decides to travel across USA to Niagara Falls to stop the wedding.
A young man who was born without an immune system and has lived his life within a plastic bubble in his bedroom finds out that the woman he has loved since childhood is about to be married at Niagara Falls, so he builds a portable bubble suit and ventures into the outside world to win her affections.
This is the story of a boy named Jimmy Livingston who was born without an immune system. Because of this, he is forced to live in a bubble dome in his bedroom, which has led students at a local high school to nickname him Bubble Boy. But when Jimmy discovers that a new girl, Chloe, has moved in next door, he is immediately taken with her beauty. They immediately become fast friends, much to Mrs. Livingston's jealousy. One day, Chloe announces that she is leaving for Niagara Falls to marry Mark, a man who always ridiculed Jimmy. And so Jimmy builds a mobile bubble suit and sneaks off into the night, determined to stop the wedding before it is too late.
On his way to save his love from marrying the wrong man, BB (Bubble Boy) encounters adventures very rare for a young man in a bubble whose system could not tolerate even one germ:. A bus load of cult members who boot him out of their bus when he accuses them of being a cult.. A motorcyclist ex boy friend of his mother (who is in hot pursuit) who gives him a ride.. Joins a band of freaks on a train who he saves from a vicious dwarf.. An East Indian ice cream vendor who gives him a ride until an unfortunate encounter with a cow.. Mud wrestles scantily clad beauties in order to win $ 500.00 to pay Pappy, an older person, to take him to Niagra Falls in his jalopy.BB gets a lift in an air plane (piloted by Pappy's brother, Pippy) and bails out over Niagra Falls, goes over the falls, and races to the church just in time to stop the marriage ceremony and marry his one true love after finding out his mother deceived him about his condition.
