Kevin Burke a young executive for a multinational investment bank, is a rising star in the Rotterdam office. Rewarded for his perceptive eye and mastery of foreign languages, Kevin receives the promotion he has been working for - a coveted spot on the company's internal security team. Trained by the enigmatic Mr. Ficks to protect the firm's employees in volatile, third world markets, Kevin thinks he has a shield for every arrow. And this makes him feel safe, or at least "safer" than he's felt since his father's mysterious death. Karl Jorgensen, the Managing Director of the bank, is Kevin's boss and surrogate father. He has mentored Kevin over the years, which makes his biological son, Karl Jorgensen Junior, visibly jealous. Jorgensen brushes off the "sibling rivalry", but clearly favors Kevin, molding him into a confident, young man. It is this confidence that gives Kevin the courage he needs to propose to the woman he loves. One smile from Rosalind Bremmond and it is easy to understand the attraction. A "rain making" broker in the bank's commodities division, Rosalind is concerned about the dangers of Kevin's new job. Kevin silences her with a kiss and prepares to propose but before he can give her the ring, an assassin's bullet shatters Rosalind's heart and crushes Kevin's soul. Having lost all hope for the future, Kevin is driven to seek revenge. His fury might well be directed at Tessa Jansen, a strong beauty who tracks Kevin from afar, lurking in the shadows of the crime scene. But first, he must find the truth. Kevin thought he knew his girlfriend, but who was she really, and why did someone want her dead? Frustrated by the local police and Willem van der Zee, an agent from Interpol, Kevin turns to Jorgensen, who places the full resources of the Security Division at Kevin's disposal. As Kevin investigates Rosalind's death, he uncovers her secret life as a money launderer and is slowly indoctrinated into a web of corporate espionage and assassination. His efforts quickly make him a target for Rosalind's enemies, agents from Interpol, and the Dutch authorities, all of whom assume Kevin's involvement predated her death. In this time of chaos, who can he trust? Karina, the bank's office manager and Kevin's surrogate mother? Thorsten, a local Coffee Shop owner and Kevin's loyal hacker buddy? Think again. Amidst the hailstorm of bullets and ever-shifting sands, Kevin must carry on his quest a quest to learn the true identity of the killer, while trying to reconcile the real Rosalind with the woman he loved. Who wanted her dead? Who crushed Kevin's soul and molded him into a vengeful gunman? Who is the soul assassin?
The future seems bright for Kevin Burke, a security expert for the large multi-national company Jorgensen Financial. He's just been promoted and is about to propose marriage to his girlfriend Rosalind. But that all changes when Rosalind is murdered before his eyes by a professional hitman. While tracking down her killers Kevin finds himself chased by mob hit-woman Tessa, his co-workers Junior and Mr Ficks and the police. Burke's mentor and employer Karl Jorgensen, enigmatic though supportive, seems to hold the key to the mystery.

