Here is another Indian that also closely resembles another Hollywood movie. This story revolves around the lives of two look-alike sisters, who are brought up separately by their estranged parents, who had separated due to a misunderstandings when the girls were little. The twins meet, find out about their backgrounds, and decide to switch places. One goes to live with the mother, while the second goes to live with the father. After doing so, they find out that their parents are still in love with each other, and they decide to bring them together and live as one big family. But the father, who believes that his wife was having an affair with another man; while the mother believes that she cannot return as she has been wronged by her husband and his sister. Will the twins succeed?
Raj Khanna is a wealthy businessman married to Archana who is pregnant with twins. His evil step-sister Devyani wants his wealth, so she fools Raj into thinking that Archana is carrying on an affair with her friend. When Raj confronts Archana, she feels insulted and they decide to separate. Archana gives birth to twin daughters but Devyani separates them. Years later, Tina (Kajol) is living with her father Raj and her twin sister Sweety (Kajol) is living with her mother Archana in Glasgow. Tina is a tomboy who loves horseriding while Sweety is demure and introverted. They bump into each other accidentally and plan to reunite their parents by switching places.
Raj Khanna is an eligible and wealthy businessman who lives with his wife, Archana; step-sister, Devyani, her spouse and her son, Teddy, in a mansion. Raj and Archana's lives are marred by marital discord, so much so that they decide to separate. Shortly before separating, Archana gives birth to twins. However soon after the twins are then separated due to misunderstandings. At an eligible age the twins meet in a series of coincidence, find out about their backgrounds, and decide to switch places. One goes to live with the mother, while the second goes to live with the father. After doing so, they find out that their parents are still in love with each other, and they decide to bring them together and live as one big family. But the father, who believes that his wife was having an affair with another man; while the mother believes that she cannot return as she has been wronged by her husband and his sister. Will the twins succeed?
Personal problems forced a married couple, Raj and Archana Khanna to separate. Before separation Archana had given birth to twin daughters, Tina and Sweety; while Sweety grows up with Raj who is now an alcoholic due to the separation Tina grows up with Archana who now reside in London, U.K. The twins do meet up with each other and decides to swap places in order to spend considerable time with the other parent they missed out on all the years. When they find out that their parents are still in love with each other they decides to strive to the best of their abilities to bring them back together.
Raj Khanna is a wealthy businessman and lives with his wife, Archana; step-sister, Devyani, her spouse and her son, Teddy, in a mansion. Raj and Archana's lives are marred by marital discord, so much so that they decide to separate. Shortly before separating, Archana gives birth to twins - but one of which is taken away from her - and handed over to Raj, who subsequently grows up to be a embittered young woman named Sweety. On the other hand, Archana has moved to London, and the other twin is named Tina. Sweety is of marriageable age, but refuses to marry the man of her father and aunt's choice, and runs away to London. Once there, she meets with Tina and they switch places. This done, they plan to get their parents' together - so that they can be a family again. When Tina meets with Raj, she finds out that he is having an affair with a young woman named Savitri. So when the twins' plan materializes, Raj and Archana finally meet - and do consider living together again - only to find out that Savitri is pregnant with Raj's child.

