Badal (Bobby Deol) is a victim of the 1984 riots, brought up by a terrorist (Ashish Vidyarthi). Badal lives with the sole aim of exterminating a police cop Rana (Ashutosh Rana) now the DGP. Rana was responsible for cruel harassment and murders of innocent people in the villages of Punjab. Including that of Badal's whole family. An honest police officer (Amrish Puri) and his family give shelter to young Badal where he falls in love with Rani Mukherjee. Badal's aim remains to kill the treacherous police officer who had killed his parents and his loving sister. After several twists and turns he meets the treacherous Jai Singh Rana who has now become a DIG. How the hero accomplishes his revenge forms the rest of the story?
Following the assassination of former Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by her very own Sikh bodyguards, the police are put on high alert to arrest and apprehend the rest of the terrorists. As a result of this several innocent families were targeted, brutally interrogated, even killed. One such family was Raja's family, and one such Police Inspector who ordered the killings of this family was Jai Singh Rana. Raja vows to avenge their deaths, and burns Rana's image in his mind. Years later, Raja is no longer the naive village lad, he has joined the terrorists and has assisted them in robbing a bank. For awhile he is asked to go into hiding, and he does so in the household of Daroga Ranjeet Singh. After befriending the Singh family, he comes to know the whereabouts of Rana, and he finds out that he is none other than the D.I.G. of Police - and no one will be prepared to believe that such a responsible officer could have issued shoot-to-kill orders. When Rana finds out he outlines a devious plan to entrap and kill Badal before he could even lay his hands on him.
During the 1984 riot Raja witness the assassination of his parents and sister by police inspector Jai Singh Rana. Raja swears to avenge there death and is taken in by a terrorist, Mantavir. Years later Raja has now turned into the most dreaded criminal and is wanted by the police. He hasn't forgotten about the murderer of his parents. In order to get at Rana, Raja takes shelter in ACP Ranjeet Singh's house and befriends him and his family members.

