The staff of a nuclear reactor must struggle to avert a disaster when tornadoes cause damage that threatens to start a meltdown.
When tornadoes hit a nuclear power plant, critically damaging the plant's cooling system, the results could be catastrophic. Atomic Twister, a countdown to disaster, traces an extraordinary day in the lives of small town citizens who unexpectedly find themselves facing the possibility of mass destruction.
Deputy Jake Hannah, a good guy who does well as substitute big brother for Corrine's young son Campbell Maguire, was already having another bad day in his private life, with his girl friend, the sheriff's daughter, telling she has enough of him failing to set a wedding date, when he is called in on duty because the only notable installation in his small West-Tennessee town, the nuclear plant, is hit by a small tornado; it's Saturday, so there's only a skeleton crew headed by supervisor Corrine Maguire, which despite good intentions causes dangerous mistakes. Things get much worst fast because two more twisters appear, ravaging even strong buildings in the whole area. Jake is bravely searching and rescuing people, including Campbell, while in the plant the cooling system goes down and contact with the experts is broken off...
Atomic Twister is the ultimate 2002 thriller directed by Bill Corcoran. Decades before, a young boy named Jake witnessed the death of his mother to a deadly twister. Years later a small town's fate is in the hands of the local Nuclear Power Plant as another tornado strikes damaging electrical generators and murdering security guard Stu. Non-Vital Systems are shut down to save power but a big mistake is made as Neville shuts down the Electrical Pumps. Soon, 2 more tornadoes touch down and again damage the Nuclear Station knocking out the Diesel pumps and threatening the lives of the towns people. NRC workers are in a frenzy over what to do. 3 Control Room staff head into the main containment building to try and shut down the reactor to send the reactor coolant to the waste pool. Neville sacrifices his life to do this task and is left alone in the harsh radiation. A Nuclear Worker's son goes missing after a tornado strikes his home killing his babysitter only to be found by Jake. Jake's Fiancée is pulled into the mix after she is caught in a car crash and is straight in the path of a deadly tornado. She is saved just in time before a fireball swallows up her car. The group make it out just in time as the tornado is right behind them. A Diesel truck is scheduled to arrive to the Nuclear Plant as an old Diesel Generator is discovered which could help restart the pumps. Firefighters fill the waste pool with enough water to keep it going for slightly longer to get the Diesel Pumps back up and running. The Diesel Truck is spotted heading away from the plant and is then hijacked by Jake to be delivered to the Plant. The Pumps are restarted as Corrine manages to restart the 30 year old generator. The situation is down graded from a Stage 4 to a Stage 1 Alert.
