Talented amateur singer after years of honest work became a famous professional, but an old enemy of his family is envy of his success.
Anil is a performer dancing and singing on streets he and his mother are accused of stealing a guitar by P.N Oberoi out of shame they leave from Bombay.Years later in Goa Anil is singing and dancing at small functions and has dream of making it big.Sam Oberoi spoil brat of P.N Oberoi is big name in music world.David Brown his manager quits his job due to his arrogant behavior and challenges Sam he will create a new star opposite him.Mr Brown notices Anil and gives him a break where Sam's sister Rita is ready with her friends to spoil the event.When Anil starts dancing except Rita everyone follows him and show turns to be hit. Mr Brown arranges a show for him in Bombay the city where he and his mother was insulted.Sam and P.N Oberoi send goons to stop Anil from reaching the show.But he manages to reach and his performances becomes a big hit soon Anil turns into Jimmy a craze for every young star this destroys Sam's career.Rita realizes her mistake and teams up with Jimmy.But her father and brother want Jimmy to be finished and can go to any extent.
Jimmy promises to return to Bombay and become a famous entertainer so that he can exact revenge on Mr. Oberoi for having insulted and imprisoned his mother on false charges. He falls in love with Oberoi's daughter and causes Sam Oberoi's nervous breakdown when he takes over as popular disco dancer. Oberoi, in an attempt to get rid of Jimmy, accidentally kills his mother, and Jimmy is devastated and unable to perform. Will he rise above the tragedy, sing again, and avenge his mother's death?
Not only humiliated and beaten, Anil has his mother, Radha imprisoned for a crime she did not commit, all due to the arrogance and influence of wealthy P.N. Oberoi. When Radha is released from prison, the two leave the community and settle elsewhere. Years later Anil has grown to love music and sing. David Brown promotes Anil, and has his name changed to Jimmy. Jimmy becomes popular with the masses, and this does not auger well for Sam Oberoi, who is the only son of P.N. Oberoi. To make matters worse, both father and son are publicly humiliated at a well-attended party. Both conspire to bring an end to Jimmy's career, and they do so in such a devious way that Jimmy's life and career are changed forever.

