Documentary about the prevalence and popularity of marijuana in the early 1970's. Featuring interviews with customs agents, a drug dealer, a law professor, and marijuana smokers, such subjects as the growing, smuggling, smoking, selling, and legalization of marijuana are all addressed. Moreover, the filmmakers take us on a tour around the world to various places that include Mexico, Canada, Cambodia, Nepal, and Saigon, Vietnam in order to show the ubiquity and availability of marijuana all over the globe.
This is a frank documentary made in the early 70s about the prevalence of marijuana in society and the governments attempts to control the traffic and sale of marijuana in the US.The film starts out by letting us hear the words and recommendations by a government sponsored panel in the US, on the subject of Marijuana and the harm it may or may not cause.
It is obvious from the outset that the film makers are staunch supporters of legalization and probably would advocate free smoking for all! This does not make it any less of an informative documentary and if anything gives it a more realistic attitude to certain policies and opinions on the subject that are either dated or just not true. Then or now when we know so much more.It is interesting to hear 'experts' back then saying things that are still said by 'experts' today and that is that Marijuana is more harmless to society when it is a crime than if it were legal. That is also a debate that rolls on but the science supports the statement as fact. Debate or no debate.The film makers travel to Nepal, Vietnam, Cambodia and Mexico and see the attitudes of the natives to marijuana and hashish. Plus, I suspect, to enable themselves to buy and sample the different varieties on offer in these places.Overall this is a laid back, fun film to watch with great opportunity to see some of the old so called 'hash trail' that so many hippies went on to 'find themselves'. I suspect they 'lost themselves' for a while too, looking at the quality of the produce they were sampling along the way.
