An 8-year-old boy, raised by his grandmother, is surrounded by problems in his family he finds only himself capable of solving.
In 1967 Buenos Aires, eight year old Valentín lives alone with his poor widowed paternal grandmother. He has not seen his mother since he was three. His grandmother tells him that his mother was unfaithful to his father. Regardless, Valentín still misses her. His womanizing father, Vincente, is on the most part absent as a traveling salesman, he who seems more concerned about his own fortunes than sending money home to take care of his mother and son. Valentín has dreams like most young boys, his primary one being to become an astronaut. He believes the work that he does building rocket models and space suits will assist the NASA space program, and he does whatever he can, such as walk around in heavy shoes to simulate zero gravity and hold his breath underwater, in his pursuit of becoming an astronaut, despite being slightly cross-eyed and near-sighted, which he believes will not hinder his chances. But without really realizing it, he wants more than anything to be part of a nuclear family, with his father at home and for his father to marry a pretty young woman he can call his mother. He believes Vincente's latest girlfriend, Leticia, is that woman. In the absence of a constant male influence at home, Valentín searches those out, whether it being his Uncle Chiche who is visiting from Ushuaia, or Rufo, the bohemian pianist who lives next door. Valentín tries to solve what he sees as the problems in his life to varying degrees of success, and comes to some new understandings which reconciles what he has been inadvertently told in the past and what he now sees in life.
A eight-year-old boy named Valentin living with his grandmother in Buenos Aires in the late 1960s discovers that his family has problems that only he can solve. Specifically, he dreams of being reunited with his mother, who is separated from Valentin's abusive father who uses him to attract new girlfriends like the attractive Leticia, whom Valentin himself befriends...
On 1969, in Argentina, the eight-year-old Valentin is a boy that dreams to be an astronaut. He is raised by his poor widow grandmother Abuela, and is totally abandoned by his parents. His mother has apparently forgotten him, and his stupid father does not pay much attention on him. The smart, but needy kid missed his mother, and when his father introduces his new girlfriend Leticia, Valentin has a strong connection with her. Meanwhile his grandmother gets sick, and the boy tries to resolve all his family problems using his persuasion and viewpoint of life. He also tries to approach Leticia to his great friend and master Rufo.

