A police officer adopts the son and sole survivor of a family he has massacred while pursuing a terrorist. After some time the foster son finds out what the stepfather did.
In a valley of astonishing beauty, a small family lives in an idyllic house: a father, a mother and a son. They are a picture of happiness and love. But appearances are often deceptive. This pastoral landscape is the strife-torn valley of Kashmir, and the son, Altaaf, is an orphan of war who has been adopted by a policeman, Inayat Khan, and his wife, Neelima. Altaaf is slowly recovering from the psychic wounds of seeing his parents and his young sister shot to death before his eyes by a masked man. Years later, a rebel force infiltrates the valley on a secret mission. They need an highly trained fighter with burning anger and find that in Altaaf. He returns to the streets and by lanes of his childhood fighting for Hilal Kohistani, but also obsessed with his own private mission: he must kill the masked intruder who haunts his nightmares -- Inayat Khan.
Set in the turmoil of the disputed Kashmir Valley between 1989 and 1999, the mission actually starts after a series of life-altering events. Sanjay Dutt plays an Indian Muslim police officer, who in the line of duty, accidentally kills a Muslim Kashmiri family. The sole survivor of the clan is the young Altaaf (Hrithik Roshan). The police officer adopts him at his wife's insistence since they both just lost their own son in an accident. When the traumatized boy finds out that the masked man in his nightmares who murdered his familiy is his new stepfather, he flees, swearing revenge. Several years later he has become a grown up deadly fighting machine and time for revenge has come...
Malik Ul Khan has issued a fatwa (holy order) instructing all Kashmiri residents that they are not to provide any support of any kind of SSP Inayat Khan and his soldiers. When Inayat's son is injured in a domestic accident, a doctor breaks the rules, but is unable to save Irfan. The doctor and all of his family are brutally and mercilessly hunted down and killed by terrorists. When Inayat entraps Malik, there is a shoot-out, and as a result, Malik and several other innocent by-standers are killed. One of the survivors is young Altaaf, who watched his entire family being killed by a masked Indian soldier. Inayat takes this child to live with him and his Hindu wife, Neelima. Years later, Altaaf has grown up calling Neelima and Inayat "Ammi and Abba"., and has found out that the masked soldier was none other than Inayat himself. Altaaf breaks off his relationship and re-locates to Kashmir and joins with a group of terrorist who want an independent Kashmir. When the Indian Prime Minister decides to visit the region, Altaaf and his group are ready to carry out their deadly strike and destabilize the region and country. When Inayat attempts to take this assignment, his superiors refuse to accede to his request. It is then that Inayat finds out that the target of the terrorists is not the Indian Prime Minister, but two places of worship - Hindu and Islamic - and that the agenda of the terrorists is to shoot a missile at each of these holy places, so that the Hindus would blame the Muslims and vice versa, thus leading to riots and virtually unstoppable bloodshed.

