Martin Lawrence plays Jamal, an employee in Medieval World amusement park. After sustaining a blow to the head, he awakens to find himself in 14th century England.
This is the story an amusement park employee named Jamal Walker who is magically transported back to medieval times in 14th-century England. There, Jamal meets Sir Knolte, a dissolute knight, before he stumbles into the court of the usurper King Leo. Jamal is impressed by what he thinks is the realism of the theme park; only after witnessing a gory beheading does he realize, with horror, where he really is. Jamal encounters the beautiful Victoria who is scheming to return the queen to the throne, and falls afoul of the evil Sir Percival. Joining forces with Sir Knolte and Victoria, Jamal teaches the rebels some helpful football, golfing, and boxing moves, before he dons the armor of the awesome "Black Knight"!
Jamal, a low-level worker at a shabby amusement park with a medieval theme, finds himself sent back to the year 1328 after he falls in the moat. Before he realizes what has happened, he finds himself mistaken for a messenger from Normandy, enlisted in a plot to kill the tyrant king, and preparing to open a chain of fast-food restaurants, not to mention falling in love with the leader of the assassination plan.
Jamal Walker is a bumbling African-American loser with a lousy job at a crummy theme park called Medieval World, which is receiving heavy competition from a superior stadium with a similar theme, Castle World. Jamal's pathetic life, however, is dramatically altered while cleaning the stagnant moat. He finds a medallion in the moat, and while trying to pull it from its spot gets sucked into a vortex after an apparent knock on the head. Awakening in England, 1328, he bungles his way through this strange new world, learning his modern lifestyle learned in the ghetto clashes strongly with the Renaissance period. Believed to be French, for his odd dress and manner of speech, Jamal finds himself banding with an attractive freedom fighter named Victoria, and Knolte, an alchoholic, penniless former knight who failed his queen and allowed her to be overthrown by an evil king, whom Jamal is forced to perform for as a jester named Sir Skywalker. However, he may be forced to become no less then, indeed, a black knight, who will have to fight in a vicious battle - after making love to Victoria, of course.

