In 1931, three half-white, half-Aboriginal girls escape after being plucked from their houses to be trained as domestic staff, and set off on a journey across the Outback.
Western Australia, 1931. Government policy includes taking half-white, half-Aboriginal children from their Aboriginal mothers and sending them a thousand miles away to what amounts to indentured servitude, "to save them from themselves." Molly, Daisy, and Grace (two sisters and a cousin who are fourteen, ten, and eight) arrive at their Gulag and promptly escape, under Molly's lead. For several days they walk north, following a fence that keeps rabbits from settlements, eluding a native tracker and the regional constabulary. Their pursuers take orders from the government's "Chief Protector of Aborigines", A.O. Neville, blinded by Anglo-Christian certainty, evolutionary world view, and conventional wisdom. Can the girls survive?
It's 1931 in Western Australia. A.O. Neville is the government's official in dealing with Aborigine issues. Under the law, he has the right to seize "half-caste" children, those with both Aborigine and white parentage, to be housed on native settlements, where they are to be "re-educated" to western ways, eventually to become servants for whites. The assertion is that this measure will protect the Aborigine population, as if they are left to intermingle within Aborigine communities, half-castes will turn the community white, as the weaker Aborigine gene will be bred out within a few generations. It is under this law, that Neville seizes, amongst others, sisters, fourteen-year-old Molly Craig, and eight-year-old Daisy Craig Kadibill, and their ten-year-old cousin Gracie Fields. Ever since arriving at the Moore River Native Settlement camp, Molly plans to escape with her sister and cousin, and walk all of the way back to Jigalong to their real home, real family, and their traditional way of life. Molly uses the three thousand kilometer (one thousand eight hundred sixty-four mile) long rabbit-proof fence, which runs adjacent to Jigalong to navigate her way home. But Neville and his trackers will not let a bunch of half-caste girls circumvent the law and its associated grand plan.
In 1931, with the Aborigine Act in Australia, the Chief Protector of Aborigines in the State of Western Australia, A.O. Neville, had the power to relocate half-Aboriginal children from their families to educational centers to learn the culture of the white man. When the fourteen-year-old half-white, half-Aboriginal girl Molly Craig is taken from her mother in Jigalong with her eight-year-old sister Daisy Kadibill, and their ten-year-old cousin Gracie Fields to the distant Moore River Native Center, they run away trying to return to the tribe in the desert. They are chased by the skilled tracker Moodoo and the police under the command of Neville, and have to survive their long journey back home.
Three little girls. Snatched from their mothers' arms. Spirited three thousand kilometers (one thousand eight hundred sixty-four miles) away. Denied their identities. Forced to adapt to a strange new world. They will attempt the impossible. A daring escape. A run from the authorities. An epic journey across an unforgiving landscape that will test their will to survive. Their only resources, tenacity, determination, ingenuity, and each other. Their one hope, find the rabbit-proof fence that might just guide them home. Based on a true story.
This is based on the true story of Molly Craig, a young half-white, half-Aboriginal girl who leads her younger sister and cousin in an escape from an official government camp, set up as part of an official government policy to train them as domestic workers, and integrate them into white society. With grit and determination, Molly guides the girls on an epic journey, one step ahead of the authorities, over three thousand kilometers (one thousand eight hundred sixty-four miles) of Australia's outback in search of the rabbit-proof fence that bisects the continent, and will lead them home. These three girls are part of what is referred to today as the "Stolen Generations".
Rabbit-Proof Fence is a 2002 Australian drama (directed by Phillip Noyce) film based on the book Follow the Rabbit-Proof Fence by Doris Pilkington Garimara. It concerns the author's mother, and two other young mixed-race Aboriginal girls, who ran away from the Moore River Native Settlement, north of Perth, in order to return to their Aboriginal families, after being placed there in 1931. The film follows the girls as they trek/walk for nine weeks along 1,500 miles (2414km) of the Australian rabbit-proof fence to return to their community at Jigalong while being tracked by a white authority figure and a black tracker.
