A newlywed couple, Raj and Priya, move to Switzerland and become friends with their new neighbors, Vicky and Sonia. But one day, Sonia is murdered and Raj is accused of the murder. He goes on the run in order to prove himself innocent.
A new couple get married and move to Switzerland. They make friends with their new neighbors Akshay Kumar and Bipasha Basu. Life seems perfect until one day when Raj wakes up in Vicky's house and finds out that Vicky's wife has been murdered. Raj is accused of the murder but flees from the authorities in order to prove himself innocent.
Raj Malhotra and Priya happen to meet by chance and fall in love, then they decided to marry with Priya's father wish. After there marriage they decided to go and reside in Switzerland, a country which they though was perfect for them. Here they met another Indian couple and there neighbor Vikram alias Vicky Bajaj and Sonia, they meet and quickly became friends and decided to go on a Christmas vacation to Mauritius, all was well there, until Vikram begin to speak to Raj about wife swapping which upset Raj and a fight break out between the two, breaking up the friendship and leads them back to there destination. A couple of days the two couples again became friends where on Vicky birthday all two men were drunk and finds themselves in each others house the next morning only to know that Sonia is murder, Raj is accused of this, while in court he manage to escape from there and the swiss police and when he decides to confront Vikram he find the evidence to prove his innocence and also win back his love.
Raj Malhotra and Priya is a newly married Indian couple who came to settle in Switzerland. They quickly befriends there neighbor who is also another Indian couple Vikram Bajaj and Sonia. The two couples often hangs out together until things became bitter between Raj and Vikram when Vikram asks Raj to swap each other wife for a night; this angers Raj and a fight break out between the two splitting the couples up. After a few days things seems to cool down once again with the two couples befriending each other again. Then the two men came home drunk one night and ended up sleeping with each other wife, Raj wakes up next morning to be handcuff by the police for the murder of Vikram's wife Sonia. The case is tried in court and Raj is proving guilty, with his wife Priya disbelieving him and losing his friendship with Vikram Raj escapes from the court room to find evidences that will prove his innocence.
Newly married Raj and Priya settle in Switzerland they befriend their neighbors Vikram and his wife Sonia.They become very close to each other and plan a trip in Mauritius.Sonia starts to seduce Raj but he ignores her as he doesn't want to cheat Priya.Raj also sees Vikram meeting another women next day Vikram talks to Raj about wife swapping which upsets Raj and a fight breaks between the two following which Raj and Priya return back from their trip and maintain distance from Vikram and Sonia .Sonia and Priya are unaware of what happened between the two.Few days later Raj saves Vikram's life and they become fiends again on the night of Vikram's birthday he again talks to drunken Raj about wife swapping they both go to each other house that night .Next day Sonia is found brutally murdered and Raj is found guilty for it as he spend the night with her.
On a chance encounter Raj Malhotra meets with Priya . Priya's dad knows of the Malhotra family, and soon Raj and Priya fall in love with each other, and are married. They decide to settle in Switzerland. Their neighbors are another Indian couple, Vikram alias Vicky Bajaj and Sonia Bajaj. They come to know each other, and become friends. They holiday in Mauritius. It is here that Vicky asks Raj to swap wives for a night. This angers Raj and they get into a fight. Back home, things cool down a little bit, and both couples decide to start afresh. On Vicky's birthday, both men get drunk, and end up in each other's homes. Raj wakes up with a dead woman next to him. Subsequently, he is arrested by the Swiss police. His friend Vicky has turned against him; his wife no longer believes him; and it is upto Raj himself to prove his innocence. So he escapes dramatically from the courtroom, and sets out to find evidence that will prove his innocence.
Raj (Bobby Deol) and Priya (Kareena Kapoor) meet by chance and fall in love after a whirlwind romance. They marry and reside in Switzerland, where they meet another Indian couple: Vikram (Akshay Kumar) and Sonia (Bipasha Basu). The couples quickly become friends and decide to go on a Christmas vacation together to Mauritius.During their vacation, Raj sees Vikram with another woman, kissing and looking intimate. At the same time, Sonia begins to try to seduce Raj, who rejects her. Vikram notices Raj looking at Sonia and casually talks to him about wife swapping, this upsets Raj and an argument breaks out between the two men. However, a couple of days later, they resolve their issues and become friends again. On Vikram's birthday, the two men celebrate by getting drunk together, sharing bottles of alcohol. The next morning Raj goes jogging in order to work off his hangover and finds that he cannot recall much of the previous night.After some time, Sonia is found dead, and Raj is accused of her murder since his fingerprints are found on the murder weapon - an alcohol bottle. Determined to prove his innocence, Raj manages to escape from court, and is chased by the Swiss police. He meets Priya, who eventually believes his innocence and aids him in finding out what really happened. He decides to search Vikram's house, only to be interrupted by Vikram, who calls the police and then reveals that everything was planned in advance. Raj escapes in Vikram's car with Priya.Raj finds a boarding pass that belongs to Sonia Bajaj, which states that Sonia arrived in Zurich on 29 December - however, Sonia was supposedly murdered on that night. Raj suspects her to be the woman he saw with Vikram, traveling to Geneva together. In Geneva, Raj meets an insurance officer who is trying to find evidence that Vikram was involved in the death of his wife, in order to receive her life insurance payment of $10 million. Working with the insurance agent, Raj traces Vikram to a cruise ship. There, he sees Vikram dancing with a woman who is revealed to be 'Sonia', alive and well.Raj confronts Vikram, who finally explains the whole devious plan - the woman whom he kissed in Mauritus was his actual wife Sonia Bajaj (Mink Brar), while the woman with him that Priya and Raj were introduced to in Switzerland is his girlfriend Neeta (Bipasha Basu). Vikram, a struggling musician, married the wealthy and glamorous Sonia, and convinced her to take out an insurance plan of $10 million on herself. He then formulated a plan with Neeta to have Sonia killed so that they could collect the money.Vikram boasts about having pinned the murder on Raj. However, Raj takes Vikram to a computer and shows him his empty bank account. Raj says that he had guessed the password, "Everything is planned", something that Vikram used to say a lot, and used it to transfer the money back to the insurance company. Raj also reveals that everything Vikram said had been recorded. A fight erupts between the two and Neeta dies in the conflict. Angered at losing Neeta, Vikram gets aggressive, killing the insurance officer and seemingly kills Raj. He chases Priya to kill her too, but Raj is able to save her. Vikram dies when he is impaled by an anchor from the cruise ship. Now proved innocent, Raj and Priya move back to India.
