Two young women find themselves struggling to survive in Paris, street-wise Nathalie, a stripper, and naïve Sandrine, a barmaid. Together, they discover that sex can be used to their advantage, and pleasure. Both find positions in the office of a large bank, where bored, under-stimulated, prey are easy pickings. After making their way though several layers of executives at the bank, with destructive, and lucrative, results, they approach Christophe, scion to the bank director. What they don't know is that Christophe is a manipulative voyeur, whose last two lovers set themselves on fire when he rejected them. A connoisseur of high-class orgies, Christophe is only interested in new talent to satisfy the appetites of all whom he controls. In Christophe, the girls have found an opponent who knows all their wiles, and will challenge their simple under-class friendship with levels of jealousy and ecstasy that they have never experienced before. Will they survive?
Two Parisian girls, Nathalie (Coralie Revel), a nude dancer at a bar, and Sandrine (Sabrina Seyvecou), a bartender, conspire to climb the social ladder of Paris when they start living together.The club owner gives Sandrine an ultimatum to have sex with a paying client. Nathalie, after finishing her shift, defends and dissuades Sandrine from accepting the offer, and both girls are fired and are literally thrown out onto the street. Sandrine, after falling behind on her rent, is sure that the landlord will kick her out especially since she is unemployed, but Nathalie offers to share her apartment with Sandrine for a while.During that time, Sandrine and Nathalie form an unusual friendship bond that has Nathalie trying to get the younger Sandrine to open up of her sexual appeal that involve public masturbation on the platform of a local Parisian Metro station, to having lesbian sex (fingering) with each other behind corners on public streets.Penniless, the girls decide to climb the corporate ladder by exploiting their sex appeal and get jobs as secretaries in a banking corporation. Sandrine is sent to work in HQ, and Nathalie is sent to work in the Human Resource Department. They aim to seduce their bosses and get promoted, which Sandrine accomplishes with co-founder Monsieur Delacroix (Roger Mirmont) after becoming his secretary, but much ambiguity surrounds Nathalie.Christophe (Fabrice Deville), the CEO's son and future heir to the banking corporation, is very handsome and the final target for both girls to seduce, but his reputation is devastating. Having gone through many women, Christophe is ruthless and seemingly emotionless yet has the capability to seduce any woman and make her fall madly in love with him. This resulted in previous romances ending with their suicide. Yet Sandrine still is determined to conquer him even after receiving a warning from Nathalie to stay away from him.Over time, Sandrine, through sexual absenteeism and reduced attention towards Delacroix, convinces him to have Nathalie transferred to his office as an assistant secretary to Sandrine since she feels overworked. The result is a threesome that evening in the office that Christophe and his sister interrupt. After being covertly disciplined, Delacroix will retain his job title and continue to work for the company, but, officially, on paper (to which only Christophe has access) he has been fired.After the situation, Christophe takes Nathalie and Sandrine to a private restaurant, where it is revealed that Nathalie has been Christophe's secret lover while the girls had been working at the bank. After flaunting his wealth, Christophe reveals his plan: to marry Sandrine with a formal wedding to convince his dying father that he is a reformed man and thus will gain complete control over the corporation. Sandrine will divorce after with a healthy settlement. Nathalie, enraged by the situation, does not resist in hope that Christophe loves her, even obeying his command for her and Sandrine to go to the toilets and start having sex with each other before awaiting Christophe to turn it into a threesome.Later on, Sandrine is invited to Christophe's chateau for an evening of dinner with him and his sister in an incestuous threesome. The evening is interrupted by Nathalie, who still believes blindly that Christophe loves her deep down. After Christophe rejects her and throws a stone at her, Nathalie succumbs to madness.The wedding is carried out at a later date and during the wedding night Sandrine and Christophe walk together through his chateau as an orgy ensues. Guards escort her to the cellar upon hearing that Christophe's father has died and left him the entire corporation. There, she is gang raped by guests whilst Christophe and his sister engage in sexual intercourse.Later on in the evening when the events have settled down, Sandrine is thrown out in front of the main door and told by Christophe that the divorce may take several weeks. Nathalie appears with a jerrycan full of petrol that she pours over herself and holds a lighter in the air. Christophe dismisses her, only to be shot several times by Nathalie in her rage. Nathalie is arrested and sentenced to a long prison term, while Sandrine becomes the heir to the corporation.Years later when Sandrine is entering her limousine on the streets of Paris she recognizes Nathalie, who has since married her jail guard and had a child. Nathalie and Sandrine walk over to each other and kiss each other on the cheek as a final goodbye to each other as they both go their separate ways.
