Orin Boyd, a tough cop in an inner-city precinct discovers a web of dirty cops and corruption.
Orin Boyd (Seagal) is a Detroit cop who doesn't follow rules. After he saved the Vice President by violating every order he received he is transferred to one of the worst precincts in the city. There he quickly encounters some corrupt cops selling heroin to drug dealers. The problem is, it's very difficult to tell who is the bad guy and who you can trust.
Orin Boyd is a cop who works in Detroit's 21st precinct, and his attitude and rough means of enforcing the law always end up annoying the precinct captain, Frank Daniels. When terrorists try to kill the Vice President of the United States, Orin kills the terrorists. Even though Orin saved the Vice President's life, Frank doesn't like the way Orin did it, so Frank transfers Orin to the 15th precinct -- Detroit's worst precinct. Orin's new captain, former internal affairs officer Annette Mulcahy, knows of his reputation and tells him that she won't tolerate it, and she sends Orin to an anger management class where he meets Henry Wayne, the high-strung host of a local talk show called "Detroit AM." Despite this measure, Orin doesn't change his ways of doing his job, and it's not long before he comes across local drug dealer Latrell Walker and his fast-talking sidekick T. K. Johnson doing a shady deal with a man named Matt Montini. After a brief fight, Orin discovers that Montini has been working undercover trying to nail Walker, and Orin messed it up, a point that doesn't sit well with Montini's musclebound partner Useldinger. Not all of the cops of the 15th precinct give Orin a hard time. Sergeant Lewis Strutt steps in to cool things down when Orin gets in a fight with Useldinger, and George Clark is assigned to be Orin's partner. After Orin stumbles upon the theft of $5,000,000 worth of heroin from Piper Tech, a place where evidence is stored, Orin and George begin focusing their efforts on Latrell and T.K., and also Shaun Rollins, a man that Latrell has been visiting at the local jail. Orin asks Henry to do some digging on Latrell's background. What Henry discovers is that Latrell is not a drug dealer. Latrell is a computer expert and billionaire whose real name is Leon Rollins -- he's the brother of Shaun Rollins. Orin confronts Leon, who explains that a group of corrupt cops were in danger of losing one of their drug dealers, so the corrupt cops planted heroin on Shaun, setting Shaun up to take the rap so they wouldn't lose their dealer. Sergeant Lewis Strutt is the leader of the group of corrupt cops, who also include Montini and Useldinger, and Strutt and his gang are the ones who stole the heroin from Piper Tech. Leon and his friend Trish have been videotaping the corruption, hoping that it might help prove Shaun's innocence and get him out of jail. Orin meets with Annette at a parking lot and he gets in Annette's truck and tells Annette what's going on. When Montini and Useldinger and a bunch of their men show up and try to kill Orin and Annette, Annette screeches out of the parking lot with Orin still in her truck. Orin and Annette are chased, and Annette is killed in the chase when her truck slams into the back of a bigger truck, sending her into her windshield. Orin tells Frank that Strutt will be having a meeting at a warehouse in about an hour, to sell the heroin that was stolen from Piper Tech. Strutt plans to try to sell it to Leon and T. K., not knowing that Leon is working against him. Frank promises that he'll be there with some backup. Orin then goes to George's house and tells George what's going on. George agrees to help Orin bring Strutt and his gang down. But it may be someone higher up who is behind the whole thing.
A tough cop runs up against fellow cops selling drugs.
