A court-martialed General rallies together twelve hundred inmates to rise against a corrupt and sadistic warden.
Robert Redford stars in this action drama as General Irwin, a respected three-star tactician whose career ends in disgrace when he's court-martialed and sent to The Castle, a maximum security military prison. Irwin quickly butts heads with the facility's autocratic warden, Colonel Winter (James Gandolfini), who runs his command with an iron fist, even killing prisoners when he deems it necessary. Irwin rallies his fellow convicts into a rag-tag army and leads them in a revolt against Winter, an action that the warden is ready to repel by violent means.
After one devastating decision, the war-hardened Lieutenant General and former Vietnam POW, Eugene Irwin, finds himself sentenced to the sadistic Colonel Winter's impregnable military prison--the Castle. A leader by nature, it won't be long until the charismatic tactician locks horns with the despotic warden who rules his fortress with an iron fist, unbeknownst to him, however, that an uprising is brewing. Under those circumstances--in this pit of criminals--all it takes is one true commander to organise the prisoners into an invincible army, to rise up against the oppressive Winter. Can Irwin seize the final castle?
When three star General Irwin is transferred to a maximum security military prison, its warden, Colonel Winter, can't hide his admiration towards the highly decorated and experienced soldier. Irwin has been stripped of his rank for disobedience in a mission, but not of fame. Colonel Winter, who runs the prison with an iron fist, deeply admires the General, but works with completely different methods in order to keep up discipline. After a short while, Irwin can feel Winter's unjust treatment of the inmates. He decides to teach Winter a lesson by taking over command of the facility and thus depriving him of his smug attitude. When Winter decides to participate in what he still thinks of as a game, it may already be too late to win.
Three-star General Irwin, a renowned military tactician, has been court-martialed and sentenced to a maximum security military prison run with an iron fist by its warden, Colonel Winter. Winter can't help but respect the once-legendary general, but that respect turns to hostility as Irwin defiantly confronts the warden on his methods. Their confrontation escalates into war when the general organizes his fellow inmates into an army to take over the prison.

