A grown-up woman, who kept her childish instincts and behavior, starts working as a nanny of a 8-year-old girl, who actually acts like an adult. But in the end everything turns to its right places.
Molly Gunn, the freewheeling daughter of a deceased rock legend, is forced to get a job when her manager steals her money. As nanny for precocious Ray, the oft ignored daughter of a music executive, she learns what it means to be an adult while teaching Ray how to be a child.
In New York City, Molly Gunn is a spoiled wealthy immature young woman, living as if she were a princess in a fairy tale. Her father was a popular rock-and-roll guitar player, who died in a plane crash with Molly's mother when she was a little girl. On her birthday in a nightclub, she meets Lorraine "Ray" Schleine, a nasty young girl with attitudes of an adult, living with her careless mother and a terminal father in a fancy uptown apartment. When Molly's accountant vanishes with her US$ 100,000,000.00 inheritance, Molly is left with nothing but debts, and she needs to work to survive without having previous experience or any skills. She is hired to be Ray's babysitter, and their close contact makes Molly reach the maturity and Ray act like as a child of her age.
Molly Gunn, played by Brittany Murphy, is the daughter of a late rock and roll legend and the toast of the New York music scene. Unfortunately, reality hits Molly in the head when she loses all of her assets. Molly's lawyer, who wasn't insured, steals her inheritance and sells the future royalties to her father's music. Molly is forced to do something she has never done in her life, get a job. Her friend gets her a job as a nanny to a precocious eight-year-old, Ray Schleine (Dakota Fanning). Ray is emotionally distant from her mother Roma Schleine (Heather Locklear), a career-obsessed music executive who doesn't have any time for Ray. Since Ray's father has been in a coma for years, she has grown up with too little family stability. Ray has had a revolving door of nannies, who must take orders from her or they are gone. Molly can't take Ray anymore and quits, however, she finally learns the meaning of the word humility when she must beg Ray for her job back. Molly gives Ray her potbelly-pig and their friendship begins. Molly becomes a true friend to Ray and not an employee. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
