Karan, a small time musician, tries to win over a girl named Pooja.
Karan who is weak in his studies but good at music and masti which always results in fighting with his father, but his life changes when he sees the girl of his dreams. Everywhere he sees her he follows her but one day he goes out of town to find her but couldn't. Later his father sents him to another city but his car breaks down and takes lift and finds it's the same girl whos name is Pooja. During the drive a truck comes and hits the cars which falls in a valley but Karan and Pooja are on the cliff but after saving Pooja his hands slip and falls down. After gaining conscious Pooja realizes it was her fault that Karan died and searches for his body, but he found by a man and is taken to a hospital. He is then reunited with his family, and goes off to search for Pooja. She finds him first and they start a friendship. Later he gets close to her but finds she is going to America for studies but confesses that he loves her and she also loves him and when she comes back they will get married.
Karan (Tushar Kapoor) will go all the way to rescue strangers, and help love-lorn friends, regardless of the consequences. He belongs to a band of struggling artistes. His dad, Krishna (Dalip Tahil) is always finding fault wuth him a devout and religious mom, Sushma (Himani Shivpuri); and a percocious sister Priya (Rinkie Khanna). One day Karan loses his heart to beautiful USA returned Pooja Saxena (Kareena Kapoor), and loses his boldness, and is unable to approach her and show his true feelings for her. They eventually come to know each other, and Pooja does seem impressed by Karan's bravery when he rescues a child, and also herself during a vehicle accident. Acting on the instructions of his overly protective and worldly-wise tau (paternal uncle) Balram Singh (Amrish Puri) Karan boldly writes a birthday card for Pooja's birthday with his blood, and hopes that this message will impress her. On the contrary it repulses her; Karan finds out that she actually loves another person in the USA; and that eventually she will be returning to the USA to complete her studies. And all this increases his insecurity and decreases his confidence in sharing his true feelings for her.

