An actor becomes increasingly introverted and psychotic and his entire family attempts to intervene.
In the early 1990s, Hongshen Jia, then in his mid twenties and based in Beijing, was considered one of the most promising of the emerging actors in China, with several movie and television roles to his credit. However, self doubt in his acting abilities coupled with an emerging drug problem, especially with heroin, led to him deciding to quit acting. Instead, he spent his time solely listening to music and taking drugs. His erratic behavior led to alienation of friends and ultimately leading a solitary life. First his sister and then in addition his rural based parents, his father who took early retirement, came to live with Hongshen in Beijing to help him through his life problems, which included financially supporting him. Hongshen treated them poorly, especially his father, who in turn accepted Hongshen's abusive behavior all in the name of helping him. But they didn't trust him and followed him everywhere. Ultimately the family had figure out what to do to best help Hongshen. Ultimately, Hongshen, and in association his family, is provided a unique opportunity to allow him to release the emotions associated with this turbulent time in his life.
In the late 80s, a new film star, Jia Hongsheng, emerged in China. Labeled 'the thug idol,' he gained fame playing gangsters and heroes in a series of Chinese B-movies. Jia went on to star in a stage version of "Kiss of the Spider Woman" directed by Zhang Yang and soon became the actor of choice for Chinese sixth generation filmmakers such as Wang Xiaoshuai and Lou Ye. He had his first experience with drugs on the set of "Spider Woman." Jia's naturally fragile mental/psychological state coupled with his experimentation with drugs gradually led him into a state of despair. He stopped acting and cut himself off entirely from all his friends and family, locking himself in his apartment. This is the story of Jia's journey, from the cutting edge of China's artistic movement in the early 90s, through a period of conflict with himself and his parents, to a mental institution and finally on the quest to rediscover himself and his family.

