"G" is a Gatsbyesque love story set against Hip-Hop's invasion of the Hamptons.
A young Great Gatsbyish Hip Hopper named Summer G falls for a middle to upper class sister while in college. After she rejects him for a fellow social climber, Summer G spends ten years building a Hip Hop empire, then moves to the Hamptons where he finds the object of his affections.
The movie starts with Tre coming to the Hamptons to write a story on Summer G for a music magazine. His cousin, Sky, has invited him to stay with her and her husband, Chip. It turns out that Summer G lives just a few houses away from Sky.In conversations, it is revealed that Sky dated Summer G ten years ago while at the Fashion Institute of Technology.Tre will not set up a meeting between Summer G and sky because Sky is married. Tre changes his mind once he finds out that Chip is cheating on Sky with Ladara.We also find out that Craig is dating Nicole. Craig is extremely jealous.Sky and Summer G are still in love. However, Sky wants Summer G to give up everything for her.While at a gathering, Summer G tells Craig he needs to take care of his own business when Craig suspects that Nicole is cheating.Chip works things out with Sky. He figures out that Tre set up the meeting between Sky and Summer G, so he yells at Tre to get out of his house.Tre goes to Summer G's place and calls Sky. She agrees to come to a party at his house the next day.Sky and Chip show up at Summer G's place. Summer G says he is giving up the industry for Sky, but Sky says that it is not going to happen.Chip is purposely aggravating Summer G to get him to threaten him so that the police and housing authorities can throw him out of the neighbor. Chip has been planning this with Greg, the president of the housing authorities, for a long time.Craig then comes to the party with a gun to "take care of his business" which is probably shooting Nicole or the man she has been with, Peter. He may have wanted to shoot Summer G, but there is no evidence to why he would want to shoot him.When Craig shoots the gun, people duck. However, the bullet hits Sky and kills her.At the end of the movie, Summer G is walking along the beach. Tre runs up to him and touches him to get him to turn around and come back.
