Trevor is a troubled high school student, thanks to the effects of bullying. This is the story of his fight to break free.
For the most part it's a tale of an adolescent, Trevor, who gets picked on a lot at school. Not as much as he used to, because the year before he called in a phony bomb threat, complete with a working bomb (minus anything that would actually explode). Because of this, parents and teachers are afraid of him, and his fellow students generally avoid him, except for a group of outcasts called the "Trogs". As violence by the Jocks against the Trogs escalates, Trevor is the suspect for anything gone wrong, even though he didn't necessarily do anything. One teacher is willing to give Trevor the benefit of the doubt, and casts him in a highly controversial play about (what else?) school shootings. It all comes to a head as some other students create a plan to bring guns to school and kill everyone in the cafeteria.
Trevor Adams is a high school student who has threatened to bomb the school the year before. So as you know, everyone looks upon him with fear and loathing and all that from parents and he gets made fun of from his fellow students. But some, such as his film teacher (played by Tom Cavanagh) wants to reach out and help him. This is perfect because Trevor carries around a camera and his first assignment with him is to make a short film. Now, guess what Trevor's is about? A person killing someone because they were being stuffed into a trash can. So that's were it all starts.
Trevor Adams was a model student until extreme bullying drove him to threaten to bomb the high school football team. Now Trevor's a time bomb himself - troubled, misunderstood, and on the brink of committing real violence. Salvation comes in the form of a caring drama teacher named Mr. Duncan, who offers Trevor the lead in the school play. But when the community gets wind of the play's subject matter - school violence and playground killers - as well as its troubled protagonist, the production is in jeopardy, as is Trevor's attempt to avoid calamity. This gritty, hard-hitting drama offers an authentic glimpse inside the post-Columbine high schools of America and the forces that can compel a teen to violence.

