Adapted from James Joyce's Ulysses, Bloom is the enthralling story of June 16th, 1904 and a gateway into the consiousness of its three main characters: Stephen Dedalus, Molly Bloom and the extraordinary Leopold Bloom.
Fathers and sons and lovers. June, 1904. Leopold Bloom, Dublin Jew and cuckold, attends a funeral, recalls his infant son dead 11 years, faces an anti-Semite at a pub, has a phantasmagoric dream while at a brothel, feeds a drunken young poet Stephen Dedalus, bonds briefly with Stephen as if father and son, and gets into bed next to his wife Molly. Stephen spends his day teaching, talking about literature with pals, pondering Shakespeare and "Hamlet" and fatherhood, brooding on his dead mother, drinking too much, and accepting Bloom's hand. Molly, lusty Molly, recalls vividly her courtship and affirmation of Bloom. Homer's "Odyssey" provides the story's structure.
On the morning of the 16th June, 1904, Leopold Bloom set out on a journey that was to become one of the greatest tales of the 20th century. Adapted from James Joyces Ulysses and starring Academy Award ® Nominee, Stephen Rea, IFTA Award Winner, Angeline Ball, Hugh OConor and Patrick Bergin, Bloom is an enthralling story of love, loss and lust - a fantastical adventure into the imaginations and desires of Stephen Dedalus, Leopold Bloom and Molly Bloom.We begin with Molly Blooms streaming interior monologue. It is the night of Bloomsday. Molly is awake, her mind awash with thoughts of the day just passed; her affair with Blazes Boylan; her marriage to Leopold; her life as a child; her existence as a person. At the opposite end of the bed lies Leopold Bloom, his toes cajoling her face.We leave Molly and return to earlier on the same day where both Stephen Dedalus (Joyces alter ego) and Leopold Bloom have risen and are embarking on their, as yet ununited, journeys.The events that follow are a journey into the enthralling minds of Stephen Dedalus and Leopold Bloom. Stephen, young poet and intellectual, strives to affirm, accept and rejoice in his own complex identity. Bloom, the complete, rounded man is content. He understands and has accepted the reality and failings of the world around him and yet his mind is a spectacular stream of ideas, thoughts and revelations - a mind which reveals the essence of humanity a mind which reflects each and everyone of us.
