Poor Raja opens a fast food restaurant right opposite a five star hotel run by it's owner Singhania, earning his wrath. The wealthy hotel owner uses all his influence to remove Raja, but in vain. Things get worse for the wealthy man, when his daughter Kiran wants to marry the poor hotelier. The wealthy man refuses, leading to a confrontation and a condition - which Raja fulfills, he becomes rich virtually overnight, and proposes for the hand of Kiran. The wealthy hotelier reluctantly accepts him as his son-in-law, only to have Kiran elope with a man named Rahul.
K.K.Singhania is the owner of a five-star hotel MAHARAJA. Enter Raja who starts his own eatery HOTEL RAJA right opposite HOTEL MAHARAJA. Singhania finds the competition unsavoury and tries to lure Raja into selling his hotel off but Raja disagrees. Then a battle of wits ensues in which every attempt made by Singhania to shut down Raja's business is thwarted by Raja. The situation is complicated more when Singhania's daughter Kiran falls in love with Raja which angers Singhania no end. What the two men don't know is that Kiran has an agenda of her own to pursue.
A moneyed businessman K. K. Singhania (Kader Khan) buys a five star hotel. This act occasions a series of comical disturbances for the businessman as he encounters an annoying and inferior business rival Raja (Govinda), with whom Singhania's daughter Kiran (Raveena Tandon) eventually seems to fall in love. On the other hand, Singhania's secret as well as wicked enemies plan to use Kiran to rob Singhania of his entire property.
The owner of a five star hotel K.K. Singhania (Kader Khan) is facing losses, as the general public seem to prefer the food sold in a small restaurant owned by Raja (Govinda). Singhania's efforts to buy his business and/or shut it down all result in vain, albeit hilariously. Singhania's only daughter, Kiran (Raveena Tandon) is in love with Rahul Sinha (Mohnish Bahl), and wants to marry him, but Singhania does not approve of him. In order to teach her dad a lesson, Kiran starts a make-belief romance with Raja, her dad's worst enemy. Raja really falls in love with Kiran, but Singhania will not hear of her marrying him also. When Raja accumulates wealth, Singhania is compelled to change his mind, and accepts Raja as his son-in-law, that's when Kiran decides to run away to Rahul, little realizing that Rahul has a agenda quite different from that of Kiran's.

