A group of tourists arrives in Burkittsville, Maryland after seeing The Blair Witch Project (1999) to explore the mythology and phenomenon, only to come face to face with their own neuroses and possibly the witch herself.
To cash in on all of the "real world" hype of the events in the first film, a man from Burkitsville, Maryland opens a "Blair Witch Hunt" tour, which shows patrons various locations from the original film. A bunch of college students decide to take the tour, and wind up in Rustin Parr's house. There, they decide to camp for the evening, but in the morning, they realize they didn't sleep and they don't remember anything that happened the previous night. From there, they go back to town, and discover that something...or someone has come with them.
In the wake of the blood-curdling events depicted in The Blair Witch Project (1999), witch-obsessed fans flock to the now-famous town of Burkittsville, Maryland, in high hopes of catching a glimpse of the shadowy myth. Intent on milking the same story for all it's worth, the local fan and former psychiatric patient, Jeff, launches a tour in the Black Hills, and before long, four young followers--Kim, Erica, Tristen, and Stephen--wind up spending the night in a notorious site in the woods. Now, having no recollection of what happened during their stay, the quartet of friends must try to explain how things got out of hand. Did they fall prey to the evil Blair Witch?
Jeff Donavan was never a good boy. He was always bad and was always fascinated in the story of the Blair Witch, just like victim Heather Donahue of Blair Witch 1. After the success of the movie, Jeff opens up a Blair Witch tour of Black Hills for his way to cash in on the movie hoopla. But when four people take the tour and decide to rest at Rustin Parr's house (Rustin was the person who murdered seven children under the Blair Witch's command), the four lose five hours of their memories. But after they return to find Jeff while trying to understand the bizarre symbols on their bodies, all five people will finally know that some fiction isn't really fiction and that when they left the Black Hills, they left with something - or someone.

