10 old exiled army men decide to free a village from an evil bandit
Colonel Krishnakant Puri and his colleagues are all court-Marshall from the Indian army because they all are accused of aborting mission 'China-Gate'. 17 years later a young woman, Sandhya watch helplessly as a notorious bandit, Jageera crush her Forest Officer father, Sundar Rajan to death; this then forces her to approach Puri and his colleagues for assistance in liberating her village, Devdurg from the terror of Jageera. She lodges the battalion stay in an abandoned house in the village and provide them with all the necessary arms, ammunitions and materials needed to combat Jageera and they start there preparations and training for the mission; while at the same time their efforts are frustrated by the village police headed by the corrupt police inspector, Barot but they do manage to handle him. Then several attacks are launch on Devdurg by Jageera and his gang forcing Puri and his men to retaliate by the exchange of gun-battle which leaves many causalities on both sides.
After witnessing the brutal slaying of her Forest Officer father, Sunder Rajan, at the hands of dreaded dacoit Jageera, Sandhya goes to Colonel Krishnakant Puri and asks for his assistance in bringing an end to Jageera's rule in the Devdurg region. Krishnakant agrees to assist her, and summons about a dozen of his fellow officers and subordinates to assist him. They all assemble at Devdurg with all the necessary ammunitions and arms to combat Jageera, not realizing that Jageera has influence over the local police detachment, who will prevent Puri and his men to possess any guns and weapons. This does not deter Puri and his men, and they continue to stay on in Devdurg and gain the confidence of the villagers. What the villagers do not know that Krishnakant and his men had all been dishonorably discharged from the army for cowardice and retreating when attacked by the enemy. Will Puri and his men abandon Devdurg and let history repeat itself?

