The rise and fall of legendary war hero Thomas "Stonewall" Jackson as he leads the Confederacy to great success against the Union from 1861 to 1863.
Based on the best-selling historical novel by Jeff Shaara, "Gods and Generals" covers the events of the American Civil War before the climactic battle of Gettysburg. Seen from the points of view of leaders such as Thomas "Stonewall" Jackson, Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain, Winfield Scott Hancock and Robert E. Lee, the film begins just after the attack on Fort Sumter in April 1861, and culminates with the battle of Chancellorsville in May of 1863. Directed by Ronald F. Maxwell, the film is an epic, dramatic prequel to "Gettysburg," the classic 1993 film also directed by Maxwell.Gods and Generals is the second installment of the Michael/Jeff Shaara Civil War trilogy and the second to be filmed. The third and final installment, The Last Full Measure, was in pre-production but lost financing and has been suspended indefinitely. Congruent to the 1992 production of Gettysburg, Gods and Generals is of epic length with a final release running time of nearly four hours, having been trimmed from roughly six. The story opens just before the secession of Virgina and just after Lincoln had called for 75,000 troops to repel the rebellion. Robert E. Lee is offered and declines the command of Union forces. Thomas "Stonewall" Jackson, an instructor at VMI during the secessionist takeover of the institute, commits himself to the defense of Virginia and is rapidly swept up in a leadership role of the fledgling Army of Northern Virginia. The story follows primarily from the perspective of Jackson, as well as other key figures on both sides, but is decidely emphatic of the Confederate POV. We follow Jackson through three early and decisive CSA victories; Manassas (1st Bull Run), Fredericksburg, and Chancellorsville, the scene of his untimely death. The film diverges dramatically from the book version in that the battle of Antietam, a tactical CSA victory, is omitted entirely (it was however filmed but ultimately removed from the final print). Throughout these campaigns Jackson is portrayed as a deeply pious, stern, yet confident and capable commander. The story follows the decision makers, military and political, on both sides and how their actions influence the course of the war through May 1863. Gettysburg, based on Shaaras Killer Angels, picks up the saga from there.
