An Indian adaptation of Jane Austen's "Sense and Sensibility" focusing on two sisters of opposing temperaments.
Jane Austen's Sense and Sensibility is transplanted to contemporary Tamil-speaking India. Serious elder sister Sowmya falls in love with aspiring film director Manohar. Passionate younger sister Meenakshi is admired from afar by wounded commando Captain Bala, but her young heart is set on Srikanth, a businessman who shares her fondness for poetry. More complications arise when the sisters' grandfather passes away, and they loose their place in the family home.
Two young women with differing views on love find themselves with three suitors. Sowmya (Tabu) attracts the attention of aspiring film director Manohar (Ajith), while wounded Captain Bala (Mammootty) falls for her younger, hopelessly romantic sister, Meenu (Aishwarya Rai) but hesitates because he is much older than she. Meanwhile, Meenu meets and falls for a businessman with a passion for poetry, Srikanth (Abbas). Manohar goes to Madras to make a film and prove himself worthy of Sowmya, and Srikanth's business collapses, and he also departs to find someone who will lend him the money to pay off his investors.Then the women's grandfather dies, and his estate goes to their uncle who all but turns them out. They move to the city, where Sowmya gets a job as a telephone operator at a software company, but works her way up to being a programmer. She continues to meet Manohar, but begins to suspect that he thinks she is unlucky. After a few false starts, he is finally filming his movie, and it stars Nandini (Pooja Batra), a famous female action heroine, who is another cause for Sowmya's discontent.Meenu is going crazy in the apartment, and Captain Bala gets her into music school. He also arranges for her to meet with her love, Srikanth, who promptly disappears again. She is recognized for her voice, and begins recording music. At one recording session, she runs into Srikanth who is there with his fiancee, the daughter of the man who is bailing out his company.Meenu is so thunderstruck that Srikanth is marrying someone else, that she walks out into a storm and falls down a manhole. Captain Bala rescues her. In the hospital, Meenu begins to realize all that Captain Bala has done for her. When Captain Bala introduces her to a young friend of his as a prospective husband, she sends the young man away, and confesses her love for the Captain.Manohar's movie comes out, and it's a success. He runs over to Sowmya's house to finally propose marriage, only to find she's planning on moving to California. He protests, they cry, and eventually she agrees to marry him.The movie ends with a double wedding, Captain Bala and Meenu, and Manohar and Sowmya.
