After his brother is killed and father severely injured by terrorists, a young med student quits his studies to join the Indian Police Service to wipe out the terrorists.
Ajay Rathod is a no-nonsense police officer from Mumbai Crime Branch. Long time ago his elder brother was killed by terrorists which caused him to quit his medical studies and join Indian Police Service. He is a great admirer of Pakistan-based ghazal singer Gulfam Hassan. During one of Hassan's concerts, they meet for the first time and become great friends. Meanwhile, Ajay's investigation into the Pakistan-supported cross-border terrorism takes him to Rajasthan and reveals an unsettling truth about someone close to his heart.
Ajay Singh is a student pursing his studies in the Medical field. His life takes a drastic turn when he witness the assassination of his brother with his father getting gravely injured in the process by terrorists. Ajay quit his studies and takes an enrollment into the police force as Assistant Commissioner of Police with a motive of bringing the killers of his brother to justice.
Ajay Singh and his family own and operate "Rajri" a clothing emporium in South Bombay. Ajay is a fan of ghazal singer, Gulfam Hussain, and is thrilled to actually meet him during one of his performances. During this performance, he meets with Seema, and both fall in love. Seema is introduced to Ajay's family, and they unanimously approve of her. What Seema does not know is that Ajay is acutally Assistant Commissioner of Police, Ajay Singh Rathod, who has been assigned the task of apprehending a group of terrorists, that are being sheltered and protected by corrupt parliamentary representatives, with arms being supplied by Pakistan. Ajay does not know that the trail which he is following will lead him to Rajasthan, right into the house of the person who runs this operation - a person who is known to him.
Arms trafficking is taking place in India. An arsenal enters Indian territory via the state of Rajasthan, which makes its way to interior of India with help of many middlemen. Bala Thakur, a gun handler in Chandrapur, provides the arms to Veeran, a forest dwelling brigand. Later, Veeran and his gang attack a wedding bus, mercilessly gunning down every person in it which includes women and children. The government appoints a Special Action Team in Mumbai to trace the roots behind the attack. The team learns about Bala Thakur, but thanks to his informants, Thakur flees before he can be apprehended.Meanwhile, ACP Ajay Singh Rathod (Aamir Khan), a resident of Mumbai, is attending a concert by the famed ghazal singer Gulfam Hassan (a Muhajir), where he spots a familiar face, Seema (Sonali Bendre). Ajay had a crush over Seema when they were studying in Delhi, but never got the courage to propose to her. The duo are happy to meet each other again and gradually fall in love. Gulfam, on the other hand, is Indian by birth, but had to move to Pakistan as a child during partition. Deeply scarred due to the experience, he is still happy that the Government allows him to live in his palatial residence whenever he comes to India. Gulfam finds a huge fan in Ajay, who used to attend his programs as a child. Despite the age difference, the two bond.Inspector Salim a Muslim inspector is taken off from the Special Action Team when a notorious gangster Sultan escapes his clutches and he is severely reprimanded his superior for this failure and for causing the death of three other officers in the attempt. Despite being an honest and upright police officer with the best intelligence gathering network in the force, Salim is rueful that he is being given second class treatment because he is a Muslim and is being perceived as having let Sultan escape because he was a Muslim as well. His anger at the system doesn't lessen when Ajay, who was his junior, is told to head the team. Ajay wants Salim on the team, but Salim refuses. It is revealed that Ajay's father was going to testify against some terrorist who had threatened him not to testify, but in an attempt to stop them from doing so, Ajay's elder brother was killed. Ajay's father was kidnapped and by the time the terrorists spared him, the man had lost his voice. This motivated Ajay to join the police force.Unknown to Ajay, Gulfam is also working for the Pakistani intelligence which is attempting to create havoc in India and create a proxy war between both sides. Since Gulfam likes Ajay, he sees to it that nothing untoward happens to him. Here, Salim finds the location of Bala Thakur along with the information that Sultan, the man who escaped from his clutches, will also be there. Salim gives the information to Ajay who makes peace with Salim and convinces him to join the team again. An encounter at the criminals' rendezvous results in the death of Bala Thakur and Ajay is seriously injured. Though Sultan and his right-hand man Shiva manage to escape, the operation is deemed a success as the team is able to intercept a large consignment of lethal arms and ammunition meant for terrorist Veeran and his terrorist acts around the country. Sultan is later assassinated on Gulfams orders because of his failure and false information is leaked that he has escaped to Pakistan.While recuperating, Ajay has an epiphany which leads the team to Bahid in Rajasthan and to "Mirchi Seth" Rambandhu Gupt. The investigative team save for Ajay and Salim camp in Bahid and gather all possible information on Mirchi Seth. Ajay comes over to Bahid to investigate and meets Gulfam who is temporarily staying in his ancestral manor near Bahid. Gulfam attempts to derail the investigation through political means and ordering an assault on Ajay to subvert the investigation, but of no avail. The repeated failures on Gulfam's part displease the senior officers in Pakistani Intelligence, who dispatch Major Aslam Baig to take care of the business.Here, Ajay goes through the information collected so far and realizes that he has seen many key suspects near Gulfam, but fails to make the connection. The investigative teams prepares for a final assault on the gun-running operation and in the pursuit of Mirchi Seth land up at Gulfam's mansion. Ajay feels betrayed when he learns of Gulfam's treachery, but is aware of lack of substantial evidence to indict Gulfam for his crimes. He goads and tricks Gulfam into killing Baig and arrests him for the offense. After realizing what happened, Gulfam reveals how the incidents that happened during the partition embittered him and why he did those deeds.In retaliation, Ajay makes him realize that his actions are not benefiting people of any religion. After Ajay makes him see the error in his ways, Gulfam, unable to stand the humiliation and guilt, commits suicide. Gulfam's suicide is hushed up and the team returns triumphant to Mumbai to much accolades for busting the terrorist racket. At Mumbai Airport, Salim is tipped on the whereabouts of Veeran and Ajay embarks on another investigation with his team.
