A obsessive woman determines to do what it takes to get her lover - at any cost.
Ria Jaiswal lives a very wealthy lifestyle along with her mom and dad. As she is the only child in this family, her parents dot on her and give in to her every wish. As a child she saw a toy on TV and asked her dad to get it. When he told her that he was unable to do, she stopped speaking and eating - until her dad somehow managed to get the toy from America. Subsequently, Ria's mom passed away. Years later, Ria has now grown up to be a very attractive young woman. She meets with Jai, a photographer from Style Magazine, she models and is very attracted to him. She tells her dad that she wants to get married and goes to Jai's house to get him to meet her dad. When she reaches his house in Lokhandwala Complex, she finds out that he is already married to a woman named Geeta, and very much in love with her. A betrayed Ria, unable to get Jai out of her mind, obsesses over him - and decides that he and she are meant for each other - and sets about to carry her task - to force Jai to accept her - by hook or by crook.
A photographer, they say, will do anything to get the right image. Jai (Fardeen Khan) is a successful and ambitious photographer who believes in capturing the right image. He travels to Goa to find inspiration for an important forthcoming campaign, and runs into Ria (Urmila Matondkar). He tries to convince Ria to model for him by giving the usual jargon of her face being the best that he has seen, but to no avail. The scenario shifts to Mumbai where Jai's editor (a hilarious cameo by Ravi Baswani) is 'losing it' as the deadline for the magazine launch draws closer. Jai is convinced that Ria should be the face to launch the new magazine (obviously more than convinced based on the fact that he had shot her on the sly in Goa), and sets out to get her to model by turning on the perennial photographer's charm. Ria is basically a headstrong loner, and is the only daughter of a rich industrialist (Suresh Oberoi). It takes a while for her to agree to pose for Jai, primarily because of Jai turning on the charm. They do a successful shoot together, and their working chemistry leads on to a scenario whereas Ria falls head over heels in love with Jai. Ria later tells her dad that she wants to get married and goes to Jai's house to get him to meet her dad. When she reaches his house in Lokhandwala Complex, she finds out that he is already married to a woman named Geeta, and very much in love with her. A betrayed Ria, unable to get Jai out of her mind, obsesses over him - and decides that he and she are meant for each other - and sets about to carry her task - to force Jai to accept her - by hook or by crook, even if killing Jai's wife Geeta makes it possible.

