A young woman tries to find the right man to be with while dealing with her own life and family problems.
'Chance' is a black comedy about how hard it is to find "the one". Mostly told from the point-of-view of a young, sexually aggressive woman, named Chance, whom according to her: "we're all out there looking for true love", which turns out to be a very elusive thing indeed, and Chance is no exception. She's desperately on the prowl for a man, but since she's more mouse than cat, she get's herself into scrape after scrape in her screwball pursuit of love. Surrounded by a bevy of adoring but completely wrong-for-her men (and one dead girl from Manchester, England), Chance has to pick her way through her messy life in order to figure out which guy is "it".
Chance is a single, neurotic, 20-something woman living in Los Angeles trying to get by any way she can (waitressing, acting, etc.) Her one true goal in life, as her frequent narration to the viewers, are to find her 'Mr. Right'. The people in Chance's life are Simon, her slacker roommate and telemarketer whom has a crush on her, but is too much in denial to admit it to her or even himself; Rory, a struggling actor and Chance's ex-boyfriend with massive crush on her, but he's too boring for her to be interested; Milton is her creepy voyeuristic neighborhood whom lusts after her; Jack is a struggling singer whom Chance finds attractive, but unaware that he's gay; Guy is another person in Chance's life whose romance is cut short by an accident; Sara is a young and outgoing bisexual woman from Manchester, England whom after a one-night stand with Chance, ends up dead from a drug OD, or does she? And then there's Chance's mother Desiree who's even more crazy than Chance, and distraught over her husband Malcolm divorcing her to be with his personal secretary.
Chance (Amber Benson) is a twentysomething slacker living in Los Angeles, who relies on a trust fund for finances. Narrating her own life story, Chance introduces her friend and room mate Simon (James Marsters), a not very successful telemarketer who is self-conscious about his body odor, has been sleeping on her couch. One day, Simon comes home from the grocery store to find a woman in Chance's bed who won't wake up.Earlier.... Chance is annoyed when Rory (Rayder Woods), a struggling actor with whom Chance had a one-night stand, appears at her door and becomes emotional trying to convince her that they have a connection beyond just sex because they really talked afterward. Chance and Simon spin a story about meeting in a mental institution, which makes Rory uncomfortable enough to stop crying and to leave.Simon tricks Chance into answering a phone call from her mother by telling her that it's a man named Jack (Andy Hallet) whom she was immediately attracted to when she met at a nightclub and tried to pick up. Her overbearing mother, Desiree (Christina Esterbrook), is calling to tell her that she is coming to visit. Trying to escape spending time with her mother, Chance persuades Simon to switch roles with her for the weekend and Simon spends time with Desiree pretending to be Chance until Desiree tells Simon that she needs to talk to Chance about something in particular. Desiree tells Chance that she is divorcing Chance's father, Malcolm (Jeff Ricketts), because he is in a relationship with a young woman, named Heidi (Lara Boyd Rhodes).Upset, Chance tells Simon about her parents' divorce and reveals that Desiree wants to stay with them for a while. Chance is suspicious when Simon tries to offer some comfort, and he begs again for $200 to pay off some unpaid parking tickets. Though hesitant to loan anyone money because of a bad experience with her first serious boyfriend Guy (Shamus Murphy), a man who romanced Chance a year earlier while she was living alone. In a flashback, Guy asked Chance if he could borrow some money to pay off some friends of his. Chance gave Guy the money he needed, only to see him literaly run over by a carload of angry thugs for not paying up on time. In the present, Chance agrees to give Simon the money for playing along with her charade for her mother.Uncomfortable with the idea of her mother living with her, Chance arranges for Desiree and her to have dinner with Malcolm and Heidi aboart Malcolm's sailboat in a marina. Chance also invites Rory and, as Chance had hoped, Heidi is immediately smitten with him because she watches the soap opera in which he stars. When Rory manages to get Heidi out of the room, Chance asks her parents about the divorce. Malcolm reveals that Desiree had suggested that they experiment sexually with Heidi, and Desiree felt rejected when Heidi preferred him. Desiree insists that he seduced her, but Malcolm denies it. Malcolm says that while attractions may come and go he loves her.Chance goes out to a club one night and meets a woman from England named Sara (Tressa Di Figlia), who makes sexual advances on her. The bi-curious Chance brings Sara home with her, and after spending a day in bed together making out, Sara suggests that they take some drugs. Chance refuses and takes the drugs away. Chance leaves her apartment the next morning, and when she returns she finds Simon in her bedroom with Sara, who has apparently overdosed. Chance initially tries to comfort Simon, but soon she herself begins to freak out when she realizes that she has a dead woman in her bed. Overcome with emotion, Simon kisses Chance and they have sex. Afterward, the two quickly begin to fight about the significance of the sex and Simon leaves the apartment. Chance drags Sara's body off her bed to the living room couch where she covers the body with a blanket and retires back to her bedroom to go to sleep for the night.The next morning, Chance awakes to find Sara, alive, sitting at the kitchen table. Sara tells her that she wasn't dead, just "resting." She thanks Chance for the place to sleep and then leaves. Chance then realizes that Simon never came home.On a park bench where Simon has apparently slept all night, he has run in with Jack, who recognizes him from the nightclub. The two make small talk until Simon realizes that Jack is hitting on him. Simon begins laughing and at Jack's confusion tells him that Chance has a huge crush on him and thinks that he is straight. Simon then tells Jack about what had happened the night before and about his frustration and attraction to Chance. Jack tells Simon that, even though he is gay, he sometimes has sex with women because he needs the contact with human beings, and Simon realizes that he needs that human contact too. Simon returns to Chance's apartment, and Chance is happy to see him, greeting him with a hug. They apologize for their actions and both admit that they are ready to try a relationship.
