Wealthy Anjali falls in love with poor Dev, both want to get married, but Anjali's family objects and instead get her married to equally wealthy Ram, who lives with his uncaring step-mother and siblings. Anjali finds out that Ram is not respected, but does not care as she does not love him. Ram continues to be affectionate toward her and his family, but Anjali cannot get Dev out of her mind. Then things change, when Ram decides to assert himself and asks his family to leave him and his wife alone. Anjali starts warming up to Ram, when Dev shows up - this Dev is not the poor Dev that Anjali once knew, this Dev is a multi-millionaire, scheming, and devious, and a Dev who will try to win Anjali over by hook or by crook.
Dev and Anjali are in love . Dev comes from a poor background while Anjali is a rich man's daughter . Anjali's father disapproves of Dev and arranges her marriage with Ram . Ram is an affectionate husband but Anjali is still haunted by memories of her past love and does not respond to the love of Ram . Ram lives with his stepfamily who hate him , but Ram believes that one day they will surely undergo a change of heart . But that does not happen and hence Ram asks his stepfamily to leave the home . Anjali starts loving Ram , but Dev returns in her life . He has become a millionaire and wants to win the love of Anjali . Therefore he creates a financial crisis in Ram's life . Anjali is now torn between two men who love her equally .
Wealthy Anjali (Shilpa Shetty), is passionately in love with poor Dev (Sunil Shetty), both plans to get married. But Anjali's family objects and instead get her married to equally wealthy Ram (Akshay Kumar), who lives with his uncaring step-mother and siblings. But Ram believes that one day his family will surely undergo a change of heart. However, Anjali finds out that Ram is not respected, but does not care as she does not love him, because she is still haunted by memories of her past love. Ram continues to be affectionate towards her and his family, then things change, when Ram decides to assert himself and asks his family to leave him and his wife alone. Anjali starts warming up to Ram, when Dev shows up - this Dev is not the poor Dev that Anjali once knew, this Dev is a multi-millionaire, scheming, and devious, and a Dev who will try to win Anjali over by hook or by crook. But Anjali bypass her haunted memories of Dev and finally falls in love with Ram and will not leave him by any chance.
Anjali and Dev are in love.But her father rejects Dev as he is poor.Anjali is married to a wealthy Ram against her wishes and is unhappy about it.Anjali finds that Ram lives with his stepmother and step siblings who don't care for him.She decides to stand by Ram and both fall in love.Until they our forced to leave their house due to games played by Ram's step siblings.Ram and Anjali live separately and things are going well until Dev arrives in their life.
Anjali lives a rich lifestyle along with her businessman dad and housewife mom. Her dad would like her to get married to Ram, who comes from a wealthy family, and approves of Anjali. But she has given her heart to a poor young man, Dev, who has no family background and has lived the life of an orphan. Anjali is coerced into marrying Ram, who is sensitive to her emotions and gives her plenty of time and space. Then their lives are turned upside down when Dev re-enters their lives, this time as the son of a wealthy woman. When he finds out that Anjali has married Ram, he conceives a plot to financially ruin Ram and thus make him ineligible for Anjali. The question remains, will Anjali support Ram or re-kindle her romance with Dev?
Anjali (Shilpa Shetty) is a young woman who hails from an extremely rich and influential family. Her father Mr. Chauhan (Kiran Kumar) is a renowned businessman and has many dreams for his daughter. Anjali is in love with Dev (Sunil Shetty) who is very poor and often cannot even afford to clothe himself properly. Dev loves Anjali and wants to marry her, so he has to meet her father.When Anjali puts forward to her parents the proposal of marrying Dev, she is rebuked and gets an outright refusal. Because her father does not like Dev for his bad manners and arrogant outlook. Moreover, her parents have chosen for her a wealthy suitor from Delhi; and the boy is very religious minded. Not wanting to hurt her parents, Anjali finally gives in and marries Ram (Akshay Kumar) who her parents believe will be a perfect match for her.Ram is a man of great ideals, who believes in giving a rightful place to his wife and respects her sensibilities. Despite this, he is unable to win Anjali's love at first and their marriage remains on the edge. However, after seeing the magnanimity of her husband's heart in forgiving and accepting her, she realizes she has fallen in love with him.Anjali leads a life of bliss and becomes an ideal wife.But suddenly, at their third wedding anniversary party, Dev returns and reveals his intent of winning Anjali back. Dev is now a wealthy businessman, and Anjali finds herself at a crossroads where she would stand-for her husband or with her former flame/love. Anjali chooses to stand for her husband and has no wish to return to her former flame/lover even though it pains her to know how hurt he is.When she tells him this, Dev can not stand rejection for a second time and sets out to ruin Ram's life. This goes on for some time, causing turbulence and turmoil in Anjali's life.In the end, when Anjali tells Dev she is pregnant with Ram's child and begs him to leave her alone, Dev realizes his folly and decides to marry his current friend and business partner Sheetal Varma (Mahima Chaudhary) who is his new companion and secretly loved him for a long time.
