Hero (Salman Khan) loves Rani (Rani Mukerji), but she doesn't. Hero, meanwhile, is a loyal worker at A-Z, a courier company helm ed by baddie Khanna (Shakti Kapoor). The man actually distributes drugs around the city, the Tough cop Inspector Vishal (Arbaaz Khan) arrives in the city and starts trailing Hero whom he suspects to be involved in the racket. But the poor unsuspecting Hero is innocent. So when he stumbles upon the truth, Khanna has him bumped off. At the same time, he manages to shoot Vishal in the heart. A heart transplant takes place and Hero's heart is given to Vishal. Hero's spirit comes back to avenge his death, but only Vishal can see him. Since Hero's heart beats for Rani, it is only natural for Vishal to fall in love with Rani. And fortunately, she too falls in love with him.
Happy and go-luck playboy Hero is employed as delivery man at a company called A2z. One day while delivering a particular item; Hero came to realized that the package contains drugs, fearing the police Hero decides to inform his boss, Khanna about this. While traveling; a police man, Vishaul notices Hero acting in a suspicious manner and follows him to a dockyard where Vishaul is shot at. When Vishaul regains consciousness he finds himself in a hospital and is told that his heart was badly damage and that the doctors had to do a heart transplant from a dead body which is none other than Hero. And then Hero starts to appear in front Vishaul and swears to stop appearing until he gets his revenge from his killer Khanna and the only person who can help him get his revenge is Vishaul.
Hero is in love with Rani.But she just takes him as a friend he works for a courier company run by Khanna.Inspector Vishal Sharma is sure that Khanna runs a drug business in the name of courier.When Hero finds about Khanna's illegal business he kills him and shoots Vishal in the heart.The only way to save his life by transplanting Hero's heart to him.Hero no turns into a ghost and wants Khanna dead whereas Vishal starts having feelings for Rani.
Police Inspector Vishal has been transferred to Bombay city. He reports to his superior officer, and assigned the Bandra area in Bombay for his duties. He comes across a young man named Hero, who works for A2Z Courier company. Vishal suspects that Hero is up to no good, and follows him to a warehouse near the docks, where Vishal is shot at and left for dead. When Vishal wakes up he is told that Hero is dead, and his heart has been transplanted in him, and that is only reason why he survived. Hero appears to Vishal, and guides him to the persons who have using the courier company as a front for drugs, and also to the person who shot at Vishal, and killed him. But Vishal regards Hero as an irritant, and wants to go about the investigation in his own, not knowing that without Hero's help he will be jeopardizing his life, as well as the life of Hero's girlfriend, Rani.

