Friends on a camping trip discover that the town they're vacationing in is being plagued in an unusual fashion by parasitic aliens from outer space.
Four childhood friends, Jonesy, Beaver, Pete and Henry all share a special secret. Each year, they take a trip into Maine woods. This year is different. A blizzard occurs, and they recover a man found wandering around. Unbeknownst to them,this wandering individual isn't the only being to be found. Now they must act fast to stop the outbreak developing and to prevent the world from its doom
Four friends struggling with life meet in the Maine woods for their annual hunting trip. When a stranger stumbles in to their camp disoriented mumbling things about lights in the sky the four friends put in a struggle with a psychotic army colonel and a being that has taken control of one of their minds.
Jonesy, Pete, Beaver and Henry are all childhood friends, kept together by a special secret they share. Once every year, they go on a hunting trip to the Jefferson Tract. This year is different. They shelter a man who has been lost for days in the woods in the middle of a still-continuing blizzard. The man has odd marks on his face. As they discover the awful truth of what he is infected with, the military attempts to quarantine an alien virus as a result of an alien crash landing. The four friends must survive the alien infection and overpower a crazed military admiral who prepares to wipe out the whole Jefferson Tract in order to contain the alien infection.
"Dreamcatcher" tells the story of four young friends who perform a heroic act - and are changed forever by the uncanny powers they gain in return. Years later, on a hunting trip in the Maine woods, they are overtaken by a blizzard, a vicious storm in which something much more ominous moves. Challenged to stop an alien force, the friends must first prevent the slaughter of innocent civilians by a military vigilante, then overcome a threat to the bond between them. In the end, they confront an unparalleled horror, with the fate of the world in the balance.
Four boyhood pals in Derry, Maine, get together for a pilgrimage to their favorite deep-woods cabin, Hole in the Wall. They've all got midlife crises: clownish Beav has love problems; the intellectual shrink, Henry, is slowly succumbing to the siren song of suicide; Pete is losing a war with beer; Jonesy has had weird premonitions ever since he got hit by a car. Having arrived at Hole in the Wall they meet a mysterious stranger and all hell breaks loose...

