Brutal gangster Don Logan recruits "retired" safecracker Gal for one last job, but it goes badly for both of them.
Gal, Deedee, Aitch and Jackie, having left behind respective lives of ill-repute, bask in the sun of Spain and in the most essential brand of leisure. A hazy yarn of barbecues, beer and botched hunting expeditions make up their retirements, until a sudden and unforeseen disruption emerges from their past. Enter the childishly violent and hilariously edgy Don Logan. Through a series of side-splitting negotiations and irrevocable acts, retired crook Gal is forced to shake off the rust and accept one last mission, put forth by the menacing Logan, his ex-mentor. A heist of legendary proportion and personal implications, this job should make for one hell of an encore.
Gal, a retired gangster, lives a happy life with his wife Deedee in a beautiful house in Spain. Don Logan, a respected name with the mob and an old "friend" to Gal, suddenly shows up. He wants Gal to join him on this big strike in London together with a well picked out gang of respected gangsters. When Gal keeps turning him down, Don gets more and more threatening, no is not an answer. How far will Don go to get his will done? What options are there for Gal? Will this ever end?
Spain. Gal has retired from the gangster life, and is sunning himself placidly beside the pool at his villa when a boulder comes crashing by, barely missing him. Soon, he and his pal Aitch, together with their wives Deedee and Jackie, are being threatened by a human boulder, Don Logan. Logan wants Gal for a high-stakes vault break-in in London (masterminded by the cool and suave Teddy Bass), and he will not take no for an answer. Nevertheless, that's exactly the answer Gal keeps giving him, even as Don gets more and more threatening. Meanwhile, Gal is plagued by dreams of a menacing, hairy beast. Just how far will Don (and Gal) go in this battle of wills? And what of Enrique, the pool boy?
Ex-con and expert safe-cracker Gary "Gal" Dove has served his time behind bars and blissfully retired to a Spanish villa with his beloved wife Deedee. He also has the company of longtime friend Aitch and his wife Jackie. Their idyll is shattered, however, by the arrival of an old criminal associate, the sociopathic Don Logan, who is intent on enlisting Gal in a bank heist back in London.Dove politely but firmly refuses Logan's many requests to join the heist, but Logan will not back down. After revealing a lingering infatuation with Jackie, he makes several unwelcome attempts at reconnecting with her. Logan eventually grows violent, hurling torrents of abuse at the group while at the same time spitefully painting himself as a victim of their infidelity. After finally storming away in a rage, Logan is kicked off his plane and returns to Dove's home with the intention of murdering him. Instead, Deedee surprises him with a shotgun. The entire group combines their efforts, first beating and shooting him, and finally crushing his skull.With Logan dead, Dove is forced to return to London to perform the job as if nothing has happened. Teddy Bass, a powerful crime lord, has organised the heist after learning about the bank from Harry, a banker who had sex with him at an orgy. Dove feigns ignorance over Logan's whereabouts, but Bass is immediately suspicious. Dove now fears both getting arrested by the police and being murdered by Bass. Since Logan's arrival, Dove's anxiety has manifested in strange dreams where he is menaced by a humanoid rabbit, which echoes a disastrous hunting trip earlier in the film.During the heist, Bass' gangsters use surface-supplied diving gear and drill into Harry's bank vault from a pool in a neighboring bath house. The water from the pool floods the vault and shorts its security system. While helping to empty the vault's safe deposit boxes, Dove secretly pockets a pair of large ruby with diamond earrings. After the job is successfully completed, Bass forces Dove, who is unaware of Bass's intentions, to accompany him to kill Harry at Harry's house, potentially framing Dove for the murder in the process by tricking Dove into leaving his fingerprints in the house. Though Bass has realised the truth about Logan's murder, he does not care enough to retaliate by killing Dove. Instead, he forces Dove to forfeit his share of the loot and banishes him from London.Dove returns safely home and his paradise is restored. Deedee wears the diamond earrings that he stole, and it is revealed that Logan is buried under the double-heart insignia at the bottom of their pool, which had been damaged by a falling boulder just prior to his arrival.
