A film studying the depiction of a friendship between an art dealer named Rothman and his student, Adolf Hitler.
Munich, 1918. German-Jew Max Rothman has returned to much of his pre-war life which includes to his wife Nina and their two children, to his mistress Liselore von Peltz, and to his work as an art dealer. He has however not returned to being an aspiring painter as he lost his dominant right arm during the war. He is approached by an aspiring painter, a thirty-year old Austrian war veteran named Adolf Hitler, who wants him to show his works. Although he doesn't think the paintings are all that original and he doesn't really like Hitler as a person, Rothman takes Hitler under his wings if only because of their camaraderie of being war veterans, and knowing that Hitler had nothing and no one to come back to after the war unlike himself. Rothman believes that Hitler has promise if only he can find his original artistic point of view. In part out of need for money, Hitler, on the urging of Captain Karl Mayr, agrees to work for the army as a political spokesman in anti-Semitic propaganda. Slowly, Hitler's view becomes a holistic one of a new world, where he begins to meld his art and politics. Rothman becomes excited about Hitler's artistic viewpoint, despite its anti-Semitic bent. The question becomes if the sentiments behind the view will take over its artistic merit.
A Jewish art dealer, who lost an arm during World War I befriends a young art student named Adolf Hitler, encouraging his artistic aspirations. However, the bitter and penniless Hitler is torn between his artistic desires and the increasing influence politics begins to play in his life.
At the close of the First World War, Germany enters into the new Weimar Republic following the collapse of the Kaiser's Imperial Reich. Max Rothman, a veteran of the Great War and now art dealer, searches for new talent on the streets of Munich. Into Max's life comes an eccentric young artist, also an Army veteran, named Adolf Hitler. Impressed by Hitler's artistic ability, Max befriends the former Army Corporal and attempts to guide him into the life of a successful artist. Hitler, however, soon finds himself losing interest in art and begins studying the art of public speaking. Max must convince Hitler that art is the better of line of work...before it's too late.

