Three mountain-men brothers living in an uninhabited forest area love their simple lifestyle. When a construction crew shows up to clear the way for a park, the brothers are prepared to stop at nothing to defend their lifestyle - even murder...
When Monroe (William Kerwin; credited as Thomas Wood) and his two younger brothers, Ezra (Daniel Schweitzer) and Benny (Sam Moree), awaken in their forest compound, they hear chain saws and bulldozers nearby. Walking toward the noise, they encounter a new sign on a tree that reads: Grand National Forest. Smaller print says the area is being developed as a campground. The three men wonder if it means they will have to move again, because there are few remote places where they can live off the land. However, Monroe tells the younger men that they will not leave. As they watch a bulldozer knock down trees, Benny cries over his falling friends. Monroe tells Ezra and Benny to start gathering rocks, so they can drive off the workers.Meanwhile, Rick and Carol Rizzo (Robert Rosano and Suzanne Robinson), a middle-aged couple, drive a mobile home on their vacation away from their children. They argue, and Carol is unhappy because they have not made love in a long time.Elsewhere, a motorcyclist named David (Wayne Crawford; credited as Scott Lawrence) is forced to hitchhike when his vehicle breaks down. He remembers the day he poured his coffee on the blueprints he was working on and walked off his armaments manufacturing job because he was tired of making implements of destruction. At the time, he told his girlfriend (Nancy Lawson) he was going to buy a motorcycle and roam the country.In the Grand National Forest, Monroe, Ezra, and Benny surround Ross, a bulldozer operator, and throw rocks at him. When Ross jumps off the cab for cover, Benny gets in and drops the dozer blade, nearly cutting Ross in half.Meanwhile, a young woman named Leslie (Jennifer Stock) drives her Volkswagen van along a deserted road. She remembers her abusive boyfriend (Michael Shaw) slapping her several times and throwing her out of his apartment.Elsewhere, Rick and Carol stop at a roadside fruit stand. There, the vendor (Adrian Sherman) tells them they can stop for the night down the road, where government land is being cleared for a camping area.At the park, Ross' fellow workers find his body and think he had an accident. They put him in a pickup truck and leave the area. Monroe tells Ezra and Benny they cannot turn back now, and must consider every outsider a threat.Rick and Carol, still arguing, pass David hitchhiking along a highway, then pull into the incomplete campground.David has no luck catching a ride, but as a Rolls Royce approaches, it slows down and three young African American men get out. But the men are criminals and they suddenly beat David up and steal his wallet. One of the men, named Shug, puts a gun in David's face and pulls the trigger, but the pistol jams, so they drive away in their stolen car, leaving David behind along the side of the road.Meanwhile, Leslie stops at Joe's diner, and several young redneck cowboys harass her. When Joe chases them out, they tell Leslie they will wait for her outside. After eating, she returns to her van and finds David there, bloody and begging for help. She agrees to give him a ride.At the park, Ezra complains he has never made love to a woman, and Monroe warns him the opposite sex would laugh at him and his ignorant, backwoods ways. Benny joins his friends and reports a vehicle has pulled in nearby with two people, including a woman. They approach the camper but stay hidden in the trees, where Ezra eyes Carol. When Carol hears noises, Rick gets his shotgun from the camper. Monroe sends Ezra and Benny to set snare traps around the footpaths by bending young trees with ropes.Meanwhile, Leslie tells David she is camping in the park ahead. Monroe sees Leslie's van pull into the trees and tells his two companions. Leslie parks near a pond, and she and David take off their clothes, swim, then make love among the trees. Ezra creeps near and watches.Meanwhile, Rick, having seen the van earlier, tells Carol he is going to ask their fellow campers if they want to share dinner. Despite Carol's anger at being intruded upon, Rick walks along a wooded path toward the van. David and Leslie are in the back of the van when she sees someone peering through a window. She screams, and David goes to look, but the intruder is gone. Just then, Rick approaches and invites them for dinner at his camper.Meanwhile, Ezra, with Benny's help, attacks and rapes Carol, and when it is Benny's turn, she leaps up and grabs Rick's shotgun. Hearing Monroe approach, she kills him, drops the gun, and runs into the woods, but stops when she sees Rick's body hanging by the neck from a snare. Ezra catches Carol and slits her throat, but David hears her screams. He and Leslie find Rick and Carol's bodies. When they hurry back to Leslie's van, Ezra and Benny are there. David grabs Benny's hatchet and runs with Leslie to a shed. Inside, he takes the hatchet blade off the handle and uses it to whittle a spear from a sapling tree. The brothers yell for them to come out. David drives the hatchet head into Benny's chest, then chases Ezra through the forest. As they fight, David bites through Ezra's throat and kills him.Victorious, David runs back to the shed to tell Leslie they are safe, but the approaching running footsteps frighten her. She jams the spear into David's chest as he appears in the doorway, killing him.
