Two con artists try to swindle a stamp collector by selling him a sheet of counterfeit rare stamps (the "nine queens").
Early one morning, Marcos observes Juan successfully pulling off a bill-changing scam on a cashier, and then getting caught as he attempts to pull the same trick on the next shift. Marcos steps in, claiming to be a policeman, and drags Juan out of the store. Once they are back on the street, Marcos reveals himself to be a fellow swindler with a game of much higher stakes in mind, and he invites Juan to be his partner in crime. A once-in-a-lifetime scheme seemingly falls into their laps - an old-time con man enlists them to sell a forged set of extremely valuable rare stamps, The Nine Queens. The tricky negotiations that ensue bring into the picture a cast of suspicious characters, including Marcos' sister Valeria, their younger brother Federico and a slew of thieves, conmen and pickpockets. As the deceptions mount, it becomes more and more difficult to figure out who is conning whom.
In Buenos Aires, the swindler Juan cheats the cashier of a convenience store with a bill-changing scam observed by Marcos. Then Juan tries to lure the cashier on the next shift but he is caught by the manager. Marcos claims to be a police officer and arrests Juan; he also brings the money claiming to be evidence. Sooner Juan learns that Marcos is actually an experienced con artist and he invites Juan to be his partner in a scheme. They head to a five-star hotel where Marcos meets his estranged sister Valeria in the reception. She tells that Marco's friend Sandler is very ill and wants to talk to him in the locker room. Sandler explains that he had forged a sheet of the valuable stamps Nueve Reinas using a picture he took from the collection that belongs to his sister. He also tells that the Spaniard Vidal Gandolfo that is lodged in the hotel is a collector of stamps and will travel on the next morning. Therefore, the stamps should be negotiated on that day. Marcos distributes percentages to a network of swindlers to work with him but there are too many con artists in action luring each other.
Two grifters - boyish, likable Juan and hard-edged, scheming Marcos - meet by chance. Marcos, who seems to have cheated everyone he knows including his siblings, is missing his partner, so he offers to teach Juan tricks for a day. Juan accepts because he has some savings, but needs more to bribe a judge to release his father from prison. Marcos gets a call from an aging, ill ex-associate needing help to sell a forged set of rare stamps, the Nine Queens, to a businessman about to be deported (he can't take cash out of Argentina, but could take the stamps). When the con men have to improvise, Marcos asks Juan to use his savings to set up the deal. Is Juan about to be conned?
Nine Queens is a movie about the con-game. Marcos finds Juan at a gas station using childish "tricks" to cheat some money from the cashier and decides to help him out of the situation and take him under as his con man protege. Juan is trying to raise/steal $50,000 to help his dad get out of jail by paying off a judge. That same day, a deal of a lifetime comes along dealing with a famous stamp called "Nine Queens". They find out a rich stamp collector, Vidal Gandolfo, who will soon be leaving the country and won't have time to check it's authenticity so they decide to make a fake one and sell it to him. The fake ones get ruined so they have to go in and purchase the actual stamps for $250,000 which $50,000 was Juan's money and the remaining Marcos'. The deal goes down at a hotel where Marcos' sister Valerie works. Vidal wants her to deliver them and also sleep with him. The entire time the plot keeps twisting, showing both con men having the upper hand at different times and trying to cheat one another. Who will take the money and win the game?
