Unnikrishnan is presumed dead after falling into an ocean due to financial trouble, but he manages to survive and eventually ends up in a Punjabi house.
Unnikrishnan, a jobless youth has taken loan money from everyone he knows. But he couldn't pay back any of those. After facing lot of harassement, he decides to commit suicide after taking an insurance policy which can pay back his loans. He jumps into the sea, but gets caught in the fishing nets of Gangadharan and Ramanan and reaches a distant place. They think that Unni is deaf and dumb and Gangadharan decides to keep him at 'Punjabi House', where he himself had taken a loan from. Unni meets Pooja there, who is also dumb.
The movie opens with the story of a young man, jack of all trades who is struggling to make the ends meet. His dad is a reputable teacher in the village, however, has to surrender credibility owing to his young son's endless debts. The son decides to kill himself after taking a huge insurance that would pave way for the debts after his death. Although, he does not die. Instead, he is picked up by a fisherman and his owner via a fishing net. The fisherman along with his employer hospitalizes the son. But, when the son wakes up, he overhears the fisherman and the owner debating how much to ask as a remuneration from his family for saving his life. so, he pretends to be a mute.
The story takes a twist when the boat owner surrenders the fisherman and the mute at his moneylender's house, who are Punjabis. What follows is a hilarious and romantic tale of how the fisherman and the mute survive with Hindi-Punjabi speaking people as servants. It is followed by twists where the son reclaims his voice, falls in love with the deaf dame of the Punjabi house. Although his father and mother come to know about their son's resurrection, they withdraw from his life. However, his promised-girl (in Kerala Hindus, there is a tradition of marrying your aunt's son) or childhood sweetheart is seen wearing a white sari ( like a widow), living her days in mourning. The story follows another twist when they all reach the Punjabi house to confront the young man.
However, everyone surrenders to the love of the Punjabi girl. The son gets married to the Punjabi girl he was courting and everyone celebrates.
