Neo and his allies race against time before the machines discover the city of Zion and destroy it. While seeking the truth about the Matrix, Neo must save Trinity from a dark fate within his dreams.
Six months after the events depicted in The Matrix, Neo has proved to be a good omen for the free humans, as more and more humans are being freed from the matrix and brought to Zion, the one and only stronghold of the Resistance. Neo himself has discovered his superpowers including super speed, ability to see the codes of the things inside the matrix, and a certain degree of precognition. But a nasty piece of news hits the human resistance: 250,000 machine sentinels are digging to Zion and would reach them in 72 hours. As Zion prepares for the ultimate war, Neo, Morpheus and Trinity are advised by the Oracle to find the Keymaker who would help them reach the Source. Meanwhile Neo's recurrent dreams depicting Trinity's death have got him worried and as if it was not enough, Agent Smith has somehow escaped deletion, has become more powerful than before and has chosen Neo as his next target.
In this second adventure, Neo and the rebel leaders estimate that they have 72 hours until Zion falls under siege to the Machine Army. Only a matter of hours separates the last human enclave on Earth from 250,000 Sentinels programmed to destroy mankind. But the citizens of Zion, emboldened by Morpheus conviction that the One will fulfill the Oracles Prophecy and end the war with the Machines, rest all manner of hope and expectation on Neo, who finds himself stalled by disturbing visions as he searches for a course of action.
Neo, now possessing powers such as super speed, the ability to fly and the ability to see the code embedded in the Matrix, begins to find out about his role as the One. He starts experiencing nightmares about Trinity being killed. Meanwhile, the rebels get information about 250,000 sentinals reaching Zion in 72 hours. Neo seeks the help of the Oracle who advises him to seek the Keymaker who is being held captive by a powerful and dangerous program known as the Merovingian. As Neo learns about the history of the Matrix and what he must do to stop the war, he is faced with the ultimate question - to save Trinity or to end the war.
Neo (Keanu Reeves) and Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss) have been summoned by Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) to join him on a voyage to Zion, the last outpost of free human beings on Earth. Neo and Trinity's work together has been complicated by the fact the two are involved in a serious romantic relationship. Upon their arrival in Zion, Morpheus locks horns with rival Commander Lock (Harry J. Lennix) and encounters his old flame Niobe (Jada Pinkett Smith). Meanwhile, Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving) has returned with some surprises for Neo, most notably the ability to replicate himself as many times as he pleases. Neo makes his way to The Oracle (Gloria Foster), who informs him that if he wishes to save humankind, he must unlock "The Source," which means having to release The Key Maker (Randall Duk Kim) from the clutches of Merovingian (Lambert Wilson). While Merovingian refuses to cooperate, his wife, Persephone (Monica Bellucci), angry at her husband's dalliances with other women, offers to help, but only in exchange for a taste of Neo's affections. With The Keymaker in tow, Neo, Trinity, and Morpheus are chased by Merovingian's henchmen: a pair of deadly albino twins (Neil Rayment and Adrian Rayment)..
Neo, Morpheus, Trinity, and the rest of their crew continue to battle the machines that have enslaved the human race in the Matrix. As their quest unfolds, Neo learns more about his superheroic abilities, including the ability to see the codes of the people and things around him. Now, more humans are waking up out of the Matrix and attempting to live in the real world. As their numbers grow, the battle moves to Zion - the last real-world city and the center of human resistance.
Roughly six months after the original "Matrix", Neo begins to have nightmares about Trinity plunging to her death. Meanwhile, the rebels have returned to the city of Zion to learn that 250,000 sentinels are digging towards them to seek Zion and wipe out the human resistance. The Oracle gives Neo instructions to find the Keymaker and seek out the source. If Neo fails the mission, then the rebellion will be crushed, and the machines will win the war.
Green code-rain starts pouring down the screen, first forming the words "The Matrix", then "Reloaded". The image zooms further in, there's coding everywhere, making out a jungle of shapes. We seem to be inside some kind of machinery, and after pulling out we see the shape of a clock. The image transforms into a time clock and a group of security guards clock out and leave for the night.Outside a figure in black on a matching motorcycle comes flying through the air. She leaps from the bike, makes a backward flip in mid-air and the bike lands with a crash on the guardhouse causing a major explosion. The figure lands elegantly in front of the explosion. As she removes her helmet we see it is Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss). The guards in the parking lot attack her, but she easily fights them off. The picture crumbles into coding like dust, and when restored we're very high up on the side of a building. Trinity bursts through the window, guns in hand. She turns on her back in mid-air, an agent is pursuing her and jumps after, head first. They exchange gunfire, falling to the streets below in slow motion. Eventually Trinity is shot in the chest. Something (impossible to see who or what) crashes into a car by the sidewalk. Neo (Keanu Reeves) wakes up. He looks over at Trinity lying in his arms, sleeping peacefully, then gets out of bed.We see the Nebuchadnezzar from outside as it hovers through the sewers and lands. Inside are Link (Harold Perrineau) and Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) in the cockpit. "Sir, Are you sure about this?" Link asks. Morpheus tells him that if he is to continue as operator on his ship Link must trust him. "Yes, sir. I will sir," says Link. Morpheus glances at him. "I mean I do, sir."In the mess hall sits Neo, pondering. Trinity sits down opposite him. "Still can't sleep?" she asks. Neo shakes his head and takes a sip from his breakfast. "You wanna talk?" Trinity offers. "They're just dreams," Neo reassures. "If you're afraid of something..." "I just wish... I wish I knew what I'm supposed to do, that's all. I just wish I knew." "She's gonna call, don't worry," assures Trinity. Link pops his head in and Trinity asks "Are we ready to go?" "We're already late," he replies.In a dark room underground Niobe (Jada Pinkett Smith) is addressing a crowd of other ship crews about the imminent threat to Zion. The machines are digging and will reach Zion in 72 hours. Naturally Morpheus and crew arrive fashionably late, making sure to draw attention by making an argument right away that there is nothing to fear, for he believes the prophecy will come true very soon and end the war. "But first the Oracle must be consulted." Accordingly, Morpheus asks for a volunteer ship to remain in broadcast depth while the Nebuchadnezzar returns to Zion to recharge and make repairs, despite Commander Lock's direct orders for ALL ships to return. Captain Ballard (Roy Jones Jr.) of the Caduceus volunteers "just to see what Lock does to you." He gives Morpheus 36 hours.Meanwhile someone knocks on the entrance door. The corrupt (Paul Cotter) opens a small hatch on the door and a head in silhouette is seen against the headlights of a car. The stranger asks for Neo. The guard claims not to know who he's talking about and the stranger hands him an envelope telling him to give it to Neo. "You see he set me free." It's beyond doubt the voice of Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving).Neo, having sensed something, comes up asking what's going on. "How did you know someone was here?" one of the guards asks. "He wanted me to give you this," and hands Neo the envelope. Into Neo's palm drops an earpiece worn by agents. "Agents are coming," warns Neo. They flee, leaving Neo to handle the threat.The three agents recognize Neo as "the anomaly", but proceed anyway on the basis that he is after all "only human." Neo pauses momentarily while blocking a blow, "Hm. Upgrades." He fights them off with ease. When the battle is over Neo crouches down, the ground ripples and he shoots to the skies (as he did in the very end of the prequel). At the scene of the battle, Smith walks up and states that it all "went as expected". Facing him is another Smith, "Yes." "It's all happening exactly as before..." "Well, not exactly..." They smile.Morpheus and Trinity are driving to an exit as Morpheus calls Link and asks what happened. Link says a bunch of agents showed up and that suddenly the "coding got all weird." He has never seen anything like it. Morpheus then asks where Neo is now. "He's doing his Superman-thing."Like Link said, Neo is soaring through the clouds. Then he stops and heads back down to the ground. He lands in an old building and enters an abandoned apartment, which we recognize as that of the Oracle. "Where are you?" he whispers.The Nebuchadnezzar approaches Zion. Link communicates with one of the gate operators and they are let inside. Once landed The crew exits the ship and are met by Captain Mifune (Nathaniel Lees) and three A.P.U. escorts. "Are you here to escort me to the stockades, captain?" asks Morpheus. "I'm just here to keep the peace," assures Mifune. Commander Lock wants to see Morpheus and accordingly the escorts take him to him. "What's with them?" Neo asks. "Lock and Morpheus?" asks Trinity back. Neo nods. "Niobe." "Captain Niobe?" "Mhm. She used to be with Morpheus, now she's with Lock." "What happened?" "Morpheus went to the Oracle, after that everything changed." "Yeah, she can do that." Trinity, Neo and Link start gathering their luggage when a teenage boy (Clayton Watson) comes running enthusiastically towards them. "How does he always know?" Trinity asks Neo in a hushed voice. "Doesn't he have anything better to do?" wonders Neo. "You know what they say about the life you save..." answers Trinity. "I didn't save his life," Neo claims. The kid, now right in front of them, welcomes them home and offers to carry their bags. Both Neo and Trinity decline. "You can carry these..." says Link. "Sure, Link."As they all walk towards the elevators the kid starts going on about how he will be old enough to join a crew next year and that he wants to serve aboard the Nebuchadnezzar. His main reason for this is that Neo saved him. "You saved yourself," assures Neo.Meanwhile Lock (Harry Lennix) tells Morpheus off for asking a ship to stay behind, when they all had been ordered back to Zion. Morpheus defends himself with his belief that they must have the Oracles advice and that Neo will be the key to ending the war. Lock on the other hand has no confidence in the prophecy and is only concerned with having all the firepower available for when the machines reaches Zion.The kid mentions a gathering that evening, a bigger one than anyone can remember. It is a popular belief that something big will happen.Councillor Hamann (Anthony Zerbe) enters in the middle of the discussion. He asks their opinion on what is to be said about the situation to the people at the gathering that evening. Lock believes they should know as little as possible, they wouldn't want to start a panic. Morpheus thinks the truth should be told and that there will be no panic because there is nothing to fear.They enter the elevator and after a few seconds of silence Link gets off telling the kid to come with him. "These two have other things to do." As soon as the elevator doors closes Neo and Trinity drop their bags and make out passionately. "Are you thinking what I'm thinking?" asks Neo. "I'm thinking this elevator is too damn slow," replies Trinity. But before long they are interrupted by the elevator doors opening and are received by a crowd of people. They carry offerings, asking Neo to look over their sick children etc. Neo thanks them for their gifts and says he'll try. Trinity lowers her head in disappointment and starts to walk away. Neo asks her not to go, but Trinity answers, "It's okay. They need you." "I need you," he pleads. "I know, there's time," she assures him and walks away.Meanwhile, Link arrives at his apartment where his girlfriend, Zee (Nona Gaye), is waiting with her sister-in-law, Cas (Gina Torres), her niece (Alima Ashton-Sheibu) and nephew (Joshua Mbakwe). "Uncle Link!" the little ones exclaim as he walks through the door. After welcoming him home, Cas and her kids leave. Zee is not happy at all. Link serving on Morpheus' ship terrifies her. All other ships are home twice as often as the Nebucadnezzar. She has also already lost two brothers to that ship and is afraid she will lose him too. "It's not fair," she says. "You think Cas thinks it's fair that I'm here and Dozer's not?" Link argues. He also says nothing will happen to him, Morpheus says it will all be over soon. The important thing is that he's home now and they hug.Evening comes and everyone is gathered in Zion's temple cavern. Counselor Hamann is standing on a cliff high above the masses, as he gives the opening prayer and introduces Morpheus, who then steps up and gives his speech. He confirms the rumors of the machines digging, and convinces everyone that there is indeed nothing to be afraid of. "We are still here!" is his main argument and tonight they will make so much noise as to show the machines that they are not afraid. The music starts and everyone starts dancing as if it really was their last night on earth.As he leaves the podium, Morpheus runs into Niobe and they flirt mildly before Lock call her to his side.Meanwhile Neo and Trinity meet up in the outskirts of the caves. "I was thinking. Everyone's here..." says Neo. "Follow me." answers Trinity. While everyone else parties like never before, Neo and Trinity are alone at last and they make passionate love to each other and have the sex of their lives!However, Neo suddenly gets a flash of his dream where Trinity is shot and falls into his fears of losing her. Trinity asks what is wrong, but he only answers that he is afraid of losing her. She grasps his hand, "Do you feel this? I'm never letting go." They hold each other tightly and remain silently in each others arms.Eventually everyone goes to bed and the lights are shut down.Back in the Matrix Bane (Ian Bliss) and another member of the Caduceus crew are fleeing for their lives from something. They have reached an exit and have a message from the Oracle. Bane goes last and just before he can get out Smith jumps through the skylight and plunges his hand into Bane's chest. "Oh, God" shivers Bane in terror. "Smith will suffice," says the former agent satisfied. Black fluid of sorts spreads all over Bane's body from where Smith has his hand, and once covered he is another Smith-clone. The clone then puts the phone to his ear and leaves the Matrix.Neo wakes up and goes outside his apartment gazing over the city. Councillor Hamann approaches him and offers his company. Neo accepts. Hamann asks if Neo has ever been to the engineering level. He has not, so they go. Once down there Hamann tells Neo about his wondering if they, the free humans, aren't in a sense plugged into these machines. They do after all depend on them. Neo answers that they control these machines, that if they wanted to they could shut them down, destroy them. But, Hamann points out there is the catch. If they did turn them off, what would happen to their water supply, heat etc.? But in the end he has no point to his musings and they leave it at that.It's morning and Ballard knocks on a door in Zion and Trinity opens. "Is Neo here?" Trinity opens the door further and Neo appears. It's a message from the Oracle. Against Lock's orders Morpheus takes off with ship and crew to have Neo meet with her.Before departure Zee tries to urge Link to wear her lucky necklace. He reluctantly agrees, not believing in that stuff, and they kiss.As the party go their ship Bane/Smith sits in nook of the tunnel, cutting his hand with a knife. When the quartet pass him, he sneaks up behind them, knife in hand. He is discovered though when the kid from before comes running. "Neo!" Bane/Smith hides the knife behind his back and claims he just wanted to say good luck. The kid has to say goodbye to his hero too before he leaves and give him something from one of the orphans. "He said you'd understand." It's a metal spoon.Lock is outraged at Counselor Hamann for giving the Nebuchadnezzar clearance to leave. He did so because he believes their survival depends on more than how many ships they have.Neo enters the Matrix near the designated address, which is in Chinatown. He enters a small room from the street and at the back of the room sits an Asian-looking man in corresponding clothes, meditating. To Neo, who sees everything in coding, the stranger radiates a golden light. "Welcome," he says. "I am Seraph." He will take Neo to the Oracle. "But first I must apologize." "For what?" wonders Neo. "For this," says Seraph (Collin Chou) and attacks. After some kicking, punching and blocking, Seraph is satisfied. He had to make sure Neo really was the One, as the Oracle has many enemies. "You could have just asked," claims Neo with a smile. "You do not really know someone until you fight them," answers Seraph. He then shuts the door to the street, pulls out a key that he turns in the key hole and opens the door again. It no longer leads to the streets of Chinatown, but to a white hallway lined with green doors. "These are back doors," Neo concludes. Seraph confirms. "Where'd they go?" Link wonders in the real world. They walk down the hall till Seraph stops and opens another door. This one leads to an isolated courtyard where the Oracle (Gloria Foster) sits waiting on a bench.Neo approaches her and she asks him to sit down. He politely declines. "Suit yourself," she says and shrugs. Neo sits down after all. "I felt like sitting." "Of course.""Let's get the obvious out of the way," the Oracle starts. "You're not human, are you," Neo says.
"Doesn't get more obvious than that." "If I had to guess I'd say you were a program of the machine world. And so is he," Neo looks at Seraph. "I guess the most obvious question is, how can I trust you?" The Oracle answers that he has to choose whether to trust her or not.
"Candy?" she offers him.
"You already know if I'm going to take it?"
"Wouldn't be much of an oracle if I didn't."
"Then how can I make a choice?"
The Oracle replies that he has already made the choice and only needs to understand it. "But why are you here?" wonders Neo.
The Oracle points out a flock of crows and explains that at some point a program to govern them as well as all other things. The programs that do their job are invisible, as opposed those who do not. The latter manifest as what humans refer to as ghosts, vampires etc.
"When a program faces deletion it can either choose to hide out here or return to the Source. Where you must go."
"The machine mainframe."
"You've seen, haven't you? The The door of bright light."
Neo confirms.
"What happens when you walk through it?!
"I see Trinity. Something bad happens and Trinity starts to fall."
"Do you see her die?"
"No"
"You've got the sight now Neo."
Neo wants to know why he can not see what happen to Trinity, but the answer he gets is simply that we cannot see past the choices we do not understand.
"Are you saying I have to choose whether Trinity lives or dies?"
"No, Neo. You've already made the choice."
Neo refuses to accept this, he can not do such a thing, but he has to.
"Why?"
"Because you are the One."
If Neo doesn't go to the Source all of Zion will perish, and to get there he will need the Keymaker, an exile program currently held captive by the Merovingian an old and dangerous program.Seraph comes over saying they must leave and so he and the Oracle leave through the back door. Just as the door closes Smith appears. Apparently Neo and he are connected somehow. He explains that when Neo destroyed him he was supposed to be deleted, but he refused to obey the rules and has now become "unplugged". Then there is the question of purpose and Smith-clones start coming towards them, each elaborating on the importance of purpose. When the "original" Smith and Neo are surrounded by clones, Smith tries to turn him into another clone, but with some effort Neo manages to resist and pulls Smith's hand out of his chest. All Smiths attack. A lengthy fight ensues, more clones joining in continually. In the middle of it all an agent comes to the scene only to be turned into yet another clone, but not before recognizing Smith in surprise. Eventually Neo abandons the fight and all the clones go their separate ways.Back in the real world Neo is unplugged.
"It was Smith," says Morpheus.
Neo confirms and that he has found a way to copy himself.In Zion the council and all crews are gathered. Lock explains their current situation and tactics. The council have limited confidence in these tactics. They then ask if there has been word from the Nebucadnezzar. There has not. Hence the council asks for two volunteer ships to go search for them, against Lock's protests. Captain Soren (Steve Bastoni) stands up immediately. No other reacts to the request. Bane/Smith suggests to Ballard that they should volunteer, but Ballard just tells him to shut up. Eventually Niobe declares her willingness to search for the missing party, to Lock's surprise and horror. He tries to forbid her to go, but she is determined, because some things never change and some things do.Neo, Trinity and Morpheus arrive at a French restaurant in the Matrix, where thy find the Merovingian (Lambert Wilson) and his wife, Persephone (Monica Bellucci), at the head table as if they were king and queen. As a "trafficker of information", as he calls himself, the Merovingian knows why they are there. The question is, according to him, do they know? He says they are there because they were told to, declares he has no intention of letting go of the Keymaker and tells them to tell the Oracle from him that "her time is almost up." He also explains to them what he holds as the one truth, namely the forces of causality. As he has said all he feels like sharing he cuts the negotiations short and excuses himself to the men's room. Neo, Morpheus and Trinity are escorted to the elevator by the Merovingian's henchmen.When the elevator stops and the doors open they see Persephone waiting for them.
"If you want the Keymaker, follow me," she says dryly and takes them to the men's room (where the Merovingian is not).
"Why are you doing this?" Neo asks. Her answer is that she has come to resent her husband. She will take them to the Keymaker on one condition: that Neo kiss her as if she were Trinity, she wants to remember what love feels like. Trinity protests by pulling a gun at Persephone, but as they need the Keymaker she has no choice but to back down and look on in anguish. As soon as Persephone is satisfied she fulfills her promise.She leads them through the kitchen of the restaurant and to a door at the other end. This she opens with a key similar to that of Seraph's. This takes them to the great hall of a chateau. Persephone further leads the party to a small study where two shady men are sitting guard. She shoots one with a silver bullet and tells the other to tell his master what she has done or die like his friend. "He's in the lady's room," Persephone shouts after the vampire as he scurries off and opens a secret door to the dungeons, where they find the Keymaker (Randall Duk Kim).As they re-enter the main hall, the Merovingian and his henchmen burst through the front door. He is shocked by his wife's actions and fail to understand her reasons. She plainly explains that it is just like he said: cause and effect. The Merovingian claims there is no cause for this, but Persephone points out the lipstick he is still wearing (not on his lips...) and leaves.The Merovingian immediately order the Twins (Neil Rayment and Adrian Rayment), who turn out to have the ability to turn into spectrals, to get the Keymaker back. The Keymaker flees right away and Trinity and Morpheus follow him, leaving Neo to handle the henchmen. They put up more of a fight than the agents, but are still not much of a match for the One. Disappointed the Merovingian and company leave the way they came, closing the door behind them. This causes the connection between the restaurant and castle to break and when he re-opens the door Neo finds himself high up in the mountains. He therefore runs the way the Keymaker went.Meanwhile, the Keymaker connects the door at the end of a hallway to a parking lot, but Trinity fails to close the door before one of the Twins gets an arm between the door and the door frame. Thus the other twin can merely glide through in spectral form, prompting Trinity to fight him (Morpheus holds the door), but she loses and the Twin pulls a knife to her throat. Morpheus has no choice but to let the other Twin through. In the meantime, the Keymaker acquires a car and Trinity runs over and gets in the driver's seat while Morpheus holds the Twins at bay. Morpheus gets in the car and they flee. As they drive away one of the twins closes the door in Neo's face.Neo crashes through the door anyway, but is again in the mountains. He calls Link who can only tell him he's in the mountains. Neo then inquires how Trinity and Morpheus are doing. They are in trouble, Link tells him, and gives him directions to their whereabouts.In the city Morpheus and Trinity are zooming through the streets trying to shake off the pursuing Twins who have acquired a car of their own. Morpheus calls Link for help and it turns out the only way is onto the freeway. By now, a load of police cars are on their tail. "You always told me to stay off the freeway," says Trinity.
"Yes, that's true."
"You said it was suicide."
"Then let us hope that I was wrong."Elsewhere in the Matrix, Niobe calls Link to tell him they have come to get them out. "Just follow the sirens..." says Link.On the freeway, the Twins are now in front of Morpheus and co. and as soon as they run out of ammo, the one not driving takes spectral form and lands himself in the backseat of the other car, next to the Keymaker. Morpheus tries to fight him off, to little avail. Then Agents show up; one lands on the hood of Trinity's and Morpheus's car and rips off the roof. Morpheus, though held down by the Twin, fires at him, but this helps no more than it ever has before. Trinity hits the brakes so that the Agent is flung off. Morpheus continues to struggle with the Twin and eventually gets hold of a sword which he thrusts through his seat, forcing the twin to let go of his solid self and get left behind. He is immediately picked up by his brother.
"We are getting aggravated."
"Yes, we are."
Another Agent has caught up with our heroes and fires away as well hitting them with his car. They manage to lose him though, by leaving the freeway in a way that causes the Agent to crash into the railing. They are now on a bridge over the freeway and come to a full stop.
"Trinity, get him out of here," orders Morpheus.
"Come on!" she shouts to the Keymaker and they jump off the bridge onto a truck below carrying a load of motorcycles. Morpheus stays behind to handle the Twins. He does this by causing their crash and shooting the gas tank.Trinity and the Keymaker obtain a motorcycle and continue towards their exit. It is not long however before an Agent takes control of a semi-truck, forcing Trinity to turn around. Police follow and are soon transformed into more Agents. Morpheus comes towards them on the roof of another semi-truck and grabs the Keymaker. Trinity is no longer being pursued and escapes, as it is the Keymaker the Agents want this time. An Agent therefore attacks Morpheus instead, and they battle on top of the semi. After a while Morpheus, is thrown off, but Niobe catches him on the hood of her car. The Agent approaches the Keymaker.
"You are no longer necessary."
"We do only what we're meant to do," says the Keymaker.
"Then you're meant for only one more thing. Deletion." replies the Agent .
Just as the Agent is about to terminate the Exile, Mopheus jumps on him, throwing him off. This only prompts the Agent to relocate to the driver's seat of the same semi-truck, and forces Niobe to leave. Further back another Agent is in control of another semi-truck and turns the truck, aiming for the other truck and a head-on collision.
"Neo, if you're out there, I could use some help," prays Mopheus to himself.
"What is that?" wonders Link about something on the screen.
Neo comes flying through the air, grabbing Morpheus and the Keymaker in the nick of time.In Zion, they learn that the machines drilling through the earth are currently being slowed down by iron, which means they will be in Zion in little over nine hours.Soren, Niobe, Morpheus and their crews are gathered with the Keymaker. He tells them what they must do. Neo must go through the door that leads to the source, but to keep the entire building from exploding, the electrical network providing energy to 27 square blocks must be disabled. Niobe and Ghost (Anthony Brandon Wong) must therefore take out a power station while Soren and his crew deactivate the emergency network. This will give a five-minute window during which Neo must open the door. "All must be done as one. If one fails, all fail," the Keymaker instructs.Back in the real world, while waiting for it to be time for him to go, Neo makes Trinity promise not to enter the Matrix. She agrees.Niobe and Ghost succeed, but Soren and his crew are killed by Sentinels just before they accomplish their mission. Link and Trinity discover that they aren't moving and so Trinity has to go in to finish their job.As Neo sees the lights go out he, Morpheus and the Keymaker enter the hall of back door, where they are met by Smith.Trinity enters the Matrix and all happens as in Neo's dreams.In the hallway Neo and Morpheus are assaulted by a horde of Smiths. They try to take Morpheus' body for their own, but Neo prevents it. In the heat of the battle the Keymaker sneaks around by using alternate doors and opens the one they seek just as the power grid fails again, thanks to Trinity. Neo grabs Morpheus and flies through the door. Unfortunately the Keymaker is gunned down by Smiths as he closes it again, and dies. Before taking his last "breath," he tells Morpheus which door to take to get home and gives Neo the key he needs to open the special door. Simultaneously an Agent is heading for Trinity without her knowledge. Neo enters the door of light.He is now in a room where the walls are made up of old-fashioned television screens. In a chair on the other side of the room sits the Architect (Helmut Bakaitis), the one who designed the Matrix. Neo asks why is he there. The Architect explains that Neo is an anomaly he has been unable to remove. "You haven't answered my question," Neo points out. The Architect confirms and mentions that he caught on faster than the others... The screens, showing Neo and expressing his thoughts, all express bewilderment by what the Architect means. "The Matrix is older than you know," the Architect explains. Apparently this is the sixth version. Neo has trouble accepting, but concludes that "either no one told me or no one knows."
"Precisely." The anomaly is essential to the equations the Architect builds the Matrix from.
"Choice, the problem is choice," Neo realizes.Just then Trinity is surprised by an Agent. She is no match for him and soon hits the floor.The Architect describes the first Matrix, which was perfect and therefore failed. The Architect tried again, making it reflect the human nature, but in vain. The problem was discovered by "an intuitive program, initially created to investigate certain aspects of the human psyche." The Oracle discovered (according to the Architect, by chance) that the humans had to be given choice. This leads them to Zion and Neo is with the Architect because it is about to be destroyed, a fact Neo cannot accept.The Architect simply points out that it is for the sixth time and they are getting better and better at it.Trinity continues to battle the Agent, but is slowly being defeated.The Architect explains that Neo must now return to the Source so that the "prime program can be launched. Then he must choose 23 people to rebuild Zion. If he does not the Matrix will crash due to system failure, killing everyone connected. As Zion is about to be destroyed that would mean the end of the human race. Neo points out however that machines need humans to survive."There are levels of survival we are prepared to accept," the Architect claims. He doubts however that Neo will accept the extinction of all humans. The Architect elaborates that the five predecessors were designed to develop an attachment to their fellow human beings. Neo, on the other hand has a more specific aim for his affections.
"Trinity!" Neo exclaims in a whisper. The screens are showing her predicament, and the Architect reveals that she entered the Matrix to save his life. The Architect presents Neo with two doors. The one to his right leads to the Source, and the one on the left to Trinity and the downfall of man. The old man can tell that Neo's feelings are blinding him from the "fact" that Trinity will die either way. As the Oracle predicted, Neo goes to his left, only stopping to threaten the Architect that he better hope they don't meet again.
"We won't," is the only reply.Back in the real world Morpheus is just coming out of the Matrix.
"We have a problem, sir," says Link.
"Oh, no," exclaims Morpheus as he sees Trinity connected.Trinity is still battling the Agent and jumps through the window and falls, the Agent close behind, and he shoots her as predicted in Neo's nightmares. Neo, flying faster than ever, catches her just in time, the agent hitting the car, crushing it. Neo lands on a rooftop with her and lays her down. She appears fatally wounded. Neo removes the bullet by manipulating the code of the Matrix, but Trinity's heart stops. Neo refused to accept her death. Reaching through the code of the Matrix, he compresses her heart and restarts it. She awakens with a start and they kiss passionately.
"I guess this makes us even," she whispers.Morpheus fails to understand why the prophecy has not come true. Neo tells him and the others that they have 24 hours to save Zion and that the prophecy was just another form of control, a lie. Morpheus has major trouble accepting this, but before they can contemplate this complexity, their proximity alert sounds. The sentinels are just outside of EMP range. "It's a bomb," says Neo. They flee.Keeping its distance, the sentinel they detected spins itself rapidly and releases a tow bomb that collides with the Neb. From a safe distance the crew see the Nebuchadnezzar blown apart by the powerful weapon."I have dreamed a dream, but now that dream has gone from me," Morpheus says, heartbroken.The Sentinels pursue them immediately and the humans run for their lives. Suddenly Neo stops."Something's different," he says"What?" asks Trinity."I can feel them."As the Sentinels descend on them, Neo stops them in mid-air, as if he were emitting an EMP. As soon as all the Sentinels are down he collapses. Just then the ship Hammer comes to their rescue.Aboard, Neo is lying unconscious in sickbay, Trinity at his side. In the conference room, the crew of the ship tell Morpheus and Link about the counterattack on the digging machines. It all sounded good, but someone screwed up. An EMP triggered before they were in position and five ships were incapacitated. It was a slaughter. No one knows how it happened. The sole survivor now lies unconscious in the sickbay of the Hammer with Neo. It is Bane.Continued in "The Matrix Revolutions (2003)."
