A developmentally disabled young man tries to continue the work his father did in communicating with extra-terrestrials from outer space, which leads to something miraculous and wonderful.
Scientist Sanjay Mehra devises a computer that is capable of contacting aliens. His happiness is cut short when the scientists at a space-research center scoff at him and refuse to believe his claims. While returning home with his pregnant wife, he glimpses an alien spaceship, and, in the resulting confusion, he cannot control his car, leading to a crash. His wife survives but their unborn child suffers brain damage. Years later, their son Rohit Mehra has grown up but has thinking capacity of a child. He befriends the compassionate Nisha, which angers Nisha's suitor Raj, a spoiled brat. One day, Rohit and Nisha find Rohit's father's computer in his shed and follow the instructions provided. That very evening, their town is paid a visit by an alien spaceship that lands someplace nearby and takes off shortly afterward. But when the police inspect the footprints, they discover that one of the aliens has been left behind. Then Rohit and Nisha find the alien, name him Jadoo, and watch as their lives slide into virtual chaos.
Scientist Sanjay Mehra is able to communicate with aliens beyond planet earth using various computing devices. He goes to the space center to browse this news to his colleagues who refuses to believe him; on his way home with his pregnant wife Sonia; the car they are traveling in meets with an accident killing Sanjay. Shortly after Sonia gives birth to a baby boy, Rohit who is mentally affected as a result of the accident. Rohit grows up physically but mentally have thinking of a child. This affect his performance both in the outer world and at school; one day a space-ship with some aliens from another planet land in the vicinity leaving one of the aliens behind. Fortunately for Rohit the alien ended up being his companion who completely transform his mental condition to that of being a normal man.
Dr Mehra happens to successfully communicate with the Aliens.But his seniors make a fool out of him while traveling home he sees a UFO flying above his car and looses his control and meets with an accident killing him and injuring his pregnant wife Sonia.Many years later Sonia has shifted to a small hill station Kasauli in India her son Rohit is grown adult but still in school due his abnormalities he faced when Sonia suffered the accident.Rohit is often insulted by Raj who was one time his classmate he meets Nisha and both spend time together and become good friends making Raj jealous.When Rohit finds Nisha can operate a computer he shows her an old computer of his father and mistakenly they send a signal to UFO.The spacecraft arrives in the small town and a government decides it to celebrate but Sonia wants Rohit to stay away from this.Rohit and Nisha find the Alien in jungle who couldn't board the spacecraft they take him along and name him Jaadoo due to his magical powers.Jadoo finds that the reason for Rohit's abnormality and heals him with his powers.But how long will Rohit be able to hide him from everyone.
Sanjay Mehra and his wife Sonia live a middle-class life. Sanjay's passion is studying the heavenly bodies through various computers, telescopes, and communicators as he believes there is life beyond Earth. He continuously transmits the sound generated by the syllable "Om" and hopes that someone somewhere will hear this signal and respond to it. One day, he does get a response, and he hurries to share this with experts--only to be scoffed at. Humiliated at this, he returns home and that is when an earthquake occurs, destroying the house with all the equipment, seriously injuring a pregnant Sonia, and killing Sanjay. Because of to her injuries, Sonia is able to deliver a baby boy, albeit with serious mental disabilities, whom she names Rohit. The child does survive and grow up - only physically, as mentally he is a mere child. Complications arise when Rohit is taunted and made fun of in school. Is Rohit making all this up with an overly active childish imagination (for who can believe a mentally challenged individual having hallucinations about aliens and spaceships?) or is he really hiding an extra-terrestrial?
Canada based Scientist Sanjay Mehra (Rakesh Roshan) has spent his whole life trying to contact aliens by creating numerous gadgets and devices. Eventually, he creates a computer from which he sends variations of the syllable "Om" hoping to contact Aliens. One evening he receives a reply and decides to go to the Research and Space Centre to share his findings. However, his colleagues laugh at him and dismiss his claim. He returns home with his pregnant wife Sonia (Rekha) in the car. Suddenly the lights and the radio begin to turn on and off. A glow illuminates the sky, and a spacecraft appears overhead. Distracted, Sanjay drives off the road, causing the car to explode, killing him. Sonia is thrown out of the vehicle and injured, she survives the crash and returns home to India.When their son Rohit Mehra (Hrithik Roshan) is born, he is developmentally disabled due to an injury he received in the accident while a fetus. Sonia learns that although surgery is the only solution for Rohit, it could result in paralysis or death. She raises him in the hill station town of Kasauli where he grows up to be a man of limited intellect but with a huge heart and a loyal group of young friends. However, no matter how hard he tries; Rohit can't keep up with his schoolwork and gets left behind year after year. He is also under threat from his former classmate Raj and his gang. Raj is the local basketball champion and son of the district collector.Later, Nisha (Priety Zinta), a young lady and childhood friend of Raj, comes to Kasauli. She is initially antagonistic to Rohit due to his childish pranks against her, not knowing he is mentally disabled. These pranks include tricking her into dropping him and his friends off to the cinema and dropping food on her during a party; they enter for free food. The next day Rohit cycles by on his scooter and sees Nisha in the hairdressers, remembering his mother advice to apologies, he writes a note saying sorry and tries to leave it on her car. Rohit tries to leave the letter on the car, but it keeps on falling down. Worried Nisha won't see the note of apology, he naively places chewing gum on her car seat to make the note stick.However, Raj and his friends catch him and assume he was sticking gum on the car despite his pleas he had only come to apologies. Nisha arrives and accuses Rohit of harassing her. In retribution, Raj and his gang knock Rohit down with there motorbikes and break his scooter. Sonia is informed about the attack by one of Rohit's friends and arrives to see a devastated Rohit holding his broken scooter parts. Later, Nisha, Raj, and his gang are at the local cafe having a good laugh about teaching Rohit a lesson, Nisha remarks that Rohit deserved what he got. However, Sonia arrives to confront Nisha and Raj for attacking Rohit and tells Nisha that Rohit's disabled. She acknowledges that Nisha couldn't have known better, but Raj and his friends know Rohit and used to be in his class before they passed him by. She then remarks that if ordinary people are like Nisha and Raj, then she's happy Rohit is disabled.A shocked Nisha is left on the verge of tears after Sonia goes and finally sees the note Rohit had written. The following day Nisha visits Rohit's school and observes him being insulted by his computer teacher for his low intelligence. She gifts Rohit a new bike and promises to get Raj and his friends to apologies. However, Raj's friends get Rohit drunk after apologizing. A disgusted Nisha abandons them and ends up dancing with Rohit in the rain.Rohit and Nisha become best friends, and Nisha kindly tells Rohit she's his girlfriend and introduces him to her parents. Knowing Rohit wants to study computers, Nisha promises to help him study. They find Sanjay's old 'Om' computer and begin using it. Later Rohit and Nisha attend a basketball game of Raj and his team. Seeing Nisha's love for Basketball, Rohit practices the game alone. However, Raj and his friends attack him and Raj warns him off seeing Nisha.Rohit goes home and prays to God to be stronger. Suddenly, Sanjay's computer starts receiving signals from the aliens, Rohit communicates with them, and the lights and electricity in the town begin to short circuit. His mother notices this and starts slapping him for using the computer. However, the lights in the city go out, and a huge spaceship appears over Kasauli. The visiting aliens leave in haste, leaving one behind. Rohit and Nisha find and befriend the little blue alien, naming him Jadoo ("Magic") and discover his psychic abilities. Rohit's friends also discover Jadoo and promise to keep him a secret. However, Chief Inspector Khan (Mukesh Rishi) realizes one of the aliens has been left behind so decides to capture the alien, dead or alive.Raj's friends tell Raj that Nisha and Rohit will end up together. Raj does not like Nisha's friendship with Rohit so spreads a fake rum our that he and Nisha are getting married. Nisha rejects Raj's proposal and defends Rohit after Raj speaks dismissively of him. Rohit is especially hurt as he was under the impression that Nisha was his girlfriend.Jadoo discovers that Rohit is mentally abnormal, and uses his powers, derived from sunlight, to enhance Rohit's mind. The next morning, Rohit finds himself with a clear vision; he later solves a 10th standard mathematics problem, surprising his teacher and principal. He then lectures his computer teacher to understand the responsibilities of being a teacher. As a result, Rohit finds himself accepted by most of the school and beats up Raj's friends when they try to harass him. His mother also learns of Jadoo existence and intends to hand him over to the authorities. However, when she learns that he cured Rohit, she embraces him in gratitude.Rohit's strength and agility are enhanced, so he decides to enter a dance competition to test his abilities out. Nisha follows and tries to stop him. However, she is left stunned as Rohit ends up winning the competition. Raj and his friends arrive at the club and challenge Rohit and his friends to a basketball match, Rohit uses his new physique to score several baskets during the game. Raj and his gang then begin to play dirty to win the game. After the sun comes out, Jadoo helps Rohit and his young friends win the game by jumping at superhuman heights. The now changed Rohit meets Nisha stunned parents and confesses his love for her, which Nisha now reciprocates.Raj and his friend's later corner Rohit's friends that night over their supernatural performance at the basketball game. Rohit's friends are forced to flee, and Jadoo accidentally falls from their grip. Inspector Sukhwani (Johnny Lever) sees Jadoo in the bag and informs the other policemen about him. The policemen capture the bag, although Rohit arrives in time to rescue Jadoo, leaving the police behind. Raj and his buddies later confront him. Rohit, now infuriated, quickly takes down Raj and his buddies but not before the police catch up to him. Jadoo was not in the bag and had escaped when Sukhwani was busy calling the police. Rohit returns home and is urged by his mother and Nisha to send Jadoo home for his safety. However, Jadoo reveals that if he goes back the powers, he gave Rohit will go as well. Rohit realizes this means he will be disabled again but still decides to send Jadoo home as everyone else says goodbye to him.However, Inspector Khan is suspicious of Rohit and confront him in his house. He and the authorities take Jadoo and knock Rohit out. When he regains consciousness, a remorseful Sukhwani tells Rohit where Jadoo is. Rohit uses his superhuman speed to catch up and save Jadoo from being taken to America. The spaceship, which he had summoned arrives, and Rohit bids a sad farewell to Jadoo. Jadoo and reverts to his disabled self. The Indian government eventually releases him, and Rohit is felicitated for helping Jadoo in front of all his loved ones at a ceremony.After everything dies down, Nisha and Rohit walk together. Nisha tells Rohit that although Jadoo is gone, she still loves him regardless of his mental state. However, Raj and his buddies return to harass Rohit by hitting him with a basketball and challenging him to kick it. Nisha tries to lead Rohit away, but Raj cruelly mocks their relationship. An enraged Rohit kicks Raj's ball into his face as Jadoo returns Rohit's powers permanently. Rohit and Nisha thank Jadoo and live happily ever after.
