Carter and Lee head to Hong Kong for a vacation, but become embroiled in a counterfeit money scam.
It's vacation time for Det. James Carter and he finds himself alongside Det. Lee in Hong Kong wishing for more excitement. While Carter wants to party and meet the ladies, Lee is out to track down a Triad gang lord who may be responsible for killing two men at the American Embassy. Things get complicated as the pair stumble onto a counterfeiting plot by L.A. crime boss Steven Reign and Triad Ricky Tan, an ex-cop who played a mysterious part in the death of Det. Lee's father. Throw in a power struggle between Tan and the gorgeous but dangerous Hu Li and the boys are soon up to their necks in fist fights and life-threatening situations. A trip back to the U.S. may provide the answers about the bombing, the counterfeiting, and the true allegiance of sexy customs agent Isabella. Then again, it may turn up more excitement than Carter was looking for during his vacation.
Chief Inspector Lee and Detective James Carter are back! But this time they're now in Hong Kong on a vacation. However, soon after they arrive, a bomb explodes in the American Embassy. And Inspector Lee is assigned to the case, which becomes personal when it is discovered that the man behind it is Ricky Tan, Lee's father's former partner. Tan, who played an instrumental role in his father's death, who is now the leader of the Triads, the most deadly gang in all of China. The American and Hong Kong authorities soon get into a fight over the jurisdiction of the case. Lee learns that Ricky Tan will be attending a dinner party on his boat. When confronted, Tan claims that someone is trying to frame him. Tan's underling, Hu Li, appears and shoots Tan, and he falls off the boat. In the chaos, Hu Li escapes into a sewer come emerge in downtown Las Vegas, but Carter and Lee are forced to be sent back to Los Angeles. But later in Las Vegas, at the Red Dragon Casino, Lee has been framed when Ricky Tan faked his death and is now still alive but Hu Li places a small bomb in his mouth, and gags him. But will Carter save him while he's still makes a big commotion and distracts the security forces?
In need of a vacation after nearly destroying Los Angeles in Rush Hour (1998), the mismatched duo of investigators--the ace Hong Kong Police Chief Inspector, Lee, and the LAPD Detective, Carter--find themselves neck-deep in trouble after an explosion in the American Embassy. Now, with the murderous Triads being behind it, Lee and Carter must track down the dangerous crime kingpin, Ricky Tan, as the string of clues lead them back to Las Vegas. Can the bulletproof detectives crack this difficult case?
Lee and Carter are back! This time they're in Hong Kong. Carter wants a relaxing vacation but Lee just wants to do police work. At a night club, Lee spots an evil agent named Ricky Tan, who runs an evil gang of counterfeiters, and his partner is a woman who delivers packages containing bombs. Lee and Carter follow these two aboard a boat where their attempted bust really busts, so Lee and Carter fly back to Los Angeles where they meet a woman in the Secret Service who helps them on their mission to find the counterfeiters. Lee and Carter are captured by the bad guys but soon escape into a sewer come emerge in downtown Las Vegas.
Det. James Carter is on vacation in Hong Kong, but Inspector Lee is too busy doing police work. After an explosion at the American Embassy, Lee attempts to track down the man who may be responsible, Ricky Tan, a Triad gang leader and the former partner of Lee's father, who was also a cop. Obviously, Carter doesn't appreciate being dragged along like that, but what choice does he have? Lee discovers a power struggle among the Triads between Tan and Hu Li. They later find out it has something to do with the death of Lee's father, and a counterfeiting scheme. Lee and Carter go back to Cali, and later Las Vegas, where they discover that everything that's happened goes way beyond an explosion at the Embassy.

