A young girl meets the doppelganger of her deceased boyfriend and now has a chance to find the people who have murdered him.
A poor singer, Rohit, and the daughter of a very rich man, Sonia, fall in love. While on a cruise ship, they get separated from the rest of their party and end up on a deserted island. They live happily here for a few days until they are rescued. Sonia's friends help Rohit to make a name for himself so that they can get married. But before he reaches this goal, he meets an untimely death. Sonia's father sends her to live with her cousins in New Zealand to get over her heartbreak. In New Zealand she meets Raj Chopra who looks exactly like Rohit.
A poor singer Rohit, and a wealthy young woman, Sonia Saxena, get stranded on an island, both fall in love, are eventually rescued, reach home, and subsequently get married. Rohit becomes an eye-witness to a homicide, which he reports to the Police. The killers have him killed, leaving Sonia devastated. Unable to recuperate, she travels to New Zealand, and this is where she meets Rohit's look-alike, Raj Chopra. After ascertaining she is not hallucinating, and that this person is not really Rohit, she returns to India. Shortly thereafter, Raj visits India, and both meet again. The killers become aware of Raj, believe he is Rohit, they plan to kill him, and in the process endanger Sonia's life as well.
Rohit, an aspiring singer falls in love with Sonia, a young woman from the elite class. However their love story is short lived as Rohit tragically dies in a car accident. A depressed Sonia is then sent to New Zealand by the orders of her father and meets Raj, an exact lookalike of Rohit. Unable to take the trauma, Sonia returns to India with Raj pursuing her. After landing in India, Raj is attacked by a mysterious assassin. It's there that he and Sonia realize that Rohit didn't die accidentally but was murdered. Together, with the help of Rohit's family and friends they seek out Rohit's killers with love coincidentally developing.
In the equivalent of the blue lagoon, young Indians Rohit and Sonia end up on an deserted island after their ship meets with an accident. They are thrown into each others arms literally and fall headlong in love with each other. They are eventually rescued, arrive home, and get married. Rohit likes to sing and dance for a living. One while doing so, he witnesses a murder, he runs to inform the police, but is killed, leaving behind a sorrowing wife and the rest of the family. Sonia is depressed for a long time, and travels to New Zealand to get over this depression. This is where she meets a Rohit look-alike named Raj. Sonia does not want any commitments as she has not gotten over Rohit, she returns to India. Raj follows her, and the people who killed Rohit, think Raj is Rohit and set about to kill him also. Will Raj be also killed, and will Sonia accept Raj in place of Rohit?
Sonia Saxena comes from a very wealthy family, on her birthday her dad, Mr. Saxena gifted her a car. She gets to meet Rohit, an aspiring singer who delivers the car to her. This meeting shows a great impact on both Rohit and Sonia. Their attraction turns to love when their cruise ship abandons them on a deserted island. Upon there return to civilization, Rohit meets with an accident and is killed immediately. A grief-stricken Sonia is sent to New Zealand to her cousin to recover. When she reached there she meets Raj Chopra, and to her shock he shows a great resemblance to Rohit. Sonia would like to forget her troubled past but faith has something else in store for her as tragedy strikes on both Raj and Sonia when they return to India. But the question remains: Why would tragedy strikes on innocent Raj and Sonia?
Rohit (Hrithik Roshan) and his younger brother Amit are orphans living with an elderly couple, Lily and Anthony. Rohit is an aspiring singer who works as a salesman in a car showroom, run by Malik. One day he meets Sonia Saxena (Ameesha Patel), daughter of Mr. Saxena at a traffic signal and has a brief interaction. On the occasion of her birthday, her father gifts her a car brought from the showroom where Rohit works. When Rohit he goes to deliver a car to her home, they meet again. Unknown to everybody, Saxena and Malik are running a drug cartel with help of two corrupt police officers.Another chance meeting leads Rohit and Sonia to meet again at her birthday party. After Rohit sings for her, Atul, Malik's son and Sonia's friend, invites him on a cruise to perform. The happy group board the cruise ship and have a wonderful time until the girls try to flirt with the Rohit who is immensely good looking. This makes Sonia jealous and in a fit of rage, she gets drunk on and sulks on a lifeboat. Rohit tries to coax her but they have a row and he too gets drunk. Both of them pass out and the lifeboat gets separated from the ship and floats to an island. During their time in the island, they fall in love. They are eventually rescued by Saxena, who realizes their love for each other and does not approve. He demands that Malik immediately fire Rohit. Sonia tries and fails to make her father see what a good man Rohit is, but this does not stop her from still loving Rohit and seeing him. Saxena tells Rohit that he needs to become successful before he can marry Sonia, since she is from a rich, upper class family. Determined to prove himself, Rohit and his friends attempt to procure a record deal for him. Rohit eventually becomes a well known artist and prepares to put on a concert.On the day of the show Rohit goes to pick up Amit from school. Rohit witnesses the corrupt policemen and Malik shooting down the Police Commissioner who has found out about their drug dealings. They discover Rohit's presence and shoot at him, wounding him. Although Rohit gets away, they pursue him over a bridge on the highway and knock his bike off track from the bridge causing him to fall into the river below. Rohit, who doesn't know how to swim, drowns. He is presumed dead. Amit is traumatised by the incident.Sonia goes into depression due to Rohit's death. After some time, her father sends her to New Zealand to live with his brother. Her cousin Neeta tries to help Sonia break out of her depression by taking her out to explore the New Zealand night life. There she meets Neeta's friend Raj Chopra (also Hrithik Roshan). He strikingly resembles Rohit. Raj is attracted to Sonia, but she keeps running away from him. She claims that he reminds her of Rohit more.On learning her story, Raj decides to try one more time and follows her to India. On the flight, both have a small fight and Raj decides to leave Sonia alone. After landing, he tells Sonia that he will not harass her any further and will go back to New Zealand. But soon, one of the corrupt officers spots them and opens fire on Raj, injuring his arm. After Raj and Sonia escape the shooting, Raj realizes that somebody is mistaking him for Rohit. With this incident Raj and Sonia realize that Rohit was murdered.Raj is welcomed by Rohit's landlords, friends and well wishers. His presence brings Amit out of his shell and they learn from Amit that he witnessed Rohit's murder. Raj decides to set the trap to expose the killers, posing as Rohit. Only Sonia and Rohit's acquaintances know the truth. Sonia tries to stop the concert, since it might put Raj in danger. But Raj tells her that he must do this since he loves Sonia a lot. Even though Sonia likes Raj, she is still heartbroken about Rohit's death. The police officers along with Saxena and Malik panic on learning that "Rohit" is alive. Raj performs a concert as Rohit, and Malik and the corrupt officers arrive there undercover. Saxena learns the truth from Sonia and he tries to warn Malik. After the concert, Raj reveals unknown details of the shooting that he learned from Amit. Due to these details, Malik assumes that Raj really is Rohit, and that Saxena is playing a double game. Before Raj can reveal the names of the people who killed Rohit, he is shot at again by one of the corrupt officers but is saved due to wearing a protective bullet-proof jacket.In order to catch Raj (who they believe may be Rohit), the corrupt officers kidnap Sonia. Raj succeeds in killing them as well as their henchmen and rescues Sonia. Malik soon arrives on the scene, revealing his motive for mercilessly pursuing Sonia and Raj. Just as Malik is about to reveal the truth about his connection to Saxena, he is shot by Saxena himself, who feigns anger at his daughter's kidnapping. Amit arrives and immediately recognizes Malik as the man who killed Rohit. He tells Raj that on the day of the shooting, Malik was talking to someone named 'Sir ji' over the phone. Raj finds Sir ji's number in Malik's cell phone and makes a call. When Saxena's phone rings, Raj understands everything. On being confronted, Saxena confesses everything in front of Sonia and Raj before being arrested.Sonia and Raj return to New Zealand, taking Amit with them. They get engaged with the blessings of their family and friends.
