A doctor and a married man's extended affair affects the lives of not only the men involved but the wife as well.
Al enamorarnos, apostamos. Y es un juego demasiado íntimo para asimilar con facilidad el fracaso. Elena sabe que el enfriamiento que atraviesa su matrimonio no es algo temporal. Alberto , su marido, un joven y prestigioso ingeniero aeronáutico, acaba de entreabrir una nueva puerta y parece decidido a atravesarla con alguien que no es ella. Alberto no pretende fingir, sencillamente está desorientado. Quiere a su mujer y a su hijo, pero intuye que la pasión que le inspira Diego es algo más que deseo. Diego, traumatólogo en una clínica privada, es un hombre sin dobleces ni prejuicios que se tira de cabeza a la piscina del amor arriesgando en ello su estabilidad emocional y profesional, como le advierte su jefa y buena amiga, Eva. Los engaños, las escenas de dolor, y la desconfianza crecen, interponiéndose entre los tres amantes. La confrontación es inevitable, y la ruptura se acelera. Pero Elena no está dispuesta a ceder sin más. Después de echar un vistazo a la situación, tensa los músculos, prueba el sabor de otros abrazos y se reafirma en sus sentimientos. Sin perder un minuto, vuelve a colocar su ficha en el tablero. Y Alberto se debate entre las dos caras del amor.
Diego is a doctor who has fallen in love with a married man with a son. Against the advice of his boss and best friend, he continues his affair with Alberto. The consequences of this affair profoundly alter not only the two men's lives, but also that of Alberto's wife.
To fall in love, bet. And it's a game too close to easily assimilate failure. Elena knows that cooling through their marriage is not temporary. Alberto, her husband, a young and prestigious aeronautical engineer, just a new door ajar and seems determined to get through to someone who's not her. Alberto does not intend to pretend, just disoriented. He loves his wife and son, but he senses that the passion that inspires Diego is more than desire. Diego, orthopedic surgeon at a private clinic, is a man without folds or prejudice head is pulled to the pool of love risks with their professional and emotional stability, as he warns his boss and good friend, Eva. The deceptions, the scenes of pain and mistrust grow, standing between the three lovers. Confrontation is inevitable, and the breakdown is accelerated. But Elena is not willing to cede no more. After taking a look at the situation, tense muscles, try the flavors of other hugs and reaffirms his feelings. Without wasting a minute, again place your chip on the board. And Alberto is torn between the two sides of love.
