Ramkishen and Mamta have three sons Vivek , Prem and Vinod and a daughter Sangeeta. This family is part of a joint family whose close knit bond is challenged by a misunderstanding.
The trials and challenges of a joint family in India, whose parents are Ramkishen and second wife Mamta, and have three sons and a married daughter. The eldest son is handicapped since birth, and is from Ramkishen's first wife. Mamta, the second wife, hates him, and like Kaikeyi in Ramayana wants the estate and wealth in her sons' names. She and her daughter's father-in-law, scheme together, and have the eldest son, including his wife and child, thrown out of the house. Mamta and her sons are all set to control the finances and the estate - until she finds out that her very own sons do not approve of nor support her actions in throwing their step-brother out of the house.
Ramkishen and his wife Mamta head a big joint family. They have three sons - Vivek , Prem and Vinod and a daughter Sangeeta who is married to Anand . Vivek gets married To Sadhana , Prem and Vinod get engaged to Preeti and Sapna respectively . Now the turmoil starts. Anand's brother throws him, Sangeeta and their child out of their house. This incident triggers insecurity in Mamta's mind regarding the relationship between her sons - would Vivek be tempted to act similarly if he heads the business in future? Her 3 nosy society friends and Sapna's father Dharamraj add fuel to the fire. Mamta decides that there should be separation within family. Ramkishen gives in to her demands, albeit reluctantly. But will the three brothers accept it? Would Mamta change her mind for good?
In Bombay, India there live an extended family which consists of: Ramkishen and his wife Mamta (Reema Lagoo) live with their three sons, namely Vivek, Prem, and Vinod. Vivek is handicapped since birth so the family has been unable to find a match for him. But Prem and Vinod falls in love with Preeti and Sapna. But soon a very kind-hearted family burst into the scene and decides to get one of there daughter Sangeeta married to Vivek. Vivek is Mamta's step-son since Ramkishen wife is dead and he decides to marry Mamta and so she schemes with Dhanraj, her daughter's father-in-law, and gets Vinod insulted and humiliated infront of the family because she wants to inherit the family's vast estate. Soon Mamta release that her own sons does not want to team up with her but is sick at her behavior towards the entire family.
Ramkishen and his wife Mamta live with their three sons, namely Vivek, Prem, and Vinod. Prem and Vinod have sweethearts in Preeti and Sapna, but since Vivek has a birth handicap the family has been unable to find him a suitable match. The family meets with Adarsh and his daughter Sangeeta, and soon Sangeeta and Vivek get married. Since Vivek is Mamta's step-son, she schemes with Dhanraj to alienate him from the property and inheritance. This divides the family, even though Vivek accepts his step-mother's wishes. How will Prem and Vinod react to this? Will Ramkishen accept this humiliation against his eldest son?
Seth Ramkishenji and Mamta dream of keeping their joint family, consisting of their sons and daughters-in-law, together always. Their daughter Sangeeta is married into another large family, but when problems arise, she and her husband have to move out. Ramkishen is stunned when he finds out that his family too is susceptible to the corrosion of values that have been inculcated into them.

