The most popular kid on campus meets a beautiful journalist who makes him realize that maybe he's afraid to graduate.
In certain circles, Van Wilder is a living legend at Coolidge College, where he's been a student now for seven years, not yet having completed his degree requirements. Despite being bright, he never attends classes anymore, instead hosting parties, imparting his brand of wisdom to his adoring fans, hosting school organization fundraisers, and rallying the college spirit among the student body. Conversely, Van loves his Coolidge life. In his antics, he has a 2ic in Hutch, and always hires a personal assistant, this year's being a South Asian transfer student named Taj, who wants to learn from the best, namely Van. Van's college life is threatened when his wealthy neglectful father only now learns that Van is still in school, Wilder Sr. who has been paying his way all this time. As such, Wilder Sr. pulls the plug on that subsidy, meaning that Van has to figure out a way to pay for his Coolidge life. Because of his living legend status, Van becomes the subject of a series of articles by the college paper's star reporter, Gwen Pearson, an assignment she would rather not do, preferring harder hitting material. However, in Gwen needing to spend time with Van, Richard Bagg, Gwen's arrogant fraternity president pre-med boyfriend, tries to place Van in a bad light time and time again, believing that Gwen and Van are falling for each other. Also in spending time with Gwen, Van may come to a true understanding of why he has stayed at Coolidge for such a long time, and what he should be looking for in his future.
Now running his seventh year as a perpetual undergraduate, Van Wilder, a college sluggard and the campus' soul, faces a real crisis for the first time in years: his father has decided to cut off his tuition in the hope of getting him to graduate. As a result, Van Wilder sets out to earn money by organising college parties, the only thing he knows best, while at the same time, Gwen, the campus' newspaper reporter, is assigned to write an exposé about Van. Will the coolest guy in college make it this time?
Van Wilder is a guy who has been at his college for seven years. He spends most of his time throwing parties and "fund raisers". When his father decides that it's time for tough love, he doesn't pay his tuition. So Van becomes a professional party thrower. At the same time, Gwen who writes for the college paper, is tasked with doing a story on him, but Van is too busy partying to do that. So she writes it using info from people who talk about him and writes an unflattering piece, which doesn't make him happy. He then dares her to see if she can get the true story but is more interested in trying to score with her, which is not easy because she has a boyfriend, who is a snob, and who is not too happy with the amount time she is spending with him. So he tries to get rid of him.
To Van Wilder, college doesn't get you ready for life, it is life. So when his father puts a stop to his cash flow, 7 years into his time at college, it looks like the party might finally be over for Van. Down, but not out, Van, and his team devise a way to make money from partying. However that soon come to the attention of the college magazine, who send out sexy college reporter, Gwen to do a feature on the infamous Van Wilder, Party Liaison for the graduation front page. But when things start to go wrong for Van, he realizes that this time he may need to do something really crazy... GRADUATE!
Reid is a beautiful journalist, who is assigned the job of interviewing the most popular guy on campus, Van Wilder. Van should have graduated long ago, but stays on to create the best time for anyone who requests it. When Gwen finally encounters Van, she makes him realize that he might be afraid to graduate.
the god on campus is Van Wilder. with interest in all sorts of subjects ends up being on the campus for 7years. Realizing this his father decides to not pay for tuitions and cut his losses. thus begins the journey of this Hunk who can Throw the wildest parties and is also cares for the sick guys in the dorm. He holds an annual audition for his assistant of the year, trusted more than professors at the college.Just go see the movie.... it is fun to come over one' own fears.
