In this fantastic scene, a man who is eager to retire has a difficult time finding peace, as his nocturnal illusions come to life out of thin air.
A man sleeps fitfully then dreams that a lovely woman is sitting at the foot of his bed. He reaches to embrace her and she becomes a minstrel, then Pierrot. The clown gestures to the moon that becomes huge and bites the dreamer's hand. In fright, the man punches the moon, which returns to his proper place in the sky, only to be replaced by all three visions - woman, minstrel, and Pierrot. Finally the man wakes, his bed a shambles. What to do now?
In this fantastic scene, a man who is eager to retire has a difficult time finding peace, as he restlessly tosses and turns in his bed. Suddenly, his nocturnal illusions come to life, and out of thin air, an alluring woman sits on the foot of his bed, who transforms into a minstrel with his banjo, and then, a lively Pierrot. From outside the window, the moon who sees everything decides to participate, but enough is enough. Will the man ever find peace?
A bearded man lying in bed tosses and turns in his sleep in a most restless manner; and as he dreams, a young woman clad in Greek costume smiling temptingly at him appears on the bed. Unable to resist this temptation, the man leans forward in bed to embrace her; but the moment he does so, she's transformed in an instant into a minstrel in black-face. Frightened by this sudden change of events, the man falls back into the bed once more, whilst the minstrel jumps all over the sheets, singing obnoxiously and plucking away at his banjo. The dreamer attempts to stop him, as he can't stand the sound of the horrible music; but again the character is transformed, this time into Pierrot who points at the moon before exiting. The said moon now becomes anthropomorphized, entering the room and chewing at the man's hand, frightening him out of his wits. Terrorized by these mysterious apparitions, the man punches the hallucination, which disappears back into the sky to his relief; but all three phantasms now make their appearance, causing the restless sleeper to dive under the covers. The dream ends, and the man awakes to find himself lying on the floor in a most ludicrous predicament.

