An American master chemist plans to score big on a once in a lifetime drug deal. All does not go as planned and he is soon entangled in a web of deceit.
Elmo McElroy is a streetwise American master chemist who heads to England to sell his special new formula - a powerful, blue concoction guaranteed to take you to 'the 51st state.' McElroy's new product delivers a feeling 51 times more powerful than any thrill, any pleasure, any high in history. But his plans for a quick, profitable score go comically awry when he gets stuck in Liverpool with an unlikely escort and his ex-girlfriend and becomes entangled in a bizarre web of double-dealing and double-crosses.
Elmo McElroy has been an underground chemist for 30 years, recently working for the drug lord The Lizard. Elmo has discovered a formula to make a drug 51 times more potent then any other and made up of all legal substances. When The Lizard Shows up with his partners to work out the sale, Elmo has rigged his warehouse to blow while he takes off to Liverpool with his formula in tow. The Lizard survives the explosion and hires Dakota, a hired gun, to go after Elmo. In England Elmo is met by Felix Desouza, an avid soccer fan and Elmo's contact responsible for bringing him to Felix's boss who si planning to buy the new drug. Dakota Attacks the meet, killing everyone except Elmo and Felix. The Lizard now whats Elmo alive, and Felix? well Dakota and Felix just might have a history together.Elmo and Felix escape from the meet, run into a gang of hooligans also looking to get the drug and get in a car chase with the police including crooked cop Virgil Kane. The two catch their breath by jumping their car onto a trash barge, where they see Dakota watching them spurring Felix into admitting she is his ex-girlfriend. Elmo deals with Felix to pay him 5% of what he sells his formula for if Felix can arrange a sale, leading them to Iki. Iki is an eccentric crime boss, who knows Felix and Dakota from back in the day, and agrees to meet Elmo and discuss the deal. At Iki's night club, Virgil Kane and the police break up the sale arresting Felix and Iki while Dakota escapes with Elmo her prisoner. She is to bring Elmo to the Lizard Alive. Elmo makes her a better deal, persuading her to shake off the Lizards influence and giving her a cut of his formula sale.Meanwhile Felix gets pressured into dealing with Kane to bust all the players and make off with the drug himself. Iki is released with Felix and they arrange to make the sale with Elmo at the big Liverpool vs Manchester soccer game. Felix and Dakota reignite their feelings and have some fun in the bathtub. Soon after, Elmo, Felix and Dakota arrive At Iki's viewing room at the stadium. Iki hands over the money, in bonds, for Elmo's formula while Elmo mixes drinks for them. Suddenly the Lizard arrives, still thinking Dakota is working for him, and toasts with Iki to creating a partnership. They drink what Elmo mixed and the Lizard then kills Iki. He's about to kill the others when Virgil Kane now arrives, thanks to Felix's tip, just in time for the chemicals in the drink Elmo made to react and cause the Lizard to explode messily. Elmo, Felix and Dakota, take cover behind an umbrella, grab the bonds and casually make their way part the stunned Kane and out into the world all free people.
