A notorious terrorist manipulates an Indian army major's jilted lover into helping him obtain a classified military code.
Major Jaidev Rajvansh and his fellow officer Hussein manage to rescue a leading politician as well as capture his kidnapper, Abhrush. The terrorist has been searched for years and he is finally captured by the two officers. Jai returns to a joyous welcome, and is declared a national hero. He takes a break from the army and returns to his hometown. There he meets his childhood friend Anjali who has always harboured love for Jai. Anjali is determined to make sure she and Jai stay together 24/7. At a party, he meets Miss India, Pooja Mallapa. As they spend more time together, he begins to love her and she too begins to love him. In the mean time, Jai's parents are arranging his marriage to Anjali but when they find out about Jai's love for Pooja, they realise that they have to tell Anjali everything. Anjali, heartbroken and jealous swears revenge on Jai for rejecting her. Realising her hatred for him. Abrush takes advantage and together they plot to destroy Jai's reputation and life. Anjali manages to steal some important documents regarding Abrush's plans. The events following leads to Jai being dismissed from the army and he is declared a traitor to the country. Jai, determined to prove his innocence and redeem himself, decides to pursue Abrush alone. Will Jai find out about Anjali's betrayal?
Indian army Major Jaidev Rajvansh lives a wealthy lifestyle in India. He is in love with and expected to get married to Anjali. Before the marriage could take place, Jaidev is assigned to rescue a politician, which he not only does so, but also apprehends his abductor, and returns home triumphantly as a national hero. At a reception, he meets with and fall head over heels in love with Pooja Mallapa, and makes a commitment to get married to her, little knowing that both their lives will be turned upside down as associates of the politician's abductors and Anjali team up against him.
Major Jaidev Rajvansh is a competent officer within the Indian armed forces who is called in to rescue a politician named Mr. Mishra. Jaidev not only manages to free him but capture one of his abductors - a terrorist called Abhrush. Then Jai is declared a national hero and to celebrate a function is held for him. At this function he gets to meet Pooja Mallapa only to make a commitment to get marry to her; eventually he gets to find out that his childhood friend, Anjail is also attracted to him and will go to any length to marry him. Jai finds himself in hot water when certain confidential information from his office is leaked to Abhrush's gang leading to his escape while Jai himself is being tortured, discharged and imprisoned for being a traitor.

