One murdered man, eight women, each seeming to be eager than the others to know the truth. Gimme, gimme, gimme some clues to make up my mind. And eventually enter the truth. Oh, thou cruel woman!
One morning at an isolated mansion in the snowy countryside of 1950s France, a family is gathered for the holiday season. But there will be no celebration at all because their beloved patriarch has been murdered! The killer can only be one of the eight women closest to the man of the house. Was it his powerful wife? His spinster sister-in-law? His miserly mother-in-law? Maybe the insolent chambermaid or the loyal housekeeper? Could it possibly have been one of his two young daughters? A surprise visit from the victim's chic sister sends the household into a tizzy, encouraging hysterics, exacerbating rivalries, and encompassing musical interludes. Comedic situations arise with the revelations of dark family secrets. Seduction dances with betrayal. The mystery of the female psyche is revealed. There are eight women and each is a suspect. Each has a motive. Each has a secret. Beautiful, tempestuous, intelligent, sensual, and dangerous...one of them is guilty. Which one is it?
In a home in the snowy French countryside, an industrialist has been murdered. There are eight suspects, all women: his wife, Gaby; their two daughters, Suzon and Catherine; Gaby's neurotic sister, Augustine, and greedy mother; the industrialist's floozy sister, Pierrette; the cook, Chanel, and the new maid, Louise. The phone is dead, the car has been damaged, and the house is isolated because of a snowstorm. So it's up to these eight women to discover who among them is the murder, as well as uncover various hidden secrets from each other that include greed, jealousy, pregnancies, adultery, theft, hidden love, and, perhaps even, murder.
One morning the industrialist Marcel is found stabbed in his room. Eight women are his potential murderers: His wife Gaby, his daughters Suzon and Catherine, his mother-in-law Mamy, his sister-in-law Augustine, his sister Pierette, the cook Chanel and the maid Louise. The house is isolated in a snowstorm, the phone is dead and one of them has to be the culprit. Mutual suspicions reveal the various secrets in their lives.

