A spoof of buddy cop movies where two very different cops are forced to team up on a new reality based television cop show, while tracking down the manufacturer and distributor of an illegally made semi-automatic firearm.
LAPD Detective Sergeant Mitch Preston cares only about doing his job and nailing crooks. LAPD Patrol Officer Trey Sellars joined the force as a day job until his acting career took off. During an undercover drug buy Mitch was working that Trey botched by calling in for backup and drawing media attention, Mitch's partner is shot with a very exotic 12-gauge automatic weapon; Mitch then shoots the video camera out of the hands of a reporter filming the action when the cameraman refused to shut it down. Faced with a $10 million lawsuit, the department agrees to let producer Chase Renzi film Mitch's investigation for a new reality TV show, and constantly tries to make everything more "viewer friendly" by changing everything about Mitch's life to fit the stereotypical view of police officers--and partners him with Trey.
No-nonsense Detective Mitch Preston is a twenty-eight year veteran of the LAPD. He hates the way the police are portrayed in entertainment, he knowing that their work is much more mundane and not nearly as sensationalistic. But while he is undercover on a case, he is caught on film shooting and thus destroying a Maxxis Television station camera, the case that goes sideways because of that television intervention. Chase Renzi, a producer at Maxxis, sees in Mitch a goldmine, she who wants to produce a reality show around his day-to-day work. Mitch is forced to participate against his will as the station will sue the LAPD otherwise for that shooting incident and the destruction of the camera, and as that footage of Mitch leads to the PD wanting some good publicity in showing a human side of the department instead. Despite Chase's assertion that she wants to show reality, she truly wants to show a glamorized and her perceived version of reality, which goes against everything Mitch stands for. Chase also wants a sidekick for Mitch on the show, she choosing a beat cop named Trey Sellars, who was the direct reason for the television camera intervention at Mitch's undercover case. Trey is an aspiring and not very good actor, who campaigned hard for the job as Mitch's partner on the show, and whose sole goal is to get as much exposure for himself in playing to the camera. Through it all, Mitch and now Trey have to work on a case involving the source of a custom built assault weapon that was used in that undercover case by the criminals. This case will demonstrate if Trey has what it takes to become a real police detective, and whether the cameras will be a benefit or an obstacle in them doing their potentially dangerous police work, especially as Chase is always looking for that television-worthy shot.
Facing suspension after one stray bullet and a shattered video camera, LAPD's no-nonsense twenty-eight-year veteran, Mitch Preston, is coerced into participating in the new reality TV show, Showtime. Teamed up with an unlikely partner--the barely effective patrol officer and aspiring actor, Trey Sellars--Mitch must play along with the series' high-profile producer, Chase Renzi, who wants to capture on tape their adventures. However, as if that weren't enough, a dangerous gangster with a weapon of immense firepower terrorises the town, and, somehow, Mitch and Trey must now make history, whether they like it or not. Will there be a second season of Showtime?
Mitch Preston is a hard-nosed, hardworking police detective. Following in the reality-based TV trend, TV producer Chase Renzi wants Mitch to star in her new show about the day-to-day activities of a real cop (think COPS). Not a moment will go by when he isn't on camera, whether at work or at home. Mitch doesn't particular like the idea, especially working with his new partner Trey Sellars, a cop who spends much of his time mugging for the cameras mounted inside the car he shares with Mitch. The two never get along -- Mitch is trying to investigate the whereabouts of a criminal who possesses a mythical "big gun" that has enough firepower to collapse a house, while Trey just wants to be famous.

