When a village belle's brother is killed by a bandit, she vows revenge and enlists the help of two truckers-cum-theatre artists in her mission.
Roopa, a beautiful young village belle is much loved by the villagers of Chandanpur. Chandanpur celebrates a huge Mela every year and this year, they invite a Minister to inaugurate it. In an assassination attempt that follows, a massacre takes place. Chandanpur is devastated and Roopa's family gets wiped out. She vows revenge. Into her life enter two men, the gregarious Kishan and the volatile Shankar, causing much upheaval in their relationship.
On the occasion of a village social get together; Rupa's brother Ram Singh from the Indian army return and announces his decision of getting his sister marry to a police officer. In celebration the village gather together but this does not last long as the village is soon attack by a gang of bandits headed by the notorious Gujjar Singh. Gujjar attempt to abduct Rupa, her brother comes to her aid but is killed in the process and allot of innocent loses their lives in trying to take on Gujjar. Gujjar then hauled Rupa off but before he could take any action on her she jump overboard a huge water-fall. The next morning she woke up and is surprise to be alive with a motive of locating the man her brother wants to marry her to so that she can get him to avenge the death of her brother. She find out that her fiancé is in Belapur and takes help of a truck-driver, Shankar and his friend Kishan Pyare to travel in their truck to Belapur. She alights at Belapur only to find an alcoholic fiancé who attempt to rape her but her luck holds out and she manages to escape only to land into Gujjar's men path who is in the process of carrying her off; then Kishan and Shankar comes to her assistance and she decides to fabricate a story so that she can get them to take on Gujjar.
Roopa lives in a small town called Belapur with her two brothers, Gopal and Ram an officer in the Indian army, and her widowed mom. A Minister from the ruling party comes to visit their town, and the Sarpanch, Mukhiya Murari, decides to organize a mela (fair) in his honor. The Minister arrives to the sound of dancers, trumpets and music, which does not last long as terrorists attack the town, killing and injuring many. The terrorist are headed by notorious bandit, Gujjar Singh, who has taken a fancy to Roopa, and would like her to be his woman. Soon Gujjar and his men take over the town, and he openly declares his affections for Roopa, who refuses him and calls upon Ram, to save her. Ram does come to her rescue, but is killed by Gujjar, and Roopa is abducted and hauled away. Roopa is told that she will never have a brother again nor will anyone dare to marry her, and that she will spend the rest of her life as Gujjar's mistress. In response Roopa throws herself down a cliff into a waterfall. She survives, meets with Kishan and Shankar, but tells them a different background story, and that her name Radha. Kishan is attracted to Roopa and both fall in love. When Kishan finds out that Radha is really Roopa, he gets upset with her. She runs away from him, back to her town, where she finds out that her mother is distraught, and her younger brother, Gopal, too has been killed by Gujjar. It is then Kishan and Shankar also enter this town, and after many discussions decide to set up a trap for Gujjar by organizing another mela. When Gujjar finds out that Roopa is back, he gathers together his men and they storm the town, and encounter some resistance - which they soon overcome. Soon Shankar and Kishan are at Gujjar's mercy, and it looks like history is going to repeat itself all over again - and this time Gujjar will make sure that nothing goes wrong.

