James Bond is sent to investigate the connection between a North Korean terrorist and a diamond mogul, who is funding the development of an international space weapon.
Pierce Brosnan gives one last mission as James Bond 007. Starting off in North Korea, Bond is betrayed and captured. Fourteen months later, Bond is set free, but traded for Zao (Rick Yune) who was captured by MI6. When back in his world, Bond sets off to track down Zao. Bond gets caught up in yet another scheme which sends him to millionaire Gustav Graves (Toby Stephens). Another MI6 Agent known as Miranda Frost (Rosamund Pike) is also posing as a friend of Graves. Bond is invited to a presentation held by Graves about a satellite found in space which can project a huge laser beam. Bond must stop this madman with a fellow American Agent, known as Jinx Johnson (Halle Berry). While Bond tries to stop Graves and Zao, will he finally reveal who betrayed him?
James Bond (Pierce Brosnan) is sent into North Korea to take out rogue North Korean Colonel Moon (Will Yun Lee). Bond takes the place of a man with whom the Colonel does business. Bond put everything in place, but just as Bond was about to do the job, the Colonel finds out who Bond is. He was about to kill Bond when Bond placed his plan in motion, which caused enough confusion for him to get away. He then chases the Colonel. In the end, the Colonel goes into the river and is believed to be dead. Bond is captured by the Colonel's father, General Moon (Kenneth Tsang), who then holds Bond for over a year. One day, the General takes Bond to the border where he is traded for the Colonel's right hand man. When Bond reaches M (Dame Judi Dench), he is knocked out. He then wakes up in a detention cell and M tells him, he was not rescued, he was extracted. It seems they were getting reports of confidential information coming out of the prison where Bond was being held, so they assume Bond was spilling his guts, which he denies doing. He then tells M that the Colonel somehow found out who he is from someone in the West who was giving the Colonel info, his father, the General confirmed it. Bond deduces that this person made it appear he was giving information so that they would trade him for the Colonel's man, which is what it was all about. M tells Bond he is no longer an Agent, and is on his way to their detention center. But Bond gets out and then goes to see the Chinese, who want to see the Colonel's man dead because he killed some Chinese officials for which he was captured. They then send Bond to Cuba where they say the man is now. Bond learns he is at a special clinic where some unusual treatments are going on. Bond goes to the clinic and finds him undergoing a treatment to change his appearance, but Bond interferes and tries to get him to tell him who his inside source is, but he gets away and the clinic is blown up by a woman Bond met before going to the clinic. Bond takes something off the man and learns it's diamonds, which are marked as being the property of Gustav Graves (Toby Stephens), a Norweigian who supposedly found diamonds in an ice field, but Bond says they look like African conflict diamonds, which was amongst the things the Colonel was into. So Bond decides to check out Graves. After their first meeting which was not exactly cordial, Bond gets a message to meet M and he tells her what he thinks of Graves. She allows him to pursue his suspicions.
The story begins in the demilitarized zone between North and South Korea with a spectacular high-speed hovercraft chase and continues via Hong Kong to Cuba and London where James Bond (Pierce Brosnan) meets up with the two ladies who are to play such important and differing roles in his quest to unmask a traitor and to prevent a war of catastrophic consequence. Hot on the trail of the principle villains, Bond travels to Iceland where he experiences at first hand the power of an amazing new weapon before a dramatic confrontation with his main adversary back in North Korea where it all started.
After being incarcerated and tortured while on a mission in North Korea, James Bond (Pierce Brosnan) is traded for a psychotic terrorist and released back to M16, only to be accused of giving information. Bond escapes and goes after Zao (Rick Yune), a deranged terrorist who knows who betrayed Bond to the North Koreans. Bond chases Zao around the globe and to a shady billionaire and a plot to change the world. But bond soon discovers that no one is who they seem to be.
James Bond (Pierce Brosnan) is assigned to a rendezvous with a North Korean Army officer, Colonel Moon (Will Yun Lee), in his investigation of a North Korean terrorist, Zao (Rick Yune), but the mission is betrayed and despite a spectacular escape attempt, Bond is captured and subjected to vicious North Korean torture, before being released in an exchange of prisoners. MI6 works him back to health, but James is relieved of all duties because he is blamed for leaking information leading to several Agents' deaths while in custody. Determined to clear his name and avenge himself on Zao, James escapes and extracts information from a known Chinese intelligence officer on Zao, leading to Cuba and a meeting with a mysterious diver known only as Jinx Johnson (Halle Berry), and eventually to a meeting with mysterious British billionaire Gustav Graves (Toby Stephens), who has perfected a spaceborne mirror designed to beam solar light and heat anywhere in the world for peaceful purposes. But James uncovers mysterious genetic conversion equipment and also finds the solar mirror is in reality a laser cannon that can destroy almost anything in its path on Earth. James now must rescue Jinx (who is conducting her own, identical, investigation of Graves) and learn the truth about Graves' laser cannon, leading to a violent showdown as the weapon is fired onto Earth and begins slicing open a gigantic line of destruction.
In the pre-title sequence, James Bond and his two South Korean allies infiltrate a North Korean military base belonging to Colonel Tan-Sun Moon, an army officer who is illegally selling weaponry in exchange for African conflict diamonds. Bond poses as a weapons dealer named Mr. Van Bierk, rigging his briefcase of diamonds with C4. He meets Moon and his assistant, Zao. After the diamonds are handed over, Zao discovers Bond's true identity and informs Colonel Moon. Colonel Moon keeps the act up as he offers to demonstrate his new tankbuster weapon to Bond. He drops the ruse when he suddenly uses the tankbuster to blow up Bond's helicopter.Fearing retribution from his father, General Moon, the Colonel then flees in a large hovercraft. Bond detonates the C4, embedding several diamonds in Zao's face. He then steals another hovercraft and chases down Colonel Moon, who tumbles into a waterfall. Soon after, North Korean troops capture Bond under General Moon's orders and he is imprisoned and tortured.Fourteen months later, Bond is released in exchange for Zao, who was captured during that time. He is sedated and taken to meet M, who informs him that his status as a 00 Agent is suspended due to her belief that he may have leaked information under duress. Still bitter over Zao's release, Bond decides to complete his mission by evading MI6's security and travels to Cuba. He traces Zao to an island called Isla Los Organos, known for its gene therapy "clinic" which allows patients to have their appearances changed through gene therapy. On the coast, he meets a NSA agent Giacinta 'Jinx' Johnson. With her help, Bond locates Zao's room inside the clinic and briefly tortures him. Zao flees in a helicopter but leaves behind a pendant. Bond opens it and finds a cache of diamonds identified as conflict diamonds from Africa, but bearing the crest of the company of British billionaire Gustav Graves.Bond flies to London locates Graves at a fencing club. The two engage in a duel of swords, the fury of which is escalated when the two men raise the stakes and injure each other, damaging part of the club in the process. Bond wins the match. Graves invites Bond to a party he is holding in Iceland for a scientific demonstration. Bond also meets Graves' fencing partner, Miranda Frost, a former Olympic athlete.In a disused London Underground station, M restores Bond's Double-0 status and offers assistance in the investigation. Bond learns that Frost has been recruited by MI6, but she has failed to uncover Graves' connection to Zao. Bond takes Graves up on his earlier invitation, and arrives at his ice palace in Iceland where he meets Jinx again. Later Graves begins a demonstration of his new orbital mirror satellite called "Icarus", which is able to focus solar energy on a small area and provide year-round sunshine for crop development.At midnight, Jinx infiltrates Graves' command center in the palace, but is captured by Zao. Bond meanwhile has figured out that Graves is Moon with a new identity, having undergone the same sort of gene therapy that Zao has. Moon reveals that Frost is a double agent. Bond narrowly escapes from Graves' facility in his car. Zao gives pursuit in his Jaguar XKR, and both cars drive inside the rapidly-melting ice palace. Bond kills Zao by luring him under a collapsing chandelier, and then rescues Jinx from drowning.Deployed at the South Korean border, Bond and Jinx infiltrate North Korea using experimental stealth sleds and parachutes. They follow him into his airplane, which is also carrying General Moon (unaware of his son's new identity), his lieutenants, and Frost. Graves reveals the true purpose of Icarus by using its solar beam to cut a swath through the minefield in the Korean Demilitarized Zone. Once the minefield is destroyed, North Korea will have a clear path to invade South Korea, Japan, and other countries. Icarus would also destabilize the western nations by destroying any WMD fired on North Korea. Graves wears a sophisticated armor with a built-in remote control, which operates the satellite. In an attempt to preserve peace, General Moon holds his son at gunpoint, but Graves disables him with the suit then shoots him.Bond advances to kill Graves, but is thwarted when one of his soldiers attacks Bond, deflecting his shot into a window, and causing the plane to depressurize. Jinx manages to stabilise the plane, but is attacked by a sword-wielding Frost, who forces her to switch the plane to auto-pilot. Whilst doing so, Jinx alters the plane's heading so that it is flying directly toward the Icarus beam. During the climatic sword fight, Jinx kills Frost with a knife. In the plane's nose, Graves gains the upper hand over Bond and puts on a parachute. However, Bond pulls Graves' ripcord, causing the parachute to open prematurely so that the slipstream pulls Graves out of the plane and one of it's turbines. With the suit destroyed, Icarus instantly shuts down. Bond and Jinx escape from the plane in a helicopter it was carrying. The two of them share a romantic interlude in a remote cottage, pouring over the diamonds they retrieved from Graves' plane.
