In 1870, after a brutal run-in with an outlaw in a brothel, Mike Blueberry becomes marshal in Arizona where he keeps the peace between Whites and Apaches but an influx of Indian gold treasure-hunters threatens to lead to violence.
Alledged wayward adolescent Louisiana gentleman Michael 'Mike' Blueberry is dumped by his family with a Wild West uncle. The brute's only 'motivation' is a stick. After a nearly fatal encounter in the brothel with Wallace 'Wally' Sebastian Blount, Mike is left for dead in the desert. A Chiricuahua (Apache) medicine man's family finds, nurses and initiates him. After the shaman's death, Mike returns and becomes the town's honest 'deputy' marshal. Gold fever strikes, with staged Indian brutalities to allow rivaling fiends to invade their sacred mountains.
In the 1870's, U.S Marshal Mike S. Blueberry tries to stop Wally Blount, the man who killed his girlfriend, from getting to a stockpile of gold hidden in Indian territory. On his way, he meets Prosit, a German villain on a persistent mission to find gold in the Superstition Mountains.
In the US, the film was released on DVD in November 2004 under the title Renegade and marketed very much as a conventional Western.It is not a conventional Western at all. In addition to the plots mentioned above about the gold, there is an additional plot, which arguably, is actually more what the move is truly about, with the 'gold hunting' being more of a 'backdrop' plot, in my opinion. U.S Marshal Mike Donovan (referred to as Broken Nose by the native tribe; unlike in the comic he does not have the nickname Blueberry) has dark memories of the death of his first love. He keeps peace between the Americans and the natives who had temporarily adopted and took care of him. The evil actions of Blount, a "white sorcerer" lead him to confront the villain in the Sacred Mountains, and, through shamanic rituals involving native entheogens, conquer his fears and uncover a suppressed memory he would much rather deny.That last paragraph, is taken verbatim from Wikipedia. As far as I can tell, there shouldn't be any problem with that. I just wanted to give credit to the original author, as I never could have hoped to describe it so well -- but I wanted to put this here, so that others looking into this movie, will know, it's not 'your average western', as it was marketed as in the US.
