After 13 years in prison, the mad scientist from Re-Animator (1985) gets a new chance to experiment with the arrival of a young prison doctor, who secretly hopes to learn to reanimate dead people. Good intentions turn to horror.
Left to rot in prison for the past thirteen years after the blood-drenched events in Re-Animator (1985) and Bride of Re-Animator (1990), the misunderstood virtuoso of mayhem, Dr Herbert West, finds an unexpected ally in the person of the young medical doctor, Howard Phillips. Behind the thick walls of the impenetrable Arkham State Penitentiary, the blasphemous duo of dreamers set up a secret laboratory to test an entirely new reanimating serum, which--when combined with West's original phosphorescent reagent--can work miracles on the prison's inmates. Now, the stage seems set for the ultimate experiment; however, once more, this is easier said than done. Can the good doctors escape from this concrete pit of death?
Everyone's favorite mad scientist Herbert West is currently in jail after having state's evidence turned against him by his former assistant, Dan Cain. While being led away, some re-agent falls from his pocket where it is picked up by a young man who was camping nearby. The young man finds Herbert down in his jail cell and learns for himself just what the re-agent is capable of.
A dozen years later we find West is an inmate at a forbidding old Prison. In spite of his incarceration, West has been continuing his Re-animation research, using rats and mice for subjects, and electrocuting them with a special jerry-rigged apparatus. West has now identified an electrical phenomenon # the NEE # which is discharged from the brain at the moment of death...and which may be the 'missing link' in his studies: if the NEE is re-injected into a Re-animated Corpse, it should restore the 'subject' to full 'reason'...
After thirteen years in a prison ruled by a very mean director, Dr. Herbert West is invited to be the assistant of newcomer Dr. Howard Phillips, a brilliant resident, in the penitentiary infirmary. After being introduced to each other, Dr. Phillips discloses that the last experiment of Dr. West killed his sister thirteen years ago, when he was a boy, and he became fascinated with the possibility of bringing dead people back to life. The journalist Laura Olney, covering a matter for her newspaper in the prison, has an affair with Dr. Phillips and they fall in love. However, the experience of Dr. West loses control and the place becomes a branch of Hell.

