Male nurse Greg Focker meets his girlfriend's parents before proposing, but her suspicious father is every date's worst nightmare.
A Jewish male nurse plans to ask his live-in girl friend to marry him. However, he learns that her strict father expects to be asked for his daughter's hand before she can accept. Thus begins the visit from Hell as the two travel to meet Mom and Dad, who turns out to be former CIA with a lie detector in the basement. Coincidentally, a sister also has announced her wedding to a young doctor. Of course everything that can go wrong, does, including the disappearance of Dad's beloved Himalayan cat, Jinxie.
Greg and Pam are in love. Greg is nervous about spending his first weekend with her parents. He tries very hard, sometimes too hard, to please her overbearing dad. Greg frequently ends up comically embarassing himself in front of the entire family all because he loves Pam so much. What won't he do to try and please Pam and her family?
Male nurse Greg Focker is poised to propose to his girlfriend Pam during a weekend stay at her parents' home. But here's the catch . . . he needs to ask her father first. Alas, the fur flies as Jack Byrnes, Pam's cat-crazy, ex-CIA father takes an immediate dislike to her less-than-truthful beau. Greg's quest for approval gets seriously sidetracked as Murphy's Law takes over and a string of mishaps turns him into a master of disaster and total pariah in the eyes of the entire family . . . all except for his shell-shocked girlfriend, who can't believe she still loves her one-man wrecking crew.
Greg Focker is a male nurse, who is ready to propose to his girlfriend Pam. However, he discovers that Pam's father, Jack prefers to be asked for his daughter's hand in marriage before the proposal. Greg and Pam take a visit to the Burns home, so that Greg can secretly ask Pam's father for his daughters hand in marriage, before proposing. Jack was a former agent of the CIA, and through his own experience dislikes Greg very much. Greg, must now try to win back Jack's trust and liking, through a visit that just cant be any worse. Through all his efforts of trying to befriend Jack, Greg ends up losing Jack's rare cat, giving Pam's sister a black eye, and lightings the Burns's garden on fire - just to name a few!

