Aspiring songwriter Violet Sanford, after getting a job at a women-run NYC bar that teases its male patrons, comes out of her shell.
Sexy, romantic comedy about a girl in her early 20s named Violet Sanford going to NYC to pursue a dream of becoming a songwriter. Violet gets a "day" job as a bar maid at a nightclub called Coyote Ugly. Coyote Ugly is the city's newest hot spot where the employees are a team of sexy, resourceful women that provoke the clientele and press with their mischief.
A sexy romantic comedy featuring a spectacular soundtrack, "Coyote Ugly" is the story of one girl's wild adventure in the big city. Graced with a velvet voice, 21-year-old Violet Sanford heads to New York to pursue her dream of becoming a songwriter, only to find her aspirations sidelined by the accolades and notoriety she receives at her "day" job as a bar maid at Coyote Ugly. A new nightclub with a twist, Coyote Ugly is the hottest spot in town, featuring a team of sexy, enterprising young women who tantalize customers and the media alike with their outrageous antics.
When young Violet finally follows her dream and moves to New York to become a songwriter, she knows little about the big city. All her efforts to get a demo tape to a producer are useless, additionally her apartment is broken in to, leaving her with nothing. But a coincidence leads her to Coyote Ugly, a night club where only beautiful women call the shots, using their female attraction to drive the guests just crazy. Violet manages to get a position and starts learning the ways of the city. After getting in trouble because of a misunderstanding, Violet's new friend Kevin tries to rid her of her stage fear so that she can perform her songs herself. Violet's father Bill does not like her new job as well as her leaving him, but it's all part of growing up.
Violet Sanford (Piper Perabo) leaves her hometown, her father (John Goodman) and her best friend Gloria (Melanie Lynskey), to pursue her dreams of becoming a songwriter in New York City. Before leaving town, she signs an autograph which is pinned on the wall of the pizza place where she worked.In New York Violet tries unsuccessfully, dozens of times, to get her demo tape noticed by studios, producers or club managers. In one bar, a bartender jokingly points out Kevin O'Donnell and makes her believe he is the owner. Violet tries to get him to listen to her demo tape, but when she discovers the joke she feels that Kevin was making a fool out of her.With only a few dollars in her pocket, she goes to an all-night diner and notices some girls flaunting hundreds of dollars they've earned in tips. Violet finds out they work at a trendy bar called "Coyote Ugly". She finds her way to the bar and convinces the owner, Lil, to hire her. Lil explains she hired Violet because she looks like a kindergarten teacher, who the childish bar patrons will come to see.After starting her new Job, Violet quickly discovers she must learn the ropes of singing, dancing and performing wild acts in front of a rowdy crowd. Kevin O'Donnell tries to help her overcome her shyness on stage and they become closer. Kevin and Violet finally become lovers, despite his attempts to to hide his past and the reason he left Australia. Violet finally lands a deal with a record label after a successful performance at an Open Mic night at the Bowery Ballroom, when all the Coyotes come to support her.
