A couple is accused of sodomy and pedophilia by two little girls. Soon they find their beloved sons taken away from them and themselves thrown in jail.
A pedophilia witch-hunt is started in Bakersfield by two teenage girls' foppish child abuse claims. Blindly ambitious justice officials, especially in the prosecutor's office, conspire to arrest loving parents Scott and Brenda Kniffen, whose doted pre-teen sons Brian and Brandon are grilled endlessly until they repeat the vicious lies, the elder even ends up believing them while they pass from one foster home to the next, as even the grandparents are denied custody for not turning on their children. The defense's rights are systematically denied, so the parents go to jail for 12 years. The boys are near adulthood when the political tide finally turns.
Based on a true story that took place in Bakersfield, California. In 1982, Scott and Brenda Kniffen are approached by their friends, Alvin and Debbie McCuan. Debbie's stepmother, Mary Ann Barbour, is trying to get custody of their little girls, despite the fact that she is mentally ill. Mary Ann claims that Alvin and Debbie molested their children. The McCuans ask the Kniffens to testify on their behalf. They feel very sorry for their friends and agree to help in whatever way they can.Mary Ann notifies Child Protective Services that not only the McCuans, but the Kniffens are running a child sex ring involving multiple molestation. She claims that the McCuan girls told her about children being hung from hooks in the Kniffen home and tortured. Her story is so wild that the social worker is a bit skeptical, but her supervisor insists that it has to be true because children don't lie. Warrants are obtained for the arrest of the McCuans and Kniffens.Brenda is at home with her sons, Brian (age 6) and Brandon (age 9) when police arrive to arrest her. The boys are taken into protective custody and the house is torn apart looking for pornographic pictures and evidence of child molestation. Scott is arrested at his workplace. He and Brenda cannot make any sense of what has happened. They insist they are innocent but no one believes them. Brenda is severely beaten while in jail. Scott's parents, Marilyn and Dick Kniffen post bail but the boys remain in protective custody. Their parents are allowed no contact with them. The grandmothers, Marilyn and Brenda's mother Corene, are allowed a supervised visit. But Corene violates the court order not to question the boys and is arrested, charged with witness tampering. The charge is later dropped but the grandmothers are allowed no further visits.The case of the Kniffens and McCuans blows wide open, with extensive news coverage, and all are accused of multiple counts. Brandon and Brian are repeatedly questioned and at first deny any abuse. But they want to go home so badly that they start agreeing with what investigators say, thinking that will help. Instead it strengthens the case against their parents, who are already seen as guilty. Two years later, both couples are found guilty and sentenced to a total of 1000 years in prison.Brenda and Scott are sent to separate prisons. Scott's parents try to get custody of the boys, but are denied because D.A. Gindes feels they will brainwash the boys and cause them to recant. The boys spend their childhoods in many different foster homes. All appeals fail and it looks as if Scott and Brenda will remain in prison for the rest of their lives.Dick and Marilyn hired a private investigator, Denver Dunn, who is a retired police detective. He promises to look into the case but warns them it could take years. Over time, Scott and Brenda adjust to life in prison. Scott is in isolation for his own safety, but Brenda must deal with ill treatment because she is supposedly a child molester.As the years pass and her children are nearly grown, Brenda repeatedly begs the prison psychiatrist to allow them to visit her. But he refuses because she is in denial. If she will admit to even one small act of molestation, he will permit a visit. Brenda finds this ironic but won't consider admitting to something she has not done.Dunn obtains a cassette tape from an anonymous source, left from the boys' questioning sessions. All the other tapes have mysteriously disappeared. It contains evidence that the boys were coerced into saying they were molested. He tapes the tape to Andrew Snedeker and his wife; lawyers who are known for helping those falsely accused of molestation. They agree to take the case and try to get a new trial.At last the Kniffen grandparents get custody of Brian. Brandon, now a legal adult, joins the Marines. Brian recants his testimony and signs a statement, but Brandon refuses to do so. He believes the abuse took place but he can't remember it. And if it did not take place, he can't live with the guilt of what happened to his parents.The case has taken a very heavy toll on the elder Kniffens. Marilyn suddenly dies. Brandon gets leave for the funeral and is shocked to learn that his grandfather died the previous evening, in his sleep. Brian tells him he has to recant his testimony and try to get their parents out of prison. At last, urged on by Dunn, Brandon agrees.The Kniffens are granted a hearing, seeing each other and their sons for the first time since the trial. Both boys retract their testimony and Snedeker introduces the tape. The case is overturned and the Kniffens are free. They leave Bakersfield to make a new life elsewhere.
