A cosmic case of flying saucers, intergalactic intrigue and out-of-this-world romance launches Scooby-Doo and the Mystery Gang into their most unearthly adventure ever.
A cosmic case of UFOs, intergalactic intrigue and out-of-this-world romance launches the Mystery Gang into their most unearthly adventure ever. Stranded in Roswell, New Mexico, the gang soon discovers the place crawls with UFO buffs, secretive scientists... and less-than-friendly alien invaders. Then after being chased by aliens and beamed aboard a UFO, Shaggy and Scooby-Doo fall head over heels in love with Crystal and Amber. The gang investigate the mysterious sightings which lead them to a government research base and a huge network of caves hidden under the town.
The Mystery Gang is driving through a desert in Roswell, New Mexico when a sandstorm forces Shaggy to make a wrong turn onto government property. Soon after, a UFO causes Shaggy to crash the Mystery Machine, and the gang find themselves on the outskirts of a small town. While Shaggy and Scooby stay with the Mystery Machine, Fred, Daphne and Velma go to a local diner and ask for directions. Shaggy and Scooby then see a mythical animal called a jackalope, which takes their last Scooby Snack. Shaggy and Scooby chase the jackalope into a cave, where they encounter aliens. They flee the cave and run into the diner in a panic.Shaggy and Scooby tell the people inside the diner about the encounter, but the gang is skeptical. The waitress, Dottie, says that multiple people claimed to have seen aliens, but that she has never seen them, and she has noticed strange lights and sounds at night. The chef, Sergio, says that a month earlier local cattle vanished without a trace, after which many people left town. A man named Lester, who claims to have been abducted, believes Shaggy and Scooby. He also claims to have pictures from his abduction; however, they turn out to be nothing more than paintings. He then tells the gang that ever since the installation of SALF (Search for Alien Life Forms, similar to SETI) satellite dishes, there have been numerous reports of UFO sightings and disappearing livestock.The gang stays overnight at Lester's home; however, its lack of space forces Shaggy and Scooby to sleep on the roof. Later that night, they are abducted. The aliens attempt to examine the two, but Scooby is able to free them. After being cornered by the aliens while trying to escape, they pass out. They are awakened in the middle of desert by a hippie photographer named Crystal, and her golden retriever, Amber. Shaggy and Scooby immediately fall in love with them, and when they meet up with the rest of the gang at the local diner, they are still so lovestruck that they are not even hungry, which shocks Fred, Daphne and Velma.The gang sets out to find a mechanic to repair the Mystery Machine when they meet Steve, Laura and Max, who work for SALF. Fred, Daphne and Velma take a tour of SALF facilities, while Crystal and Amber take Shaggy and Scooby to attempt to find and photograph the jackalope. During the tour, Velma grows suspicious after noticing dried mud on the SALF crew's boots. (which would not be found in the middle of the desert) and a large amount of oil (which Max claimed was for the satellite dishes, but is the wrong kind).While trying the find the jackalope, Shaggy, Scooby, Crystal and Amber are forced to leave the area by two government agents. However, Crystal reveals that she is an undercover government agent sent to investigate the aliens, and four enter a nearby cave. Lester takes the rest of the gang to a canyon where Velma believes a seasonal river runs so they can investigate. The canyon proves to be dry, but the find tire tracks, and follow them into a cave full of mining equipment - the save cave Shaggy and Scooby are in. Both parties find a massive amount of gold in the cave's walls before being found and chased by aliens. Fred, Daphne and Velma are captured, but Shaggy, Scooby, Crystal and Amber escape. The aliens reveal themselves to be the SALF crew, and they explain that they stumbled onto the cave while searching for a new location for another SALF dish. Because the gold was on government land, they decided to keep the secret for themselves by using alien disguises and two fake government agents to keep people away.As the fake aliens corner Shaggy, Scooby, Crystal and Amber, Crystak and Amber reveal themselves as to be real aliens, from a planet 20 light years away. They disguised themselves as hippies because the only information they had about Earth was from watching 1960s television broadcasts. The UFO that ran the gang off the road was actually Crystal and Amber's spaceship. The gang, Crystal and Amber manage to stop the SALF crew from escaping and tie them up. The SALF crew and their accomplices are arrested, and Crystal and Amber return to their homeworld after a heartfelt goodbye. Shaggy and Scooby are heartbroken, but a box of Scooby Snacks help them forget about their sorrows. As the gang drives off, the jackalope reappears and looks to the sky as Crystal and Amber's spaceship passes one last time.In a post-credits scene, Scooby-Doo scares the audience in an alien costume.
