The movie shows the origin of the Powerpuff Girls before the cartoon series. It explains why they were born and why they dedicated their lives to fighting crime and the forces of evil.
In the city of Townsville, the frustrated Professor Utonium is gathering all the ingredients to make a perfect little girl (sugar, spice, and everything nice). But when his lab assitant, a monkey named Jojo, causes the accidental addition of Chemical X to the mix, the Professor ends up with not one but 3 perfect, powerful little girls. It soon becomes obvious that Blossom, Bubbles, and Buttercup are not normal girls, they have superpowers and have not yet learned to control. The girls are treated like outcasts because they have inadvertently wrecked Townsville in a superpowered game of tag. To win the hearts of the people of Townsville, the girls are tricked into making a deal with Jojo who plans to take over Townsville. As the girls foil this threat and defeat an army of superpowered monkeys, the Powerpuff Girls learn that with great power comes great responsibility.
In the city of Townsville is ruled by criminals and villains, but the frustrated Professor Utonium is gathering all the ingredients to make a perfect little girl using sugar, spice, and everything nice. But when his lab assistant, an evil chimpanzee named Mojo Jojo, causes the accidental addition of Chemical X to the mix, the Professor ends up with not one but 3 perfect, powerful little girls. It soon becomes obvious that Blossom, Bubbles, and Buttercup are not just normal girls, they have superpowers and have not yet learned to control! Who could have predicted that a nuclear-powered game of tag would wreak havoc on Townsville? It's clear that the girls must redeem themselves, so they turn to the evil Mojo Jojo, unaware that he's the evil ape they will come to know and hate later. And they'll be saving the world before bed-time.
In the Metropolis of Townsville, criminality and evil reign supreme. Fed up with the criminals, Professor Utonium, decides to help the people by creating a perfect little girl (composed of sugar, spice and everything nice). But in an instant dose of Chemical X, what he gets is three little girls whom he names Blossom, Bubbles and Buttercup. And they are each gifted with superpowers that are uncontrolled. After an accidental game of tag, the three girls are treated as freaks and hated by everyone in town. In an attempt to gain the people's trust, they turn to villainous Mojo Jojo who sets them up into helping him take over Townsville. While working to stop Mojo and his army of primates, the girls learn that they must work together and have responsibility to save the world before bedtime.
These three adorable girls were accidently created by a professor (oddly named Professor)in his laboratory.He was making a mixture of sugar,spice,and everything nice to create the perfect little girl,but he accidently mixed in chemical X!Thus the powerpuff girls were born.Blossom,known as the "leader",Bubbles,known as the sweet girl,and Buttercup,known as the kickass hardcore one,use their powers to fight crime in The City Of Townesville everyday.They vow to be there whenever there is trouble and to protect the city of Townesville no matter what the situation.
