In 1975, the dynamics of a Swedish commune begin to change upon the arrival of a beaten wife and her two kids.
It is the 1970s and a group of very different individuals live together as a community. One of the members' sister, Elisabeth, needs a new place to stay with her children after having had enough of her alcoholic and abusive husband. Elisabeth is neither a socialist nor a feminist nor into the green movement but ends up loving living in the community where they all learn from each other. The film makes a little fun of people with strong ideals and "square" minds whether they be vegans, communists or people who absolutely disgust vegans or socialists. In the end, the message of the film is that people can grow and gain from bonding with each other. It also shows how we need to shape up a little for this to work, either through working on our behaviour that affects other people badly (like alcoholism or abuse) or the need to set boundaries and not let other people walk all over oneself.
Elisabeth leaves her abusive and drunken husband Rolf, she packs her bags, takes the kids and goes to her brother Göran. The year is 1975 and Göran lives in a commune called Together. Living in this leftist commune are people between the ages of 25 and 35, along with their children. It is there where most of the film takes place, and there where things happen that affect not only the extended family members, but a few more...
In 1975, in Stockholm, housewife Elisabeth leaves her abusive and drunken husband Rolf. She moves with her teenage daughter Eva and her young son Stefan to the hippie community where her brother Göran lives. Goran is a good man, who has an open relationship with his mate Lena, but does not feel comfortable with the situation. They are welcomed by the group composed of a new-lesbian Anna, her husband, Lasse and their son, Tet; a gay man, Klas; and an idealist communist, Erik, among others. Eva becomes the friend of a neighbor boy about her age, Fredrik. With new-arrivals in the commune, lives of the members change. Meanwhile, Rolf misses Elisabeth and his family, stops drinking and tries to approach to Elisabeth again.

