The lives of four women from different places are the victims of male chauvinism and marital abuse. They decide to fight for their rights and dignity against the social norms and injustice.
Vaidehi (Manisha Koirala) gets married to Raghuvir (Jackie Shroff), an NRI. Suffering the agony of an unhappy marriage, she decides to run away from him when she learns that she is pregnant and he wants to take the child away from her. In her pursuit for freedom, she meets Mythili (Mahima Chaudhury) a bride-to-be, Janaki (Madhuri Dixit) a theatre artist and Ramdulari (Rekha) a village midwife - all of whom are victims of male chauvinism. They however refuse to be put down and fight for their rights.
No longer able to stand her U.S. based, morally loose husband, Raghu, Vaidehi flees to India, carrying his child. During her journey, she meets many different characters: painfully repressed women, fiercely independent woman, caring humane men and the worst misogynists in India. All the while, she is chased by Raghu, who only wants her child and would like nothing better than to get rid of Vaidehi. She meets with a kind-hearted burglar when hiding in a marriage party, and finds out that the bride's, Maithili, father is unable to pay the prospective groom's parents enough Dowry. He suffers the humiliation of their taunts and threats to cancel the wedding. Maithili is anguished at her in-laws' treatment of her father. Next she meets Janki, a radically feminist theatre actress, who is in love with her co-star, Manish. Janki is pregnant and hopes to marry Manish soon. Constantly trying to thwart these plans is Purshottam, the theatre director, who is married to Lata. Lata is kept secluded in her home by her much older husband. Purshottam hopes to have an affair with Janki (or any other woman for that matter) eventually. Then Vaidehi meets a caring village midwife and local healer named Ramdulaari. She, like the rest of the village, is constantly terrorized by Gajendra and Virender, 2 misogynistic brothers who own most of the village. Her pride and joy, her educated son, shares a forbidden love with Gajendra's daughter, Sushma. Eventually, Vaidehi takes refuge with a bandit named Bulwa, who takes the Mother Goddess as his matron and respects women, and considers Gajendra and Virender his archenemies. Each story of injustice is followed by an explosive climax that proves that you can only push womankind so far before she pushes back.
Unable to stand her U.S. based over-bearing and oppressive husband, Raghu, anymore, Neha Verma decides to leave him. She meets with a burglar when gate-crashing a marriage ceremony, and finds out that the bride, Maithili's, father is unable to pay the prospective groom's parents enough dowry, and suffer the humiliation of their taunts &amp; threats to cancel the wedding, until Maithili herself refuses to marry; Then she meets with Janki, a theater actress, madly in love with her co-star, Manish. Janki gets pregnant, and hopes Manish will marry her soon, but Manish has other plans - Janki is left devastated by these sudden change of events; Then there is Lata, who is kept secluded in room by a much older male, Purshottam, who hopes to marry her someday, with or without her will, and in the meantime hopes to have an affair with Janki; Then Neha meets an independent businesswoman Ramdulaari, only to find out that Ramdulaari h! as male enemies in the shape and form of two brothers, Gajendra and Virender, who not leave any stone unturned to stop her business, as well as prevent her brother from marrying Gajendra's daughter, Sushma. Ramdulaari is brutally raped by the brothers, and the electricity cut off in her house and business. In the midst of this, Neha herself is threatened, and seeks protection with a bandit named Bulwa, with Gajendra and Virender chasing her down to collect the handsome reward offered by Raghu to bring back Neha to him, and back to more abuse at his hands.

