Gopal's blissful married life with Radha blemishes when Radha gets obsessed with the career of her friend, Suraj, who is a singer. Ripped apart by jealousy, Gopal deserts Radha.
Radha and Suraj have been friends since childhood. Gopal has been in love with Radha ever since they spent a few years together as kids. Years later, Gopal's guardian proposes to Radha a marriage with Gopal, and she accepts. She finds a loving husband in Gopal, and when Gopal asks who she loves the most, first she lists her mother, then her brother, and in a voice-over she says that she loves Gopal the most. But Gopal thinks that Radha is spending too much time with Suraj, and starts to suspect them, so much so that he asks Radha to leave the house. After Radha leaves the house, she receives a divorce notice from Gopal, which tears her heart apart. When Suraj and her brother, Prashant find out about the divorce notice, they offer to go and talk to Gopal, but Radha does not permit this. Suraj then telephones Gopal and asks to meet him alone, Gopal agrees to meet him, and carries a loaded gun to this meeting....
Gopal Kishan (Shahrukh Khan) is a wealthy Business tycoon. He is deeply in love with his childhood friend Radha (Madhuri Dixit). Gopal and Radha get married. Gopal always shows love to his wife, but she does not seem to love him in return. As much as he loves Radha, Gopal cannot stand her younger brother Prashant (Atul Aghnihotri) who depends on them financially. Gopal gets even more annoyed that his wife is always talking on the phone to her childhood friend Suraj (Salman Khan), who is a raising singer. Gopal starts suspecting that Radha is having an affair with Suraj and is extremely jealous. Gopal soon throws Radha out of the house and later gives her a letter of divorce, which leaves her heartbroken. Suraj is appalled that this has been done to his childhood friend and arranges to meet Gopal in order to try and persuade him that he has done wrong. Gopal brings a loaded gun to this meeting. In the meeting, Gopal blames Suraj for the problems between him and Radha - Suraj now feels guilty and promises to stay away from Radha for good.
