Two teenage girls, one an ordinary high school girl and the other a top teen model, who meet and switch places.
Opens with Alex at a party where she and her friend Sharon discuss Alex wanting to go to a ball with Eric Singer. When Alex tries to talk to him he tells her to move out of the way and is laughed at by some girls at the party. She gets home to her angry father who wants her to go into business and says she needs to go to sleep to get good grades so she can get into Harvard. She goes into her room and looks at a fashion magazine and wishes she could be a model. Next scene shows Janine ordering Chinese whose mother comes in and orders her something healthier. Her mother then announces that she is going away for a couple weeks and Janine is thrilled. Janine goes into her room and sees herself on TV.
Alex Burroughs is a shy, insecure teen girl who dreams of becoming a fashion designer. While helping her father with his catering business at a party, she meets Janine Adams, a famous teenage model. Meanwhile, Janine is fed up with her manager mother making her life nothing but work. Especially after not being home when she has her first book signing, because her little brother Max is going on a publicity tour. Through a strange coincidence, the girls meet and realize that they look identical to each other (the only real difference being that Alex has to wear glasses). Through this realization, Alex and Janine decide to swap places for a while. Alex gets to date Jason Sharp (Justin Timberlake), a young, gorgeous, but sweet, male model. However, she has to deal with Janine's domineering mother, Deirdre (Kathie Lee Gifford). When they start their new life, they both end up with dates for Saturday. Even though they were supposed to change back Friday, they call each other up and extend the date. Janine warns Alex to stay away from Jason because she believes that he is using her for the attention. Meanwhile, Alex warns Janine to stay away from Eric Singer. Alex's little brother Josh tries to reveal her "Janine" secret. Towards the end when Alex wants to tell Jason that she is not Janine, but she is seen by Eric and he thinks she's cheating on him. Jason walks off on her as well. So Janine and Alex swap back the next morning. Alex is grounded but she goes to the ball and so does Janine, disguising herself as Alex. After both families show up, everyone finds out their secret. The two are able to convince their families to not be so hard on them and Eric leaves the most popular girl in school, Mindy, to be with Janine. Jason shows up having seen Josh's tape which Alex sent to him to show him the truth and dances with her.
This is a Disney Channel movie about two teenage girls, one an ordinary high school girl and the other a top teen model, who meet and switch places.
