As the lights flicker on a warm August night, amidst vacant Athens' stillness, a modern bohemian flirts with a woman he just met at a phone booth, while strolling around the city's quiet night streets.
In his early thirties, Nikos is a poet and a dreamer, a bohemian figure of a man who even though he is content with his simple daily routine watching indolently the days pass by from the windows of his favourite coffee shop, on the inside, he is silently aching to love and be loved. On the other hand, Sophia, a decisive fashion stylist in her mid-twenties, thirsts to fulfil her dreams in life, she is fresh and staggeringly beautiful, yet, she is also leading an ordinary life. Eventually, by an interesting turn of fate, the two opposites will attract and as the lights flicker on a warm August night, amidst vacant Athens' stillness, Nikos, the knight in not so shining armour, will find the courage to converse with Sophia, the alluring woman he just met at a phone booth, blurring the line between chatting and flirting. Over the brief course of the remaining evening, while strolling around the city's quiet night streets, Nikos will earn Sophia's trust, underlining the necessity of a change in her life, however, by morning, who knows what the first ray of light will bring?
On an August night, in an almost deserted Athens... A young man in his early thirties, (Haralambidis) without a past or a future waiting for something to happen in the heart of a big city, is hanging out in a coffee shop with his friends as they discuss their thoughts, their daydreams, and their romantic dilemmas. A beautiful girl at a telephone booth has a terrible argument with her boyfriend over the phone. An old friend, on the verge of an emotional breakdown, longs for his high school sweetheart and screams her name from his balcony. Two incorrigible middle-aged bachelors masterfully set up the "trap of the century" that will finally get them their girl. The owner of a coffee shop recites poetry. A couple's 11-year-old relationship is ludicrously challenged by the presence of a body-builder. An American challenges Mohammed Ali to a boxing match, as a tribute to the boxer whom he considers to be the ultimate dancer. Two mobsters trained in pressure tactics "annul" themselves through the comedy of an absurd defeat...
Actor Renos Haralambidis does double duty as both director and leading man in this loose-limbed comedy.When he spies the beautiful woman at the telephone booth (Anna Maria Papaharalambous) , it looks like he's on his way to another fractured romance, as he follows her, trying to get her attention over the course of the evening, while his friends carry on without him. The story's Ftina Tsigara's supporting cast includes Anna Maria Papaharalambous, Michalis Iatropoulos, and Costas Tsakonas.
