By chance 3 employees rob their bank the same weekend.
Three mischievous employees of a bank in a small deserted town all make plans to rob at the same time, however none of them knows about the others. Meanwhile, a clothing store employee has plans for revenge against a local millionaire.
The initial scene is a small, remote-controlled biplane zooming around. The plane lands on what seems to be a deserted street in front of a young boy who seems happy to have made a successful flight. Just as the plane comes to a complete standstill a motorcycle with 2 riders aboard runs over it and smashes it to pieces. The camera follows the motorcycle thru town and you see the driver is a young girl, Schmally, dropping her boyfriend Doleman off in front of Desert Trust Bank. Doleman enters the bank, which is full of policemen, and asks for Rick. When Doleman says he's supposed to start work today, Monday, Rick informs him they've been robbed and he won't be needed. The movie flashes back to the previous Friday. Rick, the bank manager, is sitting in a diner booth with Sheila, one of the tellers from the bank. He's breaking up with her. Two firemen are sitting behind them having a conversation about how to get rid of hiccups. The one with hiccups tells his buddy to scare him to get rid of them and he'll pay him 20 dollars. About that time Sheila jumps up, gets in his face yelling for a few seconds then abruptly calms down and says "Your hiccups are gone, you owe me 20 bucks." She then turns to Rick, punches him in the face and storms out of the diner. Mark, one of the firemen, follows her out, walking with her and talking a lot and eventually writing his number on her hand and telling her to call him if she wants to talk about her troubles. The scene then shifts to Rick telling Woods, another one of the tellers, that he has been promoted to assistant manager. This scene evidently happened a short time before, not told exactly when. Woods is narrating this scene and he states that he soon realized he'd been given a lot more scut-work and responsibility with only a minimal raise. Then it cuts to a scene with Stu, the third teller, and his buddy Max. They are having a discussion about schemes to make money. Stu points out to Max that his plans usually have very little chance for success because he doesn't think them through very well. They arrive at a fast-food restaurant and through the exchange with the worker we realize Max is usually broke and bumming money from Stu constantly. The scene then cuts to Stu and Max coming into a house where Shmally, Doleman and another guy are playing Dungeons and Dragons. Doleman tells a tale about getting fired from a lame job at an ice cream parlor and Max suggests he apply for a job at the bank. Stu tells him to go the corporate office on Sunday for an interview but Doleman doesn't seem very interested. We also learn that Schmally plays dream sequences in her head where she become a Xena the Warrior Princess-like character and takes harmless (scaring but not hurting) vengeance on people that are being mean to her or Doleman. The scene shifts to Woods' home in the desert where he lives with a goose named George. Woods is again narrrating and tells the story of how he rescued George from the hunter who killed George's mother, a man named Mr Merchant who is a customer at Desert Trust Bank. Woods tells us that Mr Merchant comes to the bank on a regular basis to access his safety deposit box. Woods knows Mr Merchant is rich because he brags about it on an infomercial where he sells his 'get-rich-with-real-estate' plan, so Woods suspects the safety deposit box is full of money. He also knows the key to the box is kept in a secret compartment on Merchant's Pomeranian's collar. Woods indicates that he plans to steal the key and rob Merchant's box as a means of avenging George's mother and of getting back at Rick for being a crummy boss. The scene shifts to Sheila working out at home that same Friday night. There is no narration but we see that Sheila has also come up with some sort of plan but exactly what isn't clear yet. Still on Friday, the scene shifts again to Stu and Max talking . Stu feels bad about trashing Max's ideas so he shares with Max his 'crazy' scheme about robbing the bank on Saturday, taking the money to Vegas that night to 'bet it all on black'. If he wins, he returns the money Monday, if he loses he just disappears. Although Stu only told Max this as a means of showing that he has crazy ideas that would never work too, Max latches onto it like it's the best idea he's ever heard. They discuss it some more and eventually Stu warms up to the plan and agrees that they will do it the next day, Saturday. On Saturday while helping Schmally at her retail clothing job, Doleman makes a decision that he will stop being a slacker and start trying to make something of himself so he buys a dress shirt and other clothes for the bank job interview the next day. Late in the day Saturday at the bank Rick follows his normal routine of leaving for a short break to the diner across the street. During that time we see Sheila get a copy of Rick's key to the ATM machines. Although Stu is incredibly nervous and tries to back out of their plan Max convinces him to go through with it. Just before the bank closes for the day situations fall into place that allow Stu to empty the mini-vault, which contains over a quarter million dollars, into the backpack and Max walks out with it. They head for Vegas when Stu gets off work. That night, Saturday evening, we see Woods break into Merchants home to get his deposit box key. Woods is very inept and ends up hiding in a pantry closet in Merchants home til late in the evening. Late that same night Schmally and Doleman go to Merchants house and throw eggs at it. Merchant comes out with a gun and begins chasing them as they leave on the motorcycle. While they are doing that it allows Woods to escape but not before he finds the deposit box key outside where it fell from the dogs collar. Schmally wrecks the bike and runs away, Doleman is knocked unconscious and is left lying in the desert. Still on Saturday night, Sheila is on a date with Mark the fireman and they end up in front of the bank. She tells him she's decided to rob the bank because they've been robbed before and if it happens again Rick would be fired. Mark tries to discourage her and is getting ready to take her home but just at that moment Schmally runs up trying to get them to help her get away from Merchant, who is chasing her on foot and periodically taking shots at her with a shotgun. Merchant scares Sheila and Mark by firing at the truck &amp; they let themselves into the bank to hide while Schmally runs off in another direction. Merchant loses interest in chasing anyone and goes home, Schmally gets away and Sheila and Mark fall asleep hiding in the bank after Sheila resets the alarm. On Sunday Woods shows up to the bank and goes to the vault and proceeds to empty the large amount of cash from Merchants deposit box into his satchel. He didn't notice Mark and Sheila asleep under a table so he leaves and resets the alarm. Then they wake up and empty the ATM machines and leave. The bank has now been robbed 3 different ways by 3 different people, all independent of one another. Sunday morning Doleman wakes up in the desert, walks the motorcycle back to the house, cleans up and goes to the bank's corporate office where he gets hired and is told to show up for work the next day. Meantime we see Max and Stu experiencing the high-roller lifestyle in Vegas. Max is having a blast but Stu can't enjoy anything since he's still not sure if they can get away with what they did. He tells Max he's going to take it all back and not do the bet like they planned. Max, being a good buddy, tells him it's his choice and he supports him either way. Shortly after that Stu decides to place the bet after all. They win and double the quarter-million.
On Monday Stu arrives a little late to work and almost faints when he sees all the cops. Rick tells him they've been robbed and asks him to count the min-vault, which was Stu's plan all along since that is normally his job. This allows him to put the money he stole back. About the time he finishes doing that we see Doleman come into the bank, bringing us back to where the movie started. Doleman is very upset that his plan to be less of a slacker came to nothing and immediately takes off his necktie and tosses it into a trashcan outside the bank. Rick then receives a phone call informing him he's been fired but first he has to find another manager. He proceeds to call Woods, Sheila and Stu in one at a time and tell them they are the new manager and they all laugh and tell him "No thanks, I quit." Then we see Rick run outside where Doleman is still hanging around and tells him he's been hired. Closing credits start while showing scenes with captions telling us how everyone is faring after the robbery.
