1967 film student George Lucas has writer's block trying to finish his "Space Wheat" script, until a beautiful fellow student with a familiar hairstyle teaches him that the best stories are in plain sight.
In 1967, writer's-blocked USC film student George Lucas has only three days to finish his script or he won't graduate. He ends up falling for a girl named Marian (with her hair done up in buns on the sides of her head) who encourages him to write what he knows and feels.
A satire of "Shakespeare in Love" that searches for the 'true' origins of the Star Wars saga. A young George Lucas (Martin Hynes) tackles writer's block while trying to complete his final screenplay for USC Film School and the master storyteller is placed center-screen as he searches for inspiration, ultimately finding it in the colorful and ever-familiar characters that surround him, including Marion (Lisa Jakub), his very own "Leia".
Originally released to critical and audience acclaim in 1999, GEORGE LUCAS IN LOVE is a hilarious satire of Shakespeare in Love that searches for the true origins of the Star Wars saga. A young George Lucas (Martin Hynes) tackles writers block while trying to complete his final screenplay for USC Film School and the master storyteller is placed center-screen as he searches for inspiration, ultimately finding it in the colorful and ever-familiar characters that surround him, including Marion (Lisa Jakub), his very own Leia.
Launching the careers of its four young filmmakers Joe Nussbaum, Tim Dowling, Joseph Levy, and Daniel Shere GEORGE LUCAS IN LOVE took Hollywood by storm as this parody found its way to the VCRs of virtually every industry bigwig at the time, including George Lucas himself who praised the film as very funny. Re-mastered, re-finished and, for the first time, in HD, the 15th Anniversary Edition of this award-winning short film is available May 20, 2014. This is a must-see treat for fans packed with comedy, charm, and instantly recognizable moments from the original trilogy they love so much.
