A psychopath tries to protect his twin brother from a lady he visualizes as his evil stepmother, and eventually ends up fighting with him.
The story follows Abhay (Haasan) who has a disturbed childhood and severe mental trauma misunderstands her to be Sister in Law Tejasvini (Raveena Tandon) who is supposed to marry his Army Commando twin brother Major Vijay (Haasan). When Abhay meets Tejasvini, who visualizes her as her evil step mother who was the cause of the fall of his family and the death of both his parents and separation from his twin brother whom he loves dearly. He escapes the mental asylum to fulfill his duty towards his brother by getting rid of the woman. There are a lot of action packed encounters that Abhay has with his own brother, the estranged wife and many other characters including a very fun loving and popular singer - actress Sharmilee (Manisha Koirala) (cameo) who all willingly or unwillingly come in midst of the fight of a right man at the wrong place within wrong circumstances.
Abhay, a psychopath, visualizes Tejaswini, his twin brother Vijay's fiancee, as his evil stepmother. He then tries to protect Vijay from her, but this leads to fights and battles between both of them. But with the intention of doing everything right, Abhay ends up committing some of the biggest mistakes of his life. Despite being a danger for the society and having some opposition from his own brother due to the circumstances created by himself, Abhay's further actions form the film's further plot.
Vijay is a army commando while his twin brother Nandhu has spent most of his time in asylum.Vijay is about to marry Tejaswini and gets her to introduce to Nandhu in asylum.Nandu starts seeing his stepmother's image in Tejaswini and goes to attack her he warns Vijay to stay away from her or else she will destroy him like his stepmother did to their father.Nandhu manages to escape from asylum and wants to kill Tejaswini believing his brother might also meet the same faith as his father.

