A Hawaiian girl adopts an unusual pet who is actually a notorious extra-terrestrial fugitive.
In a place far, far away, illegal genetic experiment #626 is detected: Ruthless scientist Dr. Jumba Jookiba has created a strong, intelligent, nearly indestructible and aggressive being with only one known weakness: The high density of his body makes it impossible for the experiment to swim in water. The scientist is sentenced to jail by the Grand Council of the Galactic Federation. The experiment is supposed to be transported to a prison asteroid, yet manages to escape Captain Gantu, who was supposed to deliver him there. With a stolen police cruiser (the red one), the destructive being races towards a little and already doomed planet: Earth. Stranded on Hawaii, experiment #626 can't actually do much harm: water all around, no big cities and two well-equipped representatives of the Galactic Federation already following close behind to catch him again. But Dr. Jookiba and the Earth expert Pleakley never could have guessed that earth girl Lilo adopts the experiment as dog, gives him the name Stitch and actually causes an emotional development in the little beast. Her dysfunctional family, consisting only of Lilo and her sister Nani, is about to be ripped apart by social worker Cobra Bubbles. Stitch as the new family member brings quite some action into all their lifes, and after a while, not even Pleakley and Dr. Jookiba can recognize their former target. But how shall they bring the news of failure to the Grand Councilwoman without being punished?
The story of a little creature created by genetic experimentation and bound to prison with his evil creator. Stitch escapes and heads for Earth where he tries to impersonate a dog and gets adopted by little Lilo, whom, bent on self preservation, he plans to use as a human shield to protect him for the aliens sent to recapture him. But without a greater purpose in life, no friends, family or memories, Stitch does a little soul searching and begins to understand the meanings of "love" and "family" and his feeling for Lilo begin to change.
Somewhere on a distant planet, a court is called to order by the Grand Councilwoman (Zoe Caldwell) who oversees the charges read by Captain Gantu (Kevin Michael Richardson) against Doctor Jumba (David Ogden Stiers) for illegal genetic experimentation. Jumba is adamant about his innocence until his latest experiment is brought into the room. The tiny, six-limbed, blue creature snarls and jumps against his glass cage while Jumba proudly explains all of the amazing powers his Experiment 626 possesses before collapsing in a fit of maniacal laughter. The Grand Councilwoman offers 626 a moment to prove that he is good, but he shocks the council with a slew of alien profanity. Convinced that the experiment is nothing more than the product of a deranged mind, the Councilwoman condemns Jumba to life in prison and sentences 626 to expulsion on a far away planet. Captain Gantu takes charge of 626 and confines him within the master ship of his armada. However, 626s cunning, and some projectile spit, allows him to quickly escape and commandeer a small patrol cruiser. The armada gives chase and disables the craft, but not before 626 engages the hyper-drive and blasts off into the regions of space. An infuriated Councilwoman orders 626s trajectory to be tracked and its discovered that hes headed for a planet called Earth. At first, all are relieved to see that 626 is destined to crash land in the Pacific Ocean where his body density would be too heavy to allow him to swim. However, they see that his craft is headed straight for the small island of Kauai on the Hawaiian Islands. The Councilwomans plans to gas the planet are halted by Agent Pleakley (Kevin McDonald) who defends Earth as a nature preserve, home of the 'endangered' mosquito population. Knowing that only someone with extended knowledge on 626 is required for his capture, the Councilwoman offers Doctor Jumba his freedom for 626's incarceration and places Pleakley in charge of Jumba's progress; a job that Pleakley does not take lightly.
