5 years after a mom's 6 y.o. girl is murdered, she gets a phone call from someone claiming to be the daughter. An ex cop and a reporter help. A secret group called The Nameless may be behind it all.
The mutilated body of a six year old girl is found in a water hole. The girl is identified as the missing daughter of Claudia. However, only two pieces of evidence could be used to identify her; a bracelet with her name on it near the crime scene, and the fact that her right leg was three centimeters longer than her left. All other methods of identification were removed from her body. Five years later Claudia, now addicted to tranquilizers, receives a phone call from someone claiming to be her daughter, asking for her mother to come find her before 'they' kill her. Other mysterious clues show up, further indicating that Claudia's daughter is indeed still alive, and very much in danger. Claudia, a run-down ex-cop, and a parapsychology reporter put together the clues to discover Angela's whereabouts.
In Spain, the vanished six years old daughter of the editor Claudia is found completely mutilated in a well by the police, being recognized by her husband only due to a bracelet and her shorter leg. Five years later, Claudia, divorced and addicted in tranquilizer, receives a short phone contact from her daughter. She looks for the former detective in charge of the investigation, and together with a reporter of a magazine of parapsychology, they find the existence of a diabolic sect called "Los Sin Nombre" that searches the essence of pure evil.
Five years after a young girl was murdered when her mother seemed to have started to recover, a phone call once again shatters her life: "Mummy, it's me... come and get me". Helped by an ex-policeman and a reporter who is expert in the supernatural, she sets out on a desperate search for a terrifying truth that lay dormant until now: a group of the occult that rejects its own name, the empirical science of evil, uninhabited desolate houses that conceal things, secrets... An abominable trap. This truth spreads its tentacles through time and space, from the horror of the Holocaust to the occult fever in sixties London up to the present day. After years of lethargy, the nameless are about to be revealed. A number: 106, an abandoned motel. They might manage to find the child. Perhaps she's alive and can be saved, but the horror is only just beginning...
