In the town of Greenfield, a young, lonely girl's dreams and wishes are brought into reality by a collective of reality-warping Pokémon.
Professor Shuri is a scientist looking for rare Pocket Monsters. He reads a storybook to his daughter Mi about the powerful Pokemon Entei. Shuri is currently searching for the heiroglyph Pokemon "Unknown". While searching through some ancient artifacts, Shuri awakens Unknown and is sucked into it. Mi next awakens Unknown while looking for her father. Unknown bonds with her and turns her mansion into a Crystal Tower. The crystallization begins to spread. Unknown lives to serve Mi and creates an Entei with the personality of her father to make her happy. When Mi next desires a mother, Entei kidnaps Satoshi's mother Hanako to give to Mi. Satoshi, Kasumi, Takeshi, and of course Pikachu set out to get her back.
Molly Hale, a young girl living in the town of Greenfield, discovers her father, Professor Spencer Hale, has disappeared whilst investigating the mysterious Pokémon species, the Unown. Upon receiving his findings, Molly's tears summon the Unown, who transporter her father to another direction. They begin bringing her dreams and wishes to reality, summoning Entei, another mythical Pokémon, who takes on the role of Molly's protector and father figure. Her mansion transforms into a giant crystal palace and spreads across the town. Meanwhile, Ash Ketchum, Misty, and Brock arrive in town, joined by Professor Oak and Ash's mother Delia, who has a past with the Hale family. But, things take a personal turn when Entei kidnaps Delia to play the role of Molly's new mother, and Ash and friends must venture into the world of the Unown to save her and Molly.
When Molly Hale's father goes missing, the strange Pokemon that he was studying come to Molly by the power of the strange little blocks. The Pokemon, the Unown, create Entei to act as Molly's father, and, because of her wish to have a mother too, Entei only goes and kidnaps Delia Ketchum, who just happens to be Ash's mom. So Ash, Misty and Brock go to the Hale mansion to stop these strange events once and for all...before time runs out for life as we know it.

