A rock band bursts onto the scene and then their frontman disappears on the eve of a European tour.
Elderly aristocrats Lord Charles and Lady Diana Foxley give their staff - butler Benson and cook Margaret - a one week vacation while the Foxleys visit friends as they have rented out their historic mansion for that week to a multinational corporation. As they are proud people, what no one but the Foxleys are aware of is that they are doing so only because they are in dire financial straits, and desperately need the money to retain their outwardly lavish lifestyle. But when the agency through which they hired the temporary cook and butler for the renters goes bankrupt leaving them with no temporary staff, Lady Diana believes the only way they can get away with this rental plan without incurring a costly penalty or to advertise their financial problems is to act as "Benson" and "Margaret" themselves, much against stuffy Lord Charles' wishes and despite they not knowing how to be domestics. What the Foxleys are unaware of is that the multinational corporation is a front for Global Heresy, young immature American rock stars whose record company has set up this stint as a secret retreat location for them to test their new materials. It is also their first opportunity to rehearse with their new bassist Natalie Bevan, as their original bassist and the band's front man, Ben Gould, mysteriously disappeared two months ago and is supposed deceased based on what little evidence is available. It becomes a clash of cultures between the proper Foxleys and the wild band. It also proves to be a clash within the five member band, as Nat is trying to be her own person and not a Ben Gould clone. Further problems arise that week as the record company's hospitality man, James Chancellor, has ulterior motives in his job at the mansion, and as two unexpected guests arrive who could upset the apple cart both on the Foxley and the band's sides of the issue.
When a rock band at the top of their game suddenly loses their leader, their direction suddenly becomes questionable. All the band members know is that the leader's clothes were found at the edge of a waterfront and he had not been seen since. To compensate, they hire a new band member that shakes up their thoughts of the band. But the biggest changes come when the band decides to go into seclusion to develop new songs and a new sound. They rent a mansion from an aristocratic couple, who are hard up for money. When the staff hired to be on hand when the band arrives do not show, the couple decides to act as the butler, Benson, and the cook, Margaret. The obvious conflicts between the two cultures occur, but a respect for each other gradually follows. Meanwhile, the band's recording company is trying to trick them into signing a contract that obligates the music to be as the company requires. Towards the end of the film, the status quo gets further shaken when the original band leader shows up and admits that his disappearance had been a planned publicity stunt.

