The dramatized account of the war crime trials following the defeat of Nazi Germany in World War II.
Following the defeat of Germany in WWII, the Allies determine that there must be an accounting of German war crimes. Twenty-four Nazis, representative of all sections of military and civilian life are chosen to stand trial for the crimes of conspiracy to commit aggression, commission of aggression, crimes during war and crimes against humanity. The preparations for the trial, the trial itself and its aftermath are shown through the eyes of Chief Prosecutor Robert Jackson and through the eyes of Reichsmarshal Hermann Goering, the ranking Nazi defendant.
In 1945, after the end of the World War II with the defeat of a ruined Germany, the Allies decide to give a fair trial to twenty-one Nazi leaders POW as an example of intolerance of the governments against hideous atrocities in war. The defendants are accused crimes of war and against humanity, and the American Chief Prosecutor Robert Jackson is assigned to organize an international tribunal at Nuremberg with representatives from France, Russia and England. The prisoners under the leadership of Hitler's second-in-command Marshall Hermann Goering dispute the control in a juridical battle in the courtroom.
This fact-based courtroom drama examines the international tribunal that assembled in war-torn Nuremberg, Germany following World War II to try various German officer for war crimes and atrocities. Led by American Justice Robert Jackson, the assembled team must first put together the courtroom, then question captured Nazis to determine who should be tried, and ultimately select 21 individuals to stand trial. Initially opposed to execution, Jackson became more accepting of the sentence as he learned of the severity of the heinous acts that occurred. The 21 Nazis, led by Hitler's second-in-command, Hermann Göring, try to take control of the courtroom. However, their bravado fails as the graphic films show the heinous acts that had occurred. Some of the film's dialog is taken directly from court transcripts. The film shows much graphic footage from the concentration camps that is not for the squeamish.
It is May of 1945 and Germany stands ruined and defeated after the unconditional surrender to the Allies. However, Hitler lies dead in his Berlin bunker by suicide and the world calls out for justice. In an attempt to bring reconciliation to the crime that was Nazi Germany, American Justice Robert Jackson establishes an International War Crimes Tribunal at Nuremburg. The first of several such trials, the court will hear cases on two dozen leaders of the Nazi Party and the German military. "Nuremberg" tells this story with points of view from Justice Jackson as well as the unrepentant Hermann Goring and also Albert Speer; one of the very few who admitted to the terrible crimes in which he was a part.

