When a fisherman leaves to fight with the Greek army during World War II, his fiancée falls in love with the local Italian commander.
In 1941, Italy allies with Germany and ruthlessly conquers the much weaker country of Greece. On a remote Greek island, an Italian artillery garrison is established to maintain order. One Italian officer, Captain Corelli, adopts an attitude of mutual co-existence with the Greeks and engages in such activities as music festivals and courting the daughter of a local doctor. In 1943, however, after Italy surrenders to the Allies and changes sides in the war, Captain Corelli must defend the Greek island against a German invasion.
The idyllic beauty of Greece's Mediterranean coast has been invaded by Italy, bringing legions of soldiers to the once tranquil island of Cephallonia. Captain Antonio Corelli, an officer with an irrepressibly jovial personality and passion for the mandolin, initially alienates a number of the villagers, including Pelagia. The daughter of the village doctor, Pelagia is an educated and strong-willed woman, and while at first offended by the Italian soldier's behavior, she slowly warms to his certain charms as they are forced to share her father's home. When Pelagia's fiancé , a local fisherman, heads off to war, the friendship between Antonio and Pelagia grows even stronger. Her beauty and intelligence have captured his heart, and his fondness for the village's vibrant community causes him to question his reasons for fighting. Antonio becomes a part of the lives of the villagers, but the moment is fleeting. As the war grows ever closer, Antonio and Pelagia are forced to choose between their allegiance to their countries and the love they feel for one another-a love which must overcome tremendous odds, and endure the inevitable sacrifice which accompanies eternal devotion.
Cage starts as Captain Antonio Corelli, an Italian officer whose company of soldiers is sent to Cephallonia, a beautiful Greek island untouched by war. A free spirit with a passion for music and romance, Corelli is enchanted by Cephallonia and its people -- especially Pelagia (Cruz), the gorgeous, proud daughter of the island's doctor (John Hurt). Engaged to a local fisherman (Christian Bale), Pelagia resists Corelli's attentions, but the kind and charming captain weakens for her defenses. Surrendering their hearts, Corelli and Pelagia begin a heated affair. But before their love can grow, the war crashes on Cephallonia's shores, forcing Corelli and Pelagia to make dangerous sacrifices for country and homeand risk losing each other forever.
