Gangaram alias Ganga has been raised by his foster parents who reside in the village thus he gets accustom to village life. 24 years later his birth parents multi-millionaire Avinash and his wife Radha comes to ask him to move into their bungalow located in the city to which Ganga agrees and goes to bid farewell to his friends and girlfriend Saawni. While in the city Ganga is introduced to his elder brother, Milind, his wife, Supriya, and his younger brother; Ganga finds it very hard to adjust to the city life and is often scuffed at. Avinash arranges his marriage with equally wealthy Tina to which he agrees although he is not comfortable with this marriage as he is still in love with Saawni; meanwhile Ganga's honest policy gets him and his new found family into further problems.
A young man, raised by a foster couple in a rural village since birth, is brought to Hyderabad by his wealthly parents where he tries to fit into modern society as well as question his loyalty to his biological or foster parents when he is asked to court a sexy city girl for his bride.
Gangaram alias Ganga (Govinda) lives a simple yet straight-forward life in a small village with his mom and dad (Shivaji Satham and Reema Lagoo), and Saawni (Sonli Bendre) his sweetheart. When the time comes for Ganga to marry, his parents inform him that his biological parents live in the city, and want him also to settle there. Ganga bids tearful farewell to his village and it's inhabitants, and travels to the city of his birth parents. He finds that he has an elder brother, his wife, Supriya, and younger siblings too, as well as his birth parents, Avinash (Shakti Kapoor) and Radha (Himani Shivpuri), who are all very wealthy. Soon word spreads about Ganga being the latest eligible bachelor, and Ganga is asked to marry socialite, Tina (Rinke Khanna), as per his parents' wishes. Ganga agrees to everything his new-found family wants him to do, and then visitors from the past come to visit Ganga, and place him in a dilemma that will change his way of thinking forever.

