After a man is asked to house sit for his boss, he becomes determined to get closer to the boss's daughter, but events keep unfolding that stop him from achieving his goal.
When a young man agrees to housesit for his boss, he thinks it'll be the perfect opportunity to get close to the woman he desperately has a crush on - his boss's daughter. But he doesn't plan on the long line of other houseguests that try to keep him from his mission. And he also has to deal with the daughter's older brother, who's on the run from local drug dealers.
Tom works as a researcher at a publishing company. He wants to move to the creative department but his demanding and intimidating boss, Jack Taylor makes him lose his nerve after just spending five minutes with him. He is also attracted to his daughter, Lisa, whom her father also controls. When she tells Tom that her father is making her housesit on the night of a party she wants to attend, he tells her that she should stand up for herself. She says that she will and he asks him to come to their house. He thinks that she likes him but in reality she wants him to fill in for her. He reluctantly agrees. But when Taylor's black sheep son, Red and Taylor's secretary whom he just fired show up at the house things start to unravel. Eventually some other people show up and Lisa who came home, sees how Ted feels about her but doubts his sincerity. And Tom is scrambling to make things right.
The movie is a romantic comedy about a young man, Tom Stansfield played by Ashton Kutcher, who is asked to housesit his boss's mansion and take care of his owl while the boss is out of town for one night. Tom thinks this is a perfect opportunity for him to get close to Lisa Taylor the boss's daughter played by Tara Reid. During that one long night, Tom must deal with Lisa's older brother played by Andy Richter who has some dealings with the local drug dealer. There is also a long line of other unexpected houseguests who take over and mess up the house. With all these crazy people in the house, Tom thinks he will lose his job and the girl when the boss comes home. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
