The vampire Lestat becomes a rock star whose music wakes up the queen of all vampires.
After losing interest in immortality, vampire Lestat goes to sleep, awakening after a long time to the sounds of punk rock. Taking up as the leader of an undead band, Lestat gains fame but exposes vampires, drawing the attention of vampire enthusiast Jesse. His music also awakens the queen of the damned, Akasha the first vampire, who decides to make Lestat her king. After learning of her bloodlust, and designs to take over humankind, Lestat teams with the other vampire nobility to take her down. Lestat then turns Jesse into his undead mistress to spend eternity together.
After many years of sleeping in his coffin, the vampire Lestat awakens only to find that the world has changed and he wants to be a part of it. He gathers a following and becomes a rock star only to find that his music awakens the ancient Queen Akasha and she wants him to become her king...
Lestat de Lioncourt is awakened from his slumber. Bored with his existence he has now become this generation's new Rock God. While in the course of time, another has arisen, Akasha, the Queen of the Vampires and the Dammed. He wants immortal fame, his fellow vampires want him eternally dead for his betrayal, and the Queen wants him for her King. Who will be the first to reach him? Who shall win the final battle of the vampires and survive?
Lestat (Stuart Townsend) has slumbered for two ceturies, but the world above his tomb has changed from
the colonial pretension of the 18th century to a more free and colourful world of new
more revealing fashions, louder music, caring for the world's future and the hungry
machine that is the media.He rises from his resting place and feeds upon a victim, feeling more revitalized that ever before. He then proceeds to go and find where the
music he hears is coming from, delighted to discover that it is from his old house, and
soon shows the young mortal band his talents and makes them famous, calling the rock band The Vampire Lestat. He is controversial, over the top and utterly sesuous,
portraying all the sins of the world in his lyrics and his over all demour. But unaware to
him a young member of secret vampire expert society, is in fact obsessed with him and
reads the thoughts that he put in his diary that her boss, David (Paul McGann), found. She learns of
his maker the talented painter Marius (Vincent Perez), who kidnapped him from his homeland and
made him immortal to have an outside link to the everchanging world. Lestat proves
to be more trouble than he's worth, wanting to be seen and heard by mortal, and not be in the shadows waiting to feed upon them. He learns to play the violin like an angel,
but kills a Gypsy girl and her father after revealing his supernatural attributes while
hunting with Marius.He then discovers the secret room that Queen Akasha [(link=nm0004691]) and her
King slumber. He plays the violin for her, and falls into her trap of drinking her blood. But
he is chained to the bed by Marius and discovers that Akasha and her King are the makers
of all vampires, brutal and bloodthirsty, they had drank the ancient world dry and finally
lost their will to drink. Later Lestat awakens alone, to find Marius is gone and so are
Akasha and her mate, showing Lestat that after all is said and done, we are all alone.Even more intrigued by this nocturnal hearthrob, Jesse (Marguerite Moreau) sets out to a vampire club in the
old section of London, only to be nearly devoured by a pack of yuppy vampires and be
rescued by Lestat. She tells him of her reading his diary and asks him about his violin,
telling him he can't have forgotten about it. He returns home and once again plays the
treasured instrument. The next day he has a press conference with his band and stirs
up trouble with both humans and vampires, saying that the immortals must come and
find him at his one and only concert in the valley.Soon after he recieves a visit
from Marius and hears that Akasha has awoken and drank her King to death. Now
she is after Lestat, as is Jesse, but for different reasons, Akasha seeks to make him
her new King and Jesse wants to learn more about immortality from him. The night before
the concert Jesse's wish is almost answered, as Lestat very nearly turns her, but he disappears claiming that she doesn't truly want the dark gift. At the concert the vampires
gather and try to kill Lestat, but Marius helps him fight them off. When Akasha arrives
she promptly flies Lestat off to an island resort where she's killed the entire populous and makes love to him in a mixture of mortal love making, mental and also drinking from him and
having him drink from her.Jesse wakes in the house where she lived as a child, in
awe at the sight of her Aunt Maharet (Lena Olin), who hasn't aged, and is a vampire.Back on the
island Lestat is able to walk in the sun, and is told by Akasha that they will rule all once more.
He asks if their kingdom will include only corpses and she replies with a blissful affirmation
of his theory.Finally Marius, Maharet and all the other vampire elders gather to make a
plan against Akasha and Lestat. But they are interrupted by the queens arrival with her new king. She tells Lestat to kill Jesse, and mocks the girl when she says that it is what
she desires. Jesse collapses and Akasha says that Lestat is most obediant, he drinks from
her once more, but does not stop and she throws him off. The other vampires try to also kill her, some turn to dust and others survive. But it is Maharet who drinks the last
drop from Akasha. Maharet turns to stone, to slumber forever for drinking the last drop of
the vampire queen's blood. Akasha turns to ashes, blowing away into nothingness.Jesse
and Lestat pay a visit to a very nervous David, returning the diary she took. She offers
him the gift, but he says he is too old.The couple walk off into a haze of lights and flashing
by figures who carry on with their normal lives.Marius enters David's office, well aware
that David has obsessed over him for many years, and greets David with a polite tone.This ends the film with the question whether Marius will infact turn David, and if Lestat
and Jesse will truly be lovers until the ending of the the universe.
