A look at the top-secret, high-tech espionage war going on between cats and dogs, of which their human owners are blissfully unaware.
A secret war between cats and dogs quickly peaks as Professor Brody a scientist tries to create a serum to cure dog allergies in humans. As the unsuspecting humans go through their busy lives, the cats make several attempts to possess the formula, as their canine foes try tirelessly to stop them. Caught in the crossfire, a young beagle named Lou, adopted by the Brody family, tries hard to succeed as a secret agent, and in being a friend to the young Scotty Brody. A evil snow white cat named Mr. Tinkles is planning to sabotage the efforts of Professor Brody to discover a cure for human allergies to dogs. And he'll even make every person on Earth allergic to dogs so that he can take over the world with his army of evil cats!
There's a secret war being waged in the homes and neighborhoods of Earth that the humans don't even know about; an eternal struggle between two great armies: the Cats and the Dogs. The film follows a Cat's plan to destroy a new vaccine, that if developed, would destroy all human allergies to Dogs, and the Dogs' efforts to stop the Cats. Specifically, it's the story of a young pup whose job it is to guard the vaccine. Other dogs include a wise older dog who watches out for him, a large friendly dog, and a small dog who serves as an electronics expert. Jeff Goldblum is the human scientist that invented the vaccine.
Cats and dogs, known to mankind only as cuddly pets and man's best friend, have engaged in a fierce and merciless battle: Mr. Tinkles, a ruthless cat, is plotting intensively to achieve nothing less than world domination. His main target is Professor Brody, who is working on a medicine to rid people from dog hair allergies. Yet Mr. Tinkles strives to get to the substance, analyze it and then have it turned into a means of rendering all humans of the world aggressively allergic to any kind of dog. Cats would rule, as dogs would then be exterminated. But Mr. Tinkles did not bother to waste any thoughts on little Lou, the Brody family's new puppy, who never before has heard of dog agents and the major protective mission they fulfill towards the unsuspecting Brody family. Together with Butch and a few other dog agents from the neighbourhood, Lou desperately tries to hinder Mr. Tinkles in his sinister plans to take over the world.

