Jason Voorhees returns with a new look, a new machete, and his same murderous attitude as he is awakened on a spaceship in the 25th century.
In the Year 2008, Jason Vorhees is cryogenically frozen in a Government Facility in Camp Crystal Lake, along with scientist Rowan. Many centuries later, in the year 2455, Earth is uninhabitable, and humans have moved to another planet known as Earth II. However, a team of students awakens both him and Rowan on a spaceship known as the Grendel. Jason begins killing the students and crew of the ship. Along the way, he is upgraded to Uber Jason. It's now up to Rowan and the surviving students to stop Jason, this time on a spaceship.
Set way in the future, Earth is no longer inhabitable, so humans have colonized in outer space. One colony receives two cryogenically frozen bodies, and when they defrost them, one of the bodies turns out to be.....who else? Jason Voorhees. No longer in the forest or Camp Crystal Lake, Jason stalks the colonists in a whole new environment.
In the future, Earth is no longer inhabitable. A school field trip leads the class and a few marine grunts to the remains of Camp Crystal Lake where they discover two croygenically frozen bodies, one of a beautiful young woman, and the other, a vaguely familiar looking man in a hockey mask and carrying a machete in his right hand. The group decides to bring the bodies back for testing and re-animation. But what was the first mistake, bringing the two bodies back with them or thawing them out so that the unstoppable Jason Voorhees (Kane Hodder) can return again to wreak havok and murder everyone in his sight? But what if Jason was upgraded, making him more dangerous than he ever was before?
Finally captured in the year 2008, Jason Voorhees (Kane Hodder) is held inside a government research facility whose scientists try to answer the question that keeps eluding them - why one of the most infamous mass murderers in history cannot die. Once Rowan (Lexa Doig), leader of the research project, prepares the specimen for cryogenic suspension, a greedy scientist goes over her head and comes to remove Jason, only to have the mad slasher break free and slaughter him and his entire entourage. Tricking Jason into following her, Rowan eludes him into entering the cryogenic freezer and begins the process, but a breach in the system causes her to freeze with him. The government tries to deny any evidence of the project, and nearly four centuries pass, during which the Earth gradually becomes less and less habitable and humans have relocated to a planet in another star system that they've named Earth II. A team of young students descends onto the ruined Earth, where they find the frozen bodies of Jason and Rowan in the forgotten research facility and take back on board their ship with them. Rowan is thawed and revived, but the team mistakes Jason to be dead, having no idea of his abilities or motives. Before long, Jason awakens to the sound of young people having premarital sex once again, and the carnage erupts once again as the ship proceeds to Earth II. The remaining survivors fight for their lives as the centuries-old mad slasher proves that he is just as evil and just as indestructible during their time as he was centuries before.
In 2008, Jason Voorhees is captured by the U.S. government and is being held at the Crystal Lake Research Facility. Two years later, Rowan LaFontaine, a government scientist, decides to place Jason in cryogenic suspension after several unsuccessful attempts to kill him. While Private Samuel Johnson places a blanket on Jason (who is hanging in chains) Dr. Aloysius Bartholomew Wimmer, Segeant Marcus, and a few soldiers hope to conduct further research into Jason's rapid cellular regeneration and instead try to take Jason. They pull off the blanket of what is supposedly Jason, but find a dead Johnson instead. Having broken free of his restraints, Jason kills the team of soldiers. Wimmer is killed by being impaled with a thrown machete. Rowan then spots Marcus thrown through the door. Before dying, he tells her to run. Rowan successfully lures him into a cryonic pod and activates it. However, Jason ruptures the pod with his machete and stabs Rowan in the abdomen, spilling cryonic fluid into the sealed room and freezing them both.In the year 2455, Earth has become too polluted to support life and humanity has moved to a new planet, called Earth Two located about 20 light years in the next solar system. Three students, Tsunaron, Janessa, and Azrael are on a field trip to the ruins of Earth One, led by Professor Brandon Lowe who is accompanied by an android, KM-14. They enter the Crystal Lake facility and find the still frozen Jason and Rowan, whom they bring to their spaceship, the Grendel. Also on the ship are Lowe's remaining students, Kinsa, Waylander, and Stoney. Once there, they reanimate Rowan while Jason is pronounced dead and left in the morgue. Lowe's intern, Adrienne, is ordered to dissect Jason's body. Lowe, who is in serious debt, calls his financial backer Dieter Perez of the Solaris who notes that Jason's body could be worth a substantial amount to a collector.While Stoney has sex with Kinsa, Jason comes back to life, and kills Adrienne by sticking her head in a sink filled with liquid nitrogen and smashing it against a counter top. Jason then takes a machete-shaped surgical tool and makes his way through the ship. He kills Stoney by impaling him with the surgical tool, and drags him away, to Kinsa's horror. Seargent Brodski finds out, and leads a group of soldiers to attack Jason.Meanwhile, Jason attacks Dallas and Azrael playing a game. He kills Azrael by breaking his back, and later Dallas is killed after having his face smashed on the wall. He then tries to attack Crutch, but Brodski and his soldiers save him by gunning him down. Jason disappears, and Brodski splits them up. Jason kills them one by one though. Sven is killed by having his neck broken. Condor is impaled on a drill. Geko is murdered after Jason slits her throat. Jason attacks Kicker, but he shoots him, causing him to back up and get impaled on a grappel. While Kicker tells Brodski, Jason unhooks himself and splits Kicker in half, killing him. Brodski tries looking for his soldiers, but comes across the dead body of Briggs impaled on a hook. Brodski is then impaled by two spikes through a wall, injuring him.Lowe orders Pilot Lou to dock in on Solaris. As he is talking with the Solaris engineer, he is then killed by Jason. With no pilot, the ship crashes through a nearby space station, destroying it, and killing Dieter Perez, and everyone else on the Solaris. The crash damages one of the Grendel's pontoon sections. Jason breaks into the lab, reclaiming his machete and decapitates Lowe.With the ship badly damaged, the remaining survivors head for Grendel's shuttle, while Tsunaron heads elsewhere with KM-14. After finding Lou's remains, Crutch and Waylander prepare the shuttle. Rowan finds Brodski, but is too heavy for her to carry, so she leaves to get help. Waylander leaves to help with him, while Crutch prepares the shuttle himself. Suddenly, Crutch is attacked and killed by having his head smashed on the control panel.On board the shuttle, Kinsa has a panic attack and launches the shuttle without releasing the fuel line causing it to crash into the ship's hull and explode, immolating her. Suddenly, Seargent Brodski attacks Jason, but is easily overpowered. Tsunaron reappears with an upgraded KM-14, complete with an array of weapons and new combat skills. She fights Jason off and seemingly kills him, knocking him into a nanite-equipped medical station, and blasting off his right arm, left leg, his right rib cage and finally part of his head. The survivors send out a distress call and receive a reply from a nearby patrol shuttle.Nearly an hour passes, as the survivors begin setting explosive charges to separate the remaining pontoon from the main drive section. As they work, Jason is brought back to life by the damaged medical station. Since much of his biological tissue was destroyed, he is rebuilt as an even more powerful cyborg. Jason then easily defeats KM-14 by punching her head off. As Tsunaron picks up her still functioning head, Jason attacks them, but is stopped by Waylander, who sacrifices himself by setting off the charges while the others escape. Jason survives and is blown back onto the shuttle. He punches a hole through the hull, sucking out Janessa. A power failure with the docking door forces Brodski to go EVA to fix it.Meanwhile, a hard light holographic simulation of Crystal Lake is created to distract Jason, but he sees through the deception just as the door is fixed. Brodski confronts Jason so the rest can escape. As they leave, the pontoon explodes, again propelling Jason at high-speed towards the survivors, however, Brodski intercepts Jason in mid-flight and maneuvers them both into the atmosphere of Earth Two, apparently killing them both. Tsunaron assures KM-14 that he will build a new body for her while Rowan breathes a sigh of relief.On the planet, two teens beside a forest lake set off to find where a "falling star" landed as Jason's mask sinks to the bottom of the lake.
