A movie publicist deals with the messy public split of his movie's co-stars while keeping reporters at bay while a reclusive director holds the film's print hostage.
In the midst of a nasty public breakup of married movie stars, a studio publicist scrambles to put a cap on the escalating situation as the couple's latest film has found its only print kidnapped by the director.
America's favorite couple, in movies as well as in real life, has broken up: Gwen has fallen in love with Latin actor Hector, Eddie can't take it no more and has taken quite some time off in the lush gardens of a leading wellness guru. But there is a problem: The latest movie of Gwen &amp; Eddie ("Time over Time") is being held hostage by its director Hal Weidmann. His only request is that it is shown to the press first, not even producer and studio boss David Kingman may take a look at it. Kingman now entrusts PR wizard Lee Philips, whom he just had fired, to organize a press junket that none of the journalists will ever forget - just to distract the press from the fact that the film itself won't be shown at all. Therefore, Lee somehow has to bring Gwen and Eddie back together, at least for that one weekend, in a lonely hotel resort in the Nevada desert. Not quite everything works out the way Lee wanted it to, since Gwen's sister and assistant Kiki also has a mind of her own.
After they've broken up, a married movie star couple still has to go out and promote the movie they made together while they were in love, even though they now hate each other. To keep the junket from falling apart when the print of their film doesn't show up, the film's publicist tries to divert attention by concocting the story of the couple's reunion, that everything's still hunky-dory between them... when in fact, the actor is actually in love with his wife's formerly fat assistant, and the actress has found a new beau named Hector.
Gwen and Eddie were at one time Hollywood's premier couple on and off the screen. But during the filming of their latest movie, Gwen took up with a Latin guy she met on the set. She and Eddie have since split up. Now their movie is ready to be shown but the director will only first show it at the press junket. But the studio boss, concerned of what the movie will be, instructs Lee his P.R. man to handle to junket and to try and distract the press from asking about the movie by making them think that Gwen and Eddie are back together. Only problem is that he just fired Lee, but after giving in to Lee's demands he agrees. Lee enlists the aid of Gwen's assistant, Kiki, who is her sister to help. When they get to the junket, things are still tense between them. And Kiki is trying hard to keep in check her feelings for Eddie.

