A film about the battle between love and fear, between two stubborn men and their opposing beliefs and the outcome of the love stories of 3 couples.
National Award winner, Yash Chopra and Aditya Chopra's MOHABBATEIN is a film that portrays the battle between love and fear - A battle between two stubborn men and their opposing beliefs. Raj Aryan (Shahrukh Khan), who stands for love, he would go to any lengths for it. Narayan Shankar (Amitabh Bachchan) - voted the Millennium star in the BBC polls) a strict disciplinarian as the head of India's most prestigious educational institute who stands for fear, he believes that love leads to pain and weakness. It is also the story of 3 young men and women who have to learn to follow their hearts against all the odds and the outcome of their love stories that will decide what will finally triumph. .. love or fear.
MOHABBATEIN is a battle between two stubborn men &amp;their opposing beliefs. Raj Aryan (Shahrukh Khan) stands for love and would go to any lengths for it. Narayan Shankar (Amitabh Bachchan) heads India's most prestigious educational institute and stands for fear and believes that love leads to pain &amp;weakness. It is also the love stories of 3 young couples who realize what will finally triumph, love or fear.
Narayan Shankar heads a private institution for male students in and around India to study in. He has certain rules and regulations that must be followed by all his students without any exception; 3 young men Vikram Kapoor, Sameer Sharma and Karan Choudhry takes an admission, fall in love with three young ladies Vikram with Ishika Dhanrajgir, Sameer with Sanjana and Karan with a widowed young woman named Kiran. Unfortunately they are unable to continue with their romance due to the fear of being expelled by Narayan Shankar; however their fear disappears when they are encouraged by the new music teacher, Raj Aryan Malhotra to boost their romance without knowing that Narayan is against love as in the case of Aryan who was at one time a student of Narayan's institution and was rusticated as he was in love with Narayan's only daughter, Megha.
Narayan Shankar (Amitabh Bachchan) is a strict Headmaster of Gurukul Boys, a prestigious all-boys university. Narayan wants the best out of his students by placing astronomical emphasis on traditions and discipline only with no room for anything else such as camaredrie, liberties, drama etc. For example; as Principal Head of Gurukul for over twenty five years, he had forbidden his students from any kind of romance - anyone he catches romancing or in love is expelled with no "ifs" , "ands" or "buts"....This film focuses particularly on three of the school's students: Sameer (Jugal Hansraj), Vicky (Uday Chopra) and Karan (Jimmy Sheirgill) who all fall in love.1.Sameer is head over heels in love with Sanjana (Kim Sharma), his childhood friend who already has a steady boyfriend.2.Vicky falls for Ishika (Shamita Shetty), a student at the all-girls university near to Gurukul Boys who is irritated by Vicky every time he comes near her to woo her.3.Karan has a crush /becomes smitten with Kiran (Preeti Jhangiani), a girl he sees one night alone at a train station who is a widow (already married to a famous pilot who is presumed to be dead).All three know that if they're caught they'd be expelled, so they do not pursue their love interests but do remininsce about it in ther free time.Next, comes Mr. Raj Aryan (Shah Rukh Khan) who is welcomed in Gurukul Boys Music College as a Music teacher. Friendly, amicable, and a strong believer in the power of LOVE (especially romantic love) he manages to challenge the status quo. Gradually, he introduces changes that the Principal Narayan dislikes when confronted with them.For example, when the three boys open up to him about their love interests, he encourages them to "follow the heart" and not be disheartened so very easily. He inspires them by telling them that he also has his special love, Megha (Aishwarya Rai) who is dead, but he continues to love her and imagines that she is still by his side now. Raj encourages the boys to continue to stay loyal to their loves.One day Raj throws a party inside the Gurukul campus, inviting the students from the nearby girls' school as part of his plan to spread the message of love in Gurukul.Narayan is furious and threatens to fire him. At this point, Raj reveals to Narayan that he was a student at Gurukul Boys about 10- 15 years ago and he had fallen in love with Megha, Narayan's one and only daughter. Narayan had expelled Raj without ever seeing his face, and immediately Megha had committed suicide. Raj explains to the Principal Narayan his reason to return to Gurukul Boys as a Music teacher - "the hope of changing Gurukul Boys College philosophy and creed on "Zero-tolerance for LOVE" thus, honoring his love for Megha.Raj challenges, dares and also promises a shocked Narayan that before he leaves Gurukul Boys College, he will fill it with so much love that even Narayan will not be able to remove it. Narayan accepts this challenge, and allows Raj to continue as a teacher for a while longer.Subsequently, with Raj's guidance and support the boys -Sameer, Vicky, and Karan -one by one, slowly slowly are able to win over their love interests...Narayan retaliates by tightening the rules of Gurukul Boys College. The students body continue to defy and challenge the rules, form new ones and encourage new ideas which is very encouraging and spreads an atmosphere of happiness.As a last resort to preserve the ethos and creed which he had built for twenty five years for Gurukul College- Narayan decides to expel the three students Sameer, Vicky and Karan.The Music teacher Raj speaks up and pleads on their behalf, explaining to the Principal Narayan how he had instigated the death of his own daughter, and the boys should not be punished as they did not do anything "wrong".Raj also states that he feels Narayan lost the challenge, because his daughter left him and now Raj (who considered Narayan an elder) is leaving him. Raj's stinging words make Narayan realise that changes are needed. He publicly apologises to the students and steps down as the Principal, allowing Raj to take over as the new Headmaster!In a few years time, Gurukul Boys College changes into a university that had an atmosphere honor and discipline mixed with flexibility,love and happiness which was evident on each student's rapport and demeanor.In the last scene- Raj, Narayan and a vague vision of the late Megha walk hand in hand happily together towards the wide open and strong gates of Gurukul Boys College.
