When her father is captured by The Sheriff of Nottingham and Prince John, Robin Hood's daughter sets out to help the son and rightful heir of King Richard the Lionheart sit on the throne as well as rescue her captive father.
Story of Robin Hood's daughter Gwyn who takes up his role after he is captured by Prince John. King Richard is dead and his son Philip is the rightful heir, but he is in France and too afraid to face John. Can Gwyn find Philip and convince him to fight John and free her father?
Just as Robin Hood and Will Scarlett return from their most recent Crusade, King Richard is wounded and dying. Richard's son Phillip must journey from France to England to stop the evil Prince John from assuming the throne. John's henchmen are everywhere, set to assassinate Phillip before and after he arrives. Robin &amp; Will and ordered to safely bring him in, but they're captured. Robin's fiery daughter Gwynn (an equal to any man in archery and horse riding) disguises herself as a boy to earn her father's respect, since he forbade her to get involved because of a promise he made to her mother, the now dead Marian. After narrowly escaping death two times, Phillip and Gwynn team up to free Robin &amp; Will and stop the Sheriff of Nottingham and Prince John.
The film picks up years after the "known" events of the Robin Hood legend, centering on Robin's daughter, Gwyn, played by Knightley. As Maid Marian has died and Robin Hood (Stuart Wilson) is perpetually away battling in the Crusades, Gwyn has lived much of her life alone. She has grown up to be a strong-willed young woman with a talent for archery, much like her father. Her only friend is the sweet but plain Froderick (Del Synnott), who clearly is in love with her. Upon the death of King Richard the Lionheart, Robin returns to see that the proper man takes Richard's place as King of England. However, Robin is quickly foiled and imprisoned by his enemies, the Sheriff of Nottingham (Malcolm McDowell) and Prince John (Jonathan Hyde).It is then up to Gwyn to save the day. She must complete Robin's mission to find and protect the young Prince Philip (Stephen Moyer), who has just returned from exile in France to claim the throne not an easy task since he has decided to forsake his true identity and is travelling anonymously under his valet's name (who died en route protecting his prince). Though she does fortuitously cross paths with the prince, she is not aware of his identity for much of the film. With a romantic spark budding between them, they must find the Merry Men and join forces to free her father from the tortures of the Tower of London before the evil Prince John ascends to the throne and brings England to ruin. After freeing her father, Gwyn along with her father and Prince Philip stop the coronation of Prince John.In the end when Philip is about to be crowned as king, Gwyn with a heavy heart tells him that she can only serve and work for him and they cannot be together. Robin later explains that he stayed out of Gwyn's life to protect her from the life he leads, but it didn't make any difference because she grew up to be just like him anyway. He then proposes a partnership between the two of them to serve Philip, with the only condition being that she take her orders from him (Robin) alone. She agrees, and at the end they are seen together leading Robin's Men, side by side.
