ACP Prithviraj is an honest cop. When he arrests the Chief Minister's son for assaulting a girl, the minister tries his best to create havoc in Prithviraj's life.
Kurukshetra is a story of war between evil and truth. The D.S.P Prithvi Raj Singh(Sanjay Dutt) is an honest and brave police officer.All dishonest police officers , rogues, criminals and corrupt politicians are scared of him. The day he joins duty in Mumbai city, he destroys all the illegal business of Iqbal Pasina(Mukesh Rishi). From that day onwards, Iqbal Pasina starts admiring DSP Prithvi Raj Singh.Prithvi Raj Singh with his wife, Anjali (Mahima Chaudhary) and sister, Aarti is living a happy life. Aarti is in love with Sub-Inspector Avinash. Anjali is sad because she lost her "Prithvi" who used to love her. "D.S.P Prithvi" is a totally different man, a man of law and duties. She lost her lover behind the uniform. One day C.M. Babu Rao Deshmukh's son Ambar and his friend Rohit, traps a girl called Gita in a hotel room and both of them rape her. This brutal incident evokes into the battle of "Kurukshetra". The battle is fought between the C.M.Babu Rao Deshmukh and D.S.P Prithvi Raj Singh. The C.M. Babu Rao Deshmukh has money,power and government infrastructure and on the other side, D.S.P Prithvi Raj Singh gets the support from opposition leader Sambhaji Yadav, Iqbal Pasina and their families. In this battle of crime and justice, who wins the battle and who loses? This is "Kurukshetra".
Assistant Commissioner of Police Prithviraj Singh is all settled with his happy family consisting of his wife, Anjali and sister Aarti. Since he is employed with the Indian police force his record state of being transfer 14 times, he do not accept bribe and does his duty with most honesty. When he is transfer to Gamdevi police headquarters he must now deal with a rape and murder case of a young woman named Geeta. He does manages to arrest a man name Amar and logged him in a cell; but problems persist when that man happen to be the chief minister's son Baburao Deshmukh who will only rest until he upturn Prithviraj's, his wife and sister lives into hell to pressure him for the release of his son.
Gamdevi Police Station has a new Inspector-In-charge, none other than Assistant Commissioner of Police Prithviraj Singh, who has a known reputation of being transferred 14 times in the last 10 years, and who is also known to never have accepted any bribe nor pressure from anyone for carrying out his duties. One day when a woman named Geeta is brutally raped and assaulted. Prithviraj concludes his investigation by arresting a young man named Amar Deshmukh, and two others, and holding them in a cell. No doubt, Prithviraj has excelled in his investigation, but he also realizes that he has just arrested the only son of the State Chief Minister, Baburao Deshmukh, who is all ready to turn Prithviraj's organized and content family life into a virtual unending nightmare that will not put his life, but also the life of his wife, Anjali, and sister, Aarti, in jeopardy.

