A commitment-averse man frantically hits the dating scene after his girlfriend starts pressuring him to pop the question.
David Collins is a commmitment-shy Los Angeles yuppie whose girlfriend of many years, advertising executive Sarah, gives him an ultimatum: commit or get out. David has two months to decide if he wants to stay with Sarah as she leaves town for a job in New York. Following the advice from his more outgoing friends, David hits the dating scene as he tries to find his one and only soul mate, a mysterious woman he sees again and again, but always gets away before he can talk to her.
Living in Los Angeles, David, who operates his own small graphics company, and Sarah, who works in the marketing department of a fashion company, have been in a relationship for five years. Their relationship hits a turning point when New York residing Tyler, the committed bachelor among David's closest group of friends from their fraternity days, announces that he is getting married, as he knew right away when he met his fiancée that she was "the one". As such, David wonders if he hasn't yet figured out if Sarah is "the one", whether "the one" is still out there. That feeling leads to Sarah, who has to go to New York on a business trip for two months, giving David until she returns to decide if they will move forward by getting married, or break up, the former which she always just assumed would eventually happen. Part of David's feeling stems from the fact that when he was eighteen, he saw from afar who he thought was his soul mate, that girl who he never saw again and a relationship with her which could never have been, at least at that stage of their lives. Helping David work through his feelings, but at the same time not really helping him just because of who they are, are his two other closest friends, Mike, the womanizer who will be Tyler's best man, and Jonesy, the somewhat judgmental one which has resulted in him not having had a serious relationship. Amy, David's girlfriend from college, reenters the group's lives and may be able to provide a clearer picture of what's going on. But two situations arise that may also factor into what happens between David and Sarah. The first is a proposition that Sarah receives from her New York boss, the suave and wealthy Andrew Hahn. And the second is that David once again spots a woman from afar in a restaurant who he believes may be "the one", that is if he can only track her down as she disappeared before he could find out who she is or anything about her beyond she reading the personals and seemingly also looking for her soul mate.

