Two stepbrothers who loathe each other have to work together to avoid being framed for terrorist activities.
Unemployed Aftab is into smuggling on Indo-Pak border. One day he attempts to grab a consignment of arms and ammunition that is being supplied to terrorists. When he finds that he is being followed, he decides to destroy the consignment only to be recognized by the terrorists. Meanwhile, he goes to arrange his marriage with his beloved, Ruksana, whereby questions arise about his biological father; questions that he or his mother, Mariam are unable to answer, thus the marriage plans become nulled. A few days later he gets to meet Ramakant Pandit who Mariam introduces to him as his father and who on his death bed begs to forgive him. Shortly after, Ramakant passes away and Aftab gets to meet his step-brother Dhananjay alias Jai who is quite resentful towards Aftab and his mother. Meanwhile, Aftab and Mariam are apprehended and tortured by the same terrorists whose booty was destroyed by Aftab. He is forced to call Jai for help. Fortunately Jai agrees after Aftab pleads with him and soon both are on the run from not only the terrorists but the local police who accuses the duo of being hand in glove with the terrorists.
Aftab has been brought up his mother, Mariam and has no knowledge as to the identity and whereabouts of his biological father. When Mariam gets news that Ramakant Pandit is dying, she asks Aftab to accompany her to meet this man. On the way there, she explains to Aftab that Ramakant is none other than his father. Aftab is angry but his anger subsides when he meets a humbled Ramakant, who is ready to touch Aftab's feet in forgiveness. Aftab embraces him and shortly thereafter Ramakant passes away in Aftab's arms. Aftab gets to meet his step-brother, Dhananjay alias Jai, who is very resentful of his step-mother and step-brother and will have nothing to do with them. Both brothers leave for their respective homes, hoping never to meet each other again. Jai returns to his wife Ragini and his increasing financial problems, while Aftab returns to romancing beautiful Ruksana. Then Jai gets a phone call from Aftab, asking him to bail him out. Angered Jai goes to meet Aftab, and it is then that Aftab tells him that people unknown have abducted his mother, and only his involvement can save her. Will Jai agree to save the life of the woman his father loved?

