Desperate for money, three men (Saif Ali Khan, Fardeen Khan) plot to kidnap a woman (Sonali Bendre) and hold her for ransom.
Prakash (Saif Ali Khan) is a handsome gold digger who thinks he has made it when he woos and subsequently marries Sapna (Sonali Bendre) , only daughter of a rich businessman Mr. Chopra (Dalip Tahil) . However his euphoria is short-lived when he learns that his father-in-law disapproves of him immensely and won't let him make his mark in the business . Finally , Prakash asks Mr.Chopra for some money to start a business of his own but Mr. Chopra refuses . One night , two masked men try to rob Prakash and he places a plan before the duo : they will kidnap Sapna and demand ransom from Mr. Chopra , which will be equally shared between Prakash and the two kidnappers - Rahul (Fardeen Khan) and Harry (Aftab Shivdasani) . Rahul and Harry have a little secret of their own : they are not professional criminals as they pretend to be . Rahul is an unemployed graduate , while Harry is a loafer . Rahul is in love with his landlord's daughter Anjali (Twinkle Khanna) and needs the money to convince her father for their marriage .
Rahul Kapoor (Fardeen Khan) and Harilal "Harry" (Aftab Shivdasani) are two room-mates living in a rented apartment, owing back rent to their landlord for last several months. Rahul is in love with Anjali Murthy(Twinkle Khanna), who is the daughter of the landlord, Dakshina Murthy. Anjali too loves Rahul, but her dad will not accept him as his son-in-law, as Rahul is poor. On a chance meeting with Prakash (Saif Ali Khan), the live-in son-in-law of the Chopras, the two friends scheme with him to abduct his wife, Sapna (Sonali Bendre), and demand a ransom from her parsimonious and controlling dad, Rajiv Chopra (Dalip Tahil). Everything seems to go smoothly, until the hapless trio find out that Sapna is being kidnapped by real and ruthless kidnappers, who will not hesitate to kill her once they get the ransom; and that Rajiv Chopra has complained to the police on the sly.
Three slackers living in India, whose names are Prakash, Harry, and Rahul, live a conman-like lifestyle. Rahul is in love with his landlord's daughter, but since he is poor, and has not paid for several months, her father refuses to permit her to marry him. Prakash is in love with Sonia, he marries her, and is all set to live off of his father-in-law, who refuses to give him any money nor take part in the family business. Prakash hits upon a plan to abduct Sonia, demand a hefty ransom, pocket the money, and open his own business. He meets with Rahul and Harry, and together they convince Sonia, who agrees to this plan. Sonia is accordingly kidnapped, and her dad is asked to pay up. The only problem is that Sonia has been abducted by real kidnappers.

