Raj Singh Puri is best friends with L.K. Malhotra who is in turn younger brother to J.K. Malhotra. The brothers are business tycoons and Raj works in their company. Raj is father to three young daughters, the first one gets married through arrangement but the second one marries her lover. After a few weeks at her in-laws, the second daughter returns home asking for divorce. After this Raj and her last daughter become strictly against love and relationships. All this changes when Isha (the third daughter) falls in love with the heir to the Malhotra empire, Ronit, L.K. Malhotra's son. The ask for Raj's blessing but he bluntly refuses and Isha understandingly shuns Ronit and Raj arranges for Ronit to be married to the daughter of another tycoon. Ronit is unhappy and makes Raj realize that his fiancé's family is not right for them and Raj approaches the Malhotras to break off the engagement however J.K. Malhotra shuns him by calling him poor and small. The other Malhotras join forces to make J.K. to realize his mistake and Ronit is finally married to Isha.
A widowed Raj lives in London with his three daughters Avantika,Esha and Sanya.He shares a very friendly bond with much younger Ronit son of his friend Lalit.Raj gets his two daughters Sanya and Avantaika married but Esha refuses to marry anyone as she doesn't believe in love.During a camp Ronit saves Esha's life and both fall in love and eager to tell Raj.But before that Raj gives Ronit the news that Sanya has returned back home and wants to separate from her husband.Raj finds about their relationship as Ronit's family being big business tycoons Raj feels they will never accept and arranges his marriage to a girl of rich family.Esha convinces Ronit to accept the relationship even thou she still loves him.
Raj a widower lives with his three daughter's Sanya,Avantika and Isha in London.He has a close friendship with Ronit thou half his age, whose son of his friend.Raj soon gets his daughters Sanya and Avantika married and Isha has no plans as she does not believe in love. Ronit saves Isha's life while on a trip and they both fall in love.When Ronit approaches Raj for Isha's hand he declines it as Sanya returns home a week after her love marriage and Raj looses faith in love and arranges Ronit marriage to someone else.
Raj Singh Puri has a very wealthy friend in Lalit Kumar Malhotra, and his wife, Nalini. After the passing away of his wife, Shalini, Raj has become more dependent on the Malhotras, and they have offered him support and solace in his time of need. Raj has also won over the affections of their son, Ronit Malhotra. When Ronit meets with Raj's daughter, Isha, both are attracted to each other and fall in love. They want to surprise Ronit's parents and Raj, and they accordingly decide to share this news with Raj, only to find out that Raj has been actively involved in trying to get Ronit married to Monishka Rai, the daughter of a very wealthy industrialist, who the Malhotras would like to have a business merger with.

