Max Keeble, the victim of his 7th grade class, plots revenge when he learns he's moving; it backfires when he doesn't move after all.
Max Keeble is a nice, quiet teenager, whose idea of 'superhero-requiring' danger is braving Evil Ice Cream Man who blames him for a health complaint from ma Lily. She spent six years on just the right interior and now hears from dad Don Keeble, a wimp whose 'career' in commercial publicity still only got him wearing sly costumes, a promotion requires the family to move to Chicago. Initially Max just hates giving up his high-school friends, a fatso and a music-maniac, but when their former friend Troy McGinty picks on them with his new image as bully realizes leaving means he can't be punished after Friday, and plans an orgy of revenge. Max's targets include the arrogant new principal, Elliot T. Jindraike, who spends the school budget on a new sports stadium to flatter the inspector, Superintendant Bobby 'Crazy Legs' Knebworth, and even plants to tear down the animal shelter. When it's all in motion, dad suddenly announces he has taken Max's first advice and turned down the promotion!
Max Keeble is just an average teenager. He is the local paperboy who is often ridiculed by the Evil Ice Cream Man, and is also just starting middle school with his friends, clarinet-loving Megan, and obese kid Robe, and his crush, Jenna. They're all continuously bullied by Troy McGinty and his gang, and their school principal, Jindraike, who wants to destroy the animal shelter across the street from their school to build a football field. However, Max soon hears from his parents that his family is moving to Illinois, and Max and his friends decided to plot against his enemies within a week. Following their plan to rid the school of Jinkdraike and Troy and his gang, Max realizes he won't be moving at all.
After being harassed by the school bullies and the Principal, Max Keeble learns that his family is moving away, so he spends his last week at school getting his revenge on his tormenters only to learn that he's not moving after all, and he is left at the mercy of his victims, or lack of it.
Max Keeble is just a normal sixth-grader who gets harassed by the school bullies and the principal and soon finds out from his parents that he's moving away. He starts to get revenge on the people who harasses him and soon finds out later that he's not moving.

