Desperation to be with his only child forces a divorced man to take the guise of the child's nanny. Situations get really messy when the child's grandfather (the man's ex-father-in-law) falls in love with his disguised ex-son-in-law.
Wealthy Janki falls in love with poor Jaiprakash, much to the displeasure of her parents, and ends up getting married, and living with her husband. She subsequently gives birth to a daughter. Differences surface between the couple, and Janki leaves Jaiprakash and moves back in with her parents. Jaiprakash wants to see his daughter, but is prevented by Durgaprasad, Janki's dad, so he assumes the guise of a woman, calls himself Laxmi, and starts working as a nanny for his daughter. Complications arise when Durgaprasad gets attracted to Laxmi and wants to marry 'her'.
Jaiprakash Paswan works in the film industry as a dance assistant. His wife Janki has divorced him and has been granted the custody of their daughter Bharati. Since Jaiprakash is not allowed by his erstwhile father-in-law Durgaprasad Bharadwaj to meet Bharati, he hatches a plan. He dresses up as a woman, Laxmi Godbole in the day and is employed as Bharati's nanny. But complications arise when Durgaprasad falls for Laxmi and Durgaprasad's secretary Banwarilal grows suspicious of her and starts following her everywhere.
Durgaprasad Bhardwaj is a wealthy widower who lives a lavish lifestyle in a palatial home. He has only one child, a daughter by the name of Janki. He would like Janki to get married to a young man of equal status, however, Janki falls in love with a middle-class youth named Jaiprakash Paswan. Despite of Durgaprasad's vehement objections, the couple get married, and soon Janki gives birth to a baby. Misunderstandings crop up between the two, and as a result Janki moves back with her dad along with her child. Jaiprakash would like the child to live with him, however, he does not have the means to support the child. To remove any doubt, Durgaprasad gets a Court Order giving custody and care to Janki. When the child grows up, Janki has her hands full, so they hire a nanny by the name of Laxmi Godbhole, who is middle-aged and seems to have a way with children and adults alike. Durgaprasad too is impressed with Laxmi and falls in love with her. What Janki and Durgaprasad do not know is that Laxmi leads a double life, also being wooed by landlord Hariharan. Watch as events unfold and one gets to view the other side of Laxmi, and the impact this will have on the child, Janki and Durgaprasad.

