An aging hitman gets a contract to kill a General in Buenos Aires, Argentina. But when his mark becomes unavailable, he becomes involved in Argentinian tango culture.
John J. is a seasoned hit man sent on a job to Argentina. When the General he's sent to kill delays his return to the country, John passes the time with Manuela, a beautiful dancer who becomes his teacher and guide into Argentina's sensual world of the tango. Spellbound by the rich and mysterious world Manuela has shown him, his idyll is shattered when the reality of why he's there comes crashing down around him.
John J. is a New York City hitman aging into retirement, with a loving 40-something girlfriend who has a young daughter that he dotes on. He keeps his gangster life a secret from both of them.One night he stabs a man in line at a club and swiftly gets away with the murder. Not long after, he goes to his boss for another assignment, which will take him to Buenos Aries.After arriving in Argentina, he meets with the men who have arranged the hit, and he begins to work on the plan for murdering a corrupt general. Despite his insistence that the job be done in less than three days, the plan gets extended for a few weeks.With so much time to wander around, John becomes captivated by tango dancers at local clubs, particularly one ravishing girl named Manuela. He asks her to teach him the tango, yet she is reluctant, and encourages her sister to help him.John and Manuela have a candid conversation over coffee. She admits she is single with a 2-year-old daughter. He says he is essentially married to his girlfriend, but he has been with other women. He doubts that he would "have a chance" with her since he is so old, but she says that indeed he does.Over time, John and Manuela go out dancing and he learns more of the tango as he continues to prepare for his hit job. One evening he enjoys a nice dinner with Manuela and some of her family.John has grown to distrust the men who have set up the hit, so he pulls off the murder sooner than expected, and evades capture by both the gangsters and the police. He had agreed to meet Manuela and her daughter at a park, but he gets caught up in trying to escape the country.On the plane back to the U.S., John fantasizes of dancing the tango with Manuela.Having returned to NYC, John reunites with his girlfriend and her daughter. He later shows the little girl some tango moves.In a coda tacked on to roll under the closing credits, Manuela says in voiceover that she has provided John with a video of new tango lessons that she hopes he will enjoy.
