Sir Billy Connolly plays Steve Myers, a lawyer who became a fisherman from frustration. When his one piece of property, his boat, is struck by lightning and destroyed, he is denied insurance money because it was "an act of God". He re-registers as a lawyer and sues the insurance company and the church, under the guise of God, defending himself. The accident leads him to a friendship and eventual relationship with a journalist, Anna Redmond (Judy Davis).
Advocate Steve Myers (Sir Billy Connolly) is disillusioned with the lies and deception he experiences in court and decides to quit. He invests money in a small yacht and goes off sailing. Then one day he wakes up to find his yacht has been struck by lightning and totalled. He informs his insurance company, who review and then subsequently decline his claim on the grounds that they are not liable, as his yacht was destroyed due to an "act of God". With no money to finance another yacht, Steve dramatically files a claim against God, naming the Pope and the local Bishop as representatives of God, and thereby the respondents. The Pope, the Bishop, their respective lawyers, as well as their insurance company, get together to find a way to settle this dilemma, which does catch the fancy of the media. It is in court that God's representatives will have to admit that Steve's yacht was actually His Act, accept it, and compensate him, or deny it altogether, and thereby deny His existence, and leave the onus on Steve to prove his claim.
Advocate Steve Myers is a disillusioned lawyer who becomes fed-up with the perceived corruption within the judicial system. He quits the law business and buys a small fishing boat and takes up fishing for a living. His fishing boat is struck by lightning and explodes into pieces, burns and sinks. He informs his insurance company, which reviews and then subsequently declines his claim on the grounds that it is not liable as his fishing boat was destroyed due to an 'Act of God'. Frustrated that his claim is repeatedly declined, Steve files a claim against God, naming church officials as representatives of God, and thereby the respondents. The church leaders, their respective lawyers, as well as their insurance company get together to find a way to settle this dilemma, which does catch the fancy of the media. It is in Court that God's representatives will have to admit that the destruction of Steve's fishing boat was actually God's Act, accept it, and compensate him, or deny it altogether, and thereby deny God's existence, and leave the onus on Steve to prove his claim.
