An insight into the turbulent lives and loves of a gay clique based in Los Angeles.
In the palm-shaded oasis of West Hollywood, we meet Dennis, a promising photographer. As he prepares to celebrate his twenty-eighth birthday, he laments, ' I can't decide if my friends are the best or worst thing that ever happened to me.' The gang includes Benji, the punkish innocent with a penchant for gym bodies; Howie, the psychology grad student who thinks too much and lives too little; Cole, the charismatic actor who accidentally keeps stealing everybody's guy; Patrick, the cynical quipster, and Taylor, resident drama queen, who, until recently, prided himself on his long-term relationship. Providing sage advice and steady work is Jack, the beloved patriarch whose restaurant is a haven for them all. When tragedy strikes the group, the friendships are put to the test.
A group of gay friends in West Hollywood lean on each other to work their way through gay life, not always with success. They gather around Jack's Broken Hearts restaurant and lounge, Jack acting as their father figure and the coach and head cheerleader behind the inept Broken Hearts softball team. The group of friends includes Howie who can't break the physical or emotional ties with his ex-boyfriend, Marshall, even after Marshall starts dating someone else and despite Howie being the one to call their relationship off. Patrick has self-image issues. He has to make a major decision when his lesbian sister asks him to donate sperm to her lesbian lover. Cole is the narcissist, who treats men like playthings to throw away, never having been thrown away himself until he hooks-up with movie star Kip Rogers. Taylor is going through the many stages of dealing with a break-up with his long term partner, who had a history of cheating on him. Benji, attracted to muscle types, is in desperate need of acceptance from others at almost any price. The emotional core of the group is Dennis, an aspiring photographer. Dennis has hit a stage in his gay life where he wants something more than just meaningless sex. When he meets Kevin, a not even out gay young man, Dennis tests his new resolve. But Kevin needs support of his own as someone just coming to terms with his sexuality, something that Dennis may not be able to provide in its entirety.

