Set during the Partition of India in 1947, a Sikh truck driver falls in love with a Muslim girl belonging to an aristocratic family.
Amongst the communal riots that erupt in the city, Tara shelters a wayward Sakina from a crazed mob and a bond that blossoms into love is created. The two eventually get married and have a son. The happy family, now living in Amritsar, gets the shock of their lives when Sakina learns that her father (Amrish Puri), whom she previously believed died in the riots back in Amritsar, is still alive after seeing his picture in a tattered, old newspaper. Upon contacting him, Sakina's father, now the mayor of Lahore in Pakistan, arranges for his daughter to arrive in Lahore to see him. Sakina leaves for Lahore minus Tara and her son, and upon reaching the city, learns of her father's plans for her - plans that include forcing Sakina to forget about her family and start life anew in Pakistan. Then begins an extraordinary journey which will lead Tara to cross the border into Pakistan to find his love Sakina.
In the year 1947 the British government decides that they will divide India into 2 parts the other part will be called Pakistan thus the agreement between the two religions was that the Hindus will occupy India while the Muslims will stay in Pakistan but the agreement also states that no one shall vacate their place of residence under duress. Unfortunately this agreement gets breaches when a riot erupted between the Hindus and Muslims leaving thousands of causalities on both end. In the midst truck driver, Tara Singh comes to the rescue of a Muslim girl named Sakeena; his actions are based on the fact that both are acquaintances during her college days. Tara then takes Sakeena to his home where both fall in love and they get married and are soon parents to a young boy named Charanjeet. Shortly after Sakeena decides that she will pay a visit to her family in Pakistan where-by her father, Ashraf Ali is the mayor. Fortunately for her Tara does not have no qualms with this but after Sakeena fail to return within a time-frame he decides to illegally enter Pakistan where he gets to find out that Ashraj is force-fully re-marrying his daughter to a Muslim man. Under these circumstances Tara decides to take drastic steps only to invite the wrath of the Pakistanis where they retaliate by the show of violence. When Tara persists Ashraf decides to put forward certain difficult terms that Tara must fulfilled before he can be accepted as Sakeena's husband.
In 1947, Tara, a Sikh truck driver in Punjab, meets and falls in love with a wealthy Muslim girl named Sakina, by accident during anti-Muslim riots whom he saves, courts and marries. Years later, Sakina travels to Pakistan to visit her father, now the mayor of a small Pakistan city, for a visit whom he tries to seperate her and Tara and force her into an arranged marriage with a wealthy man of her age and religion.
When the British met with Hindu and Muslim leaders in 1947, they got both the parties to sign an agreement that they agree to divide Pakistan from India. Part of the Agreement also stated that those Muslims who elect to stay in India; and those Hindus who elect to live in Pakistan - will not be forced to leave. After this Agreement was signed, this clause was violated as tens of thousands of Hindus and Muslims were forced to flee, leaving their wealth and belongings behind. During this turmoil, Tara Singh a Truck Driver, rescues a young woman named Sakina, both fall in love with each other and get married. When things calm down, Sakina decides to travel across the border to Pakistan where her dad is now the Mayor, to which Tara and his family consent. When Sakina does not return, Tara goes to look for her, and finds out that her father is refusing to let her return, and would like her to marry a Muslim. When Tara asserts himself he is beaten, but even then he persists. When this matter starts to generate nationwide attention, Sakina's dad puts forth a number of conditions that Tara must fulfill to let Sakina be his wife, some of which are that he change his religion to Islam; join the Pakistani army and battle the Indians; change his name to a suitable Islamic name; and yell out as loud as he can "Victory to Pakistan", and "Death to India". Will Tara accept these conditions in order to be reunited with his sweetheart?

