18-year-old Louise is stuck in a run-down girls' boarding school in the heart of the English countryside. Her only consolation, during the long cold nights, is Matthew, the American art teacher and second husband of the headmistress, Veronica Van Huet. Trouble is, half term is looming and Louise cannot bear the thought of being away from her lover for a whole week. So she persuades Veronica to let her remain at school, ostensibly to do extra study for her exams. The holiday begins and the vast Victorian building is a spooky shell without the other pupils. Louise and Matthew grab the first opportunity to be together, but in their haste expose in every way their intimate relationship. Veronica, despite her considerable hurt and anger, does not expel Louise from the school, as she is acutely aware that her husband is the one truly responsible. She is also keen not to have a row with Matthew as she needs him now more than ever. In a conspiracy with the school's doctor, Veronica and Matthew are planning a major art fraud in a desperate attempt to raise money to save the school. But marital harmony is short-lived when Veronica discovers something far more painful about her husband's love for Louise...
18-year-old Louise is stuck in a run-down girls' boarding school and can't bear the thought of being away from her lover, Matthew, during the half term break. So she stays on at school, ostensibly to do extra work for her exams. But when Matthew's wife, Veronica, who is also the school's headmistress, finds out about the affair, she is driven over the edge and stabs him. Veronica gets rid of Louise by sending her off on an errand while she hides Matthew's body. When Louise returns, she is shocked to find Matthew gone. According to Veronica, she and Matthew need a little time apart to heal their marriage. Trapped in the remote school and haunted by nightmares, Louise finds the vast Victorian building a spooky shell without the other pupils. Late one night, she is awakened by Matthew calling up to her from outside her bedroom window. Scared and excited, Louise rushes to meet him, but it is only as his arms encircle her that she realises her eyes were deceived, and with fatal consequences.

