A cat who turns into a young woman helps a journalist protect their town from a factory boss with an evil plan.
A cat who turns into a young woman (Minoes) retains some of her feline characteristics and helps a journalist to gather news for the front page of a local newspaper. With the help of Minoes, who can talk to the cats in the small town, he soon discovers that the helpful and popular chairman of the "Club For Friends of Animals" and boss of a nearby factory has evil plans with the village.
In the middle of the night, a small truck carrying barrels of toxic waste for the Ellemeet Industry rushes down the empty streets of Killendoorn unnoticed. While attempting to get rid of its poisonous cargo, all of a sudden, a cat appears on the road and the driver forced to avoid it, loses a barrel. Intrigued by its inborn curiosity, the cat inspects the funny-smelling liquid, and after a few licks, as if by magic, the cat transforms into a beautiful woman with the soul of a feline. Minoes, now an outcast from the circles of her family because of her human stench, wanders the same city streets she used to as a cat with awe and excitement, trying to fit in her new life. Eventually, while on a rooftop, she will meet with Tibbe, a timid journalist who struggles for an authentic story, and before long, the two of them will make a deal: great stories in return for shelter and fish. Sooner or later, Minoes with the help of her understanding family will form an army of inconspicuous journalists who will guarantee Tibbe's success, however, an article about the esteemed Mr Ellemeet and his factory is still off limits. What are his plans with the Mayor for the small town of Killendoorn, and is Mr Ellemeet really who he claims to be?
Hopelessly unassertive Dutch local newspaper reporter Tibbe is about to get fired for failing to bring 'relevant' stories, nothing about soft subjects like pets. One night, he half-heartedly takes in for the night a women, Minoes, whom he found dripping wet on his roof. She's a magical shape-shifting cat, who found out the new toast of the town, industrialist and animal charity president Ellemeet, is a fraud who runs a toxic waste scam. Minoes and her feline friends find and bring more interesting stories then Tibbe ever could, earning her board, but often they're hard to use for lack of 'human' proof, while the mayor is blindly on Ellemeet's side.

