A stressed father, a bride-to-be with a secret, a smitten event planner, and relatives from around the world create much ado about the preparations for an arranged marriage in India.
A story set in the modern upper-middle class of India, where telecommunications and a western lifestyle mix with old traditions, like the arranged wedding young Aditi accepts when she ends the affair with a married TV producer. The groom is an Indian living in Texas, and all relatives from both families, some from distant places like Australia, come to New Delhi during the monsoon season to attend the wedding. The four-day arrangements and celebrations will see clumsy organization, family parties and drama, dangers to the happy end of the wedding, lots of music and even a new romance for the wedding planner Dubey with the housemaid Alice...
There is excitement in the Delhi-based Verma family, as their daughter, Aditi, is about to get married to Hemant Rai, who is settled in Houston, USA. Lalit, Aditi's dad is busy giving a piece of his mind to a slacker wedding contractor, P.K. Dubey, who is running far behind schedule. His niece, Ria, is contemplating going to the USA to take up a profession; His wife, Pimmi, is busy smoking in the sly in the bathroom; And then the family and guests begin to arrive, from all over India, USA and Australia. The engagement ceremony is celebrated with great pomp and ceremony, and after that everybody retires to get some much needed sleep - everyone except the bride to-be - she is off to meet her lover, a TV Producer, not knowing that her visit at this late hour - is going to change her life forever.
Lalit Verma is a father, who is trying to organize an enormous, chaotic, and expensive wedding for his daughter, for whom he has arranged a marriage with a man she has known for only a few weeks. As so often happens in Mira Nair's beloved Punjabi culture, such a wedding means that, for one of the few times each generation, the whole family comes together from all corners of the globe. The bride, Aditi Verma, is nervous as she has been having an affair with her married ex-boss Vikram. Ria Verma is a cousin of the bride, was sexually abused by her uncle, Lalit's brother-in-law and the family's patriarch some years earlier, and finally speaks out to prevent his abuse of another young girl in the family, Aliyah. The wedding contractor PK Dubey falls in love with the family's maid, Alice. The bride's brother Varun, struggles with his father's disapproval of his longing to be a chef and angst at his inability to satisfy the stereotypes of conventional Indian masculine characteristics, possibly stemming from a struggle to come to terms with the boy's homosexuality. Ayesha the youngest marriageable relative of the bride, flirts with Aditi's cousin Rahul, who has just returned from Melbourne. This is all set within the two days preceding the wedding, predominantly at the Verma's house.

