Kathryn is distraught at the news of her husband's death delivered by a stranger from the airline for whom he was a pilot. She starts however to uncover information which leads to her arrival in London for further investigation...and further devastation.
Kathryn and her teenage daughter Mattie are stunned when their husband and father, pilot Jack Lyons, perishes when his plane explodes over the Irish Sea. Robert Hart appears at their home to help deal with the press. It is suggested that the explosion was caused by terrorists and that Jack was somehow involved.But Kathryn soon has a bigger problem to deal with. She discovers a receipt for a bathrobe which Jack had apparently bought for her, but she never received it. After calling the store, Kathryn learns the the robe was sent to a Muire Boland in London. She calls the number given and asks for Muire but is told she is not there.Officials show up with a warrant to search the Lyons' house and many items, including all computers, are confiscated. Kathryn is questioned and insists that she and Jack were happily married. But flashbacks show a strained relationship and Jack hurling his laptop down the stairs in anger.Mattie is sent to stay with her great-grandmother, who lives nearby. Before leaving, she tells Kathryn that she lost her virginity the previous year. Kathryn realizes this is typical teenage behavior in response to grief, but she is shocked nonetheless. Robert tries to comfort her but she accuses him of not telling her the whole truth.Although it is obvious that Jack was having an affair, Kathryn is determined to get at the truth. She flies to London, determined to confront Muire. Unknown to her, Robert is on the same flight and checks into the same hotel.Muire Boland is an attractive young woman and the mother of two children. She tells a stunned Kathryn that the children are Jack's and she was Jack's wife. The relationship had been going on for several years. She was a former flight attendant and that's how she met Jack. Kathryn points out that she is Jack's legal wife but Muire doesn't care. She apologizes for having hurt Kathryn but urges her to go home.Back at her hotel, Kathryn is outraged to learn that Robert followed her. He had known all along about Muire but didn't think any good would come of Kathryn finding out. He admits that was wrong and he should have told her. He also reveals that Jack's mother is alive and in a nursing home. Jack had told Kathryn that his mother had deserted him when he was a child and later died.Jack was involved in a smuggling operation but the bag that he took on board that fateful day contained a bomb instead of money. Muire and her brother are also involved and later arrested. Robert reveals his romantic feelings for Kathryn, but she rebuffs him.Kathryn goes to Ireland and hires a boat to take her out to where the plane wreckage was found. Realizing she had never really known Jack, she removes her wedding ring and drops it into the sea.Back home, she and Mattie concentrate on rebuilding their lives. The last scene shows them going to the nursing home to see Jack's mother.
