The lives of upstairs guests and downstairs servants at a party in 1932 in a country house in England as they investigate a murder involving one of them.
Set in the 1930s, the story takes place in an old-fashioned English country house where a weekend shooting party is underway. The story centers on the McCordle family, particularly the man of the house, Sir William McCordle (Sir Michael Gambon). Getting on in years, William has become a benefactor to many of his relatives and friends. As the weekend goes on, secrets are revealed, and it seems that everyone, above stairs and below, wants a piece of William and his money, but how far will they go to get it?
Robert Altman, one of America's most distinctive filmmakers, journeys to England for the first time to create a unique movie mosaic with an ensemble cast. Set in the 1930s, this movie brings a group of pretentious rich and famous together for a weekend of relaxation at a hunting resort. But when a murder occurs, each one of these interesting characters becomes a suspect.
Sir William McCordle (Sir Michael Gambon) is a wealthy, but uncouth industrialist-turned-aristocrat, with a large house in the English countryside, complete with staff. It is a world where everything runs in order, both upstairs, where Sir William and his much younger wife Lady Sylvia (Dame Kristen Scott Thomas) indulge in a very comfortable existence of shooting, dinners, and parties, and downstairs, where the servants work endlessly under the command of the butler Mr. Jennings (Sir Alan Bates), and the housekeeper Mrs. Wilson (Dame Helen Mirren). Whether they like it or not, everyone knows his or her place. But a shooting party will change all of that, with friends of the McCordles and their servants arriving from outside to upset the order, and so begins a complicated tale of secrets, lies, deceit, betrayal, revenge, bitterness, hatred, money, and love, and that's all before the murder.
When Sir William McCordle (Sir Michael Gambon) is found sitting at his desk with a knife in his chest, few people grieve. He and his wife Sylvia (Dame Kristen Scott Thomas) are hosting a weekend shooting party. There are a variety of guests including Sylvia's sister and her husband, Lord Raymond Stockbridge (Charles Dance) and Lady Louisa Stockbridge (Geraldine Somerville); movie star Ivor Novello (Jeremy Northam), and a Hollywood producer; an aunt who is dependent on McCordle for her allowance; and a variety of business associates all wanting something from the man. Downstairs at Gosford Park, there is a beehive of activity, but if truth be told, few amongst the servants will miss McCordle. Some of the women used to work for him in his factories and he was known to take advantage of his female employees. When the Police announce that the victim died of poisoning and was only stabbed after he was dead, there is yet another mystery to solve. Beneath the surface, everyone in the house has secrets, but which would be a motive for murder?

