In a poor working class London home Penny's love for her partner, taxi-driver Phil, has run dry, but when an unexpected tragedy occurs, they and their local community are brought together, and they rediscover their love.
Penny's love for her partner, taxi-driver Phil, has run dry. He is a gentle, philosophical guy, and she works on the checkout at a supermarket. Their daughter Rachel cleans in a home for elderly people, and their son Rory is unemployed and aggressive. The joy has gone out of Phil's and Penny's life, but when an unexpected tragedy occurs, they are brought together to rediscover their love. All or Nothing is set on a London working-class housing estate over a long weekend, and also tells the stories of a range of Phil and Penny's neighbors, some of whom become involved in the family's lives, and all of whom experience an emotional journey.
The dysfunctional lives of three working class families living in an apartment complex in south London are presented. Divorcée Maureen works as a cashier at a supermarket, while earning extra money doing laundry for neighbors. Her waitress daughter Donna of late has had a "none of your business" attitude with her mother, despite not yet realizing that she probably needs her mother's support more now, especially with regard to the abusive relationship she has with her boyfriend, Jason. Ron, a cabbie, and unemployed Carol's marriage is centered on drinking, Carol who is only barely functioning. Their unemployed daughter Samantha, who basically hangs around the apartment complex, is always at odds especially with her mother as she looks for some sort of attention from anyone. Samantha openly lusts after Jason, while she also secretly fosters the obsessive attention of a boy named Craig as an alternative. Phil, a cabbie at the same second rate company as Ron, and Penny, a fellow cashier at the same supermarket as Maureen, are in a long term common law relationship. Their relationship, which used to be a loving one, is in a catch-22 downward spiral as Penny, in an effort to ensure financial security and emotional stability for their family, continuously but quietly gripes at Phil, who doesn't work hard at his job as he has basically shut down out of his depression, which Penny does not realize. The nature of their family life affects their two children, somber Rachel, who works as a cleaner at a care facility, and unemployed Rory, an angry and overweight young man who is either sleeping, watching TV, eating or secretly smoking when he is not arguing especially with his mom, who he believes is always griping at him. A serious incident happens at the apartment complex. Beyond the negative aspect of the incident itself, it makes one of those families at least acknowledge the reason for their dysfunction, and thus potentially get out of it.

