This time, the Djinn unleashes his undying love for a beautiful woman in his final attempt to unleashe his brethren from hell.
In this fourth series of the hell-raising Wishmaster, the Djinn unleashes his undying love and three wishes on a beautiful new victim named Lisa, whose crucial third wish is one that the Wishmaster cannot fulfill without leaving a trail of terror, devastation and blood in his wake. The evil brotherhood of the Djinns shall awaken from the flames of Hell. As the third wish is made, humankind had better be prepared for the apocalypse. Woken up once again, the repulsive Djinn returns to wreck the life of more innocent victims with his deadly fulfillments. In order to prevent the release of the evil brotherhood of the Djinns from Hell, Lisa must find a way to destroy the Djinn to stop the prophecy from being fulfilled.
Lisa Burnley owns a boutique and lives with her beloved boy-friend Sam, who became crippled and very bitter after a motorcycle accident. Sam's lawyer Steven Verdel has a crush on Lisa. The Wishmaster possesses Steven's body, and he tries to grant three wishes to Lisa, to release the Djinn demons and start the Armagedon on Earth. However, when she tells Steven: "- I wish I could love you for who you really are.", her third wish is a paradox, since it depends on herself to be granted. The Wishmaster unsuccessfully tries to seduce Lisa.
As in the previous films, an evil Djinn is released from his prison - an ancient jewel - and must grant three wishes to the person who awakens him, in order to release the race of Djinns from hell and allow them to take over the earth.Painter Sam (Jason Thompson) and his girlfriend Lisa (Tara Spencer-Nairn) have just moved in together when he has a terrible accident that leaves him crippled for life. Determined to help him, Lisa retains a lawyer, Steven (Michael Trucco), who has a crush on her.Sensing Sam's growing distance from Lisa, Steven moves in, awkwardly offering as a gift a jewel he found hidden away in an antique desk. The jewel, unknown to Steven, is the Djinn's cell. Lisa inadvertently awakens the Djinn, which secretly kills Steven and takes his form. The Djinn/Steven begins making advances on Lisa to trick her into making wishes.She inadvertently casts three wishes. The first two he grants (one of which is that Sam can walk again), but the third is the hardest one: Lisa wishes to love Steven as he really is. Aware that his true form will lose her forever, he is unable to grant it right away; he spends much time trying to decipher human love in order to "make" Lisa truly love him, and in the process he develops feelings for her. Meanwhile, his fellow Djinn constantly beg him to grant the third wish and let their race inherit the earth.An angel attempts to kill him and Lisa beforehand to prevent the third wish. However, Steven sends her away and kills the angel. Due to his previous planning, Steven has tricked Sam into believing Lisa has now fallen in love with Steven and this forces him to leave. Steven later arrives at Lisa's house with some flowers in an attempt to calm her down from the angel's attack and console her. He gives her a kiss (which seems to make her sex pheromones go into hyperdrive) and they proceed to have sex. Once Lisa calms down afterward, she realizes she has missed having sex but does not love Steven. After being asked if she loved him, Lisa runs upstairs for new clothes and to leave Steven with his thoughts.At his wit's end, Steven redresses himself and heads upstairs after her. He reveals his true form to Lisa and offers a choice; take his hand as the second in command when the Djinn race takes over the world, or to be cast down to another dimension of hell. At the climax, Sam returns and tries to save the day with an angel's sword (wished for by him), but gets stabbed by the Djinn. But while the Djinn is still making attempts to convince Lisa to take his hand as the second in command, Sam invites Lisa to push the Djinn through the blade which is also in Sam. Lisa does that, and both the Djinn and Sam perish. Lisa makes it out of the house and tries to continue on with her life.
