Raghavan Ghatge, a psychotic terrorist, and Manu Verma, the cop who tracks him down, shoot each other simultaneously, the result being that Raghavan's soul is transferred into Verma's body...
Aks is the story of a hunter and his prey. A cop and a killer. Aks is the story of Manu Verma and Raghuvan. The story begins in the heart of Budapest. The Indian Defence minister is on a routine foreign visit. He reveals the true details of his diplomatic trip to his head of Security Manu Verma by informing him about the floppy which has valuable information that could affect the very destiny of the nation. On the other hand Intelligence sources have revealed to Manu Verma that a lone assassin long feared for his ruthlessness has been paid to eliminate the Defence minister. The shadowy figure is called Raguhvan, Manu Verma reaches the Indian Defence Minister just moments too late to save him and finds the statesman in a pool of blood Raguhvan has struck and vanished into thin air. Now the hunter becomes the hunted as Manu Verma tries to find Raghuvan. When he does find him something unexpected happens, which changes both Manu and Raguhvan forever.
The Indian Defence Minister is in the heart of Budapest on a friendly foreign visit. There is however a hidden agenda behind the smiles and handshakes. A floppy that has information that could affect the destiny of the Indian nation. Manu Verma, the head of the Minister's security is informed that an assassin, Raghavan is out to eliminate the Minister. Before the evening is through, Raghavan strikes and vanishes into thin air - and the floppy too. Verma becomes a man obsessed with capturing Raghavan.
After the assasination of the Indian Defence Minister, the authorities decide to launch a manhunt for the killer, and assign this case to Inspector Manu Verma. Manu's investigation results in the arrest of a man named Raghavan, who is found guilty, and sentenced to be hanged until death. Quoting wilding from the Holy Bhagvad Geeta, Raghavan is hanged, and Manu returns to his job, his wife and his young daughter. And then Justice Balwant Chaudhry is killed in the same manner Raghavan had killed when he was alive. Before the police could recover, there is another death. This time Inspector Arjun is certain that the killings are done by a person who is copying Raghavan. And the evidence of these killings leads Arjun to none other than Inspector Manu Verma.

