The children of secret-agent parents must save them from danger.
Gregorio and Ingrid are the two greatest secret agents the world has ever known: masters of disguise, mavens of invention, able to stop wars before they even start. Working for separate countries, they are sent to eliminate their most dangerous enemy...each other. But in an exotic corner of the world when they finally come face to face, they fall in love instead and embark on the most dangerous mission they have ever faced: raising a family. Now nine years later, after their retirement, having exchanged the adventure of espionage for parenthood, Gregorio and Ingrid Cortez are called back in to action. When their former colleagues, the world's most formidable spies, start disappearing one by one, the Cortez's are forced to take on techno-wizard Fegan Floop and his evil, egg-headed sidekick, Minion. But when the unthinkable happens and they too disappear, unfortunately there are only two people in the world who can rescue them...their kids.
At one point, Gregorio and Ingrid Cortez were the world's finest secret agents. For over a decade they have retired from espionage and settled down to raise their two children Carmen and Juni. But they suddenly spring back into action when four agents mysteriously disappear. When the parents are kidnapped, Carmen and Juni take matter into their own hands and work to save them. Their mission takes them on land, sea and in the air as they venture to a mysterious castle where they must take on an evil genius who plans to use a powerful device in a sinister plot to destroy the world.
Carmen and Juni think their parents are boring. Little do they know that in their day, Gregorio and Ingrid Cortez were the top secret agents from their respective countries. They gave up that life to raise their children. Now, the disappearances of several of their old colleagues forces the Cortez' return from retirement. What they didn't count on was Carmen and Juni joining the "family business."
Gregorio and Ingrid Cortez are the world's best secret agents. Their mission is to assassinate each other. When they get within one inch, they fall in love. They marry, and have two kids, Carmen and Juni. They don't tell their kids. Ten years later, they are called into a mission. When their Uncle Felix babysits the Cortez kids, and rogue agents invade the house, Uncle Felix reveals the truth, their parents are spies and were just kidnapped, and Felix is not their uncle. Carmen and Juni escape, and try to rescue Mom and Dad, and save the world.
The film opens with Carmen and Juni Cortez (Alexa Vega and Daryl Sabara) being tucked into bed by their mother, Ingrid (Carla Gugino). Carmen requests to hear a bedroom story, more specifically, "The Two Spies Who Fell in Love," one Ingrid hadn't told them in awhile.Long ago, at a time of unstable relations between countries, a new breed of soldiers was created: super spies. Using their high-level intellects and proficiency in the art of stealth, they were able to stop wars before they happened. The two protagonists of the story, also spies, were tasked with eliminating the other, but they only ended up falling in love instead. Despite being from opposing nations, the two decided to embark on the most perilous mission imaginable: marriage. However, this only painted a bigger target on their backs for military factions that wished to see them dead, so they chose to retire and eventually raise a family. Though unknown to the kids at the time, it's shown to the audience that Ingrid and her husband, Gregorio (Antonio Banderas), are the spies in the story.Ingrid then says goodnight to her children, though Carmen comments that the ending of the story needs changing. Later, in their bedroom, Gregorio and Ingrid talk about how Carmen and Juni, according to their school principal, have been keeping secrets from them; Carmen's been skipping school and Juni's self-proclaimed 'friends' are only in his head. Ingrid believes they're to blame due to them keeping their previous life secret, but Gregorio assures her it's for the best, as he fears that, if they ever told the kids, it would plant 'visions of danger' in their minds if they leave them alone.During their conversation, Gregorio receives information from the spy organization they discreetly work for, the OSS (Organization of Super Spies), that several of their agents have gone missing, and he notifies Ingrid of this the next morning. While driving Carmen and Juni to school, Gregorio nags Juni for being so attached to watching "Floop's Fooglies," a kids' show created by eccentric inventor and visionary Fegan Floop (Alan Cumming), but then notices that one of Floop's side characters, called 'Fooglies,' looks suspiciously like one of the missing OSS agents, Donnagon Giggles (Mike Judge). While dropping off the kids, Gregorio has a near-confrontation with a dad whose kid bullies Juni. He fascinates about beating up the dad to show his son "what's so special about being a Cortez," but backs down instead.Meanwhile, in his castle off the coast of South America, Floop is in a pickle of his own; he is being contracted by Lisp (Robert Patrick), the head of a nameless corporation, to build an army for them, and so far, the candidates he's given them have been unsatisfactory for their liking. Floop then presents them with his newest invention: robot children. They resemble children almost perfectly, though it's revealed that they lack the brains, literally, to properly communicate. Lisp chastises Floop for not keeping with their schedule, and demands that he finish building his army in two days, or everything he's built will be reduced to ruins.Back at the Cortez house, Gregorio is prepping to go on assignment to investigate the disappearances of the OSS agents, and despite his objections, he ultimately allows an overeager Ingrid to join him. The two call Uncle Felix to watch Carmen and Juni while they're away. The two are given the coordinates for their mission by Miss Gradenko (Teri Hatcher), which takes them underwater. For the first time in nine years, the Cortezes were back in the game, but their excitement is cut short by a sense of worry for Carmen and Juni. The two then suddenly pick up a transmission from Floop, telling them they have something he desires, and they find themselves being chased by a sub. Gregorio tries to outrun it, but soon he and Ingrid only end up getting engulfed by a larger sub.Back at the Cortez house, alarms start sounding, which confuses the children but puts Felix on high alert. He tells them both follow him to another part of the house, while along the way, proceeding to explain everything; Gregorio and Ingrid are retired spies and, in reality, he's not their uncle, rather an OSS agent assigned to protect them. He takes Carmen and Juni to a secret transport called a Super Guppy, then leaves to gather important valuables, telling them to press the blue and green buttons in case he doesn't return. The house is then invaded by Floop's Thumb-Thumbs, who Felix manages to hold off long enough for Carmen and Juni to escape in the Super Guppy that automatically takes them to a safe house.Back at Floop's Castle, Gregorio and Ingrid attempt to escape capture, winding up in the Virtual Room where Floop films his show. While admiring the simulated environments around them, they fall into a trap door that takes them to the dining room, where Floop himself is waiting for them. He acquaints himself with his captives, telling them why they and the other OSS agents were captured; he is seeking an object of synthetic intelligence created and eventually destroyed by the OSS, a project Gregorio is revealed to be once part of twelve years ago. When the OSS director expressed concern for the Brain's potentially destructive capabilities, he ordered the project terminated. However, the Brain itself couldn't be destroyed, so Gregorio faked its destruction and hid it away. He refuses to rebuild the project for Floop and is sent back to his cell via another trap door.At the safe house, Carmen and Juni equip themselves with spy gear, hoping to rescue their parents, but before they can do anything, they're found by Miss Gradenko, who's there to take them under their protection. She fills them in on Floop's evil intentions and asks to know where Gregorio is keeping the Third Brain, the object Floop wants. This reminds Carmen to tell her, "the Third Brain lives," for Felix, but Juni then finds the Thumb-Thumbs outside destroying the Super Guppy, leading him to conclude Miss Gradenko is working for Floop, and the two children quickly take action to escape the rogue agents and Thumb-Thumbs with the Brain.While Floop is filming his show, he comes to a realization that his showing is missing a key element, but his thoughts are interrupted by news of the children's escape from his assistant, Alexander Minion (Tony Shalhoub), a former OSS agent who also worked the Third Brain Project, who pitches the idea of sending robotic clones identical to them to acquire the Brain. The mission is successful for them, but Floop eventually confesses to Minion that he no longer has the will or resolve to continue in building the army, but it ultimately goes nowhere, as Minion then assumes control over all his operations, having the robot children lock up Floop in his Virtual Room.Being left with no way to find their parents, Carmen and Juni are forced to find Isador "Machete" Cortez, Gregorio's older brother and best man at his wedding, in hopes of getting his help. However, he declines, as he had a falling out with his brother since he sells his tech to those good and bad, even Floop, and because he doesn't want to feel burdened with watching over his brother for the rest of his life. He's nice enough to offer them momentary lodging and a plane to get them to Floop's Castle, but during the night, they steal some of Machete's tech and a map of Floop's Castle and fly away in the plane before he can stop them.Along the way, the two badly cripple the plane, forcing them to jump ship into the water and sneak in through an underwater cave. They acquire the location of their parents thanks to the Fooglies but end up separated when Carmen falls into a Thumb-Thumb producing chamber and Juni winds up in the Virtual Room with Floop, where he learns of Minion's evil intentions and, thanks to short-circuiting gum, frees the both of them. After bumping into Carmen, they make their way to the dungeon and free Ingrid and a Fooglie-ized Gregorio. Working together, they turn Gregorio back to normal and lure and trap Minion in the Fooglie-Making machine before making their way to the control room.However, along the way, Carmen and Juni's robotic clones apprehend the parents again, which inevitably leads to a showdown between the four of them while Floop tries to reprogram all the children. The two manage to subdue the robots before meeting back up with their freed parents at Floop's throne room where Lisp, Miss Gradenko, and a Fooglie-ized Minion are residing. The family prepares themselves to take on the massive army of robot children, summoned to the throne room on Minion's command, along with the assistance of Machete, but at the last minute, Floop is able to program purity of heart and mind into the robots, causing them to attack and play catch with the villains instead.Following this great victory, Gregorio and Machete settle their past differences, Minion and Carmen and Juni's robotic clones become characters on Floop's show, the robot army start being used for the good of mankind, and Lisp and Gradenko presumably get arrested. As the film ends, the family is eating breakfast back home before receiving a communique from Devlin, Director of the OSS (George Clooney), requesting Carmen and Juni for a new assignment. Carmen informs him that the Cortezes will only accept the mission not as individuals, but as a family, before ending the transmission.
