Two young women, marginalised by society, go on a destructive tour of sex and violence. Breaking norms and killing men - and shattering the complacency of polite cinema audiences.
Manu and Nadine lose their last tenuous relationship with main-stream society when Manu gets raped and Nadine sees her only friend being shot. After a chance encounter, they embark on an explosive journey of sex and murder. Perhaps as a revenge against men, perhaps as a revolt against bourgeois society, but certainly in a negation - almost joyful in its senseless violence - of all the codes of a society which has excluded, raped and humiliated them. Controversial for its violence and real sex scenes: a vividly nihilist road movie set in France.
Baise-moi tells the story of Nadine (Karen Lancaume) and Manu (Raffaëla Anderson) who go on a violent spree against a society in which they feel marginalized. Nadine is a part-time prostitute, and Manu is a slacker who does anything, including occasional porn film acting to get by in her small town in southern France.One day Manu and her friend, a drug addict, are brutally gang-raped by three men. While her friend struggles, screams, and fights against the rapists, Manu lies still with a detached look, which angers the man raping her. Manu then returns to her brother's house, and does not tell him what has happened, but he realizes after noticing bruises on her neck. He gets out a gun and asks Manu who was responsible, but when Manu refuses to tell him, he calls her a "slut" and implies that she actually enjoyed being raped. In response, Manu picks up his discarded pistol and shoots him in the head.Meanwhile, Nadine returns home and has an argument with her roommate, whom she kills, before leaving with their rent money. Nadine suffers another emotional setback when she meets her best friend, a drug dealer, in another town, but he is shot and killed while out obtaining drugs with a prescription she forged for him.Later that night, having missed the last train, Nadine meets Manu at the railway station. Manu says she has a car, if Nadine will drive for her. They soon realise that they share common feelings of anger, and embark on a violent and sexually charged road trip together. In need of money they hold up a convenience store, and also kill a woman at an ATM. Finally, after much killing and sexual activities, the two women enter a swingers' club and kill everyone there. The pair discuss what they have done, and agree that it has all been pointless because nothing has changed inside them.During their spree the entire country is abuzz over the beautiful bandit/killers. Some people actually support them, while most are in fear. One day Manu enters a roadside tire store to get some coffee, leaving Nadine outside. Hearing gunfire, Nadine rushes in to find Manu shot by the owner, whom she kills. Nadine takes Manu's body to a forest and burns it, before driving to a beach. With tears in her eyes, Nadine puts the gun to her head, intending to commit suicide, but gets arrested by the police before she can do so.
