A man accepts a challenge by the chief minister of Maharashtra to run the state for one day, and makes such a success of it that soon he is embroiled in political intrigue.
Employed as a camera-man at a popular television station QTV; Shivaji Rao Gaekwad work his way up and is eventually promoted as a reporter. One of his job involve interviewing the Chief Minister Balraj Chauhan. During the course of the interview he brings to light the true facts of Chauhan to the general public. Agrivated at this Chauhan decides that he will challenge him to become the Chief Minister for a day which he accepts. During his tenure Shivaji attempts to make the wrong right by punishing dishonest people while at the same time ensure that the masses get what they aspire for. But when his life return to normal he will find that nothing is the same anymore as he and his loved ones are made targets by Chauhan's goons this pushes Shivaji to enter politics and eventually elect as the Chief Minister - a Chief Minister who wants to continue the remaining of his day's work.
Shivajirao Gaekwad is a cameraman in Q Tv.During the riots in city he risks his life and rushes a small boy to hospital and becomes famous everywhere and gets promoted as a news reporter.He falls in love a with Manjri but her father wants her husband to have a government job.Shivajirao gets an opportunity to cover live interview of state chief minister Balraj Chauhan on his very first interview.Balraj Chauhan was the man responsible for he riots in the city and Shivajirao exposes him in front of public.Balraj Chauhan then challenges him that he if he feels a chief minister's job is so easy then he should sit on his chair for one day and face the difficulties he faces.
Q TV's ace reporter, Shivajirao Gaekwad, gets a chance for being the Chief Minister of Maharashtra, albeit for a day, after being challenged by Chief Minister Balraj Chauhan himself. Shivaji accepts the challenge, and takes over the job, assisted by cunning personal assistant, Bansal. He comes across close to 46000 corrupt officials, and orders their suspension; tours the city and surrounding areas, makes sweeping changes, including the arrests of 12 ministers, including Balraj himself, much to chagrin of the people in power. After his tenure is over, he attempts to get back to his normal life, but finds out that that one day has not only changed his entire life, but has threatened the life of his near and dear ones in a State that considers "honesty" a liability.

