Brave soldier goes to Hell to save the souls of a beautiful princess and her maid (fairy tale).
Brave soldier Martin Kabat comes home from the Turkish war (probably Great Turkish War) and he is attacked by a bandit Sarka Farka. He feels no fear and the outlaw is baffled by his rebellious victim. But there comes another and more promising prey. The neat looking young hunter is a masked devil Lucius and he turns the bandit into a stone. As the soldier shows no fear again, the devil is amused and he recommends a visit to the Devil's Mill. He revives the bandit again to show the way as his main mission is to seduce the hermit Scholasticus. While Martin goes to the Mill, the devil tries his tricks with the hermit. Disgusted by the holy man's preaching he meets the princess Disperanda and her maid Cathy (Káca). They both desperately want a first class groom. The princess dreams of a beautiful muscular guy and Cathy wants a good farmer with some stock. The devil recommends to write it all down, sign by a drop of blood and bring the request to the Devil's Mill. Cathy brings both letters to the Mill and gives them to Martin. She thinks that the veteran soldier (a bit over forty) is a trustworthy old devil. Lucius wants to get the letters from Martin but the soldier declines. The young devil calls his superior Solfernus, who wants to negotiate later and meanwhile suggests a play of cards. As Martin has no money for stake, he offers his old coat against a devil's gold coin. Solfernus accepts and thus wins Martin's coat. He takes the girls' letter from the pocket of the coat and leaves. Martin takes this for a filthy trick and swears to get the letters back. He borrows a club from the bandit Sarka Farka, goes to Hell, and stirs troubles there. He succeeds in stealing the letters and will not give them back. Belzebub, the king of the Underworld, loses his temper and orders Martin to be killed. In this moment an angel appears and announces that Martin is a just man and must be set free. For his heroic deed he is granted three wishes and the two girls are considered innocent again. When the hermit Scholasticus hears that the girls again have a chance go to the same Heaven as him, he goes wild and swears that "God is not just". This is a sin that opens the door to Hell. The same goes for Sarka Farka, the great bandit who never killed anybody but scared a lot of people. Martin asks the angel to show mercy but then decides that both men deserve some punishment. He wants them to work really hard, they are to keep the Devil's Mill running and supply all in need with flour. Then he asks for a pipe filled with a good tobacco and satisfied looks over his work. When Cathy comes and claims him, his three magic wishes are already used up and he has to surrender.
