Amidst religious riots, a son deals with his mother's life-threatening injuries, and her last request.
Mrs. Desai is a Bombay-based widow and lives with her singer son, Ajay, his pregnant wife Sonia, and a second son, Anand, who is currently involved in a right-wing organization run by Subodh Malgaonkar. Things take a turn for the worst when militants storm the Babri Masjid in Uttar Pradesh and demolish it. Anger runs high amongst the Muslim community which lead to riots, even in far-off Bombay. The Bombay police move quickly and a curfew is imposed in the more sensitive parts such as Mohammed Ali Road, Jogeshwari, and Dharavi. It is on this day that Mrs. Desai goes to offer prayers at her usual place of worship, and it is here that she will be attacked by militants, set ablaze, admitted to the Holy Family Hospital with more than 80% burns, and virtually no chance of surviving. Ajay must now deal with conflicts with Sonia, who wants to leave India, and re-locate to England, where she wants to give birth to her child without any constraints as to religion and caste, on one hand, and on another attempt to cool a vengeful Anand into attacking other innocent Muslims. But the main thing Ajay has to do is carry out his mother's last request - to bury her - which is consistent with the Christian and Muslim religions. Ajay is the only one who knows the answer to this and must ensure that her last request is fulfilled despite of Subodh Malgaonkar's increasing pressure that his mother be cremated according to Hindu Rites.
Music director Ajay (Ajay Devgan) argues with his wife Sonia (Sonali Bendre) over whether to give birth to their child in a foreign country or in India (because of the insecurity caused by the Mumbai riots).Ajay soon learns that his mother (Pooja Bhatt) has been burned by a group of Muslim rioters while leaving a church and is in critical condition. In flashback, the struggles his mother had to undergo to raise her children are shown. She was in love with a Hindu film producer Raman Desai (Nagarjuna Akkineni) but was not allowed to marry him on account of her Muslim faith. He marries her but does not document or acknowledge their marriage as it was done without any traditional upholdings. The fact that she had children with a Hindu man forces her to hide her faith and live her life as a Christian even in front of her son.After his father's death, Ajay realises his mother is a Muslim. She makes him promise to bury her according to her faith when she dies, for it is only through a proper burial that she will be able to find herself reunited with her lover in heaven. Ajay's mother succumbs to the burns. Sonia learns about her mother-in-law's past life and decides not to leave Ajay. She stands by him and supports his decision to bury his mother. However, Ajay's task is impeded by a fundamentalist leader Subodhbhai (Ashutosh Rana) who wanted to make political issue and encourage Hindu youth to kill Muslims. Anand (Akshay Anand) happens to be a youth leader and Ajay's brother. But when Anand comes to know about Subodhbhai's intentions he stands by his brother's side to bury his mom as per Muslim faith. Her body is buried as she wished, and she reunites with Raman in heaven.
