A modern-day remake of the Cyrano DeBergerac tale.
Ryan (Shane West) is a bit of a geek with eyes for the school sex bomb, Ashley (Jodi Lyn O'Keefe), which induces cringing in his neighbor and best friend, Maggie (Marla Sokoloff), a cute intellectual girl. But popular jock Chris (James Franco) has his eye on Maggie, and he offers to help Ryan win Ashley if Ryan will help Chris with Maggie. So begins a two-headed variation on Cyrano de Bergerac; Ryan composes soulful e-mails for Chris, and Chris advises Ryan to treat Ashley like dirt, which seems to be the only way to get her attention. At first, neither finds it easy to change their ways; Chris comes on too strong, and Ryan is too nervous to be a jerk. But as they start to succeed, Ryan begins to see Maggie in a new light and wonders if he's pursuing the right girl. He realizes Ashley is not meant for him, and tries to convince Maggie about Chris's affection for her. Maggie is reluctant to take him "back" at first, but then realizes Ryan has a change of heart.
Ryan's dreams for catching the eye of the 'goddess of the high school hallway' has a chance of becoming true when her cousin (Chris) offers to make him a deal. All he has to do is help Chris to win the heart of his best friend, the beautiful enigmatic Maggie. This sparks off a damned cute comedy as 'boy helps boy to get girl'
Best friends and neighbors, Ryan Woodman and Maggie Carter, are four weeks away from the prom, and they've agreed to go together if they don't have real dates. Then Chris, a cool guy from the football team, offers to help Ryan connect with Ashley, a popular blond. In exchange, a la Cyrano, Chris needs Ryan's help to get close to Maggie. Ryan makes the deal, helps the dastardly Chris play Maggie, takes advantage of Ashley's lack of self-esteem, loses his values, makes fun of his geeky friends, and falls in Maggie's estimation. Maggie is fooled by Chris, poised to be his next score. Before prom night is over, with its Titanic theme, will Ryan stop sinking?
Ryan's dreams for catching the eye of the 'goddess of the high school hallway' has a chance of becoming true when her cousin (Dunleavy) offers to make him a deal. All he has to do is help Dunleavy to win the heart of his best friend, the beautiful enigmatic Maggie. This sparks off a damned cute comedy as 'boy helps boy to get girl'
A modern-day version of the Cyrano De Bergeac tale in which geekish high school student Ryan Woodman, likes the popular Ashley Grant, but does not have the nerve to express his feelings for her. Ashley's cousin, football jock Chris Campbell, coaches Ryan on courting Ashley in exchange for Ryan giving him help on how to win the heart of Ryan's platonic next-door neighbor Maggie Carter in time for the senior prom which has the doomed ship 'Titanic' as its theme.

