A beautiful young girl, unfortunately possessed from her childhood by a vengeful spirit, wanders around lonely places to seduce and kill people and thus, gradually becoming lost into a dark world of revenge and lust.
After the sudden death of her dad, Sameer, and mom, Preeti, Sahila goes to live with her grandmother and cousin in Bombay. Years later, now fully matured, she returns home to Chandanagar to live with her uncle, Mahendra Pratap, and cousin, Jasmin. This is where she will be exposed to a resurrected evil witch, Nikita, who has manifested herself in the body of Jasmin. Aided by a priest named Baba, she is determined to kill each and everyone of the remainder of the Pratap family members. And there is no known power on Earth that can stop Nikita.
Thakur Mahendra Pratap finds that a witch Nakita has created havoc in the village who lures young guys towards and then transforms into a Bat and kills them for their blood.Sameer Thakur his younger brother decides to take matters in his hand and travels in the lonely forest where he meets Nakita they go to a Mansion where Sameer pretends to get physical with her after she diverts her attention he pulls her bat locket from her neck and controls her by holding holy Om.Nakita soon transforms into a witch she is then taken on outskirts of village and hanged.A Baba steals her body and promises to give her new body which would be the body of Thakur Mahendra Pratap 's daughter.One day when Sameer is going from the lonely forest to drop his niece Jasmine to her boarding school their car breaks down while Sameer goes to get water Baba kidnaps Jasmine and takes to his shrine by the time Sameer reaches the shrine Witch's evil spirit already manages to enter the girl's body. Sameer is then showed to be captured and killed Baba gets Jasmine home and tells a fake tale to Thakur.Nakita has now got a new body in Jasmine and starts to kill people.
A thakur arrests a witch who was creating trouble for the people of a village for a long time and hangs her in front of the locals. However, her disciples manage to drag her corpse to a safer place and build a shrine dedicated to her. A high priest decides to use the body of the thakur's daughter as a place to house the spirit of the witch. On a trip to their old ancestral home, the thakur is captured and her daughter's hair is cut, which is used by the priest to practice the necessary rituals to place the spirit of the witch into the body of the thakur's daughter, which is successful. Then he arrives at her uncle's place, where he claims that he rescued his niece in the middle of the jungle. The uncle is so impressed by the honesty of the man that he asks him to stay to look after the child, who behaves strangely just from the first day and then kills her aunt, which is covered up as a suicide. After the trauma, the uncle sends his own daughter to grow up in Mumbai, while the niece remains with him. Time passes, and the daughter comes back to meet her father and cousin. Meanwhile, in the area, some brutal murders are occurring, and local authorities are completely on their toes. All these are the works of the spirit taking her revenge by using the body of the thakur's daughter. How will the murderer be recognized and killings stopped?

