An F.B.I. Agent must go undercover in the Miss United States beauty pageant to prevent a group from bombing the event.
Undercover F.B.I. Agent Gracie Hart shows no signs of having any femininity in her demeanor or appearance. Generally a bright and capable Agent, she is in trouble at work when she makes an error in judgment in a case which results in a near disaster. As such, one of her by-the-books colleagues, Eric Matthews, who has never shown any inclination of thinking outside the box, is assigned to lead the high profile case of a terrorist coined The Citizen instead of her, while she is facing possible disciplinary action. Gracie pieces together the evidence to determine that The Citizen's next target will be the Miss United States beauty pageant. The pageant represents everything that Gracie abhors. Despite Gracie's mannish demeanor, Eric, with no other undercover female Agent remotely fitting the demographic, assigns her to go undercover as a pageant contestant to see if she can flush out The Citizen, who is perhaps one of the other contestants. Although the pageant administration, led by former winner Cathy Morningside and long time host Stan Fields, provide the F.B.I. with access to the pageant, Cathy in particular is less than thrilled to have a non-credible Gracie posing as a contestant, which she feels will ruin the pageant. The F.B.I. enlist the assistance of former pageant contestant coach Victor Melling, who is facing his own disgrace associated with the pageant, to do the nearly impossible task of transforming Gracie, not only into a woman, but a credible beauty pageant contestant. As Gracie proceeds in the transformation, she gets to know the other contestants, not only as potential criminals, but also as real people. She also discovers that another sinister element is present at the pageant. She will do whatever it takes to quash that element and protect her new friends, namely the other innocent contestants. But now displaying some femininity, Gracie begins to have more womanly feelings, and in turn, attracts the attention of men, one in particular about whom she is happy.
When a serial killer indicates that his next target is the Miss United States beauty pageant, the F.B.I. decides that they must get an undercover Agent as a participant in the contest. A search uncovers no suitable candidate other than a bumbling female Agent. Reluctantly, her Captain agrees to let her join the team working the case. The team is led by a womanizing Agent who has an apparent reluctant attraction to Bullock's character. She enters as Miss New Jersey, replacing a contestant who was discovered to have acted in a porn movie. The pageant managers are immediately aghast about the Agent appearing in the pageant, but arrange a top handler to come give her a quick make-over, with the expected outstanding results. Unfortunately, she still is bumbling. When the killer is suddenly caught, everything seems to be over, except the female Agent tries to convince her boss that something is still not right. She has discovered that the pageant managers are being dismissed after twenty-one years for younger people, and Bergen's character may not be as solid as she seems on the surface.
The film opens at a school where a boy is picking on another. We see Gracie Hart as a child who beats up the bully and tries to help the victim (whom she liked), who instead, criticizes her by saying he disliked her because he did not want a girl to help him. She promptly punches the boy in the nose and sulks in the playground.
We go forward in time to where Gracie Hart (Sandra Bullock) works for the Federal Bureau of Investigation with Eric Matthews (Benjamin Bratt) as a Special Agent. We see her on a mission where she does not follow orders from her superior and tries to stop their target from choking. Because of her actions one of her squad gets shot. She is put on a desk job.
The bureau receives a threat against the 75th annual Miss United States beauty pageant in San Antonio, Texas from notorious domestic terrorist "Citizen". Eric is elected to lead the mission to stop a supposed attack. A computer search identifies Hart as the female FBI agent best qualified to go undercover as a contestant (as Miss New Jersey, the original having quit after she was discovered to have been in a porn film), although she pays little attention to her femininity.
Beauty pageant coach Victor Melling (Michael Caine), whose reputation was ruined after his last contestant criticized his methods, teaches the tomboyish Hart how to dress, walk, and act like a contestant. She is unused to such behavior, however, and sees the pageant and its participants as "outdated and antifeminist". Several suspects exist, including competition director and former pageant winner Kathy Morningside (Candice Bergen); her unpleasant son/assistant Frank Tobin (Steve Monroe); veteran emcee Stan Fields (William Shatner) who, like Morningside, is to be soon replaced by a younger person; and Rhode Island's Cheryl Frasier (Heather Burns), possibly a radical animal rights activist.
Representing New Jersey as "Gracie Lou Freebush", Hart impresses the audience by playing the glass harp and by later demonstrating self-defense techniques during a talent demonstration, when the other girls drink out of the glass harp. She unexpectedly becomes friends with Frasier and the other contestants. When Citizen is caught elsewhere, Hart gives up her badge and gun in order to continue the pageant investigation alone.
Just as Matthews is going to board the plane back to the bureau, he works out that Hart's suspicions were correct. Hart surprises everyone, including herself, by becoming runner-up to Frasier. The agents discover that Morningside and Tobin have been secretly impersonating Citizen due to her old grudge against the contest, and prevent them from murdering Frasier with a bomb in the title tiara. Hart's fellow contestants choose her as Miss Congeniality, and she starts a relationship with Matthews.
