Dev, a conman, gets killed by his wife Ritu, after she learns that the former is a debt-ridden thug who married her only to repay his debts. Her life turns upside down when she meets Anand, Dev's identical twin brother.
Wealthy, world-wide business-man Shyam Prasad Bharadwaj would like to get his only daughter, Rittu marry to his business-partner Dev Kumar Malhotra. But what Shyam is unaware of is Dev is not what he claims to be but merely a con-man who is in debt with local gangsters and to worsen matters he plans to do away with the entire Bharadwaj family so that he can embezzle their property and estate.
Shyam Prasad Bhardwaj is a rich businessman whose business is spread worldwide.His daughter Ritu is of marriageable age.He hires Dev to work in his office and his happy with and wants to marry Ritu.After their engagement Shyam Prasad finds that Dev is a conman eyeing his property as he is in debt with a gangster.Dev to hide is secret kills Shyam Prasad which is witnessed by his daughter Riya who goes into shock as Dev is always around her.Dev plans to kill Ria as well as Ritu.But on their wedding night Ritu finds the truth and kills Dev she runs away to her grandmother's house.Where her grandmother tells her that Dev is in hospital after the minor accident.Ritu rushes to the hospital and finds Dev without any scratches.Dev acts as if nothing as happened which gives Ritu more tension that's when he tells her the truth that he is Anand twin brother of Dev.
Shyam Prasad Bhardwaj is a multi-millionaire industrialist, and his business is spread worldwide. He has a daughter, Ritu, who is of marriageable age. He hires Dev Kumar to work for him, and is impressed with the way Dev's handles himself. Shyam would like Ritu and Dev to get married. After Shyam suddenly passes away, Ritu and Dev get married to fulfill Shyam's wishes. It is after this marriage that Ritu finds out that her marriage to Dev is a nightmare, as the real Dev surfaces - a Dev who is involved in debt with local gangsters, and who may also be responsible for killing her dad.
After owing debts in million to local gangsters, Dev Kumar Malhotra connotes a mysterious scheme that involves robbing wealthy Shyam Prasad Bharadwaj of his patrimony, murders him in an enclosed cabin and then marries Bharadwaj's daughter, Ritu to make his plan a success. But on the couple nuptial night, Dev gets murder by his wife and then Anand, Dev's look-alike appears creating chaos in everyone's mind and a path to his own graveyard.
Shyam Prasad Bharadwaj is a wealthy worldwide businessman. He has an only daughter named Ritu, of whom he would like to marry off one day. While in Canada a stalker attempts to kill Bharadwaj, and he is saved by a young man named Dev Kumar Malhotra. He finds out that Dev is also wealthy and that he owns a few hotels in Canada. He would like Dev to work for him in Bombay, India which Dev agrees and he works to the best of his merits to meet the goals of Bharadwaj organization. This impresses Bharadwaj to the extent that he asks like Dev and Ritu to get married. Soon Bharadwaj passes away and Dev and Ritu gets married so that Dev can carry on the family's business - but on there nuptial night Ritu gets to learn the truth that Dev is not what he claims to be. Ritu and Dev had a small scuffle over this which ends up leaving Dev dead. A grief-stricken Ritu soon meets Anand, Dev's twin brother - who must now pay the price for Dev's misconduct by the police, the gangsters and Bharadwaj's family members especially Ritu.

