The story follows a young man (Bobby Deol) who flees India and arrives in Australia seeking vengence for something that started in India. In Australia he meets and falls in love with the daughter of a rich and powerful man(Suresh Oberoi). The story keeps the covers on Bobby Deols plan until the end when everything is revealed as to why he is a SOLDIER.
Major Vijay Malhotra works in the Indian army; on one assignment whereby he is asked to be the security in-charge of a truck-load of arms and ammunitions; he red-handedly caught some traitors attempting to steal these arms. When he attempts to bring them to justice; they attacked him leading to a scuffle which ended up leaving Malhotra dead. They then put the blame on Malhotra; has his dead body stripped of all medals and commendations, and leave him to be cremated by his wife Geeta and young son Raju. The villagers' refuses to let a traitor cremated on their land and leave his body to rot in the hot desert sand. 20 years later Raju has now matured and is on the verge of unravel the secrets of his dad's death and to punish the real perpetrators.
The story follows a young man (Bobby Deol) who flees India and arrives in Australia seeking vengence for something that started in India. In Australia he meets and falls in love with the daughter of a rich and powerful man(Suresh Oberoi). The story keeps the covers on Bobby Deols plan until the end when everything is revealed as to why he is a SOLDIER.
Army officials intercept a truck-load of arms and ammunition being sold illicitly to gangsters by officers in the Indian army. The main accused, Captain Vijay Malhotra, attempted to defend himself, but was shot down and killed. A subsequent inquiry into this incident revealed that Vijay was indeed guilty of this offence. His dead body was stripped of all medals, and commendations, and left for cremation by his wife, Geeta, and a young son, Raju. The local villagers refused to permit Geeta from even cremating the body of a traitor, and left his body to rot in the hot desert climate, and eventually to be eaten by vultures. Years later, a young man named Vicky, goes on a rampage, killing influential people that were directly involved with the guilt of Vijay Malhotra, with no sure as to why he would even be aggrieved by the death of a traitor.
Pratap Singh, Virender Sinha, Baldev Sinha and Jaswant Dalal are partners together and they conspire to steel arms and ammunitions from the Indian army and supply it to a fourth called DK. But all of them is caught red-handed by Captain Vijay Malhotra, before he could expose these traitors, he is shot by DK and pronounced dead. These three men then carry ahead with there deadly mission and then blamed Vijay for all the arms theft, his dead body is stripped of all medals and commendations, and left for cremation by his wife, Geeta and young son, Raju. But the villagers refuses to let a traitor be cremated on there land and left his body to be eaten by vultures, and to satisfy there lust these traitors put the stigma of shame on his wife's forehead and leaves her to live in depression. Years later, Vijay's friend hires Vicky to seek revenge for the people that were involved with the murder of Vijay Malhotra. However nobody understands the reason of the murders. Vicky learns the true history of what happened through his adoptive mother Shanti and is out now to bring his dad's perpetrators to justice.
When Major Vijay Malhotra attempts to arrest arms smuggler, he is mysteriously gunned down and killed. These smugglers then put a stigma on his name, that will not only penetrate his dead body but affect his family for years to come. Raju alias Vicky which is known to be his son has now grown up after 20 years and is all set to claim his dad's right and to jeopardize the names of all traitors.

