A young drifter working on a river barge disrupts his employers' lives while hiding the fact that he knows more about a dead woman found in the river than he admits.
Joe, a rootless young drifter, finds work on a barge travelling between Glasgow and Edinburgh, owned by Les and his wife Ella. One afternoon they discover the corpse of a young woman floating in the water. Accident? Suicide? Murder? As the police investigate and suspect is arrested, we discover that Joe knows more than he is letting on. Gradually we learn of Joe's past relationship with the dead woman. Meanwhile an unspoken attraction develops between Joe and Ella, heightening the claustrophobic tensions in the confined space of the barge.
In Glasgow, the drifter of few words Joe Taylor is working in an old boat with the sailor Les Gault and his wife Ella Gault transporting coal and other cargoes through the River Clyde. While loading the hold with coal, they find the body of a young woman wearing petticoat floating on the river and they bring it to the harbor. Joe recalls through flashbacks his relationship with his former mistress Cathie Dimly, while he seduces Ella in a carnal attraction, having sex with her in the absence of Les. When the police arrest a suspect of the murder of woman, Joe becomes interested in the case, while his thoughts disclose the truth about the death of the victim.
This story is about an attractive, sociopathic womanizer, who wanders around corrupting every relationship in which he's involved. In addition to exploring some sadistic and Oedipal issues, he acts with a complete disregard for anyone else's situation or feelings; starting with his former girlfriend. Her story is told in flashbacks throughout the film. Just after he takes a job as a helper on a cargo boat in England, he and his boss find a woman's body floating in the canal. We see his personality unfold as he boldly seduces the plain, frustrated wife of a ferryman who takes him in to live with them, as he works for them on their boat.. Plenty of lust and nudity to illustrate his choices.
