The now famous Burt Gummer returns to his hometown of Perfection, Nevada for the first time in years, but the deadliest Graboid evolution yet forces him to save the town he swore to protect.
Third Tremors movie takes us back to the small Nevada town of Perfection where local resident and adventurer Burt Grummer returns after traveling abroad and killing carnivorous worms called "Graboids" (introduced in the first movie) and their offspring "Shriekers" (introduced in the second movie) to life in his home town and must deal with some crooked land developers, a thrill-seeking guy named Jack Sawyer looking for wealth in this potential tourist town, and eventually dealing with a new strain of Graboid worms that meta-morph into their second Shrieker phase, and whom unexpectedly morph into their third stage for another harrowing battle against Burt and Jack in the desert surrounding the town.
Burt Gummer returns home to Perfection, Nevada, from a trip to Argentina, where he wiped out a herd of Shriekers. Things are a little different in Perfection now -- the community has become something of a tourist attraction because of a battle against Graboids about 11 years ago. Nancy Sterngood and her 22-year-old daughter Mindy still live in Perfection. Burt's friend Miguel still calls Perfection home. Obnoxious Melvin Plug has moved into real estate, and he is now trying to build homes in Perfection. There are even Graboid comic books on the racks, and Safari Jack Sawyer takes families out on phony Graboid hunts for a few bucks. Burt's pretty disgusted by the whole thing. The Graboids haven't surfaced in Perfection since the battle from 11 years ago, but that hasn't kept Burt from slacking off. His home is like a fort, completely Graboid proof and Shrieker proof. But after 11 years, the Graboids and Shriekers have returned, but this time there's trouble. Government officials show up to protect the monsters, because Graboids are an endangered species. To further complicate things, the Shriekers evolve into a new kind of flying creature that can sense body warmth in much the same way the Shriekers can, and local store owner Jodi Chang, the niece of the late Walter Chang, calls them Ass Blasters. Burt unloads his arsenal of weapons to use against the monsters, and Jack and Jodi team up with him. But since these creatures can fly, and are each carrying a Graboid egg inside of it, Burt, Jack, and Jodi are going to have to watch every single step they take if they are going to stay alive long enough to stop the monsters.

