Shekhar accidentally kills his associate Amar, and decides to watch over Amar's company and take care of his family and friends. However, he falls in love with Amar's fiancé Piya.
Shekar and Amar meet at a party where Amar asks Shekar that he should come and work with him in Canada same night Amar accidentally gets killed after he is hit by Shekar 's car,Inspector Dmello swears that he won't close the case until he catches the killer,Shekar goes to Amar 's house in Canada and confesses his father about Amar 's death but finds that his father has lost all his body senses after Amar 's death he meets Pia ,Amar's fiance whose also in depression and trying to save Amar's company Shah Industries,Shekar and Pia start working with each other and Shekar falls in love with Pia they both bring Shah Industries back on track and meet Abhi for future business same time Abhi falls in love with Pia,Pia also starts liking Shekar but decides to choose Abhi, Inspector Dmello comes from India to arrest Shekar,Shekar tells Pia that Amar died after he hit his car while confessing all this on phone to Pia a speeding car knocks Shekar following which he is admitted in hospital,Amar's father who has now gained senses tells Pia that Shekar had confessed about Amar 's death to him on very first day but he couldn't tell anyone he asks Pia to marry Shekar as they both love each other Pia goes to meet Shekar in hospital where he gets back to his senses after being hit by the car Abhi is now left alone,Inspector Dmello closes the file of Amar 's murder case and returns to India saying that Pia and Shah family need Amar the most.
Shekhar is a qualified businees professional in India. One day, he meets Amar, chairman of Shah Industries of Canada. Amar is impressed with Shekhar's professionalism and qualifications and that is why he offers him to work with him in Canada. But accidently, on the same evening, Amar gets killed by Shekhar's car. In order to keep off his guilt, he goes to Canada and helps the troubled Shah Indurtries to rise and during the way falls in love with Pia, Amar's fiance. Then there is Abhay, another businessman, who also falls in love with Pia. Ultimately, Pia comes to know that Amar got killed due to Shekhar, but forgives him.
After Amar Shah's accidental death in India, Canada-based Shah Industries is on the verge of collapse; Pia, Amar's sweetheart, is devastated; Girdhari, Amar's dad, has become numb due to shock; while Amar's sister and grandmother are in mourning and attempt to live day by day. Months after Amar's death, a young man, Shekhar Malhotra, enters the lives of the Shah family, introduces himself, and offers to re-built and restore Shah Industries without any compensation. He is given the chance, and goes about the uphill task of making Shah Industries viable again. Shekhar also finds a way to fill the void made by Amar's absence in everyone's mind, including falling in love with Pia. Abhi Gyan's is a wealthy Canadian industrialist, who would like to take-over Shah Industries, in order to marry Pia. Shekhar opposes this move, while Pia endorses it, leading to all round bitterness. Then Abhi and Pia chance upon evidence that Shekhar had an ulterior motive in befriending Pia and the Shah family. Shekhar must now defend himself, or stand to forever lose Pia and the faith that the Shahs had in him.

