A biography of the Three Stooges, in which their careers and rise to fame is shown throughout the eyes of their leader, Moe Howard.
In the late 1950s, Moe Howard, the leader of the Three Stooges, is at a low point of his life with his film career apparently over, and he won't earn a dime from the impending big profits when his films are shown on television. In addition, he is being pestered by a young television executive who wants his team for a live show at his city. Amidst all this, Moe can't help but think back to the past starting from the beginning of the team's career with Ted Healy and their break from him to eventually having a successful film career in shorts. Yet that can't obscure the tragedy of Jerome "Curly" Howard's stroke and death or the death of his other brother Shemp. While he reminisces, Moe must decide whether to gamble on whether there will be a new generation of fans who will let the team to enter a new phase of their career.
Dramatization of the lives and careers of the legendary slapstick comedy team. Performing comparatively menial work at Columbia Studios, the site of his greatest success, Moe Howard reminisces in 1959 about the previous thirty years. He remembers his early vaudeville days with his brother Shemp and Larry Fine as stooges to comic Ted Healy, the breakup with Healy and Shemp's departure from the act, Shemp's replacement by brother Jerome ("Curly") and their triumphs (and low pay) as the top comedy team in Columbia's shorts department, and the sad departures from the act and the apparent demise of the team. However, Moe must decide whether to gamble on whether there will be a new generation of fans who will allow the team to enter a new phase of their career.
Behind the hilarious slapstick comedy of the infamous Three Stooges lies a deeper and more dramatic story found in their off-screen lives. We are first introduced to the men in their early days of vaudeville, struggling to make ends meet. Then Hollywood calls and their years of hard work pay off, taking them to the "big time". However, struggles between each other and health issues create obstacles for the comedy group, yet somehow the group survives and becomes the legend we know and love.

