Gorgeous Dutch youngster Max has two passions, acting and girls. The first becomes his brilliant career, which takes off so well he gets invited to a prestigious New York theatre course for a year. But since he met fickle bitch Phileine in an Utrecht park, his flirting life is cut short while she cruelly plays with his feelings rather then his horny body. After refusing to follow him, she turns up uninvited later and still acts jealous and possessive. Grief follows for everyone, working up to a convoluted finale.
A Dutch girl is getting sick of always losing her boyfriends, so when she loses her newest "gain" she decides to follow Max (her friend) to New York where he's starting a career as an actor. Soon she finds herself in the most bizarre situations like doing "Harry &amp; Sally"'s famous faked orgasm scene, judging everyone, starting fights and visiting the theatre to find out her boyfriend is "doing" other girls On Stage.
Phileine is a super-bitch going to New York to visit her boyfriend Max, after he went there for his career as an actor. When she got there she suspects Max of cheating on her, and she finds out the true nature of the experimental play he's performing in.
Phileine Zegt Sorry starts out in a park where she's sitting with her boyfriend and telling the audience how satisfied she is. Then all hell breaks loose - her boyfriend tells her that he will be going to America for a year. The entire movie is about how she deals with not having him, how she goes to America and realizes just how much of a bitch she is. She has a lot of fun and pain doing it, but it's wonderful to watch the character development - how would you react if your boyfriend was in Romeo and Juliet and had to have sex with Juliet on stage and didn't tell you?
Based on the much loved book comes this romantic comedy all about love in the wrong places with the wrong graces!Meet Phileine the cynical mostly self-centered girl who usually ends up losing her man due to her acid tongue and refusal to admit she's ever wrong. Max may prove her wrong yet though, could this dreamy actor be the one to finally let her guard down?
Unfortunately it's a question cut short when he suddenly relocates to New York to accept a dream stage part and more unfortunately for him, the suspicious Phileine isn't far behind and where Phileine goes only upset and chaos can follow!
She wastes no time making trouble, enemies and even news-headlines testing Max to his very limit. The time has come for Phileine to say some much needed "sorry's" but is this nut just too tough to crack?
