Jimmy the Tulip's (Willis) quiet new life is shaken up by his old pal Oz (Perry), whose wife (Henstridge) has been kidnapped by a Hungarian mob. The Tulip and his wife Jill (Peet) spring into action.
Thanks to falsified dental records supplied by his former neighbor Nicholas "Oz" Oseransky (Matthew Perry), retired hit man Jimmy "The Tulip" Tudeski (Bruce Willis) now spends his days compulsively cleaning his house and perfecting his culinary skills with his wife, Jill, a purported assassin who has yet to pull off a clean hit. Suddenly, an uninvited and unwelcome connection to their past unexpectedly shows up on Jimmy and Jill's doorstep: it's Oz, and he's begging them to help him rescue his wife from the Hungarian mob. To complicate matters even further, the men, who are out to get Oz, are led by Lazlo Gogolak (Kevin Pollak), a childhood rival of Jimmy's and another notorious hit man. Oz, Jimmy and Jill will have to go the whole nine yards--and then some--to manage the mounting Mafioso mayhem.
The movie opens with a flashback of Yanni Gogolak and Jimmy Tudeski as kids constantly fighting at the annoyance of Yanni's father Laszlo. Laszlo calls them in his office to advise them that together, they could be much stronger than apart. He then rips up a one dollar bill and gives them each half of it to make his point.Flash forward to the present day: After successfully faking his death, thanks to falsified dental records supplied by his former neighbor, now friend, Nicholas "Oz" Ozeransky (Matthew Perry), retired hitman Jimmy "The Tulip" Tudeski (Bruce Willis) quietly spends his days in Mexico, compulsively cleaning his house and perfecting his culinary skills with his wife, Jill (Amanda Peet), who is not exactly thrilled by Jimmy's new personality, missing the passionate cold-blooded assassin she fell in love with. Jill is also frustrated as she is still trying to build up her own reputation as a contract killer but keeps failing to pull off one clean job ; everyone she is hired to kill dies in bizarre accidents before she has a chance to shoot them properly.Meanwhile, Oz now owns a dental practice in California and has married Jimmy's ex-wife Cynthia (Natasha Henstridge). They are now expecting their first child, but the relationship is strained by Oz's excessive paranoia as well as Cynthia's secret continued contact with Jimmy.Their lives are further complicated when Laszlo Gogolak (Kevin Pollack), Jimmy's former mob boss and father figure, whose son Yanni was killed by Jimmy and Jill, is released from prison. His first piece of business is to avenge his son's murder. Having deduced that Jimmy faked his death, Laszlo abducts Cynthia as leverage to threatens Oz to reveal where Jimmy is hiding. However, Oz escapes and flees to Mexico where he contacts Jimmy who refuses to help until Laszlo's men attack their house, having tracked down Oz's car.Meanwhile, Cynthia uses the time she is left alone at Laszlo's house with his dimwitted son Strabovitz (Frank Collison) to con him into believing his father is hiding something huge from him and he should go have a talk with him. Strabo leaves the house and Cynthia starts casing the place looking for Laszlo's private safe which she finds and opens but cannot find what she's looking for inside.In the meantime,Strabo arrives at the same location Jimmy, Jill, Oz, Laszlo and his men are all about to meet. Jimmy captures Strabo and uses him as leverage against Laszlo to gain safe passage. He then offers to trade Strabo for Cynthia at a later time.Oz triggers further conflict between Jimmy and Jill when he reveals that Jimmy's crucifix, which he never takes off, was a present from Cynthia. The two have a spat and Jimmy takes Oz to a bar. At the bar, Jimmy becomes increasingly depressed at his failure to father a child with Jill, and aggravates Oz by discussing his and Cynthia's old sex life, culminating in Oz and Jimmy becoming so drunk they wake up in the same bed.Frustrated by her poor sex life with Jimmy, Jill attempts to make Jimmy jealous by seducing Oz just as Jimmy walks into the room. Jimmy, knocks out Oz and regains his passion for Jill and his work as the two have sex in the bathroom.Jill, Oz, and Jimmy, with Strabo still captive, visit Oz's house to equip themselves. Oz's paranoia made him purchase lots of guns. However they are attacked by an unknown marksman and Strabo is accidentally killed in the crossfire. Jimmy blames Jill as she was supposed to watch Strabo, insults Jill's capabilities and coldly dismisses Oz before leaving; Jill leaves too.Oz retreats to his practice where he orders his new receptionist Julie to call the FBI and then order enough nitrous gas to kill himself. He is then met by Jimmy, who apologizes for recent events. The two are then chloroformed by Julie who reveals herself as Jules Figgeroa, the sister of Frankie Figgs, seeking revenge for Oz and Jimmy's role in her brother's death. She is also a contract killer hired by Laszlo.Waking up beside Cynthia and Jimmy in Laszlo's house, Oz is shocked to learn that the entire situation has been planned by Jimmy and Cynthia to find Laszlo's half of the first dollar he ever stole, which he had torn and divided between Jimmy and Yanni as kids. As Laszlo prepares to kill them, Jill arrives, having tied up Strabo's body in her car with explosives to appear alive, and threatens to detonate unless Laszlo releases Oz and Cynthia, purposely omitting Jimmy because she is still mad at him. Offering her services as a contract killer to Laszlo's organization, Jill is ordered to kill Jimmy, who antagonizes her until she's angry enough to shoot him in the heart.Jill's car explodes as Laszlo's men try to release Strabo, revealing Jill was in on the plan and shot Jimmy with blanks. Jules is exposed as the shooter who killed Strabo, and Laszlo shoots her. Jill offers to kill Laszlo but Jimmy refuses. Jimmy is then forced to reveal that Laszlo is also his father. Unable to kill the man who raised him, Jimmy allows Jill to shoot Laszlo in the foot instead. The four then escape in Oz's car before the cops arrive.Jimmy and Cynthia finally reveal to Oz that the whole plan was to get Laszlo's half of the dollar bill and combine it with Jimmy's half. They explain that both half together actually reveal the serial number of the bill which is also the number for one of Laszlo's bank account which holds 280 million dollars which they will split between the four of them. Jill then reveals she ran a test and was found pregnant. The four drive away as Jimmy starts crying awkwardly and Laszlo is getting arrested.
