Cousins Bo, Luke, and Daisy Duke, and their uncle Jesse, egg on the authorities of Hazzard County, Boss Hogg and Sheriff Coltrane.
In Georgia's dusty Hazzard County, the close-knit Duke cousins, Bo and Luke, deliver Uncle Jesse's fine moonshine. Zooming down the rough backwoods on their powerful muscle-car--the tangerine 1969 Dodge Charger, General Lee--the boys easily outrun the corrupt county commissioner Boss Hogg's forces, and his loyal henchman, Sheriff Roscoe P. Coltrane. However, when the clan of moonshiners are left with nothing, only Bo, Luke, and Daisy Duke can save their farm, as the day of the annual road rally approaches. Can the Dukes of Hazzard beat Hogg's champion, Billy Prickett, save the day, and their beloved home?
Bo and Luke Duke are southern cousins. In Hazzard County, Bo and Luke help their Uncle Jesse and their sexy cousin Daisy run the Moonshine business and always getting into trouble with Sherriff Roscoe P. Coltrane and recklessly driving in their orange car "General Lee". Boss Hogg, the mean and corrupt local county commissioner who hates The Dukes evicts The Dukes from their farm. Bo and Duke travels to Atlanta and meets up with old friend Katie Johnson and her friend Annette as they set out to find out why Boss Hogg has evicted them from their farm and what he plans to do. With local ace race car driver Billy Prickett in town to take part in the Annual Hazzard Road Race rally, Bo and Luke sets out to save their farm and foil Boss Hogg's scheme.
Cousins Bo and Luke Duke, with the assistance of their sexy cousin Daisy and Uncle Jesse, must save the Duke family farm from destruction by the town's corrupt and evil commissioner Boss Hogg. Their efforts constantly find the "Duke Boys" eluding authorities in "The General Lee", the boys' orange 1969 Dodge Charger that keeps them one step ahead of the dimwitted antics of the small southern town's Sheriff Roscoe P. Coltrane.
In Hazzard County, the cousins Bo Duke and Luke Duke find that the corrupt Boss Hogg is plotting the destruction of the location, intending to transform the lands in a huge coal mine. Hogg diverts the dwellers with a rally to hide the judgment of his plea in court. Bo and Luke, assisted by their delicious cousin Daisy, Bo's car General Lee and their Uncle Jesse, fight to save the town from the claws of Boss Hogg and the also corrupt Sheriff Rosco P. Coltrane and their men.
Cousins Bo (Seann William Scott), Luke (Johnny Knoxville), and Daisy Duke (Jessica Simpson) have returned with the General Lee (1969 Dodge Charger) to the big screen. Uncle Jesse (Willie Nelson) is still making the best moonshine in Hazzard County, Georgia, with Bo and Luke making deliveries. Sheriff Roscoe P. Coltrane (M.C. Gainey) is still trying to catch Bo and Luke running moonshine in the General Lee. Bo and Luke discover that the crooked county commissioner, Boss Hogg (Burt Reynolds) has illegally been taking their neighbors land, and the Dukes family farm is next. The Dukes have a plan to save their farm and the town of Hazzard from becoming a coal strip-mine. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
