Raj is one of city's top lawyer known never to loose a case.He his introduced to Sargam during the launch of her new album by Ashwin Mehta owner of a music company.Next day Ashwin is found murdered and Tarang is held for the murder,Sargam and Tarang are childhood friends and she approaches Raj to fight for his case. During this period Raj notices that Tarang suffers from mental illness of split personality and when he suffers the attack he is not Tarang but Ranjeet and doesn't remember things he does when he turns Ranjeet.Tarang had killed Ashwin as the previous night he saw him forcing on Sargam but doesn't remember killing him as he was Ranjeet that time.Raj wins the case in court by proving Tarang innocent as he is suffering from mental illness.Tarang is due to release and gives Raj a shock to that he had planned everything regarding split personality as he was caught red handed on the site of murder.
Psychological Thriller starring Akshay Khanna, Ajay Devgn and Urmila Matondkar. Ajay Devgn plays the antagonist and a person with split personality disorder. Akshay Khanna the criminal Lawyer. The main theme of the movie is based on 'Primal Fear' Starring Richard Gere and Edward Norton as the lawyer and the criminal respectively. Could have been a more crisp movie had the unnessary last 15 minutes been deleted. Excellent acting by Ajay Devgn and akshay Khanna saves the movie.
Raj Goyal (Akshaye Khanna) is a renowed and successful attorney. At a musical party he is introduced to Sargam (Urmila Matondkar) by Ashwin Mehta (Vijayendra Ghatge). The next day Ashwin is murdered. Sargam approached Raj to defend the accused, Tarang Bhardwaj (Ajay Devgan). Raj reluctantly accepts, and with the help of a psyciatricist is able to prove that Tarang is innocent. But is Tarang really the person who gives the impression? Or is he Ranjit, another personality in his character, who is capable of killing? Raj's mother is played by Farida Jalal, and Tiku Talsania plays his uncle Ratan. Suresh Oberoi plays the prosecuting attorney, and Mazhar Khan is Ashwin's brother, Abhijeet, who has been stealing song material from Tarang.

