With all-new gadgets, high-flying action, exciting chases and a wisecracking new handler, Derek (Anthony Anderson), Cody has to retrieve the device before the world's leaders fall under the evil control of a diabolical villain.
One year later, agent Cody Banks is back for another awesome adventure but this time he must track down a former instructor who's gone rogue with a mind-control microchip. Banks masquerades as a musical prodigy to get close to a snobby, egocentric scientist in London who's the only person who can make the microchip work. Along the way Banks hooks up with a demoted agent and a cute-as-a-bug Scotland Yard operative. When Agent Cody Banks heads to England to catch an evil scientist who's stolen a mind-control device for his plot to rule the world and turning the world leaders into zombies!
CIA agent has stolen a top secret mind-control device and Cody has to go undercover in London to get it back. Posing as a student at an elite boarding school to get close to his suspects, Cody has to keep the other kids from discovering his true identity while infiltrating covert hideouts, spying on his sinister target - and going to class. With all-new gadgets, high-flying action, exciting chases and a wisecracking new handler, Derek (Anthony Anderson), Cody has to retrieve the device before the world's leaders fall under the evil control of a diabolical villain.
Frankie Muniz returns as the junior CIA Agent Cody Banks. Diaz (Keith Allen), Cody's CIA trainer at summer camp, steals a mind-control device from the CIA, and escapes to London. Cody is given the job of retrieving the device, before it can be put to evil use. Cody flies to London and goes undercover as a clarinet-playing prodigy at an elite music school. Cody must fool the other kids at the school while he tracks down Diaz. Cody joins forces with another student, Emily (Hannah Spearritt), who is a British secret agent working on the same case. Cody's CIA handler in London, Derek (Anthony Anderson), becomes a cook at the house of their musical benefactor and Diaz's partner. Cody finds Diaz and must fight him for the mind-control device. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
