A teenage girl is convinced that her home city revolves around her until her family packs up and moves to the suburbs, where she finds herself competing for attention.
When the teenager Mary Elizabeth Steppe, a.k.a. Lola, moves with her mother and two younger twin sisters from New York to the suburb of Dellwood, New Jersey, she has the feeling that her cultural and entertaining world ended. While in school, the displaced Lola becomes close friend of the unpopular Ella, who is also a great fan of the her favorite rock band Sidarthur. However, the most popular girl in the school, Carla Santini, disputes the lead role in an adaptation of Pygmalion with Lola and also the leadership of their mates. When the last concert of Sidarthur is sold-out, Lola plans with Ella to travel to New York and buy the tickets from scalpers. However, the girls get into trouble while helping the lead singer and Lola's idol Stu Wolf, changing their lives forever.
Based on the teen novel of the same name, Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen follows Mary "Lola" Steppe, a newly displaced teen, whose divorced mother has relocated from the trendy life of New York City to the urban sprawl of Dellwood, New Jersey. Out of place in the suburban town, Lola sets her sights on the lead in the school play while fantasizing about her favorite rock group and how her life should be. When she learns that her favorite rock group is disbanding and is going to put on their final farewell concert in New York City, Lola pulls out all the stops to make it to the concert and meet the lead singer, Stu Wolff.
When a New York City teenager from Greenwich Village, Lola Steppe, is forced to move to the New Jersery suburb of Dellwood, she finds that in her new high school, there is another girl, Carla Santini, who already has claim to the title of most popular girl (and most rudest) that Lola had at her old school. Aiming to oust Carla from her reign, Lola and her new best friend, Ella Gerard, sets her sights on nabbing the lead role in the next big school play "Pygmalion", which Carla also hopes to star in. As the two girls engage in a war for popularity, Carla lashes back at Lola by obtaining tickets to the sold-out "farewell concert" of Lola's favorite band. Can Lola somehow sneak into the concert and quell Carla's latest scheme, and at the same time meet the band's English lead singer, Stu Wolff, whom she has such a crush on?

