The blind masseur/swordsman comes to a town in control of warring gangs, and while bunking with a farming family, he meets two women with their own agenda.
Blind Zatoichi makes his living by gambling and giving massages. But behind his humble facade, Zatoichi is a master swordsman, gifted with lightning-fast draw and strokes of breathtaking precision. Zatoichi wanders into a town run by sinister gangs and a powerful samurai. He's destined for violent showdowns when he stumbles on two beautiful geishas avenging their parents' murder... Duels, wit and a touch of zen! Cult anti-hero Zatoichi is back in a sword-fighting adventure written, directed and starring Takeshi Kitano.
The blind masseur and former samurai Zatôichi (Takeshi Kitano) is drifting and arrives in a small village dominated by three tyrannical lords, Inosuke Ginzo (Ittoku Kishibe), Tashichi Ogi (Saburo Ishikura) and Funahachi (Koji Koike). He helps an old woman and she lodges him at her home. Zatôichi gambles and the old lady's nephew, a complete loser, becomes close to him and Zatôichi helps him in the bets. They meet the geishas Seitaro 'Osei' Naruto (Daigorô Tachibana) and Okinu Naruto (Yuuko Daike), actually a brother and a sister that have been chasing the killers of their parents, Inosuke, Tashichi and Kuchinawa, for ten years seeking revenge. When the ronin Hattori Genosuke (Tadanobu Asano) offers his service of bodyguard to Ginzo, the boss decide to destroy the Funachi gang and join to Ogi later. But Zatôichi decides to help the village and get rid off the criminals.
Zatoichi is a 19th century blind nomad who makes his living as a gambler and masseur. However, behind this humble facade, he is a master swordsman gifted with a lightning-fast draw and breathtaking precision. While wandering, Zatoichi discovers a remote mountain village at the mercy of Ginzo, a ruthless gang-leader. Ginzo disposes of anyone who gets in his way, especially after hiring the mighty samurai ronin, Hattori, as a bodyguard. After a raucous night of gambling in town, Zatoichi encounters a pair of geishas--as dangerous as they are beautiful--who've come to avenge their parents' murder. As the paths of these and other colorful characters intertwine, Ginzo's henchmen are soon after Zatoichi. With his legendary cane sword at his side, the stage is set for a riveting showdown.

