A famous int'l conductor returns to his small childhood town in northern Sweden for early retirement. He's asked to help with the church choir. He affects the lives of all in the choir.
A successful international conductor suddenly interrupts his career and returns alone to his childhood village in Norrland, in the far north of Sweden. It doesn't take long before he is asked to come and listen to the fragment of a church choir, which practises every Thursday in the parish hall. Just come along and give a little bit of good advice. He can't say no, and from that moment, nothing in the village is the same again. The choir develops and grows. He makes both friends and enemies. And he finds love.
Daniel is a renowned conductor, who suffered a painful childhood in his native town in Northern Sweden. There, Daniel was bullied by his school mates while he was trying to develop a musical career with his mother's support. Now, as a conductor, Daniel is very temperamental and has an intolerant character with his musicians as well. He also has a strange condition which makes him bleed from the nose. After a concert he has a heart attack. Despite having professional commitments for the next 8 years, he decides to return to Sweden and retire indefinitely. In his home town, Daniel settles in the old and abandoned primary school. The local reverend asks Daniel to work as the church choir's conductor, formed by all kinds of villagers, with all kinds of problems. Daniel first task is to teach the choir members to find their own voice tone, and the musical basis. Lena, a charismatic girl, catches Daniel's attention immediately. But Daniel will have to struggle with other problems in the choir, like a woman who is beaten by her drunken husband, and the prejudices of some members who think that Daniel is more interested in Lena than in the choir. However, the envious reverend begins to feel relegated by Daniel and takes the accusations about him and Lena seriously. Daniel eventually has his chance to prove the contrary, taking his group to an important contest in Innsbruck.
The famous international conductor Daniel Daréus has a heart attack with his stressed busy professional life and interrupts his successful career with an early retirement. He decides to return to his hometown in the north of Sweden, from where his mother left when he was a seven year-old sensitive boy bullied by Conny and other school mates, to live a low-paced life. He buys an old school and is invited to participate in the church choir by the local Shepherd Stig, but the reluctant and shy Daniel refuses in the principle. However, he gets involved with the community and feels attracted by Lena, a local woman with a past with the local doctor. His music opens the hearts of the members of the choir, affecting their daily life: the slow Tore has the chance to participate in the choir; Inger, the wife of Stig, releases her repressed sexuality; Gabriella takes an attitude against her abusive and violent husband; the gossiper and frustrated Siv opens her heart against Lena; the fat Holmfrid cries enough against the jokes of the businessman Arne; even Daniel starts loving people and Lena as the love of his life. When they are invited to participate in an important contest in Innsbruck, Daniel finds his music opening the heart of people making his dream come true.

