ARIA. Inspired by Puccini's opera Madame Butterfly, this exquisite stop-motion film by Canadian director Pjotr Sapegin relates the eternal and heartbreaking tale of unrequited love.
A sea captain goes ashore on a small island in the Pacific, carrying a funnel gramophone under his arm. He meets a native girl with a butterfly on her head. They make love on the shore, while he is playing an aria from "Madame Butterfly" on his gramophone. After their short union he gives her his captain hat and the funnel gramophone, and sails away. Every day she plays the aria, while looking at the horizon, waiting for his return. After nine months she delivers a baby. She is happy with her child, playing with it every day. After some years the ship returns. The sea captain drives a white car out of the vessel and up to the girl at the top of the island. Along with him in his car are his wife and their children. He is happy to find that he has another child here on the island. He and his wife take the child away from the girl and put it in their car. They wave goodbye to the girl, and sail away. In despair the girl runs out into the animation studio, and tears her body into pieces. A wind blows her limbs away, whereby they are transformed into a butterfly, which lands at the head of girl.
A young oriental woman has a one-night stand with a blond sailor. The result: a girl, who makes her first appearance as a fish and later as a sort of kite. She remains attached to her mother by a thread. One day, the sailor returns, with a fast car and a blonde girl. He takes the girl and adds it to their multi-ethnic brood. The mother, crushed, walks off the stage and disassembles herself.
An animated version of Madame Butterfly, with a soundtrack of the sea and of Natalie Choquette singing Puccini's "Un bel dì." The handsome, blond U.S. Navy sailor makes love on the strand to Madame Butterfly. He gives her his hat and portable phonograph and leaves the island the next day. She stays by the sea waiting for his return, giving birth to a daughter whom she raises and loves. A few years later, a ship returns. Butterfly dons the sailor cap, adjusts the phonograph, and waits for her lover to join his little family. He has a different plan, one that sends her into despair as the aria comes to an end. A butterfly and the sound of the sea remain.

