Sparks fly in Glasgow's south side when a young Asian man enters into a relationship with a Caucasian woman.
In Glasgow, Scotland, the Pakistani parents of Casim Khan have decided that he is going to marry his cousin Jasmine. Unfortunately, Casim has just fallen in love with his younger sister's music teacher Roisin. Not only is she 'goree', a white woman, she is also Irish and catholic, things that may not go down well with Casim's parents. They start a relationship but Casim is torn between following his heart and being a good son.
Qasim Khan has been born and bred in Britain, while his parents hailed from Pakistan. Qasim has grown up listening to harrowing tales of the British-sponsored partition of India and Pakistan, and that of his dad's twin brother, also named Qasim, who decided to stay in India, rather than move. His family is very conservative and would prefer their children have Islamic life-partners, as they have been hurt by racial slurs and attacks from the more extreme Caucasians in their community and are unsure if Caucasian life-partners are committed to marriage. The Khans have arranged Qasim's marriage with a beautiful young woman named Jasmine, and also made arrangements for her to travel so that the young couple can meet each other. Before Jasmine's arrival, Qasim informs his parents that he is in love with an Irish school-teacher named Roisin Hanlon, who is white, and a Catholic. The Khan family is shattered, their daughter's (Rukhsana) marriage is canceled, and they face loss of face in the community. Rukhsana goes to meet Roisin in order to convince her to get out of their lives, but Roisin refuses. Then chaos also breaks out in Roisin's life when she is asked to get a letter of approval from her Parish Priest, Father David, in order to continue to be employed in the Catholic School. When she goes to meet him, Father David refuses to give her any letter until and unless she breaks off her relationship with Qasim. Faced with losing her employment, and getting ex-communicated by the Church, will Roisin relent and give up on Qasim?

