When a family is held hostage, former hostage negotiator Jeff Talley arrives at the scene. Talley's own family is kidnapped and Talley must decide which is more important: saving a family he doesn't even know or saving his own family.
Jeff Talley, a former LAPD hostage negotiator, has moved himself away from his failed career outside of Los Angeles, and away from his wife and daughter when three perpetrators move in on an unsuspecting family. But the family's father has a secret which might compromise his kin, and one of the criminals is about to jump over the edge. Jeff Talley has to get everybody to survive the night......if he can.
In a small town in California, the chief of police Jeff Talley is facing relationship problems with his teenager daughter. One year later, he was the prime police negotiator in Los Angeles, but after an unsuccessful negotiation, he gave-up his position and decided to move with his family to a calmer life. When three punks invade the house of Walter Smith, a wealthy accountant, and jeopardize his family, holding them hostage, Jeff's family is abducted by powerful criminals to force him to retrieve a DVD with bank accountings' information kept in Walter's office.
Haunted by his failure to save a child from a suicidal madman, hostage negotiator Jeff Tally leaves Los Angeles to become police chief of upscale suburb Bristo Camino. But the ghosts of Tally's previous field come back to haunt him when two brothers and their mysterious traveling companion Mars Krupchek take a suburbanite family hostage after a failed robbery. Unbenknownst to the gunmen, their hostage is actually a numbers runner for West Coast kingpin Sonny Benza, and the house contains evidence that put him away. Facing heat from associates in New York, Benza kidnaps Tally's wife and daughter and blackmails him into procuring the incriminating evidence. But the situation escalates even further when Tally discovers that Mars is a serial killer who is eyeing the hostages, and possibly his accomplices, to be his next victims.
Devastated by a failed hostage situation which resulted in the deaths of a young mother and her child, LAPD negotiator Jeff Talley exits Los Angeles for a no profile job as chief of police in the low crime hamlet of Bristo Camino, a small town in Ventura County. When three delinquent teenagers follow home a family intending to steal their car, they have inadvertently picked the wrong house on the wrong day. The trio find themselves trapped in a multi-million dollar compound on the outskirts of town, owned by an accountant working for a mysterious crime enterprise. Panicked, the teenagers take the family hostage, placing Talley in exactly the kind of situation he never wanted to face again. Soon after, Talley readily hands authority of the hostage situation over to the Ventura County Sheriffs Department and leaves the scene. Meanwhile, inside the compound is digital information, which is time sensitive and invaluable to the mysterious criminals and critical to their enterprise. They will stop at nothing to get what belongs to them. Talley is forced to resume the command he abandoned, where the stakes quickly evolve into a hostage situation far more volatile and terrifying than anything he could ever imagine.
When a family is held hostage, former hostage negotiator Jeff Talley arrives at the scene, however, the tables turn on Talley when his own family is kidnapped and Talley must decide which is more important: saving a family he doesn't even know or saving his own family. There wealthy recluse Walter Smith's fortress villa is chose after a silly boasting game as next robbery target by maverick Mars Krupcheck, cocky Dennis Kelly and his dragged-along, basically decent kid brother Kevin. Walter gets shot, but his alarms alert he police and later shut down the compound, while his snooty daughter Jennifer foolishly flirts and smart kid son Tommy manages to hide and contact Talley, who initially planned to lay low. The chief dismisses the blundering FBI, forced by the kidnapping of his own family to go in and retrieve a mysterious secret file for a shady but mighty mastermind bunch. All plans are crosses by surprises, from the panicking amateur fiends, kids and Jeff.
Jeff Talley (Bruce Willis), a former Los Angeles SWAT police negotiator, has moved to Bristo Camino, a small quiet town away from the big city. He now serves as the chief of police with a small force in a town that has very little crime. After ten years as a hostage negotiator, Jeff was just burned out and needed a quieter life, especially, after his last standoff ended in the death of the hostages. Three teenagers decide to simply steal an SUV from a wealthy accountant just for fun. What started out as a simple theft ended up with the death of a policewoman. The teenage thieves are trapped inside when police backup arrives at the house. The house is heavily fortified with armor and bulletproof glass for the owner's protection, but in this case, it protects the boys from the police. The boys take the family hostage, and Jeff must become something he never wanted to do again, be a hostage negotiator. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
