This is the story of wronged and misunderstood Arvasu (Milind Soman), a brahman by caste, who has become a performing actor. He loves Nittilai (Sonali Kulkarni), who reciprocates his love, but seeks approval of her father and her village's elders before marrying him. Arvasu's brother is Parvasu (Jackie Shroff) who has been conducting a major prayer ceremony to appease Devraj Indra (Amitabh Bachchan) so that their region may get rain. Arvasu's father is Raibhya (Mohan Agashe), who dislikes both his sons, and wishes that he cremate them before his death. Raibhyu, suspects Vishaka (Raveena Tandon) Parvasu's wife, of having an illicit affair with Yarvaki (Nagarjuna), and detests her. Yavarki loves Vishaka, but left her to worship and pray to Devraj Indra for 10 years, and on his return found her married to Parvasu. Parvasu married Vishaka, lived with her happily for 3 years, before leaving her to conduct the prayer ceremoney for Devraj Indra. On finding that Vishaka has met with Yavarki, an engraged Raibhya summons a Brahm Rakshas, a demon (Prabhu Deva) to kill Yavarki. The demon does so, and Arvasu has to cremate him; this delays his appointment with Nittilai's dad and her village elders, and as a result she is married to someone else. When Parvasu hears of the death of Yavarki, he kills his father, and subsequently blames Arvasu for this and has him badly beaten up and left for dead. When Nittilai hears of this, she comes to the rescue of Arvasu, and finds that she is being hunted by her husband and herbrother, who will kill her on sight. Sutradhar (Raghuvir Yadav) arranges an act to entertain the Devas, and as a result Arvasu goes berserk, Nittilai exposes herself and is killed by her husband; Parvasu admits failure and cremates himself. Thus one by one, whoever, was close to Arvasu is dead. Finally appeased, Devraj Indra appears, and Arvasu is allowed a wish of his choice. The only thought in Arvasu's mind is to bring Nittilai back to life, but will Devraj Indra turn history around and help Arvasu?
The land has been in the grip of a ravaging drought for 10 years. In order to appease the Lord of Gods Indra (Amitabh Bachchan), custodian of rain, a grand fire sacrifice is being conducted at the palace under the guidance of the Chief Priest, Paravasu (Jackie Shroff). As this sacrifice draws to its close, our story begins. Paravasu is the elder son of the great sage Raibhya (Mohan Agashe). For 7 years he has watched over the holy fire, forsaking his wife, family and every earthly pleasure. Paravasu's young brother Arvasu (Milind Soman) is in love with a tribal girl, Nittilai (Sonali Kulkarni). Arvasu prepares to marry outside his Brahmin caste - but for this, according to the tribal custom, he has to present himself before Nittilai's village elders. Paravasu's cousin and bitter rival Yavakri (Nagarjuna) has just returned triumphant after 10 years of practicing austerities in the jungle, with the gift of universal knowledge from the gods. To seek revenge, Yavakri seduces Paravasu's lonely wife Vishakha (Raveena Tandon). This sets off an irrevocable chain of events that lead to Aravasu losing his love, Paravasu desecrating the great sacrifice, the creation of a demon and the deaths of Yavakri and Raibhya. Finally, the purity of Arvasu and Nittilai's love brings salvation to the land. This film is adapted from the play The Fire and the Rain by one of India's foremost playwrights, Girish Karnad. The story is derived from the myth of Yavakri, which is a part of the great Indian epic, the Mahabharata.

