SpongeBob SquarePants takes leave from the town of Bikini Bottom in order to track down King Neptune's stolen crown.
After King Neptune's crown is stolen, SpongeBob and Patrick go on a quest in 6 days to retrieve his crown. On the way SpongeBob and Patrick defeat many evildoers using their brains and bronzes. While this is happening someone is taking over Bikini Bottom and SpongeBob and Patrick must defeat this mastermind.
No one is safe in the colourful and once-peaceful underwater town of Bikini Bottom, as the royal crown of the sea's all-powerful deity, King Neptune, has been stolen by a bold and mysterious thief. Wrongfully accused for this hideous crime, the owner of the seabed's most successful burger joint, Mr Krabs, will have no other choice but to entrust his boxy employee and incurable optimist, SpongeBob SquarePants, and his best friend, Patrick Star, with clearing his name--even though he deprived him of a big promotion. But, where should the team of aquatic detectives start? Given an impossible six-day deadline, SpongeBob and Patrick will eventually find themselves venturing in the unforgiving territory of the God-forsaken Shell City--the dark realm of horrible creatures. Will they manage to find it in time?
There's trouble brewing in Bikini Bottom. Someone has stolen King Neptune's crown, and it looks like Mr. Krabs, SpongeBob's boss, is the culprit. Though he has just been passed over for the promotion of his dreams, SpongeBob stands by his boss, and along with his best pal Patrick, sets out on a treacherous mission to Shell City to reclaim the crown and save Mr. Krabs' life.
Trouble is brewing in Bikini Bottom. Plankton has stolen King Neptune's crown and has blamed it on Mr Krabs, Spongebob's boss. Spongebob is upset about being turned down for the promotion of his life, but forgives Mr Krabs and sets out to prevent his boss from being executed. However Neptune's crown is in the dreaded Shell City... a sinister place (at least, to the marine world) that sea creatures have rarely returned from. Can Spongebob and Patrick make it through the six-day limit to save Mr Krabs? They'll have to as Plankton has taken control of everyone in town except King Neptune and his daughter, Princess Mindy.
This movie starts out unanimated with pirates sailing in open water. One of the pirates is looking through his spyglass and spots something. Then another pirate is rowing a dinghy toward the pirate ship that contains a treasure chest. The chest and pirate are brought aboard where the captain opens it to reveal tickets to the Spongebob movie. The ship pulls up to dryland and the pirates race to the cinema where they rush to their seats. This is where the animation begins. We see Mr. Krabs(Clancy Brown) talking to a reporter about "a situation" and that he would rather wait for his manager to arrive until he discusses it. Turns out the "situation" is a customer ordered a crabby patty with cheese but it has no cheese. Then Spongebob(Tom Kenny) pulls up in a car that has flames down the side of it, gets out wearing cowboy boots and spurs and asks Mr. Krabs what the problem is. SB goes in and puts cheese on the patty in his own unique way and comes out the door carrying the customer and says "Order Up". The crowd applauds and lifts Spongebob up and yells "Three cheers for Spongebob, Hip Hip HOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOnk(Spongebobs foghorn alarm clock), Hip Hip HOOOOOOOOOOOOOOnk, Hip Hip HOOOOOOOOOOOOOOnk and he wakes on the third honk. SB then tells Gary that he had that dream again. SB goes to the calendar and tells Gary that today is the day, the opening of the Krusty Krab 2 where Mr. Krabs will name the manager of it. He is convinced it will be him due to the fact that he has been the employee of the month for thirty something months in a row. SB takes a shower, gets dressed and leaves, talks to Squidward(Rodger Bumpass) while he is taking a shower in his own house, about being named the new manager, then tallks to Patrick(Bill Faberbakke) about being named manager where after they will party till they are purple at Goofy Goobers. At the ceremony there are reporters present talking about the opening of the new KK2. Plankton(Mr. Lawrence) sees it and asks Karen(Jill Talley) why he can't be successful like Mr. K. He says he has exhausted every plan from A to Y. Karen asks about Plan Z. Across the street Mr. Krabs starts the show by announcing the new manager as Squidward. SB is disappointed and asks why he was not named. Mr. K. tells him the reason is because he is just a kid. SB walks away with his head down. Then Patrick flies in praising SB for his promotion with a SB flag between his buttcheeks and crashes into the stage collapsing it. Later that evening Plankton goes to King Neptunes(Jeffrey Tambor) castle and steals his crown leaving a note saying Mr. Krabs did it. Neptune confronts Mr. K. about it at the KK2 and starts to fry him on the spot. SB tells Neptune that he will go get the crown and Neptune laughs in his face saying that he can't do that because he is only a kid. Neptune gives SB 6 days to find the crown before he burns Mr. K. During that 6 days, Mr. K. has to stay frozen and then Neptune freezes him. SB and Patrick take off to Shell City to retrieve the crown in the "Patty Wagon", a promotional car that is an exact replica of a Krabby Patty. They stop at the county line to fill up where two "hick" fish tell them, "you won't last ten seconds over the county line" because they are just kids. Crossing the line a large, mean looking fish makes them get out of the car. As he speeds away, SB asks the "hicks", "how many seconds was that" and they say "twelve" and SB and Patrick high five each other and say "in your face". Meanwhile, Plankton has stolen the Krabby Patty formula from Mr. K., started selling patties and giving away chum bucket helmets with every puchase. Squidward leaves home and everywhere in town he sees people are wearing these helmets. Finding out where they got them, he confronts Plankton and says he is going to tell Neptune that he stole the crown. At that moment, Plankton pushes a button and all the helmets become mind controlling with Plankton in charge. SB and Pat are walking now and spot their car at a local tavern filled with rough and tough thugs named "Tough Tavern". They get the key and are back on the road again. Back at Bikini Bottom, Plankton has the big head and tells Karen that nothing can stop him now. Everyone wearing a helmet is constructing a monument that is a replica of Plankton and whatever else he wants. Karen says that nothing can stop him but SB and his pink friend. Plankton says he has taken care of that by hiring a hitman named Dennis(Alec Baldwin). SB and Pat lose the car again when a monster eats it by posing as an old lady selling ice cream. To go any farther, they have to cross a deep cavern filled with hideous monsters. They decide it can't be done by a couple of kids and start to go back home. At that moment, Mindy(Scarlett Johansson), who is Neptunes daughter, shows up and tells them they can not go home because of what Plankton is up to and decides to turn them into men. She makes them close their eyes and she puts seaweed on their lips as mustaches. So they start singing the "Now That We're Men" song and cross the cavern. On the other side, Dennis confronts them for the first time saying Plankton wanted him to step on them. A giant foot then steps on Dennis and SB and Pat see that it is the cyclops that guards Shell City. The cyclops grabs those two and takes them to his hideout. SB and Pat wake up laying on colored rocks in a fishbowl. Turns out, Shell City is a gift shop for dead sealife. SB and Pat escape with Neptunes crown after realizing that they as a couple of kids DID reach Shell City. Now they are wondering how to get home when David Hasselhoff tells them that he can take them. They get on his back and start home on top of the water just as a boat would. Dennis shows up again to step on them and gets knocked off by another boat. At that time Neptune is at the KK2 to burn Mr. K. with Plankton sitting close by eating popcorn and waiting for the show. At the last second, SB and Pat show up with the crown. Plankton then puts a king size helmet on Neptune and tells him to burn SB and Pat and Mr. K. SB turns into a wizard singing the goofy goober words to the tune of Twisted Sisters "I Wanna Rock", destroys all the helmets with laser beams out of his guitar and saves the day. Neptune unfreezes Mr. K., the cops arrest Plankton and put him in jail and SB is made manager.
