An elderly couple wish their children to care for them in their old age. But their children see and treat them as a burden, and they must struggle to regain their worth and dignity to themselves and others.
Raj Malhotra and wife Pooja have four sons. The sons have settled down professionally and are quite independent. However, when Raj Malhotra retires, none of his children want to be burdened with the responsibility of taking care of their parents. Strangely, it is the adopted son who proves to be the most kind hearted of them all. Salman's girlfriend eventually marries him. The question is, will Raj and Pooja's sons learn the folly of their ways and turn over a new leaf?
Raj Malhotra alias Raju is employed as an accountant in a bank and has been married to Pooja for 40 years. The couple has four sons and struggles to bring them up as well as make them independent, settled and successful individuals in life in which they eventually succeed after numerous efforts. When it is time for Raju to retire he is given a warm farewell by the bank's staff and plans to utilize his retirement days in the company of his children quite unfortunately the children uses this opportunity to separate this loving couple. Their adopted overseas return son, Alok and his wife arrive just in time to not only rescue but unite them together forever as well as give them the love and respect they expect from their biological children.
Raj Malhotra and his wife Pooja have raised a family of four sons who are now nicely settled in their respective professions. Their life is filled with love and prosperity, and all this has been possible because Raj has invested all his income including his provident fund and gratuity who according to him are his assets that would secure his future. But when he retires, life suddenly changes. None of the four sons is ready to take their parents responsibility. To the extent Raj and Pooja then depend on the kindness of strangers. How Raj Malhotra through strife and hardship overcomes this turmoil and comes up a winner is central crux of Baghban.
Raju alias Raj Malhotra and his wife, Pooja have been married for over 40 years now. Raj works in a bank as an accountant. Their marriage resulted in the birth of four sons, as well as financial expense of looking after an orphan, Alok. Raj &amp; Pooja make many sacrifices for their sons, get them married in different places in India. Soon they become grand-parents of a boy, Rahul and a girl, Payal. It is now time for Raj to retire from his bank job, and he does so. Raj and Pooja expect their sons to look after them in turns, but fate, their sons, and their respective wives, play a cruel trick on this loving couple, when they are asked to live separately with two different families, in two different cities, for the rest of their lives. Hoping that things turn out for the best, both agree to trust their children, and go their separate ways. Their respective sons and daughter-in-laws are cruel, and abusive, and at the end of six months, both Raj and Pooja decide that it is time to leave and move to the house of their other two sons. Both agree to meet each other at Vijay Nagar, the very place where they spent their honey-moon 41 years ago. While their other sons await the arrival of their parents, both Raj and Pooja decide not to return back to a life of abuse and cruelty, and they decide to take the matters into their hands, not knowing that this decision will alter their lives forever.
The movie tells the story of Raj Malhotra (Amitabh Bachchan), his wife Pooja (Hema Malini) and their four sons Ajay (Aman Verma), Sanjay (Samir Soni), Rohit (Saahil Chadda), and Karan (Nasir Kazi). Raj and Pooja have provided their children with everything they wanted, often at the cost of Raj's and Pooja's own requirements. The Malhotras also have an adopted son Alok (Salman Khan), who is in love with Arpita (Mahima Chaudhry) (both in special appearances). Alok was an orphan and Raj had provided him with money and education, bringing him up as his own son. Now a successful man, Alok worships Raj because of all his help and thinks him as his own father which he never had.Raj has a flourishing job but, once he retires, he is no longer able to support himself and has to vacate the house he and Pooja have shared for years. They decide to live with their kids to get their love and affection. However, their kids do not want them, as they think looking after their parents will be a hassle. The children decide to split the parents up, each parent going to live with one of the sons for the next 6 months. The children think the parents will refuse the offer and therefore, they will remain in their home. However, the parents reluctantly accept the offer. The story shows how the aged parents endure this separation as well as horrible treatment from their children after all they have sacrificed for them during their lifetime. Their grandson, Rahul, is the only one who gives Raj love and affection. Saddened by the treatment he has received from his children and their families, Raj writes down all his feelings regarding how he fulfilled all his children's dreams and in return how they treat him, as well as his love for his wife, and how much pain their separation has caused, his writing eventually becoming a novel. To pass time in the lonesome and angry house he temporarily lives in, he makes friends that admire him and regard him more than Raj's own sons. Pooja, meanwhile, endures abuse from her son and daughter-in-law, as well as her granddaughter, Payal. Payal, though, realizes her mistake when Pooja saves her from her boyfriend's sexual advances, and nurtures Pooja with love.While changing their trains after 6 months, Raj and Pooja spend some time together in Mumbai, when they suddenly meet Alok, who takes them to his home and gives them the importance and care which their real sons did not give them. Raj then finds out that his writing has become a published book named Baghban. This book becomes a big hit, selling the first copies immediately. Raj, as a result, gains the money he needs to support himself and Pooja in their old age. Their four sons find out, and are irked by the fact that they are not receiving any money. They decide to ask their parents for forgiveness to achieve this end. Payal and Rahul, though, realize their true motives and refuse to come with their parents. Raj is honored for his work, and the four sons attend with their wives. When they ask Raj to forgive them, he refuses and instead disowns them. Not even Pooja will forgive her children for the pain they have put them through.Raj stays with Pooja in their home, near Alok and Arpita, and enjoy the company of Rahul and Payal, while disowning their sons and daughters-in-law for all eternity!
