After his career is sidelined by an unexpected tragedy and a personal blow-up, a single man must take care of his precocious daughter.
Oliver Trinke has always tried to put his Highlands, New Jersey past behind him, but it has been a difficult task for the past six years. Ollie was a successful New York City music publicist. He and his wife Gertrude had a daughter, immediately after which Gertrude died leading to Ollie naming their daughter Gertie. Unprepared to be a father let alone a single father, Ollie, through a single incident largely putting his desire for professional success over his responsibilities as a father, became persona non grata in the entertainment publicity industry, resulting in Ollie and Gertie needing to move back to Highlands, moving in with his father, Bart Trinke, until he got back onto his feet. But unexpectedly for Ollie, getting back on his feet in an immediate sense meant getting a job working side-by-side with Bart in the Borough of Highlands works crew, a job he still has. Ollie still has the desire both to get back to a New York City life and a high powered job as an entertainment publicist, despite learning to be a responsible, loving father to Gertie in his current life. To the contrary, Gertie, now seven, has only known life in Highlands, liking everything about it, including living with Bart, her "Pop". As Ollie tries to make his dream come true, he may get a clearer picture of his priorities with the help in part from Maya, a video store clerk/graduate student that Ollie and Gertie befriend.
Ollie Trinkie is a publicist, who has a great girlfriend, Gertrude, whom he marries and they are expecting a baby but while he is looking forward to being a father, he doesn't lighten his workload. Gertrude gives birth but dies in the process. Ollie doesn't live up to his responsibilities as a father. Eventually the strain and pressure of losing his wife and being a father gets to him and he has breakdown, which leads to his termination. So with nothing much to do he tries to be good father to his daughter, Gertie. He also meets a young woman name Maya, who likes him but he is still not over his wife.
In New York, the young executive Oliver "Ollie" Trinke is a successful PR of the music industry. He meets and falls in love for Gertrude Steiney, who soon gets pregnant. However, she dies in the childbirth and Ollie decides to return to his father's home in New Jersey. Pressed by the situation of lonely father, the workaholic Ollie blows-up in an important press conference and makes a fatal statement, losing his job and becoming blacklisted in his publicist career. He promises to be the "best father in the world" to the young Gertie, and stays single, grieving his beloved wife, without dating any woman for seven years and trying to retrieve a position of public relation. One day, he meets the rental clerk Maya, they become friends and she helps him to supersede his past life.
When a work-a-holic man becomes a father and loses his wife in one fell swoop, he does what any man would do, he pawns the kid off on his father and buries himself in his work. But when his father decides that it's time that he shoulder his responsibilities, he learns what it means to be a dad.
Ollie Trinke is expecting a baby with his new wife, Gertrude. When the baby arrives, Gertrude has an aneurysm and passes away after the birth of their new baby daughter Gertrude "Gertie" Trinke. He is forced to live with his father while raising little Gertie. After Gertrude's death, problems occur with Ollie at his job. After getting fired, Ollie's life changes after he meets a video store clerk and Gerti's life is struggling while her father is at a new job. Then later, Ollie learns that your family matters more to you in life.
Ollie is a big time publicist in New York, with his wife Gertie, who is expecting a baby. During the birth of her daughter, Gertie dies and Ollie finds himself in a state of anger and depression. Who continues to keep plugging away at his job but after saying some things at a Will Smith appearance he is fired and ends up living with his father Ollie Sr.
New York City, 1995. Oliver "Ollie" Trinké (Ben Affleck) is a powerful media publicist who meets and quickly marries an attractive young Latina woman named Gertrude Steiney (Jennifer Lopez) and they are both very happy together. After about six or seven months, Gertrude discovers that she is pregnant, but Ollie, obsessed with his publicity work, neglects her in favor of his job and doesn't lighten his workload. On her due date, Gertrude does go into labor and Ollie forces himself to leave his office to be at the the hospital with her, but tragedy strikes when Gertrude dies from internal bleeding during childbirth.To avoid his grief, Ollie buries himself in his work and spends long hours (day and night) at the office denying he is feeling any grief and ignores his newborn daughter, Gertie, while his widowed father, Bart (George Carlin), takes a month off from work at the Jersey City Sanitation Crew to care for her, but returns so that his son is forced to live up to his responsibility as a parent. Ollie is forced to take his baby daughter to work with him just when he must address a group of reporters. Under the stress of a botched diaper change and a baby who will not stop crying, Ollie trashes his latest client Will Smith, (who is late showing up for his soon-to-be released film Independence Day) in front of a large group of assembled reporters. The outburst costs him his job, so he moves out of New York and in with his father in New Jersey. He eventually apologizes for ignoring his daughter, and attributes his public outburst to his grief.Seven years later in 2003, Ollie is still living in New Jersey with his father, Bart, and seven-year-old Gertie (Raquel Castro). When he goes to apply for a job at a local publcity firm, he finds that he is still blacklisted by all of New York's public relations firms who refuse to hire him despite his impressive job resume. Ollie has been forced to work as a civil servant in the Jersey City borough where he now lives (working as a garbage collector) alongside his father. Gertie, now in elementary school, often coaxes him to rent movies to watch as spending quality time together. At the video store, they meet Maya (Liv Tyler), one of the store's clerks, whose uninhibited probing into Ollie's love life almost leads to them having casual sex. She soon becomes a part of their lives.As part of his job in the borough, Ollie speaks to a group of outraged citizens to win over their approval for a major public works project that will temporarily close a street in the neighborhood. His successful and enjoyable interaction with the crowd leads him to realize how much he misses the public relations work. He contacts Arthur (Jason Biggs), his one-time protégé, who sets up a promising interview at a promising firm who agree to meet with him.The prospect of moving to New York creates tension among Ollie, Gertie, Bart, and Maya, especially when he says that his interview is on the same day as Gertie's school talent show. She yells at him, saying she hates him and that she wishes he had died instead of her mom. He claims he hates her right back, and says she and Gertrude took his life away and he just wants it back. He immediately regrets it and tries to apologize, but the damage is done and she pushes him away and runs to her room, crying.A few days later he and Gertie apologize, and she accepts the fact that they will be moving to New York. While waiting to be interviewed at the office, he has a chance encounter with Will Smith (playing himself), the man he trashed at his public outburst years before. Smith has no idea who Ollie is, but their conversation about work and children makes him decide to sacrifice the former for the latter.Ollie walks out of the office before he is interviewed and so is able to make it to Gertie's Sweeney Todd performance at the last moment. The film ends with him, Gertie, Bart, Maya, and the rest celebrating at the bar. He and Maya hint at possible feelings for each other before being interrupted by Gertie. He holds her and says that they are staying in New Jersey with Bart because he did not take the job in New York. She asks why he did so if he loved it so much. He says that he thought he did, but he loved his new life more because being a father to her was the only thing that he was ever really good at.
