Violence in Korean High School, especially inside the WaSanGo (Volcano High). You won't be able to escape.
This year is the 108th anniversary of the Korean high School "WaSanGo" (Volcano High). Principal hides himself with "Secret Manuscript" which every WaSanGo student wants to take from principal... Kyang-Soo Kim (Jang Hyuk) fell asleep in physics lessons when teacher writes X and turn to Kyang-Soo. Teacher threw chalk to Kyang-Soo but Kyang-Soo stop the chalk and push the chalk to trap teacher at blackboard, and was being expelled from his 8th high school. Kyang-Soo farewell with his friends and reach WaSanGo, his 9th high school. Kyang-Soo was shocked by the brilliant martial skills of the WSG students. Kyang-Soo first met "Dark Oxen" Jang-Rhang. Kyang-Soo also met the prettiest girl "Yoo Chae-I", "Icy Jade", in WaSanGo. Kyang-Soo get inside the school corridor and met "Tea Expert" Hak-Rim(Sang-Woo Kwone). Hak-Rim finish tea bottle and handed to vice-principal (principal is absent) to let principal to taste his made tea leaves. Lunch time, a WSG student was eating "Fujian ToFu". Jang-Rhang hates "Fujian Tofu" because "Fujian Tofu" makes Jang-Rhang to memorize his angry and hideous mother. Jang-Rhang pull the student for fight. Hak-Rim came in time and blocked Jang-Rhang to hit that WSG classmate, got onto Jang-Rhang's nerves. Jang-Rhang order the changing of Hak-Rim's tea leaves into poisoned leaves, and kill the principal. Checking Principal's deceased body, Vice-Principal got a written paper. It wrote "Suspect : (1) Vice-Principal (2) Song Hak-Rim (WSG Tea Expert)". Hak-Rim was being called and was jailed. "Yoo Chae-I" felt Hak-Rim innocent and plan to help Hak-Rim, visit Hak-Rim with her best female friend. Hak-Rim ask "Yoo Chae-I" to bring Kyang-Soo. When Kyang-Soo is brought to Hak-Rim, Hak-Rim teach Kyang-Soo everything he (Hak-Rim Song) knows, and counted on Kyang-Soo to defeat Jang-Rhang. Jang-Rhang challenge all WSG students with a "2-day ultimatum". "Yoo Chae-I" trained her sword skills harder to prepare for the facing of this 2-day-challenge. But it was actually "Jang-Rhang tells IcyJade he loves her". "Yoo Chae-I" refused Jang-Rhang. One day, "Yoo Chae-I" get into the male bathroom/toilet and was being reported by the male victim, and was going to be expelled from WaSanGo. Kyang-Soo ask vice-principal to keep "Yoo Chae-I". "Yoo Chae-I" was being impressed and began to love Kyang-Soo. The final battle of WSG, Jang-Rhang versus Kim "HandSome" Kyang-Soo. Finally Jang-Rhang was being defeated and Kyang-Soo was being praised by "Yoo Chae-I". But Kyang-Soo saw "Yoo Chae-I" and collapsed. "Yoo Chae-I" was worried of Kyang-Soo. Hak-Rim was happy to receive the news, though Hak-Rim can't be released. Kyang-Soo graduated from Wasango.
Chinese Storyline
URL: img230.imageshack.us/img230/2679/hecatemjf.jpg===Volcano High reaches its 108th year (anniversary). The headmaster (Wa-San-Go) has got a book, "Secret Manuscript". The "Wa-San-Go" students train themselves to steal this book, from headmaster...Kim Kyang-Soo, who had transferred school for 7 times, inside his 8th high school...Chemistry Lesson...The teacher writes an "X" on the blackboard, then he turn his head, and find that Kyang-Soo was sleeping."How many times had I told you, don't sleep in lessons!"Teacher threw his chalk to Kyang-Soo, but Kyang-Soo use his power to stop the chalk, in front of Kyang-Soo...Kyang-Soo return the chalk and injure the teacher...Kyang-Soo expelled from school...decide to continue his study (choose 9th High School) to "Wa-San-Go" (Volcano High).The teachers and students, inside "Wa-San-Go", are skilled martial experts. Kyang-Soo was shocked of seeing the skills of some of the people there.There is a triad gang, head by Jang-Rhang (Dark Oxen, Wa-San-Go), who always beat people for fun.Kyang-Soo had also met "Icy Jade", the prettiest girl in Wa-San-Go, who is good at sword ...Song Hak-Rim (Kwon Sang Woo), who is also good in tea-roasting, had just finished roasting a bottle of tea-leaves.Hak-Rim leave the "Tea Room" and fight with Kyang-Soo, and found that Kyang-Soo isn't an ordinary student, and even ask where did Kyang-Soo learn such a good martial skills.Kyang-Soo defeated Hak-Rim's record by injuring Hak-Rim, Hak-Rim was compelled to the Medical Inspection Room to cure his wound, made by Kyang-Soo. Once Hak-Rim arrived, many students got shocked of seeing Hak-Rim...After Hak-Rim recovered, he took a bottle of tea-leaves, and remember that he has to hand the bottle to the headmaster...Hak-Rim ask the vice principal to give the bottle to the principal.Meanwhile, it's the LUNCH TIME of the "Wa-San-Go" students. Jang-Rhang walked forward, find a student eating a chinese cuisine, and pull him for a fight.Hak-Rim came by, and told Jang-Rhang that "Fighting inside canteen is prohibited", and stop the fight.Jang-Rhang decide to retaliate, ask his gang-slaves to use a bottle of poison-leaves, to replace Hak-Rim's tea (give to principal).The principal got killed by the poison from the poison-leaves. The vice principal got a paper-note and read..."Suspect:
(1) Song Hak-Rim
(2) Vice PrincipalHak-Rim is being called, and got jailed.Some females, include "Icy Jade", feel that Hak-Rim is innocent, and began to oppose Jang-Rhang.The females formed a female-only martial groups, for the future preparation against Jang-Rhang...One day, Jang-Rhang suddenly challenged others by declaring a "2-day notice" challenge, others (include the girl-group) prepared.When Jang-Rhang declare that it's actually about, "tell Icy Jade that he loves her" ...Icy Jade refused.Icy Jade, with her female friend, visited Hak-Rim in jail. Hak-Rim, "I had battle with Kyang-Soo before principal's deceased. Kyang-Soo's exceptional...! Bring Kyang-Soo!"Hak-Rim fight with Kyang-Soo, reconnecting Kyang-Soo's pulse, make Kyang-Soo the best fighter of "Wa-San-Go".Because of Kyang-Soo's help, "Icy Jade" (prettiest girl) doesn't need to be expelled from "Wa-San-Go", she began to love Kyang-Soo.Since that time, when Kyang-Soo battle with Jang-Rhang, Kyang-Soo could defeat Jang-Rhang without being defeated...Finally, Kyang-Soo succeeded to graduate from High School, without being expelled!
