When a son of a gangster shark boss is accidentally killed while on the hunt, his would-be prey and his vegetarian brother decide to use the incident to their own advantage.
The sea underworld is shaken up when the son of the shark mob boss is found dead and a young fish named Oscar is found at the scene. Being a bottom feeder, Oscar takes advantage of the situation and makes himself look like he killed the finned mobster. Oscar soon comes to realize that his claim may have serious consequences.
This mafia movie, set in the world of saltwater fish, is the story of what happens when the son of the shark boss (De Niro) of a fish crime family is killed by a dropped anchor, and a bottom-feeder named Oscar (Smith) is found at the scene of the crime. Hoping to win favor with the enemies of the ganglord, the fast-talking hustler poses as the killer known as the "sharkslayer", but soon learns it's a dangerous game in a world where the big fish generally eat the little fish...
Oscar (Will Smith-voice) is a little fish working in the whale-wash as a tongue washer, the bottom of the fish organizational chart. Oscar dreams of becoming a somebody some day and living at the top of the Reef. Oscar has been getting advances on his wages from his boss, Sykes (Martin Scorsese-voice) a puffer fish, to bet on the seahorse races. Don Lino (Robert DeNiro-voice) is the great white shark mafia boss at the top of the Reef's food chain, who wants his two sons, Lenny (Jack Black-voice) and Frankie (Michael Imperioli-voice), to take over the business. Don Lino orders Sykes to pay what he owes him. In turn, Sykes orders Oscar to pay the 5,000-clams debt he owes him. Oscar is able to get the clams from his best friend, Angie (Renee Zellweger-voice), who has a secret crush on him. Oscar is supposed to pay Sykes at the racetrack; regrettably, Oscar makes a 5,000-clam bet, and Sykes ends up ordering his jellyfish to take Oscar out. Frankie is about to eat Oscar when he is hit and killed by an anchor. Oscar takes credit for killing the shark, and he becomes the Sharkslayer and protector of the Reef. Lenny, a vegetarian, becomes Oscar's friend and helps him with the charade. Don Lino is out to avenge his son's death by ordering all the sharks to find and eat Oscar. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
