Enter a dark, dangerous world where the lines between reality and fantasy are blurred. Angela is 18, a stunning Dutch blonde, a comic illustrator, and bored with life. Eager for adventure, she moves to Tokyo to become a bar hostess for Asian men who like Western women. An innocent in this sexual underworld, she confronts sleazy customers, jealous co-workers and a mystery: the disappearance of a former hostess. As she discovers clues, she sketches them out in comic-strip style, and slowly begins to confuse what she knows with what she draws.
Drawing manga-style comics is Angela's passion, but it won't get the dreamy, 18-year-old blonde out of her European hometown. Hungry for adventure, Angela spontaneously takes up the idea of Japanese DJ Yamamoto she meets at a her graduation party and flies to Tokyo to work as a hostess. Tokyo instantly casts its spell on the impressionable youth, and her comics soon turn into animes, threatening, violent action comics that unreel before her eyes with terrifying vividness. Angela plunges into a dark story of cruelty and murder, of naïve young European women swallowed up into the brightly lit nights of downtown Tokyo, of men so powerful that even the police steer clear of them. Aware that she is and must be the heroine of her epic, Angela, the Stratosphere Girl, feverishly sketches the story that will reveal the truth. As she lives out the comic she is drawing, each stroke of her pencil brings her closer to triumph - or doom. STRATOSHPERE GIRL blends European storytelling with Japanese anime cartoon power into a stylized action-mystery. With a stunning visual concept, director MX Oberg (Undertaker's Paradise) and cinematographer Michael Mieke (Baby) vividly capture an alienating world.
Drawing manga-style comics is Angela's passion. Hungry for adventure, she spontaneously flies to Tokyo to work as a hostess. The city instantly casts its spell on her and Angela plunges into a dark story of cruelty and murder, of naïve young European women swallowed up into the brightly lit nights of downtown Tokyo.

