Sanjana lives in a big city along with her husband and two daughters. But things are not quite rosy as the couple faces a disastrous situation in there life which leads to divorce. Sanjana along with her brother, Vicky, her two daughters and a dog relocates to a lonely house in a forest. While residing there Sanjana begins to see some odd situations taking place especially when her house is struck by lightening, her dog attacked her and she and her daughters is mysteriously raped. This is too much to take for Sanjana and she decides to contact a sage who is specialized in black magic he worked a spell and Sanjana was able to gather information that several hundred years ago elders in a tribe thought the best punishment of wrong-doers was death - by pushing them down a deep ravine to fall and die and that the sum-total of the wretched souls have combined into one giant unseen and unfelt entity and this leads to a tense finale to Hawa.
A divorce woman Sanjana, her brother Vicky and two daughters comes to reside at a bungalow in a forest region far-away from city area. Sanjana's life overturn when she is made a target by an unseen evil force who wants to take full control of her life. What she does not know is that long time ago the village people uses to punish wrong-doers by pushing them down a deep ravine so that they can fall to their death - all these evil forces comes together into one unseen creature and usually comes out when its lightening and this time it find an easy prey in Sanjana.
Sanjana a single mother living with her two daughter's and brother Vicky she locates to a new house in a lonely forest.On the very first night in their new house lighting strikes in the forest behind their house since then strange things start to happen in the house.Sanjana gets the feeling of a strange figure in the house who comes and rapes her and disappears like a wind.Sanjana has no choice rather then to stay in the house and face the daily abuse but decides to fight back with the strange figure.
Several hundred years ago elders in a tribe thought the best punishment of wrong-doers was death - by pushing them down a deep ravine to fall and die. Years later, a divorced woman named Sanjana, comes to live in a nearby house with her brother, Vicky, and two young daughters. She does not realize that the sum-total of the wretched souls have combined into one giant unseen and unfelt entity - who will force Sanjana to enter their dark, horrifying world - by luring one of her daughters in it, and start to sexually assault Sanjana. Sanjana attempts to fight this evil force is met by skepticism by people around her, and she must now make up her mind to give up her daughter, and start her life elsewhere, or continue on with her nightmarish life until the evil force finally kills her.

