A young woman conceals the fact of her terminal cancer to live her life with a passion she never had before.
Ann, 23 years old, lives a modest life with her two kids and her husband in a trailer in her mother's garden. Her life takes a dramatic turn, when her doctor tells her that she has uterine cancer and only two months to live. She compiles a list of things to do before she dies.
Sarah Polley plays Ann, a 24-year-old mother of two. Ann is married to Don (Scott Speedman), and they live near Ann's mother (Deborah Harry), who is bitter about the fact that Ann's father is serving a ten-year prison sentence. Ann learns that she has only a few months to live. She makes a series of goals to complete before her time on Earth comes to an end. Among her accomplishments are taking a lover (Mark Ruffalo), finding someone to care for Don, and recording birthday greetings for her two daughters..
Young Ann has a simple, but happy life with her husband, Don, and her two daughters, Penny and Patsy. Ann works as a janitor in the night-shift, cleaning at a University, Don builds swimming pools and they live in a trailer in Ann's mother's backyard. When Ann goes to the doctor expecting to be pregnant, she is informed that indeed she has a terminal cancer. She hides the information from her family and prepares for her death, making a list of ten outstanding subjects in her life, including preparing tapes for the birthdays of her daughters until they are eighteen years old; eating and drinking whatever she wants; telling only the truth; finding a new wife for her husband; visiting her father in the penitentiary; and making love with another man.
Twenty-three year old Ann has just been diagnosed with a terminal case of cancer, she having very little time left to live. She decides not to tell her family of the diagnosis, her family consisting of: Don, her loving husband and the only man she's ever been with and kissed; Penny and Patsy, her two young children; her angry mother, in whose backyard in a trailer Ann, Don and the kids live; and her incarcerated father, who she has not seen in a number of years. Because of the diagnosis, Ann compiles a list of things to do which is primarily to ensure that Don and the kids are taken care of after her passing. But the list also includes indulgent things for herself to make her collective life as complete as possible. Beyond her physician Dr. Thompson, Ann finds others she hopes will be a part of enacting her 'to do' list (without telling each of her impending death). These other people include Lee, a man she meets in a local café, and her new next door neighbor also named Ann.

