When a married couple moves into a flat that is haunted by a spirit, a series of inexplicable experiences drive the wife to near madness. Now, the husband must protect his wife to save their marriage.
Vishal (Ajay Devgan), a stock analyst, and his wife Swati (Urmila Matondkar). The two are in search for a flat in Mumbai. Vishal finds the perfect place on the 12th floor of a high-rise apartment building. However, the apartment has a horrifying past. The previous occupant of the flat, a young woman had killed her child and jumped from the balcony and died. Swati learns about this incident shortly after moving in and becomes oddly fixated with the story. Then, a series of inexplicable experiences drive Swati to near madness. Vishal becomes helpless and convinced his wife has developed some sort of psychological disorder. He consults a psychiatrist, Dr. Rajan (Victor Banerjee). The couple's maid (Seema Biswas) believes Swati to be possessed, and calls in an exorcist (Rekha). Meanwhile, other seemingly unrelated events take place around the building. The watchman (Sabeer Masani) is being terrorized, one of the residents Sanjay (Fardeen Khan) is behaving erratically, and a murder occurs. Inspector Liaqat Quereshi (Nana Patekar) is sent to investigate the murder at the building. All the while, neither the psychiatrist nor the exorcist makes much progress with Swati.
Vishal a stock analyst and his wife Swati a homemaker move into a new apartment.Vishal hides from Swati that the previous tenant a widower Manjeet had committed suicide and also killed her son as she would hesitate in shifting to the apartment but Swati finds it accidentally from Mr Thakkar care taker of the flat.Swati suddenly starts behaving strangely and takes help of Dr Rajan considering it a psychological disorder.But things got to worst when she kills building watchman.Vishal is broken as no treatment is working for Swati.His housemaid then tells Vishal that Swati has been possessed by someone and he should consult a exorcist.
Vishal and Swati meet, fall in love, and get married and buy an apartment in a good locality in Mumbai. After settling there, Swati finds out that the previous owner had been killed by committing suicide. Shortly thereafter she starts to visualize the suicide and hallucinates. When Vishal is told, he just shrugs this off, and even informs her that he knew about the death of the previous owner. Then someone kills the building watchman, and this matter is assigned to Police Inspector Qureshi, who begins his investigations, and concludes that this young couple have something to hide, and adds them as his prime suspects. Their claims that the watchman's death was due to an unearthly being only adds to his suspicion, and he starts his plans to arrest them.

