An IPS officer motivates and leads a dysfunctional, corrupt police force of Tezpur to fight against the corrupt politician.
An SP Amit Kumar who is given charge of Tezpur police station in Bihar. The area is full of corruption, inefficiency, bribery, nepotism, favoritism and crime with help from the local police. Gradually Amit realizes that the local politician Sadhu Yadav is the one who benefits the most out of it. Amit arrests Sunder Yadav, Sadhu's son. While Sunder is released soon, some police officers, get frustrated with the system, and pour acid into the eyes of two of Yadav's men, blinding them. A hue and cry is raised by the media, crime almost comes to a standstill, and the police are regarded with respect. SP Amit Kumar must now put an end to this kind of situation.
In a world of corruption, a young SP (Ajay Devgan) is sent the most violent &amp; corrupt city in India in the hope that he can make things better. But soon he realises that the growing violence, most due to corrupt politicians and police officers that take law in their own hands, putting an end to the terror maybe a dream. He must try to stop the violence before it ruins the life of the people in the city and maybe his own.
Superintendent of Police (SP) Amit Kumar is assigned the task of taking charge of Tejpur Police Headquarters, to which he agrees, and he and his wife, Anuradha, re-locate. Amit is appalled at the manner in which the police and it's officers conduct themselves. Corruption, inefficiency, bribery, nepotism, favoritism, and crime, especially at the hands of the police themselves, seem to be the rule, rather than the exception. His investigation into this nexus pits him against local politician, Sadhu Yadav, who is very influential, and can have Amit dismissed/transferred just by making a phone call to the Home Minister. Amit is undeterred by this, and arrests his brother, Sunder Yadav, and his men. While Sunder is released soon, some police officers, get frustrated with the system, and pour acid into the eyes of two of Yadav's men, blinding them. A hue and cry is raised by the media, crime almost comes to a standstill, and the police are regarded with respect. A official inquiry is commissioned, Amit is suspended and ordered to appear before the inquiry officials, where he must acknowledge that the crime did occur, and put the onus on the ones responsible, or simply deny any knowledge. Based on a true story in Bhagalpur, where 30 or so prisoners were blinded by prison guards and police in the 1980s in India.

