The feature adaptation of Roger Lewis' book about the actor best remembered as Inspector Clouseau in the Pink Panther movies.
The professional and personal life of actor and comedian Peter Sellers was a turbulent one. His early movie fame was based primarily on his comic characterizations, often of bumbling and foreign-accented persons, characters which he embodied. As his movie fame rose, he began to lose his own personal identity to his movie characters, leading to self-doubt of himself as a person and a constant need for reassurance and acceptance of his work. This self-doubt manifested itself in fits of anger and what was deemed as arrogance by many. In turn, his personal relationships began to deteriorate as his characterizations were continually used to mask his problems. His first wife, Anne Howe, left/divorced him and his relationships with his parents and children became increasingly distant. His relationship with his second wife, Swedish actress Britt Ekland, was based on this mask. In his later life, he tried to rediscover himself and his career with what would become his penultimate film role, that of Chance in Being There (1979).
A biographical film about Peter Sellers' turbulent rise from popular BBC radio performer to one of the world's most gifted comedic actors. Propelled by an overly possessive mother, Sellers struggled to reconcile his relationship with women, his celebrity status and his many selves.
Based on the biography of the same name. The Life and Death of Peter Sellers is the story of the comic actor, who would later immortalize bumbling Inspector Clouseau in the Pink Panther series. From his beginnings in show business as a variety performer to his ultimate success as a movie star, Peter Sellers was a man of many faces. But it was also that moniker that caught up with his personal life, when Sellers was a man without an identity and only a library of oddball characters to make up for his personality. Focusing on his rising success and his family life, The Life and Death of Peter Sellers is the story of a man whose personal life clashed with stardom, while he was an individual completely immersed in the characters he portrayed.

