A wealthy man working in an advertising agency and a dedicated doctor fall in love and marry. When his wife dies, the devastated man must fulfil her last wishes.
Rishabh and Parineeta are both deeply in love with each other. He is a wealthy young man, working in an advertising agency while she is a hardworking, dedicated doctor. Both marry and soon Pari is pregnant. Pari has a dream to create a hospital for children. Tragically, Pari is suddenly involved in an accident, and both the baby and she die in hospital. Pari's last wish was to donate her heart to a patient of hers called Dhani. Rishabh is devastated, and opposes the plan to donate the heart but goes ahead with Pari's last request. Dhani is cured much to the joy of her family and her grandmother. Rishabh has gone into depression but soon comes across Pari's project to build a hospital for children. He plans to fulfill her dream and begins to develop the hospital. Soon enough Rishabh and Dhani come across each other and she feels an instant attraction to him. Rishabh ignores her advances as he is still very much in love with Pari. Rishabh does not know that Pari's heart was given to Dhani and soon he realizes that but there Dhani faints then he starts to fall in love with her to thinking as if she is another Pari that has the same heart and then Dhani and Rishab get together.
Young and good-looking Dr. Parineeta alias Pari is in love with Rishabh, a wealthy young man, working in an advertising agency. Both plan to marry soon, as Pari gets pregnant. Unfortunately, Pari in involved in an accident, and both the baby and she die in hospital. In her will, Pari donates her heart to the hospital. Rishabh is devastated, and opposes the plan to donate the heart, the hospital, however, goes ahead with the Pari's last request. Rishabh, after a bout with depression, begins Pari's project, a hospital for sick children called Pari Lok. Meanwhile Pari's heart has been transplanted in a young woman named Dhani. Dhani and Rishabh's paths cross, and Dhani is instantly attracted to him, but Rishabh does not even look twice at her, and is immersed in Pari's memories.

