Darius Stone, a new agent in the xXx program, is sent to Washington, D.C. to stop a coup attempt against the President of the United States.
Agent Augustus Gibbons has selected an imprisoned former US Navy SEAL Darius Stone, a new agent in the XXX program, travels to Washington D.C., where they track a splinter faction of the U.S. military that attempts to overthrow the U.S. government and assassinate the President, led by Secretary of Defense and former 4-Star General George Deckert, Stone's former commanding officer whom he once led a mutiny against. But he's been targeted for assassination by a radical splinter group of dissenters deep within the United States government. The new XXX agent must uncover the insurgents from within. It is the nation's only hope to stop the first coup d'etat in American history.
NSA Agent Augustus Gibbons, fresh off the success of his last renegade recruitment, once again finds himself in need of an outsider. Gibbons and his new agent must track a dangerous military splinter group, led by General George Deckert, that is conspiring to overthrow the U.S. Government in the nation's capital.
Unknown assassins penetrate a secret National Security Agency underground facility in Virginia, and kill 16 NSA agents. Agent Augustus Gibbons (Samuel L. Jackson) escapes, and must find out who broke security and why. Gibbons must recruit a new XXX agent to do his dirty work. Gibbons has just the man, a former Navy Seal and member of his old military unit. However, Darius Stone (Ice Cube) was put in a military prison for 20 years, because he disobeyed a direct order from General George Deckert (Willem Dafoe), and he also broke the general's jaw. Just the man Gibbons needs to do the job. Gibbons gets Stone out of prison, and puts him to work. Stone discovers that Deckert, who is now the secretary of defense, is the mastermind of a conspiracy to stage a coup, and become President of the United States. Deckert has been training and placing his old military unit in the right places to stage his coup. Deckert wants the President killed and anybody above him in the line of secession. Darius Stone has other plans and is out to stop Deckert. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
