After Cheryl Frasier and Stan Fields are kidnapped, Gracie goes undercover in Las Vegas to find them.
Because of the notoriety she gained from the Miss United States pageant, Gracie Hart's life as an undercover F.B.I. Agent is over. In addition, Agent Eric Matthews broke off their relationship which she did not take well. Begrudgingly on the advice her boss, Director Harry McDonald, Gracie decides to become the F.B.I.'s media relations officer. Ten months later with the assistance of style coach Joel Meyers and a best selling book behind her about her experience, Gracie becomes a designer-clad media darling and the made-up face of the F.B.I. The new Gracie is the exact opposite of Agent Sam Fuller, a woman who, like Gracie before her pageant experience, has deep seated anger issues. The two do not get along, but that doesn't stop McDonald from assigning Sam to be Gracie's bodyguard. The two are sent to Las Vegas when Gracie's friend, reigning Miss United States Cheryl Frasier, and the long time Miss United States pageant host Stan Fields are kidnapped there. At the F.B.I.'s Las Vegas field office, Assistant Director Walter Collins wants Gracie solely to be the media spokesperson on the case, but Gracie wants to be back in the field, especially when she uncovers some leads Collins dismisses. Despite their antagonistic relationship, Gracie and Sam have to work together to follow these leads. Along with them are Joel and insecure F.B.I. Agent Jeff Foreman, the foursome who, in addition to finding Cheryl and Stan, have to elude Collins' other Agents, Collins, who wants Gracie and Sam back on a plane to New York City, and who wants the glory of solving the case for himself.
F.B.I. Agent Gracie Hart is assigned to promote the F.B.I., touring with the brutal Agent Sam Fuller as her bodyguard. While travelling around the country, her friend and Miss United States is kidnapped along with Stan Fields, and Gracie decides to investigate the abduction in Las Vegas on her own, and against the direct orders of local Chief Collins.
Sandra Bullock returns as FBI agent Gracie Hart in the second Miss Congeniality movie. Gracie has become well-known by the public after saving Cheryl Frasier (Heather Burns) at the Miss United States Pageant, where she was working undercover. Gracie is asked to become the face to the FBI, and give a positive face of the FBI by promoting her book on TV. Gracie has become a celebrity and is no longer a real FBI agent. Her friends from the pageant, Cheryl and Stan Fields (William Shatner) are kidnapped in Las Vegas, and Gracie wants to find them. Gracie is ordered by her boss to continue being the face of the FBI, while they find her friends. Gracie can't do that, so she starts her own investigation. Her bodyguard, FBI agent Sam Fuller (Regina King), and Gracie go undercover to find her friends, and the fireworks begin. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
