An overworked mother and her daughter do not get along. When they switch bodies, each is forced to adapt to the other's life for one freaky Friday.
The wide generation gap between Tess Coleman and her teenage daughter Anna is more than evident. They simply cannot understand each other's preferences. On a Thursday night they have a big argument in a Chinese restaurant. Both receive a fortune cookie each from the restaurant owner's mother which causes them to switch bodies next day. As they adjust with their new personalities, they begin to understand each other more and eventually it's the mutual self-respect that sorts the things out.
In the lives of Anna and Tess couldn't be more normal with very different worlds they lead. But on the night in a Chinese restraunt a Fortune cookie changes these women into different bodies and each of them needs to learn to adapt to the others interest. They learn that selfless love can set them free
Dr. Tess Coleman and her fifteen-year-old daughter, Anna, are not getting along. They don't see eye-to-eye on clothes, hair, music, and certainly not in each other's taste in men. One Thursday evening, their disagreements reach a fever pitch - Anna is incensed that her mother doesn't support her musical aspirations and Tess, a widow about to remarry, can't see why Anna won't give her fiancé a break. Everything soon changes when two identical Chinese fortune cookies cause a little mystic mayhem. The next morning, their Friday gets freaky when Tess and Anna find themselves inside the wrong bodies. As they literally walk a mile in each other's shoes, they gain a little newfound respect for the other's point of view. But with Tess's wedding coming on Saturday, the two have to find a way to switch back - and fast.
Annabel and her mother Tess are constant quibblers. Tess's fiance is an unacceptable replacement for Anna's dad, and Anna's music, friends, grades and taste in boys (ad nausem) are all unacceptable in her mother's eyes. Then dawns that fateful freaky Friday-- when Anna and Tess switch bodies, and must learn to live in each other's place. It is only then that "selfless love" will change them back. A fresh and delightful, if somewhat cheesy, family comedy.
Dr. Tess Coleman and her 15 year old daughter Anna are not getting along. One Thursday evening, at a Chinese restaurant, they read a fortune that switches their bodies and minds. The next morning, their Friday gets really freaky when Tess and Anna find that they have switched bodies. Will they switch back or will they stay in each other's bodies forever?

