Scott Calvin has been a humble Santa Claus for nearly ten years, but it might come to an end if he doesn't find a Mrs. Claus.
Scott Calvin has been Santa Claus for the past eight years, and his loyal elves consider him the best Santa ever. But he's got problems, such as a mysterious weight loss, and then he discovers that his son Charlie has landed on this year's "naughty" list. Desperate to help his son, Scott heads back home, putting a substitute Claus in charge of the North Pole. But when the substitute institutes some strange redefinition of naughty and nice that put Christmas at risk, Scott must return with a new bag of magic to save Christmas.
Eight years after the events of the first film, Scott Calvin has proven himself as the best Santa Claus anywhere. But when his only son Charlie is placed on the naughty list, Scott must return home to straighten him out. He must also find a new wife by Christmas Eve. He leaves an almost-exact toy replica of himself in charge of the North Pole and heads home. But when the replica goes power-mad and plans to replace the children's toys with lumps of coal, Scott must stay true to his mission and return to the North Pole to save Christmas.
Scott Calvin a.k.a. Santa Claus has two problems: His son Charlie has been acting up and landed on the naughty list; and according to the rules, Santa Claus must be married. So Scott must go back home to help his son and to find someone to marry. One of his elves creates a toy Santa to take his place until he returns, but after reading the rule book, the replacement makes some drastic changes.first his son.
Santa Claus has been working at his job for eight years now and Christmas is coming. Unfortunately, there's a SECOND clause on the card that got Scott into being Santa in the first place.In order to continue being Santa, a job Scott has grown to know and love (and is very good at), there must a MISSUS Claus. With only 27 days and no prospects at hand, Scott begins the de-Santification process. His beard shortens, his weight lessens, and he becomes more and more human.Meanwhile, Scott's son Charlie is getting into trouble at school, spray-painting protests against the school's Principal, Carol Newman. She catches him in the act and calls his parents to a meeting.There's instant magic between Scott and Carol, first in the guise of intellectual sparring, and later in the form of actual tenderness.In order to cover up for Santa's absence at the North Pole, Third-in-Command Elf Curtis makes a plastic duplicate of Santa. This doppelganger begins to think for itself, devouring the entire Santa Rule Book and deciding that ALL children belong on the "Naughty List" and should all receive only coal in their stockings. The Elves try to rebel but the evil Santa copy has made an army of toy soldiers just to give his words "a bit of a nudge."
