Survivors of a plane crash in the Mongolian desert work together to build a new plane.
A group of air crash survivors are stranded in the Mongolian desert with no chance of rescue. Facing a brutal environment, dwindling resources, and an attack by desert smugglers, they realize their only hope is doing the impossible... building a new plane from the wreckage of the old one.
In Mongolia, the test well of an oil field is shut down by company headquarters in Atlanta, and a plane piloted by Captain Frank Towns (Dennis Quaid) is sent to bring the workers home. While flying over a storm, the plane crashes in the Mongolian desert. When they realize that they will not be rescued, they decide to build a new plane from the wreckage of the old one.
A story about the triumph of the human spirit. A group of air crash survivors are stranded in the Mongolian desert with no chance of rescue. Facing a brutal environment, dwindling resources, and an attack by desert smugglers, they realize their only hope is doing the impossible--building a new plane from the wreckage.
Flight of the Phoenix is a remake of the 1965 film The Flight of the Phoenix starring James Stewart. Captain Frank Towns (Dennis Quaid) pilots a C-119 cargo plane full of oil workers who are returning home after shutting down an oil field in Mongolia's Gobi Desert. The plane is overloaded on take off, and soon they hit a violent sandstorm that causes them to crash. They are now stranded over 200 miles off-course and in the harsh desert terrain. Frank must maintain order and ration the little food and water among the survivors and wait for someone to rescue them. As time goes by, they realize their chance of being rescued is zero. An odd man named Elliott (Giovanni Ribisi) who caught a ride with them suggested that they build a new plane out of parts from the undamaged cargo plane. He just happens to be a plane design engineer. They think he is crazy, but what else can they do. Under Elliott's command, the survivors begin to construct the plane, which they name the Phoenix. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
