An unlikely group of people find solace and friendship after being thrown together in the wake of a terrorist attack.
After surviving a gruesome terrorist attack on an Italian train line, romance novelist Mrs. Emily Delahunty (Dame Maggie Smith) opens up her home and solitary life to a trio of stranded survivors. She soon forms friendships with each, but develops a special attachment to the young orphan Aimee (Emmy Clarke). So when Aimee's distant uncle arrives to retrieve her, Emily strives to convince the cold, mourning man that Umbria is Aimee's rightful home.
After a bomb destroys a railway carriage, the four survivors repair to the villa of one Mrs. Emily Delahunty (Dame Maggie Smith), a writer of romance novels, a woman with a past. The others are an aging British General (Ronnie Barker), the young German Werner (Benno Fürmann), and Aimee (Emmy Clarke), an American girl orphaned in the blast. As these four strangers recover in Umbria's countryside and become friends, Aimee's uncle, a cold and childless academic who studies red carpenter ants, arrives to fetch her. Mrs. Delahunty fears this may not be in Aimee's best interests, begins to drink heavily, and fails in her attempts to connect with Aimee's uncle. Meanwhile, the persistent Inspector Girotti (Giancarlo Giannini) investigates the blast.
After a train is bombed, kindly Englishwoman Mrs. Emily Delahunty (Dame Maggie Smith) invites several of the recovering survivors back to her Italian villa. One of the survivors is Aimee (Emmy Clarke), a young American girl whose mother was killed in the wreck. Initially traumatized to the point of not speaking, Aimee responds to the older woman's kindness. The child's interest in life is slowly rekindled. Authorities seek relatives who might take the child and finds an uncle, who is not known to the child. An unkind and seemingly unfeeling man, he and his wife are childless professionals studying carpenter ants. The couple are obviously willing to take Aimee, but equally obvious is that they are doing it as an obligation. The uncle and Mrs. Delahunty struggle to find common grounds as he contemplates returning to America with Aimee.

