In order to win his love back, a rebellious youth accepts a deadly challenge from her father with several hurdles.
A prominent and very wealthy businessman named Mr. Varma lives a middle class life with his two daughters. The eldest one named Ayesha Verma is expected to marry Varma's friend and right-hand named Mr. Chopra's son, Raman. Soon after Ayesha started to go to college and is attracted to Ajay. The two lovers spend beautiful moments together in college and elsewhere, one day Raman spot Ayesha and Ajay together at a rose day party and is jealous and so he complaints to Mr. Varma thereafter Mr. Varma decides to tests Ajay and see if he is ready to become his future son-in-law. But Ajay proves to be hot headed and so he and Mr. Varma became sworn enemies and he asks Ajay to move away from his daughter's life but Ajay does not obey and continues to reach Ayesha, Varma contact a notorious underworld Don, named Bhai-Jaan and Ajay is told that after the 30 days of Ramadan, he is suppose to meet a violent death, and so Ajay is badly beaten up by his goons and is left virtually for dead on the outskirts of Bombay, but Ajay recovers and swear that he will marry Ayesha. Verma contacted the police and Ajay also receives another trashing from them but Ajay escapes and throws a challenge to Chopra and Verma that he will make Ayesha become his bride within 24 hours and will strive hard to fulfill his promise. Along with the help of the college principal and students Ajay and Ayesha is finally married after a big blast with the enemies.
Mr. Varma is a very wealthy businessman and would like his only daughter Ayesha Verma to be married to his business associate Chopra's son Raman Chopra. But soon Ayesha starts to attend college and falls in love with Ajay. Ajay is responsible for the College's security and has many enemies, one of which is Bhai-Jaan who threatens to have him eliminated after the festival EID is celebrated. Due to Ajay's hot temper, Mr. Varma disapproves of him as his son-in-law, but Ajay is dedicated to winning his love, Ayesha and will do so under any condition.
Businessman Mr. Verma would like to get his eldest daughter, Ayesha marries to his business partner's Chopra son, Raman. But when Ayesha joins college she meets and falls in love with Ajay and together they built a strong relationship; when Verma meets with Ajay he poses a strong objection to the lover's relationship because of Ajay's hot temper. But Ayesha refuses to listen to her dad and thus continues to meet Ajay forcing Verma to hire underworld don Bhai Jaan and his men and Ajay is told that he will meet with a horrific death after a grace period of 30 days. Ajay ignores this and challenges Verma that he will marry his daughter within 24 hours regardless of any threats, interference of the law or the involvement of any gangsters.
Ayesha Verma is the eldest daughter of wealthy Mr. Verma, and is expected to be engaged shortly to Verma's friend, Mr. Chopra's, son, Raman. When Ayesha starts attending college, she meets with and is attracted to Ajay, and both fall in love. Due to Ajay's hot temper, he gets in the bad books of notorious underworld Don, Bhai-Jaan, and is told that after the 30 days of Ramadan, is expected to meet his fate with a violent death. Fate also tricks Ajay into getting in the bad books of Mr. Verma. Since Sohail works on the security detail on the college campus, he busts some drug-traffickers, Munna and Chhotte, and gets on their hit-list. First Verma has him beaten up; then Munna and his associates take a turn at him; and then Chopra calls the cops against him, and he get another beating from them too, and is left virtually for dead on the outskirts of Bombay. But Ajay recovers, and swears that he will marry Ayesha in the next 24 hours or die. Verma and Chopra accept this challenge, and arrange to get Ayesha married to Raman within the 24 hours, and at the same time hire goons to prevent him from reaching Ayesha.

