Sakura Kinomoto, mistress of the Clow Cards, faces not only the wrath of an unsealed Clow Card, but her own feelings for friend Syaoran Li who returns from Hong Kong for a visit.
All the cards have been captured and transformed, with Sakura and friends settling back into their normal lives. Unfortunately, Syaoran has returned home to Hong Kong without Sakura ever confessing how she felt about him. She gets another chance when he returns to Japan on vacation, but their reunion is interrupted by the reappearance of the Hope Card. Created by Clow Reed long ago to provide a balance to the energy of the other Clow Cards, it is more powerful than anything the Card Captor has ever faced. To capture it, Sakura may have to give up her most precious feeling.
Sakura Kinomoto has become the Clow Mistress and a powerful sorceress in her own right. At the age of ten, she accidentally found the Clow Book, containing the magical Clow Cards created by Clow Reed, and was tasked to capture them after releasing them from the book. Sakura succeeds in capturing the cards and became their master after recognition by their guardians Keroberos and Yue. In a second task, Sakura had to use her own magic to transform the cards in Sakura Cards or they would cease being magical, whilst challenged by Clow Reeds reincarnation Eriol Hiiragizawa. Sakura successfully transforms all the cards and becomes their true mistress. The series, which the film is a continuation of, ended with Sakuras rival-turned-friend Syaoran Li confessing his love to her before leaving for Hong Kong. Sakura remained unsure of how to respond, but her affection for Syaoran led to the creation of a brand new Clow Card, appearing as a winged heart but lacked a name.The film opens in the demolished remains of the house owned by Clow Reed/Eriol, but the site begins to tremor. A chair is launched up into the air and crashes back down, revealing a hole beneath where a glowing, unsealed Clow Card lies in darkness. The film cuts to night at Penguin Park in Tomoeda, Japan, where Sakura is practicing her magic against monsters created through the power of the Create Card, and is aided by Keroberos and Yue. The fight ends, and is revealed to be part of a video recording directed by Sakuras best friend and cousin Tomoyo Daidoji. Sakura, Tomoyo and Kero (the smaller form of Keroberos) watch the video in Sakuras bedroom. While Tomoyo and Kero celebrate the film, Sakura is embarrassed by it. Tomoyo skims through the Clow Cards, trying to decide which ones to use in the next video, with Kero objecting to the use of the Change Card, reminding him of its body swapping magic which caused trouble for him and Syaoran.The mention of Syaoran causes Sakura to blush, realising she did love Syaoran when she created the unnamed Clow Card. Syaorans voice catches her attention, revealing there is unrecorded footage still on the video of Sakura and Syaoran battling the Bubble Card. Sakura admits to Tomoyo that she does love Syaoran, and intends on telling him face-to-face like he did, gaining Tomoyos support. The next day, Sakura prepares to go to school, even though it is the summer, mainly because her class is performing a play as part of Tomoedas annual Nadeshiko Festival. After being teased by her big brother Toya, Sakura rollerskates to school, but ends up late for the rehearsal, where she is to play the role of a princess opposite Takashi Yamazaki who is playing the prince. The play was written by Naoko Yanagisawa. After school, Sakura and Tomoyo pass by where Eriols house was, now replaced with an amusement park, which will open soon. That night, Sakura rehearses a part of the play at home, but the words remind her of what she will have to say to Syaoran. At the amusement park, the unsealed card materialises above the parks clock tower, taking on the form of a young girl sporting wings. This is the Nothing Card.Sakura and Tomoyo visit the park, but Sakura senses the Clow Cards aura and runs into the park to find. She rounds a corner and collides with someone, who grabs her hand. Sakura apologises but is shocked when her saviour is noneother than Syaoran. Syaorans cousin Meiling runs around the corner, surprising Sakura even more. At Penguin Park, Sakura catches up Meiling who nearly lets slip that she and Tomoyo planned this reunion. Meiling whispers to Sakura that her engagement to Syaoran has ended, following a promise they made that they would end it if Syaoran found someone else who he loved more, namely Sakura. Syaoran asks Tomoyo if she was the one who invited them to Tomoeda, which Tomoyo admits to. She asks him if he wanted to see Sakura again, but he worries that his presence will now force an answer from Sakura. Meiling explains she is staying at Tomoyos mansion during their stay and has to decline Sakuras invitation to dinner since she is going to be busy with Tomoyo, but asks Sakura to treat Syaoran instead, much to Sakura and Syaorans surprise.After Tomoyo and Meiling deliberately make excuses to leave, Sakura takes Syaoran home though the atmosphere between them is awkward, until Sakura attempts to pluck up the courage to confess to Syaoran, only for her attempt to be crashed by Keros sudden appearance when he smells cake. Sakura dashes off to make dinner, leaving Syaoran and Kero to argue to the point that Kero transforms into Keroberos and pins Syaoran to the sofa, mocking him. After dinner, Syaoran and Kero nearly argue again, but Sakura scolds Kero. Sakura takes a second opportunity to confess to Syaoran, only for Toya and his best friend Yukito Tsukishiro, the human form of Yue, enter, with Toya raging upon seeing Syaoran. Syaoran leaves for the night, with Sakura seeing him off, promising to see each other at school tomorrow. Inside, Toya and Yukito have dinner, but Toya is moody because Syaoran returned. Upstairs in Sakuras bedroom, the Clow Cards glow, and the Change Card is stolen by the Nothing Card, unnoticed by Sakura and Kero.Syaoran and Meiling arrive at school where they reunite with their friends. Meiling goes to Tomoyo, expressing her disappointment that Sakura did not confess, but Tomoyo is pleased, hoping to be able to record Sakuras confession on her trusty video camera. Sakura arrives late again, and shyly says good morning to Syaoran. After school, Sakura and her friends walk through the park, with Meiling none-too-subtly to Sakura that she should pick the right time to confess to Syaoran, though Sakura remains dense to Meilings implications. The group go to buy some juice, but Sakura becomes puzzled by its location, previously using a now-absent mailbox to remember the right street. The group leave, failing to noticing the remains of the mailbox, as if it has been erased from existence.That night, Sakura writes a letter to Eriol, who left Tomoeda four months ago back to England with his friends Kaho Mizuki, Spinel Sun and Ruby Moon. Kero also wrote a letter for Spinel, his rival, after completing a video game that day. Sakura falls asleep, as another Clow Card is stolen by the Nothing. A montage follows in school as the class rehearses for the play, with Sakura and Syaoran spending most of the time staring at each other from afar. Sakura catches Syaoran out in the hall and tries to confess, only for it to be stopped when an army of students run by. Tomoyo presents the plays costumes to Sakura and Yamizaki, Sakura wearing a beautiful pink gown, and ends up sharing a far off look with Syaoran.That afternoon, Sakura and Syaoran are deliberately left alone together by Tomoyo and Meiling, only for Sakuras fourth attempt at a confession is interrupted by Toya dressed in a rabbit costume, promoting the festival. Yukito scolds Toya and forces him to buy ice cream for Sakura and the others. Sakura and Yukito sit together, with Yukito, who was Sakuras former crush, asking if she has confessed to her true love. Sakura admits she hasnt but will do her best, Yue giving her his support and that of Yue. Another Clow Card is stolen from Sakuras bag, but this time, Sakura senses the cards disappearance and checks her bag. In the park, Sakura tell Syaoran she felt an aura but assumes it was just her imagination. The group discovers a bridge in the park has disappeared. Sakura informs Kero of the missing bridge, but while waving it off, he tells Sakura to keep her cards on hand. Sakura receives a phone call from Meiling, inviting her to the amusement park tomorrow.The next day, Sakura is late for the meet up at the amusement park, with Tomoyo and Meiling vowing to get Sakura to confess at the park. In a montage, the group are shown enjoying the day, until Meiling decides to go onto the ferris wheel. Since it is only two people per carriage, Meiling and Tomoyo decide to share one, forcing Sakura and Syaoran to go together. On the ferris wheel, Tomoyo films the carriage that Sakura and Syaoran are in, who sit in their own in uncomfortable silence. Sakura takes the opportunity to tell Syaoran without interference, only for another Clow Card to be stolen. Sakura and Syaoran both spot it and pursue the card as soon as they can exit the ferris wheel.Sensing the aura Sakura felt on the day Syaoran returned, they follow it to the parks funhouse and realise there is a new Clow Card in the attraction. Sakura and Syaoran spot the Nothing Card watching them through a mirror and confront her. Sakura goes to use the Through Card and discovers it has gone missing. Before Sakuras eyes, the Nothing steals three more cards, asking that she return her friends. Sakura summons the Wood Card, but the Nothing steals the card as well before disappearing. Sakura informs Kero of what happened, but is interrupted by a phone call from Eriol, who is aware of what is happening.Eriol explains that the Nothing was created and sealed away by Clow Reed, and acts as a negative counterbalance to the combined powers of the fifty-two original Clow Cards. Now that all of the cards became Sakura Cards, the Nothings seal has been broken and she is stealing the cards to reclaim the balance between the cards creative powers and her own destructive powers. Eriol asks if part of the city have disappeared, causing Sakura to remember the missing mailbox and bridge. Eriol explains the Nothing will continue erasing things, even people, until she regains all of the cards. Eriol tells Sakura that she must seal and transform the Nothing into a Sakura Card, but it will come at a price, namely the love Sakura has for the person she holds most dear. Eriols phone line, which has been protected by an incantation all this time, is destroyed by the Nothing, ending Sakura and Eriols call. Eriol turns to his friends including Kaho Mizuki, who asks if he knows the outcome of the situation, but Eriol does not.The next day, the class finish a full rehearsal of the play, with their teacher Mr. Terada rallying everyone for the festival tomorrow. Sakura and Syaoran go outside where it is raining and Sakura explains everything Eriol told her to Syaoran. Sakura recalls that she was briefly trapped in a world without love when she faced the Final Judgement after capturing the Clow Cards, and admits she never wants to see something like that happen again. With no apparent way around it, Syaoran seemingly admits defeat. Sakura asks why he would throw away his love so easily, but Syaoran claims he would rather give up his feelings than see the whole city be destroyed. Hurt by these comments, Sakura runs out into the rain until she meets Yukito. When Sakura is unable to explain what is wrong, Yukito transform into Yue to make it easier for her and learns of the situation and gives Sakura a boost of confidence.The day of the Nadeshiko Festival arrives, but Sakura is upset by her situation. Tomoyo, Meiling and Kero are present, with Syaoran standing outside the door. The Nothing appears, stealing another card and leaving a large hole in the middle of the schools running track. Sakura uses the Sleep Card to knock everyone save herself and her friends out, but the Nothing steals Sleep before vanishing. The others wake up, but Yamazaki has hurt his arm, leaving him unfit to participate in the play. Mr. Terada suggests cancelling the play, but Yamazaki objects, telling everyone that Syaoran is a worthy replacement. That night, Tomoyo performs onstage at an amphitheatre before the townsfolk of Tomoeda, while both Sakura and Syaoran are worrying about both performing and the Nothing Card. Tomoyo ends her song and joins Sakura and Kero in a dressing room, telling her friends that every day should be lived well so that there are no regrets.At the amphitheatre, Sakuras father Fujitaka ends up sitting beside Tomoyos mother Sonomi, who he and his late wife Nadeshiko are related too. As the play begins, Sonomi has her bodyguards prepare large video equipment to record it. Sakura enters on stage with her friends including Meiling, Sakura playing a princess at a masquerade ball. The plays setting involves two nations battling for a magic stone, but the ball is to uphold peace. Sakura comments she is not a good dancer, but Meiling encourages her to take centre stage and look for a good dancer who will help her. Sakura admits she hates war, prompting Syaoran as a prince to step up and reveal his similar opinions. Syaoran invites Sakura to dance, though admitting he is not very good at it. The two dance onstage, with Kero, Tomoyo, Meiling and an angry Toya watching.The play continues, where Syaoran and Sakura are now alone, with Syaoran admitting he is a prince from the warring neighbouring country. Syaoran then confesses his love to Sakura, who is unable to accept her own love for the prince. Most of the onlookers are in tears at this point. Sakura tells Syaoran to erase his feelings of her from his heart and goes to leave in tears, only for the lighting to suddenly explode and the whole city shakes. Realising the Nothing is near, Sakura witnesses most of the Clow Cards being stolen by the Nothing all at once. Huge black orbs spread across the city, erasing great chunks of it, and the audience, Sakuras friends, Fujitaka, Sonomi and Toya are all caught in the Nothings power and disappear. Kero and Yukito transform into Keroberos and Yue, joining Sakura, Syaoran, Tomoyo and Meiling. Sakura decides she must seal the Nothing, and Syaoran agrees to go with her.Tomoyo chimes in, revealing she has made battle costumes for Sakura and Syaoran for the upcoming battle, believing Sakura will return from the fight with a smile. On a rooftop, the group observe the destruction caused by the Nothing. Sakura and Syaoran wear their new battle costumes, Sakura wearing a pink outfit with long gloves, and Syaoran wears a similar green-coloured outfit. The Nothing steals more cards, but Sakura tries using the Windy Card to divert the cards back to her, only for them all to be caught by the Nothing. The whole building shakes, and Sakura spots Tomoyo and Meiling being caught in one of the black orbs. Sakura races to save them, but Syaoran grabs her at the last moment, but their friends disappear. Keroberos and Yue realise the Nothing is hiding out at the amusement park, so the four fly to find her.The group land at the park and are immediately set upon by enchanted parts of the park. The Nothing tosses a Viking ship at Sakura, but she evades it by using the Jump Card, which allows her to jump great heights and distances. She leaps up to the rollercoaster but sees the Nothing moving a rollercoaster cart slowly down a hill before she steals the Jump. Sakura flees from the rollercoaster and uses the Time Card to freeze time. The Nothing begins to weaken Times power and steals it. Sakura falls from the rollercoaster but is saved by Keroberos. Yue leaps into battle and tries to shoot the Nothing with an arrow, only for it to be deflected by the Nothings shield, and Yue is consumed by her power. Keroberos follows, launching a blast of fire at her, and tries to strike her from the air, only to be consumed by the Nothings power too.Syaoran concludes the Nothing can erase the magic made by Clow Reed. Sakura panics, asking what they should do, but turns and finds Syaoran has vanished. Syaoran chases the Nothing who has fled to the ferris wheel. Syaoran leaps onto it to confront her and fires a lightning-based attack at her from his sword, hoping it will convince her to become a card. Sakura runs over, as the Nothing activates its power, obliterating the ferris wheel and taking Syaoran with it. Sakura uses the Fly Card, sprouting wings, and flies to try to save Syaoran, but fails. Realising everyone she loves is gone, Sakura cries and pursues the Nothing as she flies back to the clock tower.Sakura flies up to confront the Nothing, but she steals the Fly Card, causing Sakura to fall down the tower. She grabs onto the clock towers giant pendulum and uses the Shield Card to defend herself when the Nothing breaks the pendulum in two. The pendulum drops to the ground, but Sakura makes it to a staircase spiralling the tower. Syaoran is revealed to have survived the Nothings power and crouches at the bottom of the tower. The Nothing confronts Sakura, glad that she has collected all of her friends. Sakura threatens to seal the Nothing, but she objects, trying to swallow with her powers. Trapped on a ledge, Sakura is approached by the Nothing who asks her why she is trying to take her friends from her, lamenting that she was imprisoned in darkness for so long. Sakura shouts at the Nothing, telling her stealing the cards is no way to make friends. The Clow Cards all escape the Nothing, who asks if they hate her. When the cards return to Sakuras side, she collapses and bursts into tears.The Clow Cards form a bridge for Sakura to walk to the Nothing. Sakura walks over to the Nothing, telling her that everything will be alright, and invites her to join her fellow cards out of friendship. The Nothing silently accepts, so Sakura uses her Clow Staff to seal the Nothing, lamenting she was unable to tell Syaoran how she felt. However, as the Nothing turns into a card, her powers suddenly surround Syaoran instead of Sakura. Syaoran realises he was chosen instead of her because he had more magic left, but promises Sakura even if his feelings for her are erased, he will fall in love with her all over again. Syaoran is consumed by the Nothings power, causing Sakura to cry. However, the nameless card she has flies out and intercepts the Nothings magic.Sakura sobs to herself that Syaorans love is gone, only for the nameless card to float down to her, revealed to her fused with the Nothing, and has gained a name The Hope Card. Sakura notices Syaoran looking at her, so she takes the opportunity to confess to him at long last. Syaoran does not react, causing Sakura to start crying again. However, Syaoran suddenly speaks, revealing he too shares her feelings, and his memory of her was not erased after all, thanks to the nameless card intervening with the Nothings powers. Sakura cries tears of joy as the sun rises over Tomoeda and the Nothings destruction is reversed. Outside, Tomoyo, Meiling, Fujitaka, Sonomi, Toya, Kero and Yukito awaken and find the world is back to normal, though Yukito catches Kero moving about.In the clock tower, Sakura activates the Jump Card, intending to jump through the hole in the tower to reach Syaoran. Syaoran objects, telling her to wait until the floor reappears. Impatient and ready to hug him, Sakura takes a running jump and springs across the hole to reach Syaoran, proclaiming that she loves him, as the credits roll. A promotional still that came with the DVD revealed that Sakura reached Syaoran, and landed in his arms.
