An alien black box is found in the South Pole, where a government agency is conducting botanical experiments.
In 1947, in New Mexico, a radio operator receives a signal following regular patterns. While investigating the occurrence, he vanishes. In the present day, the same signal is transmitted from a base in the Falkland Islands to United States of America and a satellite captures images of a unknown object in Antartic. The cryptologist Julien Rome (James Spader) is invited to investigate the mystery in the South Pole and he flies to a research base. While a team tries to open a weird shell probably from the outer space, Julien solves the message, which proves to be a distress signal ordering not to open the case.
In the North Pole, a strange huge white egg-like thing is found. Some scientists take the thing to the laboratory. At first, the sceptical people are the ones who are listened to by the politicians. Dr. Kate Brecher (Janine Eser) is worried about the thing. She thinks it's not only spacial rubbish, but a kind of alien container which may become dangerous.Julian Rome (James Spader) is an expert in computer language. There are a kind of strange transmission he's getting, but he seems not to be able to crack it. A Russian submarine is in the watchout. They are approaching the polar base fast. The crew don't look happy at all.At the beginning, they think that the alien object is a kind of rock, but first results show that there is a kind of carbon alloy, which has never been seen before on planet Earth. The scientists decide to open the box with a laser beam and special machinery, like a stronger welder. At that very same moment, Julian has the idea to treat the mysterious message as a kind of labyrinth. He re-programs the computer and a new message seems to appear, repeated over and over again: the sentence DO NOT OPEN appears over and over again. Julian and Shelly Klein (Aimee Graham) run to tell the rest of the crew to leave the alien box alone, but it's too late. Something seems to be moving inside the white cocoon. As soon as he enters the huge warehouse, there is an explosion. Everything seems to blow up.When the explosion is over, they start looking around for casualties. One of the scientists says that she doesn't feel very well, and at that moment she falls to the floor, - as though she were a ragged doll - and the body gets kinda deflated. She is not the only one: two other people suffer the same almost immediate death.Dr. John Bachman (Roy Dotrice) starts wondering what the alien will do when they capture it. The lights have gone off, so they have to find the fuse in the dark, lit by weak torches.Julian's light falls to the floor. At that moment, he realises that the alien is close by. The alien moves slowly towards him. It feels attracted to the torch until it goes off. Then, the bigger-than-a-human creature faces Julian attentively. It is a wet alien, who hugs Julian's head. Julian has visions of a foreign planet.Julian and the rest of the survivors - 7 all in all - finally communicate with their base; they finally get to talk with Bachman and his advisors. They are informed that an alien contact has happened before - in Roswell, New Mexico, USA. The aliens have a virus inside of them which they are immune to, but which can kill any human almost instantly. Infection seems to spread through the air. The alien race which is inside the white cocoon is friendly, but when they tried to talk to the Martians, they killed all the civilization in that planet almost instantly. Bachman tells that the Russian submarine is approaching fast, but that the crew's orders are to contain the infection at all costs, not to rescue the remaining scientists. Bachman also admits - to Julian's question - that the aliens usually communicate through telepathy.Dr. Michael Straub (John Lynch) wants to leave the base immediately, but Julian tells him that nobody can leave the polar station until Shelly has discovered a way to detect the pathogen, fight the infection and cure it. Straub insists, so Julian ends up punching him. T.Dr. Alexi Gierach (Nikolai Binev), the pilot (Anthony Crivello) and the co-pilot (Kaloyan Vodenicharov) have just got their order. They are in shooting range of the base at the same time that some of the scientists try to run away, as Shelly has not been able to identify the pathogen in the blood of the survivors. She has the notion that the pathogen may get hidden inside the proteins and cells of the human body, but at that moment she has no clue.While they are leaving, they have to go through the underground garden in which the scientists used to grow their own vegetables. Michael touches one of the of the corn cobs, and it immediately rottens up. At that moment, he realises that all the humans inside the scientifical compound have sufferd contamination. Julian runs after Michael, who succeeds in reaching the white frozen land surrounding the building.However, there is a kind of twister of energy. It is possible - but difficult - to breathe. Michael keeps on trying to run away, so there are like two bolts of lightning which kill him off. Julian enters again in the building and he tells everybody to leave the building, walk slowly, breath calmly, and as he has just had a telepathic vision of thousands of aliens in their world, he tells everybody to join the two shadows - two aliens - who want to take them to their planet. That way, they will live in a place where there is not risk of them contaminating everything and everybody. Julian finally convinces everybody, but it looks as though Shelly is left behind. However, on the nick of time, Julian convinces her. The transparent starship leaves with all the remaining survivors. Exactly at that moment, the Russian rocket arrives to its destination, blowing everything up.There is a newscast talking about the deaths of Julian, Shelly, Kate... The president is going to make an annoucement about it.At exactly that moment, we see the alien spaceship flying away - with the surviving humans inside.
