A collegian (Shahid Kapoor) woos a beautiful girl, then falls in love with his childhood friend (Amrita Rao).
Rajiv Mathur decides to go conditionally steady with fellow collegian, Payal, so that be can be permitted to go on an outing. Payal accepts, and accompanies him. During the outing, he gets intoxicated, and attempts to molest her, and she decides to dump him. Thereafter, slighted but not beaten - Rajiv turns on his charms on another beauty - the gorgeous Alisha Sahay. But will she be as permissible as Payal?
Rajiv is a college boy who really doesn't care much about anything...he's pretty self-absorbed and when not thinking of himself, he's thinking of girls. Payal is his best friend, ever since school days. He doesn't know how she feels about him and he doesn't care b/c she's the typical "behenji" types. When his friends make plans to go to Goa...he's thrilled. Only one problem...couples only. Rajiv's best friend says why search for a girl when you have Payal. Payal, however, is a girl that believes in true love and won't hook up with anyone for only a weekend. Rajiv, plans to "fall in love" with her so he can take her to Goa. The whole college knows about Rajiv and Payal, and it seems that they are meant to be. Tricking her parents, Payal comes to Goa, but Rajiv tries to get too touchy with her and attempts to force himself onto her. In anger, Rajiv breaks up with Payal and swears that before she knows it he'll be with the prettiest girl in college. Payal is hurt and takes console in Rajiv's best friend who knows that Rajiv is wrong. New girl, Alisha, comes into the picture and she is indeed the prettiest girl of the college. What will happen of Rajiv and Payal? Watch the movie and find out.
Payal is a young girl who lives in India and studies in a college. She secretly loves another Indian college student named Rajiv. Both meet and find out that they are attracted to each other. On a outdoor picnic, Rajiv gets drunk and tries to make a pass at Payal, and confesses that he does not love her but only said that because of a bet he made with other college friends. Payal is shocked and decides not to see Rajiv anymore. While she goes into a shell after this humiliation, Rajiv now takes a bet to romance another college beauty by the name of Alisha. Will Alisha be another victim?

