A cockney womanizer learns the hard way about the dangers of his actions.
Finding it hard to settle down and commit himself to only one woman, the unrepentant philanderer and undeniable ladies' man, Alfie, is a charming British bachelor who cruises the streets of New York as a limousine chauffeur. In his impeccable suits, the silver-tongued Casanova is simply irresistible; however, things will take a turn for the unexpected, when a night of unrestrained passion seriously tests Alfie's frivolous approach to life. In the end, is Alfie happy, and, above all, what's it all about, then?
In Manhattan, the British limousine driver Alfie is surrounded by beautiful women, most of them clients, and he lives as a Don Juan, having one night stands with all of them and without any sort of commitment. His girl-friend and single-mother Julie is quite upset with the situation and his best friends are his colleague Marlon and his girl-friend Lonette. Alfie has a brief affair with Lonette, and the consequences of his act forces Alfie to reflect and wonder about his life style.
Alfie is quite the ladies man and rarely gets rejected when it comes to the opposite sex. He successfully has relations with multiple women without a hint of emotional attachment. A major (lifelong) problem arises when he sleeps with the wrong woman, namely his best friend's (and future business partner) ex-girlfriend. As a result, his life slowly comes into focus and he begins to appreciate the little things he always missed in the opposite sex. A must see for all guys who call themselves "players".
This is a remake of the 1966 film with Michael Caine as Alfie. Jude Law now plays the title role of Alfie. The film uses the same speaking technique as the original, with Alfie talking directly to the camera when he is talking about women. The audience gets the inside information on women, as if we were part of the show. Alfie is from England living in Manhattan, working as a limousine driver. Alfie wants to some day own the limo business, but right now he is chauffeuring the rich around town, and sometimes making love to the lonely female passengers in the backseat of the limo. Alfie is very charming to women and knows what they want to hear. Alfie's goal is to make love to as many beautiful women as he can with no commitment or responsibilities, before he finds his soulmate. But Alfie finds that life is not that simple, and he will have to take responsibility for his actions. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
