Former cop Brian O'Conner is called upon to bust a dangerous criminal and he recruits the help of a former childhood friend and street racer who has a chance to redeem himself.
EX LAPD cop Brian O'Conner (Paul Walker) teams up with his ex-con friend Roman Pearce (Tyrese Gibson) and works with undercover U.S. Customs Service agent Monica Fuentes (Eva Mendes) to bring Miami-based drug lord Carter Verone (Cole Hauser) down.
Now an ex-cop , on the run ,Brian O'Connor (Paul Walker) hooks into outlaw street racing. When the Fed's strong arm him back O'Connor's no rules win-or-die skills are unleashed against an international drug Lord . With his velocity-addicted buddy ( Tyrese) riding shotgun ,and a drop dead- gorgeous undercover agent( Eva Mendes) dialing up the heat , 2 fast 2 furious accelerates the action into a desperate race for survival, justice ... and a mind - blowing jaw dropping speed!
Former cop Brian O'Conner who teams up with his ex-con pal Roman Pearce to transport a shipment of 'dirty' money for shady Miami-based import-export dealer Carter Verone, while actually working with undercover agent Monica Fuentes to bring Verone down.
Brian O'Conner has left LA due to his illegal actions from the first movie and now soars the streets of Miami making money here and there by street racing. Watched by Customs Agent Monica Fuentes, Brian is caught by the police and is given a deal by Agent Markham and Bilkins to go undercover and try to bring down drug lord Carter Verone in exchange for his criminal record to be erased. Brian agrees but only if he is given permission to choose his partner. Brian heads home to Barstow, California where he recruits an old friend Roman Pearce to help him. Pearce agrees but only for the same deal Brian was offered. With the help of Monica, Brian and Rome work together to take down Verone.
Florida street racer Tej (Ludacris) is looking for a driver and calls Brian O'Conner (Paul Walker) to a race. Brian is an ex-cop who has the hottest car now. He races against Suki (Devon Aoki), Orange Julius (Amaury Nolasco) and Slap Jack (Michael Ealy) and wins. The police arrive and give chase, capturing Brian. Agent Markham (James Remar) and Agent Bilkins (Thom Barry) brief Brian and ask him to infiltrate a criminal's gang. They try to team him with Agent Dunn (Edward Finlay), but he's not very smart. Brian suggests bringing in an old friend by the name of Roman Pierce (Tyrese Gibson) instead.After a brief argument, Roman agrees, and they are briefed by Monica Fuentes (Eva Mendes). Thery are given new cars and meet with the criminal Carter Verone's henchmen, and Monica introduces them to Carter (Cole Hauser). Carter sends them on a race to get a package and checks their records. Carter hires them to drive to the Florida Keys for a drug deal. Brian and Roman bring their cars to Tej to check out. The cars are wired with tracking devices, so Brian and Roman race a pair of other drivers for pink slips.Both Brian and Roman have eyes for Monica, but Carter warns them away from her. Carter brings in a known detective Whitworth (Mark Boone Junior) and tortures him to get a "window" for his team to make a smuggling run, then threatens Monica with similar treatment.The next day, Monica tells Brian that Carter intends to kill them. Carter continues his cheesy villain antics, telling Brian that his henchmen Roberto (Roberto Sanchez) and Enrique (Mo Gallini) will be riding with them. Brian and Roman make plans with Tej and Suki for an escape.Brian and Roman meet with Roberto and Enrique to get the cash for the drug deal, and detecive Whitworth directs the police to bust them. They out-drive the cops while agent Markham stakes out Carter's plane, waiting for the deal to complete. Brian and Roman drive into a warehouse while the cops look on stupidly. Tej's gang bursts out of the warehouse in trucks, smashing cop cars, while a bunch of street racers emerge as a distraction. The cops follow the cars with tracking devices, but Brian and Roman are driving the cars they won in an earlier race. Roman uses a goofy ejector seat to get rid of Roberto, but Enrique changes the meet point.The cops try to take down Carter's jet, but it's a decoy, too. Carter realizes Monica is an informant, and orders Enrique to kill Brian. Roman comes to Brian's rescue, and they chase after Carter, who has boarded a boat. They race after him, and jump the car onto the boat. Monica arrests Carter. Agent Markham clears their records and Monica eyes Brian. As Brian and Roman leave, they show each other the cash they've skimmed from the drug deal and laugh.
