A dramatic adventure about courage, redemption and love being filmed in the rain forests of Costa Rica, and in Montreal.
Based on a true story, The Blue Butterfly tells the story of a terminally ill 10-year-old boy whose dream is to catch the most beautiful butterfly on Earth, the mythic and elusive Blue Morpho. His mother persuades a renowned entomologist to take them on a trip to the jungle to search for the butterfly, leading to an adventure that will transform their lives.
Adolescent Pete Carlton has been diagnosed with a brain tumor, with the doctors giving him three to six months to live. He has written to and telephoned entomologist Alan Osborn, host of the television show "Insects". Based on Alan's on-air statements that seeing the blue morpho butterfly, a magical creature in his mind, transformed his life, Pete wants to accompany Alan on a trip to the tropical rain forest to capture a live specimen for himself. Alan reluctantly agrees, his reluctance based on the fact that the season for this butterfly is nearing its end, the trip will be difficult because of Pete's wheelchair-bound status, and that Alan admits that he is a not good with children. Accompanying them is Pete's caring single mother, the tropical rain forest-phobic Teresa Carlton. As they search for the elusive butterfly, Alan learns from Pete the importance of following one's dreams, while Pete learns from Alan's friend's daughter, Yana, the importance of taking in all that life has to offer in the moment. These lessons come amidst some obstacles, both emotional and physical.
Inspired by a true story, The Blue Butterfly is about ten year-old Pete Carlton (Marc Donato) who is diagnosed as terminally ill and his determined mother will stop at nothing to ensure her sons dream. Funny and intelligent, yet somewhat shy, Pete is stoic and incredibly courageous when it comes to his condition. He seeks refuge by observing the miniature world of cocoons and insects that he collects. Given only months to live, Pete has one wish; to catch the most beautiful butterfly on earth, the legendary Blue Morphothe Mariposa Azul, a magnificent creature found only in the tropical rain forests of Central and South America. He is convinced that this butterfly with the azure wings can reveal the mystery of life to him.Teresa Carlton (Pascale Bussieres) is Petes single mother. She is brave, worn out, consumed by love and sorrow for her dying son, and determined to overcome any obstacle that stands in the way of his dream. She begins by convincing Alan Osborne (William Hurt), a renowned entomologist and Petes hero, to take them to the jungle. Alan is a passionate, rugged yet vulnerable man who, due partly to a secret that haunts him, prefers the company of insects over people. He is initially dead-set against this idea. But, thanks to Petes determination, and his talent as a manipulator, his hero finally agrees to go along with the idea. However, since the Blue Morpho season is almost over, Alan will only give Pete a couple days to try to capture the magical butterfly. The Blue Butterfly is about the coming of age of a young boy and a mature man who both must learn to emerge from their protective cocoons to live life to the fullest.
