Once in 500 years, ancient mythical creatures come to Earth, wreaking havoc and destruction. This time they must be stopped.
Based on the Korean legend, unknown creatures will return and devastate the planet. Reporter Ethan Kendrick is called in to investigate the matter, and he arrives at the conclusion that a girl, stricken with a mysterious illness, named Sarah is suppose to help him. The Imoogi makes its way to Los Angeles, wreaking havoc and destruction. With the entire city under arms, will Ethan and Sarah make it in time to save the people of Los Angeles?
In accordance with a Korean legend, every five hundred years, a woman protected by a man transforms in a serpent to fight against a dragon in a battle between good and evil. In Los Angeles of the present days, after a mysterious accident, the reporter Ethan Kendrick recalls his meeting fifteen years ago with Jack, who owned an antique shop and told him that he was the one supposed to protect Sarah Daniels. Ethan seeks out Sarah and together they fight to survive and destroy the devilish dragon.
"Since the dawn of what became a legend, the most unimaginable is about to occur . This summer, experience the absolute conquest of all mankind. Beginning with one search. For the one and only. The chosen one. Descended from the heavens above. Welcome to Dragon Wars."A STORY THAT HAS BEEN LOST TO MANKIND...CONCEPT:"Dragons are mythical, legendary creatures found in cultures throughout the world. However, the Imoogi possesses extraordinary powers that allow it to transform itself into a dynamic, powerful and sometimes demonic animal.In mythology, the Dragon is characterized as a divine governor of water and rain. People held sacrificial rites to the God of King Dragon to pray for rain or protection from deadly storms . These sacrificial rites also included prayers to the Imoogi because it had the ability to cause droughts by filling the skies with fire. There are still actual remnants around the cult-like shrines and prayer altars used to worship the Imoogi thousands of years ago.Yeouijoo, a symbol for Dragon, refers to a magical pearl possessing the power to grant any wish. Legend has it that an Imoogi can transform itself into a Dragon if it acquires the Yeouijoo .Every five hundred years, the Imoogi have the ability to become Dragons and, thereby, conquer the world by obtaining the magical Yeouijoo.The Yeouijoo is currently hidden in a young's girl's body. The culmination of the Imoogi's perseverance and determination promises to bring dramatic, devastating and inconceivable
consequences .By applying the legend of Imoogi to modern times, D-War is a film that invites us into a new and exceptional world full of suspense, thrill and fantasy !SYNOPSIS:In a small Korean village, five hundred years ago, a girl named Narin was born carrying the coveted Yeouijoo inside her. The Heavens sent the protector Bochun and his prot&amp;eacute;g&amp;eacute; Haram, to ensure that when it came time, Narin was peacefully sacrificed to the
pre-determined Good Imoogi. Bochun vigorously trained Haram as a knight, to be prepared for the eventual day when Narin would be delivered to the Good Imoogi.
The day the Dark Imoogi, Buraki, and his army destroyed Narin's village looking for the Yeouijoo, Bochun instructed Haram to take her to the Good Imoogi.The young girl and her knight would then fulfill the giant's serpent's destiny by giving it the power to save the world and become a heavenly dragon. By this time, after spending several years together, Haram and Narin had fallen in love.
Unable to sacrifice their love to the benevolent Imoogi, they jumped to their deaths together
in each other's arms. The Good Imoogi's destiny was unfulfilled and he would have to wait
another five hundred years until the next Yeouijoo appears.It is now five hundred years later in present day Los Angeles and the quest for the Imoogi is reborn. Haram and Narin have been reincarnated as Ethan Kendrick and Sarah Daniels whose bond of love remains unsevered. Ethan is an investigative reporter for the local news. He is closely following a series of unexplainable disasters occurring in the area.
When a young woman named Sarah is linked to those occurrences, Ethan remembers that an ancient man he met many years before had predicted all of these events . Ethan finds Sarah and helps her escape the wrath of Buraki and his army.
Aware that Sarah must sacrifice herself in order to save the city from the Buraki and ensure that the Good Imoogi becomes the Dragon, Ethan tries to convince Sarah that there is another way to battle the Imoogies. Meanwhile, the FBI agent on the case, Frank Campbell, has uncovered the Imoogies' intentions through his own investigations. Campbell is ready to sacrifice Sarah to the demonic animals to save Los Angeles.
In the face of chaos and destruction, Ethan and Sarah must decide their own fate - whether to defy the will of heaven once again and let the city be destroyed or deliver Sarah
to the Good Imoogi. "-----end( obtained from Younggu-Art by media liaison, Irene Nakano , in Seoul , Korea / e-mail: soongshil@gmail.com )
