Dr. Siddharth Sinha is a dedicated selfless doctor who dreams of building a state-of-the-art hospital with all the modern instruments and amenities for patient care . His foster son Akash shares his dream . Akash falls in love with Neha Mathur , an anaesthetist in the same hospital . In a friend's party , Akash meets Sonia who is a spoilt daughter of a millionaire Gulshan Kapoor . Sonia develops an infatuation for Akash . Gulshan Kapoor proposes to Dr. Siddharth Sinha that he will donate a big sum of money to his hospital , on the condition that Akash marries Sonia . Dr. Siddharth Sinha declines but dies of a heart attack a few days later . Burdened with fulfilling his father's dream , Akash decides to marry Sonia sacrificing his own love . But even after marriage Sonia is jealous of Neha and constantly accuses Akash of infidelity which leaves him in a dilemma , torn between two women .
Dr. Siddharth Sinha (Amitabh Bachchan) and his son Dr. Akash Sinha (Anil Kapoor). Both work in the same hospital founded by Siddharth. Siddharth wishes to run a state of the art hospital but his work and profession means he dedicates his time to his patients. Soon enough Dr. Neha Mathur (Gracy Singh) walks into Akash's life and they eventually fall in love with each other. Soon enough Siddharth dies and Akash sets on to fulfill his father's dream. The arrival of Soniya Kapoor (Preity Zinta) changes everything between Neha and Akash. Soniya is a rich, arrogant woman who is used to having things her own way and it isn't long before she wants Akash for herself. She decides that since Akash is the man for her, she can latch on to him by literally 'buying' his love through financial agreement. The agreement states that on marrying Soniya, her father Gulshan Kapoor (Randhir Kapoor) will help finance the hospital project. Akash is confused and wants to fulfill his father's dream but it means sacrificing his love for Neha. The rest of the film explains how he deals with the situation.
Dr. Siddharth Sinha a senior doctor raise funds to fulfil his dream of having a state-of-the-art hospital. Dr Sinha's son Akash stands by his father helping him raise funds for his fathers dream, With the sudden death of Dr Sinha his son falls into a dilemma mainly because of the two ladies involved (Neha &amp; Sonia) and his father's dream that is yet to be fulfilled.
The Sinha family consists of Siddharth and his adopted son Akash - both are doctors in a small hospital in India. Akash meets and falls in love with fellow-doctor, Neha Mathur. However, his dad convinces him to get married to Sonia Kapoor, who is the only daughter of a multi-millionaire - who has agreed to donate considerable money to the hospital on the condition that Akash must marry Sonia. Unwilling to jeopardize his relationship with his foster dad, Akash agrees to do so, and the wedding takes place. Shortly after the marriage, Akash's life changes when he finds that Sonia is very insecure and possessive, especially when she finds out that Akash still has feelings for Neha. Then Siddharth dies, leaving Akash the freedom to either carry on with this marriage or divorce Sonia and marry Neha.
Dr. Siddharth Sinha (Amitabh Bachchan) runs a small, but well organized hospital. His adopted son, Dr. Akash Sinha (Anil Kapoor) also assists him. The arrival of a new doctor, Dr. Neha Mathur (Gracy Singh) brings romance and love in the life of Akash. His chance encounter with Sonia Kapoor (Preity Zinta) changes everything in his life. He is compelled to marry her for the sake of their hospital, and mishaps and misunderstandings occur due to her nasty, possessive, and malicious behaviour. To make matters worse, Dr. Siddharth passes away, leaving the entire responsibility of administering the hospital on Akash. How will Akash manage the hospital, his marriage, and his love for Neha?

