A realtor and his wife and children are summoned to a mansion, which they soon discover is haunted, and while they attempt to escape, he learns an important lesson about the family he has neglected.
Married realtors Jim and Sara with their children go to Gracey Manor and Mr. Gracey is enamored with Sara and they discover that Sara looks like Mr. Gracey's old girlfriend, Elizabeth, who died young and they think it was a suicide but discover something more sinister.
Realtor workaholic Jim Evers and his wife and business partner Sara gets a call late one night from mansion owner Edward Gracey, who is looking to sell his property. Smelling the biggest deal of their career, Jim, Sara and their two children pay a visit to the mansion, located on a remote bayou. A torrential thunderstorm of mysterious origin strands the Evers family in the old mansion with the brooding, eccentric Gracey, his mysterious butler, Ramsley, and a variety of residents both seen and unseen. At first Jim scoffs at Gracey's stories about ghosts and hauntings, until he unearths the mystery of the mansion and finds that his wife Sara has unexpected connections to its haunted past!
Realtors Jim and Sara Evers are sent to a mansion. Mr. Gracie thinks that Sara is his dead girlfriend Elizabeth. She was killed by Ramsey. But, mr. Gracie does not know this. Jim is sent to find the key that will save his wife from being married to mr. Gracie. In the end the family goes home with the things from the haunted mansion
Under the guise of a happy family vacation, the workaholic real-estate agent, Jim Evers, drags his wife and close associate, Sara, and their two children to the warm Louisiana bayou, in what appears to be a lucrative business deal. In high hopes of putting on the market a gloomy old mansion, the Evers decide to spend the night at the palatial estate, as guests of the cryptic proprietor, Master Gracey, and his cadaverous butler, Ramsley. However, there's more to this place than meets the eye--and as the entire manor oozes with frightening manifestations of the supernatural--the family will have no other choice but to entrust their lives to the otherworldly guardian, Madame Leota. Will the Evers escape from the haunted mansion in one piece?
On the day of their anniversary, workaholic and real estate agent Jim Evers and his wife Sara receive a strange phone call from a man called Ramsley. He requests that Sara come to the mysterious Gracey Manor. Jim decides to turn it into an opportunity to check out a possible gold-mine in real estate, but to please Sara, he claims it is a "family trip", bringing the kids along. Once there, Ramsley the butler insists that they stay, for a big storm is on the way. The Evers are introduced to Master Gracey, who seems strangely obsessed with Sara. Jim goes off to talk to Gracey about selling, but ends up in a secret passage instead. The kids follow a floating ball to the attic, where they see a painting of a woman who looks just like Sara! Jim and the kids eventually discover the mansion's dark secret from Madame Leota, a talking head in a crystal ball. She tells them that Sara is in danger and to save her, they must "lead the ghosts to the light." After some spooky adventures and surprises, the family manages to save the manor and Sara, all while learning a valuable lesson about togetherness.
THE HAUNTED MANSION comes alive like never before with incredible visual and special effects in this all-new, fun-filled comedy adventure. Shrouded in fog and mystery, the mansion was once a stately antebellum palace that hosted New Orleans' wealthiest. Now it's the creepy and crumbling home to a love struck 19th century gentleman, 999 ghosts, and a hilarious and hair-raising battle for "home rule." Realtor Jim Evers (EDDIE MURPHY) and his wife and business partner Sara get a call late one night from mansion owner Edward Gracey, who is looking to sell his property. Smelling the biggest deal of their career, Jim, Sara and their two children pay a visit to the mansion, located on a remote bayou.A torrential thunderstorm of mysterious origin strands the Evers family in the old mansion with the brooding, eccentric Gracey, his mysterious butler Ramsley, and a variety of residents both seen and unseen. At first, Jim scoffs at Gracey's stories about ghosts and hauntings, until he unearths the mystery of the mansion and finds that his wife Sara has unexpected connections to its haunted past.
