A woman becomes very curious about one of her psychiatrist husband's inmates, a man who was found guilty in the murder and disfigurement of his former wife.
In the 1950s, the psychiatrist Max Raphael is hired to work as superintendent of an asylum in the outskirts of London, and he moves with his wife Stella Raphael and their son Charlie. Stella has a passionless marriage and is ignored by Max. Her boredom changes when her son befriends the handsome inmate Edgar Stark, an sculptor that in a crisis of jealousy had killed and disfigured his wife, and that is treated by Dr. Peter Cleave, an ambitious psychiatrist that aspired Max's position. During the afternoons, Stella has a hot adulterous affair with Edgar until the day he escapes and their affair is discovered. Stella has to take a decision between her family and her wild passion for Edgar.
An up and coming psychiatrist gets a new job and devotes himself to it more than to his wife and their son. His wife has an intense affair with a psychiatric inpatient who has a past suggestive of sociopathy. Additional bad choices are made, the affair is continued, and negative consequences follow.
Dr. Peter Cleave is passed over as candidate superintendent of a greater London mental asylum by newcomer psychiatrist Max Raphael, whose wife Stella soon falls in carnal, later true love with Cleave's favorite patient, trustee gardener Edgar Stark, a kind-mannered would be-artist who murdered his wife in bloody rage but also befriends the Raphael's angelic son Charlie. Edgar escapes in Stella's car trunk and hides in his former art studio assistant Nick's London home. Stella neglects her family to visit Edgar, even moves out without Charlie. Cleave finds them and brings them back. Max resigns and takes a job in a desolate Welsh village and tries to rebuild a family life, but trough disinterested Stella's neglect, Charlie drowns, with grave consequences.
A psychiatrist's wife encounters one of her husband's charges, an inmate at a maximum security asylum in the outskirts of London. Her curious attraction to this man, who was found guilty in the murder and disfigurement of his former wife, grows stronger as he's placed on the job to restore the asylum's conservatory, mere steps from her home.

