A man befriends and protects a British girl from a group of nationalists that want England to hand India back to them. They fall for each other, but the man is due to marry.
The film is set in the India of the tumultuous 1930's when nationalists fighting for the country's independence rose up as one, urging the British to quit. At this time, a young Indian, Kisna befriends and then shields a British girl Katherine, from an enraged mob of nationalists including Kisna's own uncle and brother. Katherine is the young daughter of a ruthless British collector. Kisna takes it upon himself to escort Katherine to the safety of the British High Commission in New Delhi, who will arrange for her to board a ship home. A tender attraction develops between Kisna and Katherine during the journey, a love story that is torn between 'Karma' (the noble deed) and 'Dharma' (the duty). Laxmi, the Indian girl Kisna is engaged to, forms the third point in an emotional triangle involving the Indo-British romantic pair.
British Deputy Commissioner, Peter Beckett, presides over a vast region in British-ruled India. He lives there with his wife, and a young daughter, Catherine. When he finds out that Catherine has become too friendly with one of the locals, Kisna Singh, he sends her back to Britain. Years later, Catherine has grown up into a lovely young woman, returns to India, very much lady-like, but has not forgotten her friend, Kisna. But things are no longer the same anymore. For the Indians have organized themselves to force their oppressors to leave India for good, and there is violence everywhere. In the midst of this, Catherine and Kisna rekindle their friendship, which eventually turns to love. But Kisna's dad has already arranged his marriage with a young woman named Lakshmi, and Kisna is duty-bound to respect his father's wishes. When Catherine's life gets in danger, she turns to Kisna for help, and on the day of his marriage with Lakshmi, both of them elope - followed by a angry mob, led by none other than Kisna's brother, Shankar, who are determined to kill both of them.
When the British were ruling India, a young white girl befriends a young Indian lad by the name of Kisna. Her father disapproves of this, warns her against meeting with him, but when she persists, he has her sent away to Britain. Years later this young white girl, whose name is Catherine, returns to India as a older and mature woman. She has not forgotten Kisna, and cannot wait to meet him again. She is delighted when she finds out that he still remembers her, and both rekindle their friendship. They will soon find out that their friendship will again be questioned - this time by Kisna's family, who have arranged his marriage with an Indian girl named Lakshmi. What will Kisna and Catherine do, especially when the Indians take to violence to drive the British out of India, and want to kill anyone who they come across.
Kisna befriends a British girl named Katherine, and then shields her from an enraged mob of nationalists including Kisna's own uncle and brother. Katherine is the young daughter of a ruthless British collector. Kisna takes it upon himself to escort Katherine to the safety of the British High Commission in New Delhi, who will arrange for her to board a ship home. A tender attraction develops between Kisna and Katherine during the journey. Luxmi, Kisna's Indian fiancée, forms the third point in an emotional triangle involving the Indo-British romantic pair.

