A Kabbadi player rescues a young woman from an unwanted marriage and hides her in his home.
A kabaddi player (Mahesh) comes to Kurnool for match, there he rescues a girl from village goon Obul Reddy (Prakash raj) and takes her to his home and makes arrangements for her higher studies in a foreign country. But she refuses to leave him. Is romance on the cards?
The main drama is set in Hyderabad. For this purpose, a huge and expensive set against Charminar backdrop was erected. Hero Ajay (Mahesh Babu) lives in one of the houses there. He has his own entry into the house, through a trap door, to avoid being noticed by his disciplinarian police officer father (Mukhesh Rishi) and mischievous younger sister (Niharika). His mother (Geetha) is kind and affectionate. Ajay is a kabaddi champion and goes to Kurnool to take part in a tournament. He meets Swapna (Bhoomika Chawla) and rescues her from the clutches of Obul Reddy (Prakash Raj). He then brings her to Hyderabad and takes her to his room through the trap door. And she continues to stay there without anyone's knowledge, blending among the many dolls in his room whenever anyone comes visiting Ajay. Ajay's priorities now are to get a passport and visa for Swapna so that she can move away to the US and then to win the national Kabaddi title for his team. He wins the title but fails to send her abroad, as Swapna refuses to leave him and go. How she becomes completely free of Obul Reddy to be with Ajay forms the rest of the story.
Two rival gangs dance/fight in the streets (in the style of West Side Story, even including the snapping!). They stop only when the police pass by, and then continue to fight. In the end the decide to meet the next day for a Kabbadi match. Amongst them is Ajay Varma (Mahesh Babu).Song: "Hare Rama."Ajay returns home to his family: his sister (Baby Niharika), his mother (Geetha), and his father (Mukesh Rishi). His father is DCP Vijay Varma, the same Assistant Commissioner of Police who interrupted the fight, earlier in the day.The next night, the family attends the Kabbadi semi-finals. Ajay is the captain of the winning team.Ajay and the team travel by train to Kurnool for another match. Meanwhile, at the same train station, Obul Reddy (Prakash Raj) and his henchmen chase down and kill a man.The heroine, Swapna (Bhoomika Chawla), is introduced in the song "Nuvvemaya Chesavo."Swapna receives the news that Obul has murdered one of her brothers. After the funeral, her other brother confronts Obul and is also killed.Obul and his cigar-smoking mother ask for a marriage between Obul and Swapna. He gloats that he has killed many, but no one dares to testify against him. Swapna hates the marriage, but is willing to sacrifice her own happiness to save her parents. However, her father gives her money and official papers, telling her to escape and join her uncle living in America.Swapna hides on a passing truck. Unfortunately, the truck is delivering goods to Obul's family company. Obul spots her and pursues her into town.Minutes before his game, Ajay sees Obul forcefully dragging Swapna back to his vehicle and steps in to save her. He punches Obul; the first time anyone has ever stood against him. Obul's henchman arrive and chase Ajay and Swapna. Swapna tells him to leave her or the pursuing men will kill him. But he says he can't leave in the middle of a war, and makes it his duty to protect her.The pair escape from some of the henchmen, but are met by Obul and many others. Ajay threatens to slash Swapna's throat unless they drop their weapons and deflate the tires of all the vehicles but one. This accomplished, Ajay and Swapna take off in the remaining SUV. Obul runs alongside, holding the vehicle until Ajay pushes him away. He falls, rolls down a hill, and lands in an enormous mud puddle.Ajay and Swapna race away and Swapna tells her story as the song "Sahasam Swasaga" plays.Ajay sneaks Swapna into his room through a skylight with a ladder attached. He keeps her presence secret from the rest of his family.Meanwhile, still covered in mud, Obul vows to kill Ajay and marry Swapna. His brother, the Home Minister of the state, is called in to help with the search.(INTERMISSION)Ajay's father, Vijay Varma, is put in charge of solving Swapna's "kidnapping," while Ajay and his friends get a passport for Swapna. Ajay lets his younger sister in on the secret, and she in turn tells her friends.Seeing that Swapna is missing her deceased brothers, Ajay and friends cheer her up with the song "Cheppave Chirugaali."Plagued by nightmares, Swapna goes out for a walk at night. DCP Vijay Varma offers to escort her home. He feigns ignorance when she points out the house she is staying in, walks her to the front door, and invites himself inside. There, Swapna introduces Ajay as her fiance. Ajay is too shocked to say anything. Swapna finally notices Vijay's photo on the wall and realizes who he is, just as Vijay identifies Swapna as the missing girl in the photo he carries.Ajay grabs Swapna by the hand and they run away. They hide on the rooftop of Charminar, a famous mosque and monument. (Romance song: "Hai Re Hai") As the sun rises, Ajay tells Swapna that her visa is ready and her flight is scheduled for the following afternoon.On hearing that Swapna has been seen in Hyderabad, Obul finally allows the caked on mud to be washed off. He and his henchmen swarm the city, and threaten Vijay to turn over the pair within 24 hours.Swapna and Ajay's sister cry over her imminent departure. Swapna says she will miss Ajay, his home, family, and friends. She asks Ajay if he is sad to see her go, but he admits only to missing the chases, excitement, and adventure.The police force surround their hiding place, but the pair escape amongst a crowd of Muslims who are hurrying to afternoon prayers.Ajay has arranged for Swapna's parents to be at the airport to say goodbye. It finally begins to dawn on Ajay how much Swapna means to him. And she refuses to leave him. As they embrace, the police and the henchmen catch up with them. Swapna is dragged away and Ajay is thrown in prison.Obul finds Swapna in good spirits. She is confident that Ajay will save her and marry her. Obul threatens her, but she says forcing her into a marriage won't prove his manliness. She will only accept Obul as her husband if he can beat Ajay. Swapna is prepared for the wedding, all the while dreaming of Ajay in the song 'Atharintiki."Obul withdraws his complaint against Ajay and has him released from prison. He and a small group of henchman plan to kill Ajay, but Ajay's friends surround them. The henchmen are tied up and a bound Obul is brought along to the Kabbadi national finals.Obul escapes from the two men that are watching him. His family is waiting at the marriage hall, but he phones them and has them bring the bride to the Kabbadi field.Ajay scores the winning point, and Obul and family enter the stadium. Before the crowd, Ajay and Obul fight in hand to hand combat. Obul's mother throws an explosive onto the field but her faithful dog fetches it back to her and it kills her. Ajay knocks Obul out. Ajay and Swapna are reunited on the playing field, and the cheering crowd surrounds them. Obul wakes up and tries to stab Ajay, but Swapna's father stabs Obul in the back first.Once again on the rooftop of Charminar, Ajay and Swapna are happy together.
