When his girlfriend is kidnapped by Kashmiri terrorists, a commando is tasked with kidnapping the Home Minister's daughter in order to secure his lady love's release.
Major Amrish Kaul resides in Kashmir, India with his family consisting of his wife, Sudha, a daughter and his unemployed son, Ajay. Ajay meets with an accident on 2 occasions as a result of the carelessness of Neha Pandit, a school teacher. Ajay then takes a liking to her and arranges their meeting at a near-by restaurant. They both gets acquainted with each other with Ajay getting to find out that Neha is a widow. She eventually reciprocates his love and they begin to plan their wedding. Neha's father-in-law, R.K. Sharma is against this relationship at first and refuses to permit the couple to marry but eventually they convince him. A few days later Neha is abducted by a group of terrorists and Jihadis headed by the notorious Juned Afghani who is on a mission to free their leader, Naved Rabhani. Ajay is tasked with kidnapping Anita, the only daughter of India's Home Minister, Bhagwat Saxena, in exchange for the safe return of Neha. Anita is under strict security in New Zealand under Ajay's father's watchful eye. Ajay does manage to successfully carry out this task only to learn that he has been double-crossed.
Major Amrish Kaul resides in Kashmir, India with his family consisting of his wife, Sudha, a daughter and his unemployed son, Ajay. Ajay meets with an accident on 2 occasions as a result of the carelessness of Neha Pandit; a school teacher; Ajay then takes a liking to her and arranges their meeting at a near-by restaurant. They both gets acquainted with each other with Ajay getting to find out that Neha is a widow but eventually Neha reciprocates Ajay's love as they began to plan their wedding but Neha's father in law, R.K. Sharma is against this relationship and refuses to permit the couple from marrying but eventually they does convince him. A few days later Neha is abducted by a group of terrorists and Jihads headed by the notorious Juded Afghani who is on a mission to free their leader, Naved Rabhani. Ajay is to kidnap the only spoiled daughter, Anita of India's Home Minister, Bhagwat Saxena who is under strict security in New Zeeland under his father's captivity in exchange for the safe return of his girlfriend, Neha. He does manage to successfully carry out this task only to learn that he is a pawn in the hands of terrorists with Neha herself in league with the Jihads.

