Problems arise when Radhey Mohan, a delinquent falls in love with a girl named Nirjara.
A woman comes from a Hindu high caste family. Her name is Nirjala. Her family want her to get married to a Hindu upper caste man. She agrees to do so. But before the wedding, she meets with a poor Indian. This man belongs to a very low caste. This man also has a very hot temper and gets into fights all the time. But both fall in love with each other. Nirjala's family refuse to permit her to get married to him. They force her to get married to the man of their choice. In the meantime, Radhe gets into fight, and someone hits him very hard on his head. Radhe loses his senses and falls down. When he wakes him, he finds himself a mental patient. The hospital finds him very violent and they chain. He is unable to remember his past. Then Nirjala re-enters his life. Will this cure Radhe or make him even worse?
Radhe Mohan is a bad boy. He smokes, drinks, brawls and rags college freshers. Worse, he hangs around the same college campus he passed out of years ago and has never cared about looking for a job which angers his elder brother. But the soft side of Radhe's otherwise rugged persona comes to the fore when he falls in love with the beautiful and innocent Nirjara, the daughter of a local priest. He slowly wins her heart over but they don't know what fate has in store for them . An old enemy attacks Radhe and cracks his head in the process. As a result, Radhe loses his mental balance. After all medical options are exhausted, Radhe's brother takes him to place where the mentally ill are healed using Ayurveda. But Nirjara's memories haunt Radhe and he makes efforts to escape.
Radhe, a delinquent (powerful with local student support) with a pure heart nonetheless, always gets into violent fights because of his hot temper. He is notorious and hangs out in the same college campus, where he passed out years ago. One day he sees Nirjara, a Brahmin girl, and falls in love with her. But Nirjara is already engaged to Rameshwar, another Brahmin. Radhe helps Nirjara in couple of issues in college. When Radhe proposes Nirjara, she despises him and calls him a goon. Angry Radhe starts behaving badly with everyone near to him. Unknowingly, one day he helps Nirjara's married elder sister from a brothel-house. When Rameshwar narrates this help to Nirjara, she starts feeling love for Radhe. All fine, when Nirjara accepts Radhe's love. But fate takes a cruel turn when the owners of that brothel-house attack Radhe and severely injure his head. Radhe becomes insane and is sent to an ashram for treatment. Nirjara is asked by her family members to forget Radhe and marry Rameshwar. She cries a lot and finally accepts to marry Rameshwar. On marriage day, Radhe runs away from the ashram to Nirjara's place and finds that.....
Lower Caste Radhey Mohan is a no good slacker, who is always picking fights and getting himself and his friends in trouble. One day he sees upper caste Nirjala, and is instantly attracted to her. When Nirjala comes to know about him, she is also attracted to him. The problems arise when marriage is proposed with Radhey, as Nirjala's family with have nothing to do with a lower caste groom, and they arrange Nirjala's marriage with Rameshwar, a young man from their caste. Radhey is arrested and imprisoned in a prison for the mentally unstable, where is chained to a wall, while Nirjala must undergo preparations to get married to Rameshwar.
A lower caste Hindu boy, also an ex-college student, Radhey Mohan is known to idle with his friends at College, gets himself into brawls and trouble. He gets to meet, Nirjala, a high caste Hindu girl, of whom he falls in love with. He expresses his love to her and both plans to get married but before this could happen, Radhey is attacked by goons, sustained injuries about the head, is unable to cure by doctors and is admitted to a mental asylum while Nirjala family wants her to marry Rameshwar, a young man from the family's caste. She must now forget about Radhey and get ready to marry Rameshwar.
Radhe Mohan, a guy who although has passed his college way back, yet likes to spend his time hanging out with his college friends. Radhe being a bad boy stud, often takes outrageous stands in what he feels is right, without caring much about peoples' perception and eventual consequences, if any. His elder brother often tries to make him a nicer man, but Radhe being ignorant doesn't listen. As the story unfolds, Radhe comes across a college fresher Nirjhara, who is the daughter of a local priest. The more they meet up, the more intrigued Radhe becomes about Nirjhara, while Nirjhara on the other hand becomes appalled by Radhe's perplexed and stubborn persona. While Radhe is failing to prove to Nirjhara he'll be a better man, he unknowingly helps Nirjhara's elder sister by saving her marriage which is under a turmoil. Radhe after failing to convey his emotions maturely goes berserk by kidnapping Nirjhara, but being a good guy from within, he rectifies his mistakes and tells her that he loves her, and he can't live without her. Nirjhara after sensing integrity in his words accepts him as her lover. Their happiness does not last very long as something terrifying happens to Radhe. Some local goons hit him brutally, because earlier in the story Radhe with the aid of police, would close the brothels which existed in the main city area. Wounds in Radhe's head make him lose all his memories. His brother convinces Nirjhara to move on, to which her family complies without acknowledging her consent. Radhe comes back to his senses by Nirjhara's prayers but its too late for him as she passes away missing Radhe thinking he might never come back. When Radhe escapes from asylum, he rushes to her home but finds out she's no more. Emotionally disturbed Radhe loses his senses yet again, with his love being unrequited.
