After a temperamental man is unceremoniously stripped of his duties as a bank manager, he decides to seek revenge by robbing the bank. He trains three blind men to do this risky task for him.
Vijay Singh Rajput (Amitabh Bachchan) is a quirky manager of Vilasrao Jefferson Bank. He is extremely strict at work and believes in pushing his workers to the limit. This means that his superiors hold him in high regard for his unblemished reputation and excellent track record. But things go terribly wrong for the honest bank manager when he finds one of his own employees trying to con the customers. At this, he loses his temper and gets physical with the employee. This doesn't go down well with his superiors and they decide that Rajput is now a liability to the bank and they sack him. Amitabh can't believe the Board of Directors and his mind is filled with revenge and what better revenge than robbing the bank himself, ironic as it may sound. He decides that he must think of a plan that will hit the bank where it hurts the most - in its safe where all the money is kept. Rajput blackmails Neha (Sushmita Sen) to use her professional skills to help his plan, to train three blind men to rob the bank for him. Rajput then gets together a team of three blind men Vishwas Prajapati (Akshay Kumar), Arjun Verma (Arjun Rampal) and Ilias (Paresh Rawal) who will help him obtain his vengeance and make a heap of money at the same time. After gruelling training sessions, the three succeed in robbing the bank, but things go haywire. What happens next?
Vijay Singh Rajput lives a wealthy lifestyle and has been working with a bank for the last 30 years. He is a trusted employee and is looked upon favorably by the bank's management. Vijay's Achilles heel is his temper, which does get him reprimanded albeit with a mere rap on his knuckles, but when he assaults a bank employee who conned an old bank customer, he is fired. Angered he decides to get his vengeance by robbing the bank as no one knows the internal security as well as he does. Vijay, a perfectionist, decides to pull this heist off without arousing any suspicion upon himself, and sets off by abducting a child of an Instructress, Neha, for the school of the blind, and coercing her to cooperate with him and train three other blind males he has recruited to carry out this job, namely Ilias, Arjun Verma, and Vishwas Prajapati. Watch what happens after they successfully rob the bank and try to go about their individual lives.
To fulfill his aim of seeking revenge against his former employer - a bank, a man plans to rob it through three blind men(who will give an illusion of normal vision while execution), as he thinks that no one will believe in such a possibility, thus totally avoiding suspicion.
Vijay Singh Rajput has given in life as an employee to his bank and has been felicitated several times.But in last few years he has turned very possessive towards the bank and doesn't regret beating his staff for making mistakes.The bank management finally takes a decision to fire from his job for his violent behavior.A frustrated Vijay then plans to revenge on the bank,He comes across Neha who trains blind people by holding her younger brother captive. Vijay selects three blind men Ilias,Arjun and Vishwas for the job and asks Neha to train them to rob the bank.Vishwas who has a sixth sense has got the sense that Neha is not the mastermind behind the plan but there is a second person behind it.
Obsessive and temperamental bank manager Vijay Singh Rajput (Amitabh Bachchan) loses his job for badly beating up a bank clerk who tried to embezzle money. Angered at losing his job he plots revenge on the bank by intending to stage a heist. He employs three blind men - Vishwas (Akshay Kumar), a blind person who has the power of the sixth sense, Elias (Paresh Rawal) and Arjun (Arjun Rampal) - when, after passing by school for the blind, he understands that blind people can be trained to do things like sighted people. He blackmails and enlists the help of Neha (Sushmita Sen) who is a teacher at the school to train the trio to do the seemingly impossible heist. He chose blind people because they, as thieves, would never be suspected as no one would believe blind people can rob a bank.The bank robbery is successful, with the jewels safely captured by the three. However, in the process of robbing the bank, Elias's face is exposed, captured in footage and prompting citywide posters with his face. Meanwhile, Mr. Rajput anxiously tries to extort information from Vishwas and Arjun regarding the jewels and their location. Unable to answer, as they did not collect the items, they try to defer the answer by changing subjects. Ultimately, it is revealed that Elias is the one with complete knowledge of the box's belongings. Meanwhile, tensions rise between Rajput and Neha; the latter resists the abusive nature of Rajput and his obnoxious harassing of Vishwas and Arjun. Arjun confesses his love to Neha, who reveals that she is associated in the plot only for the well-being of her younger brother, Rahul, who has been kidnapped by Rajput.In a furious attempt, the police try to locate Elias. Elias lands up at Rajput's place after getting drunk. Rajput tries several ways to force Elias into revealing the location of the box. Unable to generate an answer, he slams Elias, who falls on the ground and injures his eyes, causing bleeding. Even in this scenario, Rajput tries to get the information, but Vishwas and Arjun resist and claim that they will reveal the location if Elias is treated by paramedics. Rajput send them to get Dr. Siddiqui. Vishwas senses that Elias is in danger and Arjun and Vishwas double back to the training center to save him. Rajput starts to harass Elias by tickling him to force him to reveal the answer. In the action, Elias falls of the balcony and dies. Unable to bear the shock of the death, Neha pulls a gun on Rajput and threatens to reveal everything to the police if he does not leave her and the other two alone. Rajput notifies Neha that all these acts were done under her training, and he is spotless. Unable to bear this fact, Neha shoots herself, just as Vishwas and Arjun return after hearing loud screams.Both men gang up on Rajput and try to attack him. Once Rajput realizes that the men are ignorant about the jewels, he starts shooting them. The police arrive, and confusion ensues. Vishwas and Arjun come out and claim that Rajput is abusing them while he claims that there is a big conspiracy involving the two men, Neha and Elias. Unable to believe that blind men can ransack a bank and amidst Rajput's impassioned defense, the police start getting suspicious. In the heat of defending himself, Rajput reveals that he had sent over Elias, thus confessing his crime.In the end Rajput is locked away. Vishwas and Arjun decide to take care of Rahul and ultimately find the jewels - they were hidden in Elias' musical instrument.Alternate ending
In an alternate ending for overseas viewers Rajput bribes the cop (Aditya Pancholi) and is set free. Vishwas and Arjun are sitting in a train (waiting for it to depart) and Rajput is standing on the platform with a smile on his face. He then warns them that "A dangerous game is about to begin", after which Vishwas and Arjun both draw their guns, and the film ends.
