An attractive and popular teenager, who is mean-spirited toward others, finds herself in the body of an older man, and must find a way to get back to her original body.
Jessica Spencer is the hottest, most popular girl in high school. Jessica, her best friend April, and a couple of other hot girls Lulu and Keecia visit the mall to hang out and do some shopping. They enter a new age store, where they check out a pair of ancient earrings. Unbeknownst to Jessica, these are magical ones set in ancient Abyssinia. A princess known as Princess Nawa is disgusted by the groom of her arranged marriage and switches bodies with a slave girl by means of an enchanted set of earrings. Since the earrings are not for sale, Jessica steals them. But the next morning she gets a big dose of reality when she wakes up in the body of a 30-something lowlife male, Clive, a career criminal. Clive finds himself in Jessica's body. Now it's up to Jessica (in Clive's body) to find a way to get her body back, while Clive (in Jessica's body) takes advantage of his new body to set in motion a crime spree to put the blame on Jessica!
A "popular yet mean-spirited" teenage girl wakes up one day to find herself turned into a man in his 30's (Schneider). Along the way to finding out how she ended up like that (and how to get back into her own body), she discovers how shallow and cruel she's always been...
Jessica Spencer, a somewhat mean spirited, popular and beautiful teenager, switches bodies with gas station robber Clive Maxtone one night and wakes up the next morning in his body. Freaked out, she must get her best friend April and two friends Lulu and Keecia to help her figure out what caused this. Along the her journey as a man, she discovers how mean she was and attempts to fix it while trying to get her boyfriend to believe its her.
Jessica Spencer is a popular, but cruel and spoiled high school cheerleader who wakes up one day in the body of a 30-something man after having switched bodies with a petty crook, named Clive, thanks of a pair of mystical earings Jessica stole from a occult shop, one of which ends up in Clive's posession. Now Jessica (in Clive's body) must find a way get her/his body back while learning first-hand the values and cons of being a man, while Clive (in Jessica's body) takes advantage of his/her new body to set in motion a crime spree to put the blame on Jessica.
Jessica (Rachel McAdams), the hot chick, is an over indulged, spoiled but extremely beautiful teenage girl who isn't used to hearing the word "no". Given this character flaw, when Jessica and her friends, her fellow hot chicks, go shopping at the mall, she steals some earrings from a metaphysical store after being told they're not for sale. Unknown to her, the earrings carry a centuries old curse and this is where the fun begins.While pumping gas and admiring her new earrings, Rob Schneider (his character isn't given a name) is robbing the gas station. When he waits on Jessica's car to speed his getaway, she drops an earring which is promptly picked up by criminal Rob. That evening, they both put an earring in their earlobe and while they sleep, their bodies trade places. Now we have Jessica (Rob Schneider) working towards convincing people he/she's not who they think he/she is and the now criminal in a woman's body has discovered he/she has a marketable quality in the form of being a "hot chick". As hard as Rob Schneider's Jessica is working towards reversing the curse, Rachel McAdams' criminal is working just as hard to use it before he/she loses it, including shaking it on a stage for dollar bills. Rob Schneider plays a great hot chick - Rachel McAdams plays a great criminal looking for the next score/scam.Everything these two go through being in the other person's body is funny and indicative of the oddball Schneider's usual fare. While this was never destined to be Oscar worthy, it's definitely just under two hours of escape, smiles and laughter.
