An alliance of evil-doers, led by Frieda, looks to take over Fairy Tale Land. But when Ella realizes her stepmother is out to ruin her storybook existence, she takes a dramatic turn and blossoms into the leader of the resistance effort.
As the story begins, an alliance of evil fairy tale-doers, led by Frieda, looks to take over Fairy Tale Land and take control of. But when Ella A.K.A. Cinderella realizes her own evil stepmother is out to ruin her storybook existence, she takes a dramatic turn and blossoms into the leader of the resistance effort.
The Wizard (George Carlin) is a man who has a job of keeping the fairytale world balanced and making sure each story has its happy ending. He keeps a close watch of all fairytales by looking at his mystical crystal ball and using his magical staff. When he leaves for his vacation to Scotland he asks Munk and Mambo (Wallace Shawn and Andy Dick) to keep a close eye on all fairytales and keep the balance between good and evil. He also asks him to watch Cinderella (Sarah Michelle Gellar) because her story in progress right now.Cinderella is a young maiden who is desperately in love with the prince (Patrick Warburton) and wants to attend the ball he is having tonight, but her evil step-mother Frieda(Sigourney Weaver) and ugly step sisters won't let her go, until her fairy godmother comes to her rescue. Sounds all familiar right? Well a bored Mambo begins to feel very bored with the same old same fairy tale, So he and Munk begin to argue on if Mambo can change thing up a bit.When Frieda arrives at the ball with the ugly step-sisters she hears the commotion at the tall tower. So she wonders and sees the mystical crystal ball and the magical staff and realizes it is all set up and nothing in their fairytale world is by fate. She then decides to take things into her own hands and changes all the stories to the way she likes them, including Cinderella's story.The evil step-mother begins to round up all the villains in all fairytales to help her with her evil scheme. So Ella decides she needs to find the prince to help save the day. She asks her friend Rick (Freddie Prinze Jr.) the kitchen boy to the prince, to assist her. But Rick is in love with Ella and wants to be with her instead of her being with the prince. When he says no Ella finds help somewhere else and meets up with Mambo and Munk who are glad to help her. Frieda later realizes what Ella is trying to do so she has all of her evil minions to go out and stop her. Ella has to align with dwarfs, fairies and other good mystical creatures to help her save the day.Rick later realizes a good friend doesnt let a friend down. So he goes out to find Ella and when he does Ella begins to feel what Rick feels about her while saving Fairytale land.
