On his way to becoming an immortal demon, a gang leader orchestrates the murder of an ex-con and his girlfriend.
Jimmy Cuervo is a down-on-his-luck ex-con living in a polluted mining town on a reservation that would run him out of town if not for the remainder of his probation. With his time nearly finished, he plans to start a new life with his girlfriend Lily , and leave the town for good. But Luc Crash and Lola Byrne head up a local gang of local Satanists who murder Jimmy and Lily in a brutally ritualistic slaying that they hope will conjure the rebirth of the Antichrist. When the legend of the Crow returns Jimmy from the dead, Jimmy heads out on a one-man path of vengeance that will lead him to El Nino, the leader of the gang that Luc and Lola are in.
The fourth installment of The Crow series, Luc Crash, the leader of a satanic gang of bikers murder a young man named Jimmy Cuervo and his girlfriend Lily for the purpose of a ritual to make Crash an immortal demon. Cuervo rises from the dead with the power of the crow to avenge his girlfriend's death, and to stop the completion of the ritual.
Wicked Prayer," follows Luc Crash, the charismatic gang leader of a ragtag band of Satanist bikers named after the Four Horseman of the Apocalypse. Luc murders Jimmy Cuervo (Furlong) and his girlfriend Lily as part of a ritual to become an immortal demon, but Luc finds that Jimmy has been transformed into the avenging spirit known at The Crow, intent on stopping Luc before he can become the Lord of the Flies.
Set in the Southwest, "Prayer" tells the story of ex-con Jimmy Cuervo (Furlong) and his girlfriend, Lily (Chriqui), who are murdered by Luc Crash (Boreanaz) and his satanic gang Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse as part of a ritual for Crash to become an immortal demon.
Briefly put:
Jimmy Cuervo (Edward Furlong) is a coal miner's kid living near an indian reservation. He is in love with Lilly (Emmanuelle Chriqui), an indian girl (and apparently, shamaness) whose father hates him. One day, he goes to visit her at her store, where he is ambushed by a satanic cult led by his friend from jail (he had been in jail for murdering a kid who tried to rape Lilly) named Luc Crash (David Boreanaz) the four members of the cult are named for the four Horsemen of the Apocalypse: War (Marcus Chong), Famine (Tito Ortiz), Pestilence (Yuji Okumoto), and finally Luc as Death. Luc's girlfriend, Lola Byrne (Tara Reid), is there with a book of satanic rituals. After putting nooses around both Jimmy and Lilly's necks, they force Jimmy to watch as they hang her, then cut out her eyes so Lola can use them to enhance her powers with the book. *WILL FINISH WHEN I CAN*
