A young man tries to deal with the childhood terror that has never stopped haunting him.
Every culture has one - The horrible monster fueling young children's nightmares. But for Tim, the BOGEYMAN still lives in his memories as a creature that devoured his father 16 years earlier. Is the BOGEYMAN real? Or did Tim make him up to explain why his father abandoned his family? The answer lies hidden behind every dark corner and half-opened closet of his childhood home - A place he must return to and face the chilling unanswered questions... Does the BOGEYMAN really exist?
Set in the country, 'Boogeyman' tells the haunting tale of a young man traumatized by memories of terrible events he experienced in his childhood bedroom and who, years later, reluctantly returns home to face his fears of a monstrous entity that could be real or merely a figment of his imagination.
On the surface, Tim is a seemingly normal, twenty-something guy. He's got a decent job and is moving fast in his relationship with his girlfriend Jessica. But an intense, paralyzing fear that has been terrifying him since childhood is tearing him apart. And it's getting worse every day. When Tim was eight, something devastating happened. Each night his dad would put him to sleep with a bedtime story. Many of these stories teetered on the brink of horror, much to his mom's chagrin, but Tim and his father made sure his bedroom was safe when the lights finally went out. Until that one fateful night. When Tim is forced to move outside his comfort zone on a Thanksgiving trip to Jessica's parents, he leaves this protected world and things begin to fall apart.
Tim is a young man with a great trauma: when his father left his family sixteen years ago, in his imagination his father was indeed taken by the Boogeyman. In Thanksgiving, while visiting the family of his girlfriend Jessica, his uncle Mike calls him informing that his mother has just passed away. Tim travels to his hometown, meets his former crush Kate Houghton and advised by his shrink, decides to spend the night is in old home to face the monster of his imagination. Along the night, weird events happen with Tim and his closest friends.
On the surface, Tim Jensen (Barry Watson) seems to be a normal person, with a steady job and a good relationship with his girlfriend Jessica. However, a terrifying event that he witnessed as a child (Aaron Murphy) has left him traumatized, where his father (Charles Mesure) was taken by the Boogeyman (Andrew Glover), an evil creature which lives in all closets worldwide. Since then, he has taken precautions to ensure that the Boogeyman cannot get to him, such as sleeping on a mattress on the floor, and removing all closets from his home and keeping all his clothes in a dresser drawer.After a Thanksgiving trip with Jessica (Tory Mussett) to her parents' house, Tim has a premonition in which his Mother (Lucy Lawless), presently imprisoned at a madhouse, tells him to return to the family home. Tim awakes and won't relax until he finds out what happened with his mother. When he rings the hospital, he discovers his mother has died. Upon returning to the psychiatric ward where he grew up after his father died, he discovers that one of the patients, a young girl, is being threatened by the Boogeyman, which this time lives in her attic.Upon a suggestion by his psychiatrist that returning to his family home to spend the night in that house would be a good idea, Tim returns to his old Victorian style house in the open country, where he relives memories of his mother telling his father that the Boogeyman does not exist and therefore cannot possibly harm Tim. Tim is briefly attacked by the Boogeyman when he enters the downstairs closet. However, despite enjoying a reunion with Kate Houghton (Emily Deschanel), his childhood friend, he becomes convinced that he is being watched by the same entity that has terrorized him his entire life.Soon the Boogeyman starts showing up in various unexpected places, including Kate's house. Tim attempts to warn Kate of the danger she is in, but she freaks out when Tim begins acting paranoid and strange. Frustrated at Tim's refusal to tell her what is really wrong with him, Kate claims that the person Tim saw in her house was in fact her deaf father. Upon returning to his house, Tim meets a young girl in his woodshed, named Franny Roberts (Skye McCole Bartusiak) who wants to know that if it's true that the Boogeyman murdered Tim's father. Tim does not know where she heard this information, and he firmly tells her that the Boogeyman cannot exist. However, when Tim reenters the house, he discovers a disturbing file of Missing Person lists and documents, and upon flicking through them, he discovers a collection of missing children whom were all taken by the Boogeyman. The Boogeyman has been taking various children throughout history. When Tim looks down from a photo of a missing boy, he discovers the same missing boy standing before him. When he looks around, Tim discovers a huge crowd of the missing children moving towards him, their faces deadly white and ghostly pale. The children all come up and start brushing Tim, who faints. When he awakes, he is alone again in the house.Jessica, his girlfriend, abruptly shows up and she takes Tim out of the house for a night in a quiet hotel, where she is murdered by the Boogeyman, who spies at her through the closet in the bathroom before dragging her into the bath.Tim appears and enters the hotel bathroom, and then finds that Jessica is missing. He realizes what has occurred, and stumbles blindly into a closet, and then walks out into his family home, just as Kate, his friend, has returned to his home and, upon hearing noises from the closets, was about to open the door herself. She is momentarily frightened by Tim's mysterious appearance, but then begins to worry when Tim panics about Jessica, a woman she never met, and then Tim drags Kate back to the hotel, where they find the empty bath; this time with blood on the side. They both wonder what has happened; Kate thinking that Tim might've harmed Jessica; but Tim angrily denies it. They return to the house, and Tim meets Franny once more, who leads him to a ward full of proclamations describing the Boogeyman. There is a chair in the middle of the room facing a closet. Tim remembers this room as being the home of a doctor whom everyone thought insane. Franny then reveals herself to be one of the dead kids whom the Boogeyman murdered, and disappears, telling Tim he'd best go to the place where it all started.Tim does so and returns to his bedroom just as his Uncle Mike (Philip Gordon) arrives home. Mike is attacked and killed by the Boogeyman who wraps him in plastic sheeting and drags him into a closet. Kate joins Tim upon hearing the commotion and then she also sees the Boogeyman. Tim attempts to sit in the chair and face the Boogeyman but the Boogeyman thwarts his efforts. Tim is attacked by the Boogeyman who drags him under a bed and he awakes in the hotel which he stayed in with Jessica, revealing that closets and beds are portals after all. Tim sees Jessica being drowned by the Boogeyman, who attacks Tim, dragging him back under a bed where he reunites with Kate at his house. The Boogeyman chases Tim upstairs to his bedroom where Tim begins to fend off the Boogeyman. The monster turns into various toys Tim was afraid of, such as a ball of electricity in a glass case, and a murder of crows, and then a humanoid figurine which stood on Tim's bedside table. The Boogeyman attempts to drag Tim back into a closet to kill him, but realising that the monster is only posing as a figurine, Tim picks up the figurine and slams the toy against a dresser, smashing the torso to pieces, causing the Boogeyman to suffer the same injury. Tim then kicks the Boogeyman back into the closet. The Boogeyman resurfaces however causes a vortex of winds, trying to draw Tim into the closet once more, clawing at Tim's legs, but Tim and Kate cling onto grounded objects in the room and Tim punches the Boogeyman in the jaw, causing him to fall back into the closet and into an ethereal pit.With the Boogeyman gone, Tim hopes that his and Kate's lives will be safer. Morning dawns and Tim already feels better and the credits roll. However, a post-credits scene reveals a young girl being tormented by the monster, revealing that the Boogeyman has resurfaced out of the closet.
