A continuation of the story told in the Daft Punk music videos "One More Time," "Aerodynamic," "Digital Love," and "Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger."
An unscrupulous music executive and his flunky kidnap an alien, blue-skinned techno band, rob them of their identities, pass them off as human, and foist them on an unsuspecting public on Earth. After their arrival and their impact on the human population, the members of the band try to piece back their identities, escape from the clutches of the evil music executive, and return to their own world.
Space wizard hires interplanetary mercenaries to kidnap alien smurf rock stars. Said rock stars are held captive using brainwashing, cognitive implants, and cosmetic surgery; guarded by cyborgs. Super fan-boy jumps into his space guitar and follows mercenaries to Earth, and lives amongst the downtrodden as he waits for a chance to rescue them. Chance comes in a super concert funded by the space wizard, in which the fan-boy glides down in a jet glider and shoots cognitive implants off the alien smurf rock stars. All but the female are saved and the band runs off, (Space wizard holds up a super arm to block the shot of the fan-boy, and keeps the device from being William Tell'd off of her). As the band escapes they are pursued and shot at by the cyborgs. A stray lazer bullet is deflected by one of the aliens, and hits the fan-boy. Cyborgs can't drive and run into a semi, kersploding their car, and causing them to survive all Terminator style. The female is then whisked away and forced to dress pretty at various events. She is saved by the rock stars while the artists of the soundtrack are defeated in musical kombat. Being taken to their alien hideout, she is introduced to the fan-boy, and he shows off toys of their alien smurf rock star selves. Alien smurf rock stars are all WTF, and his psychotropic blood causes a hallucination, in which he and the female trip out and shows what a date would have been like (enter best song on the album). Fan-boy dies, and sadness ensues. They go out into the world, free from the space wizard, and bury the fan-boy under a tree. Fan-boy evolves into naked ghost fan-boy. Driving along she finds a clear card invitation to an address not far from where they are. The go inside and discover it's the space wizards house. Inside they find the story of the space wizard, and realize he's all super evil, and old. They are captured, and taken to the basement, where they find the machine he was going to use to gain control of the universe. Placing the female into the machine, as well as their number one gold record, (the one they defeated the soundtrack artists with), the space wizard prepares to He-man it up. Luckily the rest of the band fights back and overpowers their old cyborg guards, causing the space wizard to fall down a big hole, and them to be able to escape. They learn where their old identities are, and send the black guy in to steal them back for everyone. He's stopped by the security guards of the building the identity discs are in, and hospitalized. He re-blues, and the nice record exec helps him and the rest of the band to find out who they are. The people of Earth love the alien smurf rock stars, and send them to space. As they are going through the wormhole (no Morgan Freeman) they are attacked by a pissed off space wizard spirit. Naked ghost fan-boy counter attacks, and defeats the space wizard in immortal kombat. Alien smurf rock stars make it to their part of space, but being alien smurf rock stars, and not smurfstronauts, they don't know where to go. They say "fuck this" and proceed to do the only thing they know how to do, and rock out. Alien smurf space traffic control overhears their jam session, and go to rescue them. Happiness reigns supreme.
