An ex-cop, now working as a security guard in a shopping mall, tries to uncover the secret behind a series of mysterious deaths linked to mirrors.
After the accidental death of his partner Young-ho in a hostage situation, the former detective of the Seoul Special Operations Force Woo Young-min feels responsible for the tragedy and quit the police force joining the private security company SecuZone. His uncle and owner of the department store Dreampia, Jeon-il Sung, hires Woo to be the chief of the security of Dreampia, which was rebuilt after a fire where many employees died and is near the reopening in spite of the protest of the families of the victims that claim their indemnity. When an employee dies after hours in the store, Woo leads an internal investigation, while detective Ha Hyun-Su that blames Woo for the death of his friend Young-ho, and his assistant Park, come to the store to lead an official investigation. When other employees that worked in the same department are mysteriously killed in the store, Woo meets Lee Ji-hyun, the twin sister of Lee Jeong-hyun, that convinces him that her sister has not died in the fire and is trapped in the mirrors, while Ha Hyun-Su believes that Lee Ji-hyun is the serial killer.
Wu Young-min, a former policeman who inadvertently brought about the death of his partner during a faceoff with a criminal, has quit the police force and now heads up security at Dreampia Department Store as an employee of the security company SecuZone. Having been caught up in the situation at the department store, Wu comes across his former rival and co-worker Ha Hyun-su, who now heads the investigation into the recent murders. The presence of Ha and the situation as a whole causes Wu to relive the horrendous memories which he has since tried to forget. Meanwhile, Choi Sang-ki is head of SecuZone, which is hurrying to solve the recent string of murders. A mysterious woman Lee Ji-hyun is also found lingering about the crime scenes. Without wishing it, Wu is drawn farther and farther into the deeping mystery surrounding the murders.
Woo Yeong-min retired from the police force after trying to save his partner and causing his death. After a series of mysterious deaths in the shopping mall in which his uncle has allowed him to work as a security guard prior to its reopening, he must face both his own fear of mirrors and the mystery surrounding the fire that closed down the mall.

