The Darling family children receive a visit from Peter Pan, who takes them to Never Never Land where an ongoing war with the evil Pirate Captain Hook is taking place.
In stifling Edwardian London, Wendy Darling mesmerizes her brothers every night with bedtime tales of swordplay, swashbuckling, and the fearsome Captain Hook. But the children become the heroes of an even greater story, when Peter Pan flies into their nursery one night and leads them over moonlit rooftops through a galaxy of stars and to the lush jungles of Neverland. Wendy and her brothers join Peter and the Lost Boys in an exhilarating life--free of grown-up rules--while also facing the inevitable showdown with Hook and his bloodthirsty pirates.
At the end of the nineteenth certury the Darling family live in a townhouse in London. Father works for the Bank of London. Mother stays home and cares for the children with some help from the family St Bernard/nurserymaid, Nana and occasional visits from Aunt Millicent. Father has ambitions to be promoted and to move up in the social ladder but his hopes are dashed by his imaginitive children's antics. This is not a cartoon but a live-action film.Wendy Darling, the oldest of the children regales her two brothers with tales of the pirates, Captain Hook and his nemisis--Peter Pan. Wendy is to be barred from the nursery when a misunderstanding with her prudish teacher leads her to a detention at school. In her effort to explain to her father she races to his bank followed by her brothers and, of course, Nana. Nana's inability to find traction on the slippery bank floor leads to a crash into not only the children's father but also his superiors. That night a humiliated Mr Darling announces that Wendy must leave the nursery and take instruction from her stuffy but well-meaning Aunt Millicent, who is the only one who can see that Wendy, like her beautiful mother, has a hidden kiss in the corner of her mouth.In an effort to regain face at the bank Mr and Mrs Darling leave for the evening to attend a social event held by the bank president. On this, her last night in the nursery, Wendy tells her most thrilling tale of Peter Pan and Captain Hook unaware that Peter and his fairy companion, Tinkerbell and Peter are outside the nursery windonw listening intently. Tink approaches the window too closely and accidentally alerts Nana of their presence. In the ensuing confusion Peter's shadow is torn off and locked in a hallway dresser.Later, after the children are asleep, Peter and Tink sneak into the house to locate the errant shadow. The find it, but Peter is unable to reattach it. Frustrated, he breaks down in tears waking Wendy. Unable to understand the attraction she feels toward this strange boy, Wendy offers to sew his shadow back on growing more and more interested in his tales of adventure in Neverland. First she offers him a kiss but when he is clearly unaware what the word means, she give him her thimble receiving an acorn from him in exchange. Then she offers him a "thimble" this time placing a gentle kiss on the confused boy's cheek. Even if he doesn't understand Wendy's actions, Peter knows her to be a first-class storyteller and eagerly offers to teach all three children to fly. They joyfully follow him out the window of the nursery and off to the Second Star on the Right and Straight on till Morning. As it happens, whenever Peter is away Neverland become locked in a freeze and nowhere is it felt more than off the coast aboard the Jolly Roger--the home of Captain Hook and his crew. A sudden thaw alerts all on board that the boy is back! They prepare to once more resume their endless war with Peter's crew, the Lost Boys. But first, Tinkerbell selflessly drinks the poison that that Hook tried to leave in Pan's medicine cup for him to drink.With tears streaming from his eyes, Peter carries the lifeless fairy outside and starts to say, over and over, "I do believe in fairies! I do! I do!" Before long the entire cast (including the pirates) are saying it too! Tink wakes up and flies about, casting fairy dust in every direction.Wendy and Peter finally kiss and Wendy calls it a thimble. They fly home on the pirate ship that's full of fairy dust and take back Wendy, John and Michael to their parents who have missed them so terribly. All the Lost Boys get adopted by the Darlings and Nibs by Aunt Millicent!And what of the boy who never grew up? Well lets just say he still listens to Wendy's stories even now when she's a woman, and he always returns to Never Land, destined to never grow up...
