2142: Pollution and climate change wiped out most of Earth's population. Ecoban city is built to withstand this. Suppression results in revolt. A childhood couple find each other as adults on opposing sides.
Civilization has been destroyed by war and pollution, but the survivors have built the last city of Ecoban. As most natural resources have been exhausted, Ecoban is powered by pollution. The citizens of Ecoban need to continue creating this pollution leading them into conflict with the inhabitants of Marr while one man just wants to clear away the clouds and see the sky
In the future, after the human civilization ended by war and pollution, only those few people who had the power and technology escaped the disaster. Those people built the last human city of Ecoban. As its energy source is the pollutant, the people of Ecoban plan to destroy the inhabitants of Marr to get more pollutant. Standing against Ecoban is a young man who wants only to clear the skies of the clouds to show the wonderful heavens to the girl he loves.
Earth is on the brink of extinction due to pollution and environmental disasters. In order to survive, humans create a shielded city called Ecoban that organically grows on its own, feeding on the earth¡¯s pollution. However, only a select few are allowed to live in the shielded city, leaving many to perish in the waste of the wilderness. Soon, there are reports that pollution levels are dropping, giving people hope that the entire Earth will once again be safe to live in. Conflicts arise after some city officials decide to continually pollute the earth so they can enjoy the prestige of living inside of Ecoban. Meanwhile, an intruder breaks into Ecoban as security frantically rushes to the scene of the crime. Jay, one of the leaders of the security unit, chases down the intruder only to find out that it¡¯s her first love, Suha. Previously assumed dead, Suha returns to Ecoban as a criminal, reminding Jay of his promise to her; that one day he will show her a blue sky, something that has been gone for too long. Now Jay feels torn between her long lost love and her civil duty as city security. Furthermore, Simon, the head of security and also in love with Jay, finds out about Suha¡¯s existence.

