For two years a filmmaker follows the all girl rock band Betty Blowtorch documenting the bands ferocious sound and dangerously low-tech pyrotechnic show, unaware of the turmoil and tragedy that she will ultimately capture.
"I originally set out to make a rock and roll movie. The kind of thing you saw in the seventies, before MTV over exposed our rock stars with manufactured images and CGI stunts. I never realized the depth of the story that was about to unfold or the tragic way it would end." -- Director, Antonia Scarpa
Documentary filmmaker, Antonia Scarpa, spent two years chronicling the exploits of all girl rock band Betty Blowtorch. Originally out to capture Betty Blowtorch's ferocious sound and dangerously low-tech pyrotechnic stage show, Scarpa ended up with a true rock and roll tragedy. Bianca Butthole, Blare N. Bitch and Sharon Needles met while backing up singer Thom Bone in the PMRC targeted punk band Butt Trumpet. When Tipper Gore and her cronies sank their teeth into the one Butt Trumpet song sang by Guitarist Needles, it gave the band more exposure than misfortune but also caused band turmoil. Wrestling the power from the men in the band the girls soon morphed Butt Trumpet into Betty Blowtorch an all Girl powerhouse that's only comparison could be the Runaways. Betty quickly rose through the Los Angeles music scene and landed their first record deal a mere month after forming. Their controversial first record "Get Off" whose title song is a loud and angry fuck you to lead singer Bianca Butthole's former stepfather for his molestation, gained them a rabid following around the country. However, it provided little airplay, as mainstream outlets were afraid of this type of sentiment coming from a woman. Soon the record company withdrew their support and left Betty with a huge amount of debt and no deal. Landing a new deal the Blowtorch quartet once again took to the road, though personal and national tragedy did it's best to derail them, Betty Blowtorch stayed out there until Bianca was tragically killed in a high speed auto accident in New Orleans. "Betty Blowtorch: and Her Amazing True Life Adventures" captures the story without ever letting you forget just how much the band rocked. Behind the scenes footage interviews with famous fans like Duff Mckagan and Vanilla Ice and much more.

