A futuristic Brief Encounter (1945), this is a love story in which the romance is doomed by genetic incompatibility.
Code 46 is a love story set in a Brave New World-type near-future where cities are heavily controlled and only accessible through checkpoints. People cannot travel unless they have "papeles" (papers in Spanish; words and sentences in many languages, especially Spanish, French and Chinese are mixed with English in this new world), a special travel permit issued by the totalitarian government, the "Sphinx". Outside these cities, the desert has taken over and shanty towns are jammed with non-citizens - people without IDs forced to live primitive lives. William is a family man who works as a government investigator. When he is sent to Shanghai to solve a case of fake IDs, he meets a woman named Maria. Although he realizes she is behind the forgeries, he cannot help but fall completely in love with her. He hides her crime and they have a wild, passionate affair that can only last as long as his visa: 24 hours. Back home, William is obsessed with the memory of Maria. When the original investigation is inevitably re-opened a week later and William is sent back to finish the work he started, he tracks her down, only to discover she has been accused of a Code 46 violation and any further relationship is impossible.
In a near future, in a world ruled by a totalitarian government, checking of the genetic code is mandatory for any type of possible relationship between man and woman. The investigator from Seattle William travels to Shanghai to investigate the faking and stealing of special Visas (called using the Spanish word "papeles"). The main suspect is Maria Gonzales, who works in the company Sphinx, but William falls in love for her and protects her. They have a passionate one night stand, and sooner they find that they are genetically incompatible to each other and they have violated the Code 46.
This synopsis is in german, feel free to translate...
--------------------------
In einer nicht allzu fernen Zukunft sind nach einer Klimakatastrophe die Städte zu Sicherheitszonen erklärt worden, die von der Sphinx Corporation kontrolliert werden. Der privilegierte Teil der Menschheit lebt innerhalb dieser geschützten Bereiche, alle anderen in unwirtlichen, wüstenähnlichen Orten außerhalb. Klonen und Genmanipulationen sind Normalität. Die ganze Biografie eines Menschen ist nun auf elektronischen Pässen gespeichert. Wer keinen Pass besitzt, muss sich illegal einen besorgen, um eine andere Identität vorzutäuschen und so in die Städte zu gelangen. William, ein Versicherungsagent, kommt von Seattle nach Shanghai, um eine "undichte Stelle" in der Passdruckerei der Sphinx Corporation aufzudecken. Er ist mit einem Empathie-Virus infiziert, der ihn die Gedanken anderer Menschen erkennen lässt. Zügig ermittelt William die Schuldige, Maria, die er aber deckt, weil sie eine rätselhafte Anziehungskraft auf ihn ausübt. Als er Maria zufällig wieder trifft, lädt William sie zum Essen ein und verbringt später die Nacht mit ihr. Dann fliegt er zurück zu seiner Familie in Amerika. Doch William spürt, dass er sich in Maria verliebt hat, und beschließt, sie wieder zu sehen. In Shanghai erfährt er, dass Marias Gedächtnis zwangsweise gelöscht und sein Kind abgetrieben wurde. Schließlich findet William heraus, dass Maria ein Klon seiner Mutter ist und deshalb ihre Beziehung gegen den "Code 46" verstößt. Doch die beiden wollen ihre Liebe nicht aufgeben und versuchen, sich dem Überwachungsapparat zu entziehen.____________________HERE YOU GO...-----------------------------------In a not-too-distant future after a climate catastrophe city security zones have been declared, controlled by the Sphinx Corporation. The privileged part of the humans lives within these protected areas, all others in hostile, desert locations outside. Cloning and genetic manipulation are usual. The whole story of a man is now on electronic passports. Who has no passport, must obtain one illegally to get another identity and be able to enter the cities. William Geld (Tom Robbins), an insurance agent of Seattle, comes to Shanghai for a "leak" in the passport printing of the Sphinx Corporation uncover. He has an empathy virus, which lets him recognize other people's thoughts. William soon identifies the culprit, María González (Samantha Morton), but he covers up for her because he feels an strange attraction for her. When he again meets Maria coincidentally, William invites her for dinner and spends the night with her. Then he flies back to his family in America. But William feels that he fell in love with Maria, and decides to see her again. In Shanghai, he learns that Maria's memory has forcibly be removed and his child was aborted. Finally, William finds out that Maria is a clone of his mother, and therefore their relationship infringes "Code 46". But the two do not want to give up their love and trying to escape from the surveillance society.
