A thirty-something former child star hires a foster family to re-create the childhood he never had.
Once, he was on top of the world as a popular child actor on TV. Now, he's Hollywood's punchline about everything wrong with people who were famous as children. All Dickie Roberts wants to do is find that one gig that will restore his honor and everyone's love of him, so after learning that Rob Reiner's making an ambitious new movie destined to sweep the Oscars, Dickie's first in line to audition. He walks out having learned he certainly looks the part but can't act it... yet, owing to his very unusual childhood. To research the role, Dickie embarks on a bizarre scheme to live with a suburban family to see how the average American child lives, having them put him up as their "son". But once his gloves are off, Dickie discovers how great it is to be part of a true family, and whether he gets the part or not, his attempt at method acting will certainly change his life forever.
TV child star of the '70s, Dickie Roberts is now 35 and parking cars. Craving to regain the spotlight, he auditions for a role of a normal guy, but the director quickly sees he is anything but normal. Desperate to win the part, Dickie hires a family to help him replay his childhood and assume the identity of an average, everyday kid. Several folk who are also involved in Dickie's special world include: Sidney, Dickie's longtime friend and agent; Cyndi, his on-again, off-again girlfriend; Peggy, Dickie's real mother; George, Dickie's adopted father figure; and Grace, his adopted mother figure.
If you know the book that states that we learned everything in kindergarten, then you will relate to the theme of this comedy. David Spade plays a former child star of the 70s, Dickie Roberts, who is now 35 and parking cars. Dickie wants to be in show biz again so bad that he will do anything. Dickie auditions for a role as a normal guy in a new Rob Reiner film. Rob says he would give him the part, `but', there is one big problem, Dickie doesn't know what `normal is', because as a child star, he skipped his childhood. Dickie hires a normal family for $20,000 to help him experience for the first time the things in everyday life, that he should have learn while growing up, such as riding a bike, sliding on the water slide, living in a tree house, etc. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
