Alice wakes up in Racoon city hospital after the city has been overrun by zombies. Alice must now make it out of the city before a mucilage bomb is dropped on the city.
Alice awakens from a terrible sleep to find her worst fears realized--the bloodthirsty Undead, which she and the now-annihilated squad of elite military fought to destroy, have been unleashed on the city that surrounds the secret facility of the Umbrella Corporation. Discovering she was an Umbrella experiment, Alice has been bio-genetically enhanced with new strengths, senses and dexterity--and she will need them. In the heart of the ravaged Raccoon City, a small group of uninfected people, including Jill Valentine, a recently demoted member of Raccoon City's elite Special Tactics and Rescue Services team, and Umbrella Corporation Security Officer Carlos Oliveira, fight for their lives against swarms of Undead and the deadlier and faster Lickers. Running out of luck and resources, the group is rescued by Alice, and they begin to wage an exhilarating battle to survive and escape before the Umbrella Corporation erases its experiment from the face of the earth. Their only hope lies somewhere within Raccoon City--Dr Charles Ashford, one of the leading scientists for the Umbrella Corporation, will help Alice and the others escape the city safely--if they find his daughter. Angie Ashford became separated from her father and now hides in fear. Alice, Jill and Carlos will have to fight their way through an army of Undead to save her. All the while, a secret weapon code-named Nemesis has been experimentally altered with greater modifications than Alice and has been programmed to track and destroy them. They will need all their strengths and skills to fight the battle of their lives against the mindless evil that has infected the city and the powerful forces that unleashed it on mankind.
Alice, having escaped from the Umbrella facility, finds Raccoon City overrun with the undead. Along with a group of survivors that includes Jill Valentine, she must find the daughter of Dr. Charles Ashford, who will then provide them with a way out of the city before it is nuked by Umbrella in a cover-up attempt. Meanwhile, they are being hunted by the Nemesis, another one of Umbrella's experiments.
When Major Cain reopens The Hive, there is an outbreak of the T-Virus in Raccoon City. The Umbrella leader closes the gateway to the city and traps the survivals with the contaminated zombies, and releases Nemesis to destroy the STARS members to test how powerful this deadly weapon is. Meanwhile, Alice, Jill Valentine and Carlos Oliviera try to find Angela, the little daughter of Dr. Ashford, who is trapped in Raccoon City, as the means to escape from the siege of the city.
Picking up where Resident Evil (2002) left off, a super-Alice finds herself awakening from her coma in a quarantined and zombie-infested Raccoon City, as Jill Valentine and Sgt. Peyton Wells are, too, trapped in the city. With the all-powerful Umbrella Corporation planning to incinerate the entire town, Dr Charles Ashford offers invaluable information in exchange for the safe return of his missing daughter, Angela, while the evil organisation's ultimate mutation, the Nemesis-T Type, is tracking them down. To escape from the Umbrella's endless nightmare, the uninfected humans must fight tooth and nail. However, can Alice and a handful of survivors reach the evacuation spot in one piece?
The nightmare isn't over, General Cain ordered The Hive to be reopened, and in doing so contaminated all of Raccoon City, a city of the dead, with Alice stuck right in the middle. Now, along with other surviors, Jill Valentine, Carlos Oliviera and his Captain, Nicholai, they must fight to survive, to escape the nightmare that has plaqed Raccoon City. But now there is a new threat: Matt Addison has fully mutated into a seemingly unstoppable creature, code named Nemesis, who will stop at nothing until everything around it is dead, but it also has another agenda...
30 days after the contamination of The Hive, the Umbrella Corporation unwisely sends in a research team to re-open the complex and investigate the incident, since no one survived except Alice and Matt Addison, and as Alice was experimented on, Matt was put into a mysterious "Nemesis Program". When the team reprograms and opens the sealed blast doors, it is slaughtered by the massive crowd of infected.With the infected released outside, they reach Raccoon City, spreading the infection among the general populace. Two days after the infection has spread to the surface, Umbrella, worried about possible worldwide contamination, quarantines Raccoon City and establishes a security perimeter around it. However, a girl named Angela Ashford (Sophie Vavasseur), daughter of a Level 6 Umbrella researcher Dr. Charles Ashford (Jared Harris), who is also the T-virus creator, goes missing, after an Umbrella security car transporting her out of Raccoon City suffers a traffic accident.Alice awakens in the deserted Raccoon City hospital with wiring attached to her. Finding no one in the hospital, she wanders outside to find the city a ghost town, infected. She arms herself with a shotgun from a police car. She is constantly disturbed by a man who keeps showing up in visions, who was revealed to be experimenting on her; she now has superhuman agility and strength.While Umbrella is evacuating civilians at the Raven's Gate Bridge, the only exit out of the town, disgraced police officer Jill Valentine (Sienna Guillory) (who was suspended for releasing the story of infected), confers with Sergeant Peyton Wells (Razaaq Adoti), her old ally, after hearing about the infection being true. However, the T-virus infects a man having a heart attack, turning him into a zombie that bites Peyton at the city gates. Umbrella supervisor and the head of the Raccoon City contamination operation, Timothy Cain (Thomas Kretschmann), worried that the T-virus has reached the gates, seals the exit and orders his soldiers to fire over the crowd's heads, scaring them back into the city.Elsewhere, Carlos Olivera (Oded Fehr) and other Umbrella soldiers link up with Special Tactics And Rescue Squad (S.T.A.R.S.) units to defend against an onslaught of zombies. During the battle, Yuri (Stefen Hayes) is bitten but saved by Carlos, the two are nearly attacked by a zombie but Nicholai (Zack Ward) kills it, The three are forced to retreat when a number S.T.A.R.S and Umbrella SWAT Squad are overruned and perished by the undead. The three are nearly rescued by a helicopter, but it doesn't pick them up and instead flies away, It is revealed that Major Cain had betrayed them when he becomes paranoid, After entering into a building for safety, Nicholai is angry as Carlos eventually learns about this betrayal, Shortly after discovering this, Yuri reanimates as a zombie and attacks the two, Carlos is bitten and Yuri is killed by both he and Nicholai. Meanwhile Jill, Peyton, and news reporter Terri Morales (Sandrine Holt) lock themselves in a church, where a panicked man is also hiding. Inspecting the church, Jill finds a priest who has been feeding his zombified sister other people. Later on, they find the church is full of Lickers; the priest and the fugitive are killed, but Jill, Peyton, and Terri are saved at the last minute by the heavily armed Alice.In the meantime, Umbrella dispatches their Nemesis program to kill all remaining S.T.A.R.S. operatives. When Nemesis encounters a surviving citizen, L.J. (Mike Epps), and members of S.T.A.R.S., they open fire on Nemesis. Nemesis guns the team down but spares L.J.'s life when he drops his weapons. Meanwhile, Dr. Ashford has refused extraction since Angela is missing, and soon discovers she is hiding in her school dormitory. He hacks in the city's CCTV system, uses it to contact Alice and the other survivors, and offers to arrange their evacuation in exchange for rescuing Angela. Alice, seeing no other escape, accepts the offer.After Peyton, Terri, and Jill hear the offer, they relent, intending to seal themselves until backup, but Alice explains her choice; as the contamination cannot be put under control, a nuclear bomb will be dropped on Raccoon City, completely destroying it, and the media cover story will be a meltdown of the local nuclear power plant. Soon after, Peyton shows signs of weakness from the T-Virus, and as this happens, Nemesis appears and shoots Peyton dead. Alice separates and assaults him, but he is invincible to fight. She lures him to a local store, where she tries to fight him, but she is overwhelmed and forced into retreat. Jill and Terri manage to make it to safety into the car, only to be attacked by a now reanimated Peyton, With no other choice, Jill kills Peyton before she and Terri make it to the school but not before collecting L.J. on the way.Carlos and Nicholai, who are acting on the same offer, also reach to the school. Unkowablest to opposing groups, the school is crowded with infected dogs and zombified children, Jill, Terri and LJ split up to find Angela, LJ cannot find Angela and encounters a zombie who is killed by Carlos, the two recognize each other and work together to find Angela, Terri encounters a loan girl and assumes her to be Angela, only to realize that she is infact a zombie, Terri soon finds herself surrounded by a group of zombified children, when she refuses to shoot as to not having a heart to do so, Terri is soon bitten before being overwhelmed and killed by the swarm. Jill then reaches to a classroom where she finds Angela and her camera, which Jill watches and realizes that Terri didn't make it. Soon the two then leave to reach the others, only to encounter some zombies and an infected dog, who attempts to attack the two. Before Jill can prepare to muster against the infected dog, Nicholai shows up and shoots all the infected dead. He introduces himself to Jill and reveals how Major Cain betrayed him and his team and leave him for dead, his introduction is soon cut short when an infected dog attacks them, Nicholai sacrifices himself which allows Jill and Angela to escape, After being saved by Alice, who kills all the infected dogs, and reuniting with LJ and Carlos (who learns of Nicholai's fate), Angela reveals she was injected with the T-virus; she was ill by a genetic disease, and forced to walk on crutches. Dr. Ashford created the T-virus to allow her to walk, and he also created the anti-virus because of the T-virus's potential for mutations, but the virus was then impounded and weaponized by Umbrella. Alice uses Terri's video camera to record her story, and injects Carlos with the anti-virus carried by Angela to keep her infection in check.Dr. Ashford gives Alice the location of the extraction point at the City Hall, where the helicopter waits. The group makes it to the rendezvous, but are cornered by Major Cain, who has caught wind of Dr. Ashford's intentions and is holding him prisoner. All but Alice are restrained, and seconds later Nemesis appears, with the helicopter being actually Nemesis's extraction before the bomb detonation. Major Cain commands Alice to fight Nemesis. Alice refuses, but Major Cain forces her to when he shoots Dr. Ashford in cold blood, killing him, and revealing that he had no trust in him nor he had the care into his people. she relents and fights him, impaling him on a pole. Defeating Nemesis, she realizes he is Matt Addison; as he was infected by a Licker, he started to mutate, and was placed in the program.Her stand and refusing to kill him rekindles a trace of Nemesis's/Matt's former humanity. Major Cain orders Nemesis to kill her but instead he kills two Umbrella soldiers beside her and both he, and Alice, join forces and attack the Umbrella forces. Meanwhile, Carlos and Jill cut themselves free from their bonds, joining the fight. Major Cain then orders the nuke to reach the city within moments away, he attempts to escape but is knocked out by LJ. Meanwhile Alice is nearly attacked by a helicopter but Nemesis destroys it, though the explosion sends it flying towards Nemesis, killing him. Soon Alice and the group escape but not before she throws Major Cain out of the helicopter as her punishment to him, He is soon confronted by encroaching zombies while Dr. Ashford reanimates. Major Cain kills a few but does no good, He then attempts suicide but this fails as he has used the last of his bullets. Not much sooner, he is bitten a fully now reanimated Dr. Ashford just before being perished by the undead. As Alice, Jill, Carlos, Angela and LJ escape in the remaining chopper, the nuclear missile detonates over the City Hall. The helicopter is caught in the blast wave and crashes. As the helicopter falls, a metal pole comes loose and is flung towards Angela. Alice moves in front of Angela and is impaled, saving her but killing Alice.Some hours after the explosion, Umbrella employees locate the helicopter's crash site, deep in the Arklay Mountains. There, they find Alice's body, badly burned; the others are nowhere to be found. The media later shows that Terri's footage has been shown to the press, but despite Carlos and Jill's best efforts, Jill's earlier suggestion about Umbrella's media power comes true: Umbrella promotes a fake story about a nuclear power plant explosion near the city with ease, the infection is argued as a hoax, and the media announce that Jill and Carlos are wanted by the police for questioning.Three weeks later, in the midwest Umbrella research facility in Detroit, Alice awakens. Led by Umbrella scientist Dr. Isaacs (Iain Glen), the doctors begin questioning her. Soon, she recalls events from Raccoon City and before. She realizes that the doctor who appeared in her visions is Dr. Isaacs. She attacks him, fights her way out of the facility and makes her way outside, only to be surrounded by more Umbrella guards holding her at gunpoint. Suddenly, Jill, Carlos, Angela, and L.J. pull up, disguised as Umbrella employees. Carlos shows the guards a written order placing her in his custody. Alice enters the vehicle and Dr. Isaacs is shown saying, "Let them go" to an Umbrella guard and then saying "Program Alice activated." A close-up of Alice's eye shows a flashing Umbrella logo and she ignores her friends. The scene then pulls away from the car they are in and all the way out into space, where an Umbrella satellite is seen.
