A comic drama about a time in the near future when citizens are happy to be property traded on the stock exchange.
In the not-distant-future, the market has taken over everything, thanks to the marketers. The consumer is king, and those who see value outside of the marketplace are "enemies of the consumer", terrorists, and "partisan" enemies that the state must dispose of. Protagonist Jack seems to be at one with the media corporations (after all, his marketing ideas led to the institutionalization of the exchange of sex for enhanced buying power), but is he somehow involved with the feeble and pathetic resistance movement? Does he love Cecile, his colleague, or is she a pawn in his game? And what of the mysterious girl from Monday? Are immigrants from the star system "Monday" really assisting the partisans?
In a future sterilized world, a city without a name is peopled by a population that are all bar-coded on their wrists and are monitored by MMM, the Multi-Media Monopoly a global corporation that runs the country like a business. Sex in this culture is for commercial reasons and those are tied to the continuance and thriving of Capitalism. Jack (Bill Sage) works at the MMM corporation and is conspiring with William (Leo Fitzpatrick) to sabotage the MMM corporation where Jack is an account manager with Cecile (Sabrina Lloyd). As Jack and Cecile make attempts at an office romance, William and some cohorts get caught in an act designed to bring down the MMM. When Jack and Cecile's affair stalls and Cecile goes to a bar for a drink, she accidentally connects with William and they spend the night together. Jack has another conspirator in the Medical industry who calls him about a girl that has been brought into the hospital and goes by the name Monday because she's from the planet of Monday. Monday (Tatiana Abracos) has come to this planet to communicate with Jack as he too is an escaped being from that planet. Jack it turns out has been here for quite some time and has experienced all the changes that have allowed him to adapt to the present society so that no one is aware of his origins. When the MMM discovers Jack and Cecile's romance she is sentenced to 3 years hard labor, teaching high school where she encounters William and decide to join forces with him to help overthrow the MMM. Jack and Monday come to an agreement about their origin on the planet Monday and Jack must make difficult decisions to insure his future and Monday's happiness.
