Seven friends, after their car breaks down in the middle of the night, find shelter and tell one another stories to kill time till dawn.
Seven friends are traveling from a forest when their car breaks down in the dark to cut their time they decide to tell horror stories.But after each story one of the friend gets scared and goes back to the car. 1) Karan and Anjali get stuck in the forest when their car suddenly stops while the Anjali sees her Karan going into creep but next moment he is standing besides her claiming to be normal . 2) Anil Manchandani whose a smoker and checks into a hotel whose owner is weird and hates smoking. 3) A little girl Pramila whose not god at studies and has several complaints from her teacher Dayashankar Pandey.But suddenly the teacher starts to get scared of her due to change in her behavior. 4) A housewife Gayatri finds a apple seller suspicious and next morning sees that things around her have turned into apple including her husband. 5) John who is waiting outside a graveyard for a lift when Amar lets him in his car he revels that he died few days back. 6) Purab whose considered a loser by everyone.but suddenly gets power to STOP things around him.
Six city students take refuge in deserted ruins when stranded on a highway, and start telling each other scary stories to keep amused. The stories include: A husband trying to scare his wife; a man stuck at a creepy "healthy hotel"; a school teacher spooked by a child's homework; a housewife scared of apples; a bizarre lift on a freeway; and a college kid with an unusual power. Unlike the usual Indian horror film, this does not resort to sound effects and visuals for thrills. Each sketch has its moments, though a couple of them could have been brilliant with small script changes, and a resistance to oversimplifying. Most of the actors do decent jobs, especially Raghubir Yadav as the freaked-out school-teacher.
A group of friends are stranded in remote rural area, when their vehicle breaks down. After exploring their whereabouts they come across an abandoned house, and decide to stay the night there. They decide to pass the night by sharing stories of the supernatural and horror. Unknown to those sitting around, the friends are disappearing one by one, and no one seems to know their whereabouts. As the remainder of the friends share their stories of the occult, they soon realise that some of them are not around, they go to look for them, and it is when the real horror strikes.

