Carrie White is a lonely and painfully shy teenage girl with telekinetic powers who is slowly pushed to the edge of insanity by frequent bullying from both her classmates and her domineering, religious mother.
This is the story of Carrie White, a lonely and painfully shy teenage girl with unbelievable telekinetic powers, and is slowly being pushed to the edge of insanity by frequent bullying from both cruel classmates at her school, and her own domineering, religious mother. One classmate, Sue Snell, feels sorry for Carrie and asks her boyfriend, Tommy Ross, to take Carrie to the senior prom instead of her. But another classmate, Chris Hargenson, is banned from the prom and is determined with her boyfriend to have her revenge on Carrie. Carrie soon discovers she has telekinetic powers; and when the most gruesome prank is played on her on prom night, anything can happen.
Carrie White is a shy, troubled teenage girl with the unwanted and often uncontrollable gift of telekinesis, the ability to move any objects by mere thought. This can be triggered at any time by Carrie's heightened emotional state of anger or fear. Carrie is frequently harassed at her high school by wealthy and snobbish classmates and even more at home by her demented, Christian-fundamentalist fanatic mother, Margaret. One classmate, Sue Snell, feels compassion for Carrie and gets her boyfriend, Tommy Ross, to asks Carrie to the senior prom. But another classmate, Chris Hargenson, is banned from the prom and plots a cruel prank against Carrie at the prom involving a bucket of pig's blood which pushes the unstable Carrie completely over the edge and uses her telekinetic powers to turn the prom into her own bloodbath.
Based on the Stephen King novel, this is a made-for-TV remake of the 1976 classic horror flick about an abused, mousy girl with telekinetic powers. Carrie White, whose unique powers are showcased early on, is an introspective teenager whose domineering, religious mother, Margaret, raises her in an almost hateful manner. Life is worse at school: Her cruel classmates constantly tease her at every turn. Things escalate when Carrie freaks out in gym class when she has her first period, resulting in her classmates pulling an action that crosses the lines of heinousness. Carrie's teachers stick up for her, banning instigator Chris Hargenson from the school prom. One of the involved girls feels guilty for her actions by setting her boyfriend up as Carrie's prom date. But Chris raises the stakes by hatching a plot with her boyfriend to humiliate Carrie at the prom. Everything goes according to plan... that is, except for Carrie's reaction. And it's a reaction that has everyone regretting that they ever wrongly passed Carrie's path.
Based on Stephen King's classic, 'Carrie' tells the story of a teenage girl with telekinetic abilities. But Carrie White does not have a happy life; she's an isolated, lonely girl who is either ignored or harassed by her classmates at school; she has no social life; and is excluded from the rest of the world by her ultra-fundamentalist, fanatical Christian mother at home. With graduation just around the corner, Carrie suffers a humiliating incident at school; she has her first period in the shower, and because her demented mother has kept these things a secret, she thinks she is bleeding to death. Her classmates start taunting her in the shower until the teacher puts a stop to it, but the harassment does not end there. The girls, led by Chris Hargensen fill her locker up with tampons and write a nasty message on the door. Carrie's teachers stick up for her &amp; the girls are sentenced to a week's detention in the gym. When Chris skips detention, she is suspended and expelled from the upcoming prom. But Chris &amp; her boyfriend, Billy Nolan, devise a nasty plan to humiliate Carrie when they discover Tommy Ross - one of the school's football players - is taking Carrie to the prom. Through some help from one of her friends, Chris manages to have the election results for King and Queen rigged, to get Carrie &amp; Tommy up on stage. Carrie has finally got her moment in the sun - only to have it come crashing down around her when Chris and Billy drop a vat of blood on Carrie's head. Chris's friends again start to taunt Carrie with mocking laughter. Then, the doors slam shut, fire breaks out - and only a few people will survive...
Derek O'Cain
