A beautiful hæmophage infected with a virus that gives her superhuman powers has to protect a boy in a futuristic world, who is thought to be carrying antigens that would destroy all hæmophages.
Set in the late 21st century, a subculture of humans have emerged who have been modified genetically by a vampire-like disease, giving them enhanced speed, incredible stamina and acute intelligence, and as they are set apart from "normal" and "healthy" humans, the world is pushed to the brink of worldwide civil war aimed at the destruction of the "diseased" population. In the middle of this cross-fire is - an infected beautiful woman - Ultraviolet, who finds herself protecting a nine-year-old boy who has been marked for death by the human government as he is believed to be a threat to humans.
Milla Jovovich (Resident Evil, The Fifth Element), Cameron Bright (X-Men 3), Nick Chinlund (The Legend of Zorro) and William Fichtner (The Longest Yard) star in this story of a beautiful woman caught in a futuristic civil war between the government and a subculture of disease-modified humans in whom speed, strength and intelligence are magnified. To protect a young boy who has been marked for death, she must fend off the human government.
Human society has been decimated by a holocaust caused by biological warfare research gone wrong: instead of creating super-soldiers, a genetically-engineered virus turns infected humans into Hemophages, a vampire-like sub-species with enhanced physical abilities. In the infection-paranoid and technologically advanced society that follows, Violet is a singular Hemophage warrior battling the totalitarian dictator who is determined to wipe out her species at any cost.
Violet lives in a totalitarian world in the future, ruled by Daxus. Once she was a human and the assistant of his husband, a scientist, murdered by the police forces of Daxus, who has turned into vampires a considerable part of the human race just to enlarge his forces. Violet has the task of rescue a secret weapon: a boy named Six. After knowing the real intentions of this people with the boy, Violet takes him away and she'll be chased by Daxus, because Six carries in his blood a rare cure, which could heal Violet and all the vampires.
In the late 21st a disease called Hemophagia has genetically modified nearly an entire race of people, leaving them with such enhanced speed, intelligence, and strength that they resemble vampires in nearly every way. Fear begins to breed within the power elite as the disease continues to spread and those infected prove to be truly superhuman, and now, a civil war is brewing between uninfected humans and those altered by Hemophagia. Caught dead in the center of it is an infected woman called Violet, who is bent on vengeance and has little left to lose. Provoked beyond reason by powers that will not rest until she and her people are dead, she will become everything her persecutors feared her to be
In the mid-21st century, the Hemaglophagic virus (HGV), an obscure virus
from Eastern Europe which was being used to breed stronger and faster soldiers,
escaped the laboratory. Once infected, people have a lifespan of about 12
years, but first they are reduced to "hemophages" (aka "vampires"). They take on many characteristics including extended eyeteeth, regeneration, accelerated reflexes and increased strength.
One of the victims is Violet Song jat Shariff [Milla Jovovich]. Because she was infected
while pregnant, Violet was secured to a holding camp to be studied. Most of the
other hemophages have been wiped out, thanks to the actions of Vice cardinal
Ferdinand Daxus [Nick Chinlund], who is determined to wipe out every last hemophage. But the
hemophages aren't going to be led like sheep to their slaughter. Hemophages
have united, and their resistance and terrorist attacks have become known as
"the Blood War."It is 12 years later. The scientists terminated Violet's pregnancy, and
she has managed to escape the camp and join the Hemophage Underground. After
infiltrating the Archministry by posing as courier XPD154, Violet finds herself
in possession of a case that contains the ultimate weapon against Hemophages,
one that will wipe out the entire hemophagic population. When ordered by her
Hemophagic superior, Nerva [Sebastien Andrieu], to destroy the case without opening it, which will
set off a bomb that will destroy everything a block around, Violet refuses to
comply and opens the case to discover it contains a child. It is both a weapon
and a child, she is told. The child contains antigens that will wipe out all
existing Hemophages. What is Violet to do...destroy the weapon or protect the
child?The child is a ten-year human named Six [Cameron Bright], because he is a clone of eight.
He has been raised all his life in a laboratory and knows very little about
life outside. Violet takes Six to be examined by her Hemophagic friend Garth [William Fichtner],
who learns that Six has only eight hours to live and that he is outfitted with
a tracking device, so Violet must keep moving lest Daxus catches up with her.
Unfortunately, Nerva has made a deal with Daxus and learned that Six doesn't
contain an antigen against Hemophagia but against the entire human race, so
Nerva seizes Six with the idea of using him against the humans. Violet sets Six
free again. In the time they have left before Six dies, Violet takes him to the
park. When the time comes, Violet is at his side, but Daxus and his henchmen
show up to claim the body and kill Violet.Fortunately for Violet, Garth manages to retrieve her body before Daxus's
incendiary team can destroy it. After several hours of surgery, Garth is able
to bring Violet back to life. Violet goes into a deep depression but recovers
when she senses that Six is not dead and that he needs her help to get away
from Daxus. Violet storms the Archministry just as Daxus is about to saw into
Six's brain. Violet single-handedly wipes out everyone in the Archministry
except for Daxus. As they face each other, Daxus tells Violet the truth about
himself...he is actually a Hemophage, too. Violet defeats him with a flame pistol and her sword.Epilogue: Violet carries Six to the roof and reawakens him. Six is surprised to
still be alive; a flashback reveals one of Violet's tears at the park protected him from dying by giving him immunity to what was killing him. He tells Violet that there is a cure for Hemophagia.
