The story of ordinary men during WWII as seen from three different points of View.
In the autumn of 1944, in Northern Italy, the German soldiers resist to the advancement of American forces in an Italy divided in fascist soldiers, communist partisans supported by the civilians and thugs. An American platoon led by Sergeant Malone is assigned to deliver supplies to the front. Meanwhile, the German Lieutenant Gunther tries to keep the morale and discipline of his needy soldiers, and faces many other problems when the Italian troop leaded by the aristocratic Lieutenant Gianini joins his doomed troop. The thugs leaded by Rossini act like vultures, plundering the remains after the battles.
THE FALLEN is a three-sided story about German, Italian, and American soldiers, set in Northern Italy during the final weeks of the World War II. On the one side, a group of American supply soldiers delivers ammunition to the front line, a journey that becomes a descent into hell, the success of the mission becomes less likely with every setback. On the other, a doomed German unit and their ragtag Italian partners struggle to maintain morale and discipline amongst their beleaguered troops in the face of certain defeat. Torn between these are the divided loyalties of the Italians, both fascist soldiers and communist partisans, who have turned brother against brother in a bloody civil war. The film looks at the everyday life of the soldiers, their encounters on the road, their hopes and dreams, and the differences in values, morals, and patriotism between the cultures at the end of that era.
Ari Taub's gritty World War II drama, set after the tide had turned on the Axis powers in 1944, chronicles the conflict through the eyes of an ill-fated unit of German soldiers and their disheveled Italian allies. Shot on location in Italy, the film boasts a unique cinematic style that evokes the feeling of authentic newsreel footage, focusing on the drama of human emotion rather than the spectacle of violent warfare.

