The Angels investigate a series of murders which occur after the theft of a witness protection profile database.
The Angels--Natalie, Dylan, and Alex are back again but this time they're preparing for a strike without even warning as they go undercover to retrieve two missing silver bands. These are no ordinary rings. They contain valuable encrypted information that reveal the new identities of every person in the Federal Witness Protection Program. When witnesses start turning up dead, only the Angels, using their expertise as masters of disguise, espionage and martial arts can stop the perpetrator, a mysterious "fallen" Angel. Aided by their trusty colleague, Jimmy Bosley, the Angels' adventure begins at a remote Mongolian outpost and ends only after Dylan is forced to face a dark secret from her past--a secret that puts the lives of her two best friends in danger.
Charles Townsend sends the Angels to investigate a series of murders following the theft of information from the government's witness protection program, and they find it the work of Madison Lee, a former member of Townsend's investigative service who holds a lethal grudge against the Angels. When the Angels barely escape the guns of Madison they must set a trap by setting up an FBI sting during a movie premiere, a setup that smokes out Madison.
Natalie, Dylan, and Alex, three glamorous, tough-as-nails, investigative agents - who work for the Charles Townsend Detective Agency - are sent undercover to retrieve two missing jewelry bands. These are no ordinary wedding rings. They contain valuable information that reveals the new identities of every person in the FBI's Witness Protection Program. After five of the program's participants turn up dead, only the Angels can stop the perpetrator, using their expertise as masters of disguise, espionage and martial arts.
Madison was a rough and fallen angel who had grudge against her boss Charlie. she is responsible for the deaths of witnesses include William Rose Bailey and Alan Caulfield. When Dylan , Natalie and Alex were op to investigation for deaths, Dylan had dark past with her former boyfriend Seamus O'Grady whom she beated him by sent the jail after she witness the murder of Max Petroni's parents. Madison approached Natlie when they talked about Dylan's connection with her former boyfriend . as Dylan struggled to face her boyfriend , Charlie tried to talk Madsion to given up but she refused. Madsion's revenge plans were exposed by the Angels who comforted her crimes ath balcony and shooted them almost death but they surived thanks by bulletproof sent by Bosley.In the climax, When Angels manged defeated Seamus and Tin Man by tripped off by Fbi during at premine of Alex's boyfriend, Madsion manged to run off but by the Angels confrontation at an abandoned theatre when she was fallen causing an gas explosion that kills her thus ending the plans.
