A film adaptation of Steve Martin's novel about a complex love triangle between a bored salesgirl, a wealthy businessman and an aimless young man.
Twenty-something native Vermonter Mirabelle Buttersfield, having recently graduated from college, is finding her new life in Los Angeles not quite what she was expecting or hoping. An aspiring artist, she is barely eking out a living working as a clerk at the women's evening gloves counter at Saks Fifth Avenue in Beverly Hills and thus she can barely make the payments on her massive student loans. She treats her job with a certain distance, often daydreaming as she watches the life of the rich as they shop at the store. She has made no friends, including from among her Saks colleagues, and thus lives a solitary existence, which does not assist in her dealing with her chronic clinical depression. So it is with some surprise that two men with a romantic interest in her enter her life almost simultaneously. The first is poor slacker Jeremy, who works as an amplifier salesman/font designer. Mirabelle continues dating Jeremy as only a relief to her solitary life, as Jeremy doesn't seem to understand how to treat her in the way she wants. Shortly after meeting Jeremy, she meets the second, wealthy fifty-something Ray Porter, who is the antithesis of Jeremy in almost every respect, including the fact that Ray is unwilling or unable to commit to Mirabelle, about which he is up front to her. To Mirabelle, that lack of commitment from Ray seems to be in name only, and as such she increasingly sees Ray as her boyfriend. Mirabelle has to decide if a long term future is either in the cards with Jeremy or Ray, which is made all the more complicated by an action by Jeremy to an off the cuff comment that she makes to him.
The story follows Mirabelle, a disenchanted salesgirl and aspiring artist who sells gloves and accessories at a department store. She has two men in her life: wealthy divorcée Ray Porter and struggling musician Jeremy. Mirabelle falls in love with the glamorous Ray, and her life takes a magical turn, but eventually she realizes that she must empower herself and make a choice between them.
In her 20s, Mirabelle leaves taciturn parents in Vermont to live in L.A. She sells gloves at Saks, lives alone in a flat, and sporadically pursues her art (photography and pencil). She's so lonely she'll sleep with Jeremy, a clueless, penniless graphic artist and constant talker she meets at a laundromat. About the time Jeremy sets off on a months-long road trip as a rock band's groupie, Mirabelle meets Ray Porter, pushing 60, wealthy, charming, living in L.A. and Seattle. He thinks he's made it clear it's just an affair; she hears it's more. She's on cloud nine. Meanwhile, on the road trip, Jeremy listens to self-help tapes on relating to women. Can a shopgirl find true romance?

