A man from a wealthy family who should be in his second year of college, is still finishing his highschool requirements. His family hire a tutor for him who is his own age but she comes from a poor background.
Kim Ji-Hoon and Choi Su-Wan are both 21, born 3/1982. Su-Wan is a Year 2 University student while Ji-Hoon is only a high school student (Repeating 3rd year). Su-Wan's father lose his job, and her mother works in family business, killing chickens and sell them like Kentucky fried chicken, like that kind of shop but it's family business. Su-Wan needs to earn money to help the family from poverty. Her chicken-expert mother has a rich friend, whose son is Kim Ji-Hoon, needs a tutor who can force Ji-Hoon to sit down and study for 2 hours in 3 months. The salary of this tutorial pays Su-Wan her entire semester, half of the school term. Ji-Hoon is a school fighter, loves fighting, and always attract girls, draws attention. Except studying, Ji-Hoon is really a all-rounder. Ji-Hoon was being sent to USA to study abroad when young. His relation with parents is bad due to they sent him to USA when he was young. To avoid being sent to USA again, Ji-Hoon has to gain an average of 50.0 marks in this mid-term exam, but ji-hoon's usual average mark is 8.0 marks. could he make it?
The story is based from the real life tutor life from the Korean tutor, Choi Soo-Wan, with her own real life student. Choi Su-Wan (Ha-Nuel Kim) and Ji-Hoon Kim (Sang-Woo Kwone) are both 21 years old, born in March 1982. Su-Wan is a University Year 2 girl, while Ji-Hoon studies his 3rd year of High School studies in the Surim High School. Su-Wan's father had just lose his job, and mother still works in her family business (frying chickens and sell to earn a living). Su-Wan, who demands money for her semester, had to find job because her father is jobless. Su-Wan's mother knows Ji-Hoon's mother, and introduced Su-Wan to Ji-Hoon's mother. Su-Wan tutors Ji-Hoon, for 3 months, to make Ji-Hoon to sit 2 hrs. The salary is enough for Su-Wan's Semster. Except studying, Ji-Hoon is almost all-rounded. Especially fighting in Surim High School and offended "Lee Jong-Seo", the leader of the triad group in Surim. His girlfriend, Yang Ho-Gyung, admired Ji-Hoon. The fighting in the pool makes Ji-Hoon's father, Kim Bong-Man, compelled to send Ji-Hoon to USA, as how he had done to Ji-Hoon's young life, send Ji-Hoon to USA to study abroad. To avoid being sent, Ji-Hoon has to gain, in the upcoming mid-term exam, 50.0 average. Could Ji-Hoon make it?

