Healing powers that science cannot explain and voodoo practices that defy all logic are just some of the instances of paranormal activity that Dr. Gayatri [Bipasha Basu] is busy investigating. Her experiments bring her with her team of fellow scientists from America to India where they encounter the gifted Varun [Sanjay Dutt].Varun has inexplicable paranormal powers, yet is highly disciplined and evolved. His unusual ability of taking away pain and affliction from his subjects fascinates Gayatri and he becomes a willing subject of her cause. Gayatri's unusual experiments suddenly hurtle Varun towards guessing the existence of a dark power that is hidden and evil. What is the force all about? And why does it wage a battle against Varun? And how is it linked to Ravan's Rudrakash? Hidden away, vanished in the hoary mists of time is the most unusual Rudraksh. Legend has it that it carried in its folds seed sounds that promised to mutate humans into a new species. This was not a normal Rudraksh worn by ordinary people. In the language of science, it was a multi-dimensional hologram in the form of a seed. It beheld the power to mutate its bearer into a power beyond all reckoning.Though he first tries to evade the forces that beckon him, Varun is drawn deeper and deeper into a pact of peril. He is soon hurtled into a heady adventure and chase that takes him to the Himalayas and then into the mysterious ruins of the legendary King Ravan's palaces in Lanka. Varun digs deep to discover the secret of Rudraksh. And suddenly everything starts making sense.
During the battle between Lord Ram and Demon Ravan; Lord Ram was emerge victorious killing Ravan in the process. After his death Ravan leave behind his shield of evil powers called the Rudraksh found in a steel deity. After years of research one of the devotee of Ravan, Bhuria was able to locate this steel deity which gives him access to use the power of the Rudraksh at his own will; his meditation to the Rudraksh teaches him new powers day by day and he continues to rule the entire world with his evil designs and with the sole aim of turning every Human beings into a demon like himself. Quite unknown to Bhuria that a devotee of Lord Shiva and Lord Hanuman, Varun who has always impress his subjects with the curing of sickness medical science cannot cure is emerging to put an end to Bhuria and his Rudraksh rule.
When Bhagwan Shri Ram ended the tyrannical rule of Lord Ravanna, he was able to bury his remains underground in Lanka (which subsequently was called Ceylon, and now re-named Sri Lanka). Legacy has it that while Bhagwan Ram was able to kill Lord Ravanna, he was unable to kill the evil which Ravanna had left buried deep underground in Yala, Sri Lanka. Years later an Archealogical group comes across an object called the rudraksh, which when activated will re-create Ravanna and his demon hordes, who will subsequently rule the world. Unfortunately, this rudraksh falls into the hands of an evil Bhuria, who alongwith his lady love, Lali, decides to use it for his own personal power and gain. Bhuria attains special powers, albeit a little raw, as a result, and is on the look-out for a male partner, who has already trained his mind and body - none other than Sage Ved Pujan's only son, Varun, a sooth-sayer and healer, gentle and unassuming, and one who is fated to join the demon hordes led by Bhuria.

