A mild-mannered psychopath plays mind-games with a woman he has tied to a chair in his basement.
Locked in a dark basement, Laura, a psychiatrist in her early thirties, contemplates in horror a video where a man confesses to be a serial killer. His name is Ramón, an apparently normal man in his forties, who seems to be quite harmless. Gagged and bound to a chair, Laura realises that it's the same person who kidnapped her and who is now pacing in the shadows. Ramón continues to speak as he turns off the television. He walks over to her, takes off the gag and challenges Laura to play the "Word Game". If she wins, she gets to go free, but if she loses, he'll poke out her eye. Laura is terrified, but reluctantly accepts. The game begins. Laura makes a mistake. Ramón menacingly moves towards her. Laura's screams are useless.
Locked in a dark basement, Laura, a psychiatrist in her early thirties, contemplates in horror a video where a man confesses to be a serial killer. Its Ramón, an apparently normal man in his forties, who seems to be quite harmless. Gagged and bound to a chair, Laura realizes that its the same person who kidnapped her and who is now pacing in the shadows. Ramón continues to speak as he turns off the television. He walks over to her, takes off the gag, and challenges Laura to play the Word Game. If she wins, she gets to go free; but if she loses, hell poke her eye out. Laura is terrified, but reluctantly accepts. The game begins. Laura makes a mistake. Ramon menacingly moves towards her. Lauras screams are useless.
A month later, we see Ramón giving a class at the University where he teaches. Hes a charismatic philosophy teacher. Two policemen discreetly interrupt his class and kindly ask him to come with them to the police station. Once there, commissioner Espinosa and inspector Sánchez interrogate Ramón, the two of them are investigating the strange disappearance of Ramons ex-wife, the psychiatrist, Laura Galán. Ramon lies, as he calmly tells the two policemen that he hasnt seen Laura in ages. As he ably dodges the two inspectors questions and insinuations he begins to tell them about what had happened in the basement the month before. It seems that Ramon left Laura unharmed when she lost at the word game. However, he decided to torture her psychologically, humiliate her and avenge himself by terrifying her, while he forced her to find him an effective therapy for his mental illness. Ramón admits to having killed eighteen people in order to create the alibi that would allow him to murder Laura. As he tells his story, the two policemen begin to corner Ramon with the evidence at hand. His violent behaviour, well documented in the divorce trial is brought together with a series of hard evidence: photographs, blood samples, a video... His tremendously confusing statement will soon make it clear that he has something to hide. 
Ramon becomes more and more nervous and tries to justify his conduct. Little by little he begins to reveal what happened in the basement with Laura. The two policemen relentlessly hound him until he finally breaks down. His final confession will be more than surprising.
