Young employees at Shenaniganz restaurant collectively stave off boredom and adulthood with their antics.
It's the dinner shift at Shenanigan's. Dan, the clueless boss, assigns Mitch, 22, a trainee, to Monty, the smooth talker who chases girls for one-night stands. Dean, a waiter, also 22, feels that life is passing him by. Dan offers him the assistant manager job and gives him until midnight to decide. Other waiters, cooks, and bus boys have their issues and personalities. Bishop, the dishwasher, is their counselor. During this shift, Monty may learn something, Dean makes his decision, Dan makes a play for the not-yet-18 hostess, customers get their comeuppance, the guys all play the in-house homophobic flashing game, the gals demonstrate why they won't, and Mitch gets the last word.
Over the course of twenty-four hours, from one drunken after work party to the next drunken after work party the following night, the shenanigans of the employees at ShenaniganZ, a strip mall franchise restaurant, are presented. These shenanigans are centered on the restaurant's wait staff, who have the unenviable position of being the primary interface between the other employees, whether it be the bartenders, cooks, dishwashers, buspeople, hostess or manager, and the customers. There are six wait staff working this day. Monty, the alpha male and head troublemaker, is a womanizer who has a penchant for jail bait, he currently having his eye on the new hostess, Natasha, who will not be legal for another week. Serena, Monty's ex-girlfriend, is arguably the one person who can put him in his place. Dean, who has worked as a waiter here for four years since high school and has stayed largely in not knowing what he wants to do, is feeling at a crossroads. He has learned that Chet Miller, with who he took all the advanced academic courses in high school, has just graduated from college with a degree in engineering, while Dean himself has not even managed to graduate from community college. Dan, the loser Manager, offers Dean the position of Assistant Manager, Dean having to weigh the benefits of advancement against possibly turning into another Dan. Amy, Dean's girlfriend, always seems to be stuck with having to serve the worst of the already generally bad customers that frequent the restaurant. Insecure Calvin, who is working a double shift as a favor for his "girlfriend" who wanted a night off, has recently developed a case of shy bladder syndrome. And Naomi is seemingly angry at everyone and everything. A seventh this day is trainee Mitch, who seems overwhelmed by these shenanigans, especially the "penis showing game".
Dean is a 22 year old waiter at "Shenaniganz," a restaurant with a colorful crew and an irreverent disdain for the customer. He is stuck in the point of his life which makes him crave more than a crappy job at a restaurant and a couple classes per semester. When he is offered the job of assistant manager, he is forced to consider the potential benefits/disadvantages of accepting, beating himself up over the fact that his high school classmate recently graduated as an electrical engineer -- a fact his mother reminded him of at their lunch meeting at the start of the movie.Along with his roommate, Dean lives in a house that is the constant host of parties for everyone working at the restaurant, which only makes him wonder even more about his place in life.Dean's roommate Monty is an individual extremely concerned with his getting of the poontang, and throughout the course of the movie his comments are lewd, in-your-face reminders of his sexual perversion and infinite coolness. Monty's current objective is the underage hostess at the restaurant, Natasha, who provokes incessantly an occurrence of statuatory rape between the two [however, when the chance does finally arrive for Monty, he wusses out because she is too young].The movie takes place during Mitch's first day and the nature of things in the restaurant is displayed as Monty tours him around, yet never lets him speak. The "penis-showing game" is the focus of the crew's entertainment -- a game which consists of the male workers showing each other their genitalia in various different shapes and forms. If the other player looks, he gets one or more kicks in the ass. Mitch gets a glimpse of all the characters, including the busboys Nick and T-dawg [two wankstas who hang out by the dumpsters and eat all the vegetables after getting a little green], the bartenders [a sultry lesbian and a sexy lady who is dating the even sexier cook Raddimus -- inventor of the penis showing game and lover of handjobs], the Bishop [the resident philosopher/therapist who also happens to be the chain-smoking dishwasher], Floyd [another cook, though more like a cock], the manager Dan [uptight typical manager --also hits on Natasha], and the waiters/tresses Naomi [bitter little curse of a woman], Serena [sensuous ex-partner of Monty, ridicules him in public about his lacking sexual prowess], Amy [Dean's friend], and Calvin [pushover who can't pee in public bathrooms, and later ends up wetting himself on the couch next to a girl he's trying to impress].Overall, the movie is about Dean trying to figure out what to do with his life, whether Monty will do Natasha, whether Calvin will ever get laid, and will Mitch ever get to say something. Viewers also get a (admittedly over-the-top for shock value) behind-the-scenes glimpse of restaurant antics. All these conflicts are resolved at the party at the end, which ridicules Dan the manager, since Natasha makes him think he is invited but gives him wrong directions, ridicules Calvin for aforementioned reasons, resolves Dean's whiny crisis, lets Monty know he is afraid to touch a minor, and gives Mitch the opportunity to prove himself to the whole restaurant staff by showing them all "The Goat," the most humiliating position of the penis-showing game.Great movie.
