An intergalactic dog pilot from Sirius (the dog star), visits Earth to verify the rumors that dogs have failed to take over the planet.
Owen Baker is a 12-year-old loner who has been working as a neighborhood dog-walker so he can earn the privilege of getting a dog of his own. His hard work pays off when his parents let him adopt a scruffy mutt he names Hubble. Both boy and dog get more than they bargained for when Owen wakes up one morning to discover he can understand every word Hubble says, including the ominous phrase: "Take me to your leaders." Owen learns that dogs came to Earth thousands of years ago to colonize and dominate the planet. Hubble (who is really named Canid 3942) has been sent by the powerful Greater Dane on a mission from the Dog Star Sirius to make sure dogs have fulfilled this destiny. Despite the best efforts of Owen's rag-tag group of neighborhood dogs to convince him otherwise, Hubble soon discovers the awful truth about Earth dogs: "You're all pets!" Now Owen (a boy who never had a friend) and Hubble (a dog who never needed one) must work together to prepare the neighborhood dogs for a visit from The Greater Dane--or all dogs will be removed from the planet! The fate of Earth dogs hangs in the balance, and it's up to Owen, Hubble, and their canine companions to save man's best friend.
Twelve-year-old Owen Baker (Liam Aiken) made a deal with his parents, that if he works hard as a neighborhood dog-walker all summer, they will reward him with a dog of his own. Summer ends and they go to the dog pound to adopt a dog. Owen chooses a dog that has just flown to Earth from Sirius the `Dog Star' and names him Hubble. Hubble (Canid 3942 - voiced by Matthew Broderick) is a secret agent sent to Earth to investigate why Earth dogs haven't communicated with Sirius. Thousands of years earlier, dogs from Sirius were sent on a mission to colonize and rule Earth. The Great Dane leader has heard rumors that Earth dogs have strayed from their mission, and that they are now pets of humans. If she finds this to be true, she will recall all the dogs on Earth back to Sirius. One night Owen follows Hubble to his spaceship, and while the dog is communicating with Sirius, Owen has an accident with the communicator, enabling him to understand what dogs are saying. Together, Owen and Hubble must shape up the dogs that Owen has been walking, before the Great Dane arrives on Earth. The fate of all Earth dogs hangs in the balance. This is a good simple movie for kids. Not a lot of action or special effects, but it has a good story line of a boy and his dog, even though the dog is from outer space. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
