An aimless, jobless, irresponsible grown man joins the army and matures into a battlefield hero.
Karan is a lazy good-for-nothing who lives on the generated income of his father and elder brother at their family business. Karan's days: hang out with buddies and romance a woman named Romi. When he watches an action movie, he decides to enlist in the army with a friend, but basic training proves to be too much of a bother and he shortly abandons it, thus making him lose respect on the home front. Romi also stops respecting him. Karan decides he must re-join the army and show his family and Romi that he, too, is focused upon the path he has to take in this lifetime, but will he be resilient enough to carry out this task?
It's 1999, and Lt. Karan Shergill (Hrithik Roshan) has been posted to the Siachen region of Kashmir, near the Indo-Pak border. As he bonds with fellow officers and gets to know the region under their supervision, he reminisces about his previous life, how he was the good-for-nothing black sheep of his family who took the entrance exam for the Indian Military Academy purely on a whim. Harsh training prompted him to run away and return home, but that decision, in turn, caused a breakup with his girlfriend, Romila "Romi" Dutta (Preity Zinta), and a confrontation with his father's low opinion of him. He returned to the academy, finished his training, and emerged an officer - but there isn't much time left to dwell upon the past. Terrorists have crossed the Line Of Control and now occupy a few key mountain peaks that serve as attack points. Indian Defense retaliates, and thus begins Operation Vijay, a mission to reclaim the terrorist-captured points before it is too late. Karan is swept into a heated battle to capture an important peak. He knows very well that this might just be a great chance to serve his country and look the world in its face.
Mr. Shergill has two sons, Udesh and Karan. While responsible Udesh has joined the family business, slacker Karan drifts along with no motivation to do anything - other than someday marry the woman he loves, Romila Dutta (Romi). One day while watching Arnold Schwarzenegger kick butt in "Commando," he decides to enlist in the Indian Military Academy, much to his parents' shock and surprise; however, Karan's tryst with the military does not last long, and he deserts. When he finds that his parents and brother have such little respect for him that they fully expected him to quit and return home, he decides to return to the academy instead. Later on, Karan and Romi meet up. She's now a field correspondent for Global News, and he is now an acting captain in the Indian Military, a man with a mission - to climb Peak 5179 and hoist the Indian Tricolor there by any means.
Karan Shergill has no ambition or direction in life and no plan in mind for his future. He is an aimless fellow, unsure what career to pursue. When one of his friends considers joining the army, he does, too, applying for the army academy. Though his friend backs out, Karan goes trough with it, but lives to regret this as training begins. He runs away to return home. Although he is wryly welcomed back by his parents (who've expected nothing better of him), he is lambasted by Romilla (his girlfriend) for not sticking to his decision. Devastated by his father's reaction and his girl's breakup, he returns to the Academy, gives it his best, and graduates. He is sent to the border when the war with Pakistan breaks. He then discovers the ambition for his life: take back peak 5179, which has been captured by Pakistani militants. His problems double when Romilla appears on the scene, now an area reporter who wants to reconcile her relationship with him. Karan now has a fight on two frontiers.
Karan Shergill (Hrithik Roshan) is a aimless young man from Delhi who has no goals for his future. His father (Boman Irani) is a wealthy businessman and his older brother Udesh has joined the family business and is living in the USA. His life revolves around hanging out with his friends at college and spending time with his girlfriend, Romila Dutta (Preity Zinta), also known as Romi, a committed student activist and aspiring journalist.Although Romi parents are fond of Karan, her father notices his lack of direction in life and advises him whatever job he chooses, he should do with sincerity. After Karan leaves, Romi father tells Romi that Karan needs to find a Lakshya (Aim) in his life. Karan's father worries for his future and reminds him of Udesh success as a way of motivating him. While at the local balling alley, Karan and his friends are surprised when their friend Parvesh announces he is going to join the Indian Army and this gets Karan thinking about his own future plans.Karan later watches the Hollywood movie Commando and is inspired to apply to the Indian Military Academy (IMA) as well and is selected to take their written exam. However, Parvesh quickly backs out. Karan's father finds the entrance letter and angrily confronts him for having made such a huge decision without consulting him.Romi encourages a bitter Karan to continue with his aim but urges him not to join the army out of anger at his father. However, Karan remains firm in his decision and expresses his desire to marry Romi in the future to which Romi consents. Karan's father is dubious of his selection and convinces his worried wife that Karan will return in a few days. Karan eventually passes all entry requirements and is selected into the IMA training program-me. However, he's undisciplined and unused to life there and keeps receiving punishments from the training team.Despite his fellow cadets trying to encourage him, an upset Karan runs away from the academy and is forced to confront his parent's low opinion of him. Hurt, he only looks forward to seeing Romi again. However, once Romi learns Karan ran away, she angrily breaks up with him for not respecting his own decision and tells him she never wants to see him again.Devastated, Karan finally comes to terms with his situation and makes his decision. He returns to the IMA, takes his punishment, becomes a focused, disciplined officer cadet and eventually commissions into the Indian Army as a lieutenant. Karan is posted to the 3rd battalion of the Punjab Regiment, commanded by the charismatic Col. Sunil Damle (Amitabh Bachchan). The force is stationed in Kargil. Karan quickly befriends and earns the respect of his fellow battalion members. Later Karan comes home on leave and is heartbroken to find out that Romi is getting engaged to a wealthy executive. But his leave is cut short, and he's recalled to his battalion due to an outbreak of hostilities in Kargil. He reports back to his battalion, where he's promoted to the rank of acting Captain.Col. Damle briefs the officers on the latest situation and reveals that several infiltrators have crossed the Line of Control from Pakistan and occupied mountain peaks on the Indian side of the border. The battalion has been assigned to secure Point 5179, a crucial vantage point dominating the army's main supply line, the National Highway 1D. The battalion decides to attack from the eastern side of the mountain. The first part of the assault is successful. The battalion destroys the enemy's screening units with Karan cited for his bravery in saving another officer's life. Meanwhile, Romi gets stationed to Kargil as a war correspondent, when her fiance forbids her to go there, she breaks off the engagement.Romi goes to Kargil, where she meets the now mature and responsible Karan. Romi begins to fall in love with Karan again. However, Karan remains reluctant to return her feelings as he's still hurt over her previous rejection of him and under the impression that she's engaged. In the second phase of the assault, the battalion attacks the peak of the mountain but fails to capture it due to the strategic advantage and heavy weaponry the Pakistanis have. The unit suffers heavy casualties, and Karan is devastated to lose many of his friends in the attack. Brigadier Puri summons Col. Damle and reluctantly agrees to give him 48 hours to capture the peak. After that time, responsibility for the Point will be given to another battalion.Col. Damle orders a group of 12 officers and soldiers (including Karan) to scale the 1000-foot rock cliff on the western side of the mountain and flank the enemy stronghold. They will be provided with artillery support from the eastern side. Karan realizes that he has finally found his goal in the form of capturing the peak and assures Damle he will succeed, whether he lives or dies. Later, Karan phones his father and reconciles with him, and his father expresses his pride for his son's bravery on the battlefield. Karan also learns of Romi's failed engagement via a letter sent by his friend Ashu and expresses his feelings for her. Romi promises Karan she will wait for him whether he returns or not.The unit sets off on their mission, and while moving through a grass field toward the rock cliff, they come under fire. The group discovers a Pakistani mortar unit in the area and destroys it but loses their commanding officer and several soldiers. The team's radios are also damaged, so they cannot communicate with battalion HQ. Out of the initial 12, only six remain.They decide to continue with the mission. They successfully scale the cliff and attack the Pakistani position during the night. Their assault is successful although Karan is wounded, and the team loses three more men. The next morning, Karan limps to the peak, where he plants the Indian flag and fires a flare, signaling to an ecstatic Col. Damle that they have captured the peak.The film ends with Karan leaving a military hospital and reuniting with his parents, and his father proudly embraces him. Karan's father then reveals that Romi has also arrived to see Karan.He walks over to a smiling Romi and she asks what's next now he has accomplished his aim. Karan states he has another Lakshya, which is Romi, and they happily embrace each other.
