A governess uses magic to rein in the behavior of seven ne'er-do-well children in her charge.
Mr. Cedric Brown (Colin Firth) has just lost his wife and is now left with his seven children who misbehave so much, that all of the nannies have run away. Now he is told by a mysterious voice that he should get Nanny McPhee (Dame Emma Thompson), who is a magical woman with special powers.
In this dark and witty fable, Dame Emma Thompson portrays a person of unsettling appearance and magical powers who enters the household of recently widowed Mr. Cedric Brown (Colin Firth) and attempts to tame his seven exceedingly ill-behaved children. The children have managed to drive away seventeen previous nannies, but as Nanny McPhee (Thompson) takes control, they begin to notice that their vile behavior now leads swiftly and magically to rather startling consequences.
Mr. Cedric Brown (Colin Firth) is a sad and nostalgic widower, owner of an undertaker's business, who doesn't know how to manage the unsustainable situation with his undisciplined children. Every nanny (seventeen exactly) have run away from them. Simon (Thomas Brodie-Sangster), the oldest brother, is the head behind the pranks and he doesn't have a very good relationship with his father. But the solution will be Nanny McPhee (Dame Emma Thompson), a magic nanny who literally falls from heaven to discipline the children and teach them some lessons.
Based on the "Nurse Matilda" books by Christianna Brand comes the story of Nanny McPhee (Dame Emma Thompson). Mr. Cedric Brown (Colin Firth) is now a widower with seven ill-behaved children who've already chased away seventeen nannies. But when a mysterious voice tells Cedric to hire Nanny McPhee, she arrives at the Brown home and the kids learn to behave properly. But when great Aunt Adelaide (Dame Angela Lansbury) tells Cedric he must be married by the end of the month or she'll separate the children, he tries to find women, but the children run them off, and Nanny McPhee tells Simon, the eldest, that he will face the consequences, so the kids go to Selma quickly and admit what they did and ask to give their father a second chance and they will be married. Will the kids really find the perfect woman for their father?

