When his only friend dies, a man born with dwarfism moves to rural New Jersey to live a life of solitude, only to meet a chatty hot dog vendor and a woman dealing with her own personal loss.
When his only friend and co-worker dies, a young man born with dwarfism moves to an abandoned train depot in rural New Jersey. Though he tried to maintain a life of solitude, he is soon entangled with an artist who is struggling with a personal tragedy and an overly friendly Cuban hot-dog vendor.
The passion of the lonely and quiet dwarf Finbar McBride is trains. Fin inherits some land with an old depot in the middle of nowhere in Newfoundland, New Jersey, when his partner, also a fanatic for trains and unique friend Henry Styles, dies. He moves to the train station, where his neighbor is the Cuban Joe Oramas, who is manning his sick father's hot-dog trailer. He also meets Olivia Harris, a clumsy divorced woman who grieves the death of her beloved son Sam. After some days, the weird trio becomes friends.
Fin McBride, a train aficionado, receives unwanted attention where ever he goes because he is a dwarf. As a result, he is a solitary and reserved man who is suspicious of people. When Henry Styles, Fin's closest friend and boss, dies, Fin moves to an abandoned train depot in Newfoundland, New Jersey, the depot bequeathed to him by Henry. There, Fin meets overly gregarious Joe Oramas, who is temporarily operating his father's hot dog/coffee truck that is parked outside of the train depot, and soon-to-be divorced Olivia Harris, a woman harboring some deep seated emotional issues. Seeing beyond his dwarfism, Joe and Olivia try to get to know Fin, but he would rather just be left alone. In Newfoundland, Fin also meets Emily, the local librarian who wants a new friend at a time of need, and Cleo, a young girl who is a fellow train aficionado like Fin and who initially thinks Fin is a child just like herself. Through all these interactions, Fin comes to the realization that he truly does crave meaningful human contact, but this realization may come too late at least with this new circle of acquaintances.
Finbar McBride (Peter Dinklage) is a train fanatic who inherits an abandoned train station in New Jersey. He moves into the station and makes it his new home. Fin wants to live a life of seclusion in this rural town, because he is only 4 feet 5 inches tall, and he has been stared at all his life. Soon, Fin has a run-in with several of the local people. He meets Joe (Bobby Cannavale) who has a van parked outside his station selling coffee, cokes, ice cream and hot dogs. Fin gets some coffee and tries to keep his business quiet and not speak to Joe. Fin starts walking towards town when a local artist Olivia (Patricia Clarkson) almost runs him over twice with her SUV during his first day. With people like this bugging you, no wonder Fin wants to be left alone. In town, the storekeeper takes his picture, and Fin knows that things haven't changed. The vendor and the artist develop an uncertain friendship with Fin, and they begin to do things together. Fin wanted to become an independent man in this town, but instead he makes friends and connects with some of the town's people.
