A coming-of-age story about a shy, young boy sent by his irresponsible mother to spend the summer with his wealthy, eccentric uncles in Texas.
A boy named Walter is dropped by his mother Mae at his great-uncles' house. Later, Walter will find out his great-uncles' big secret, and rumors say that Hub and Garth, Walter's great-uncles, have stolen a lot of gold and money. (some say they stole it from Al Capone) Did they really steal that money or not?
Thirteen-year-old Walter has had a hard life, with his no good floozy of a mother getting together with many equally despicable men. Before going on yet another husband-hunting trip, she drops him off at the house of his great-uncles Hub and Garth. They disappeared for quite a while in their youth, and are rumored to have acquired a great fortune, which Walter's mother hopes to get her hands on if he can ingratiate himself enough to the two cantankerous men. Though reluctant to put up with him at first, Hub and Garth grow to accept Walter, and even tell him fantastic stories of what they were up to while they went missing. When his mother returns, Walter must take charge of his own life, and decide what he's going to do with it.
Walter is a timid teenager played by Haley Joel Osment, who is dropped off at his great-uncles farm in Texas during the 1960s by his neglectful mother. The two oddball and rich uncles are played by Robert Duvall and Michael Caine. Even though the uncles have never raised any children, they accept the responsibility of taking care of Walter for the summer. Since they don't have a TV or telephone in the house, the uncles entertain Walter with colorful stories from their past when they were young and fighting for the Foreign Legion and Duvall's love affair with the Sultan's daughter. The stories are so fantastic that Walter is not sure if they are true or made-up by his uncles. The uncles purchase an old lion to hunt, but Walter makes the lion his pet instead. The uncles must contend with their greedy relatives who are after their money and Walter knows where it is. With the guidance of his uncles, Walter becomes a man. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
