Based on the life of Aileen Wuornos, a Daytona Beach prostitute who became a serial killer.
The true story of serial killer Aileen Wuornos who was convicted of luring men to their death and eventually executed in 2002. In 1989, she was working as a prostitute and finally makes a friend when she meets and begins a relationship with a young woman, Selby. Determined to straighten out her life, she tries to find legitimate work but with little education and limited social skills, she fails at every turn. She starts working as a hooker hitching rides along the local interstate highway and after robbing a few clients has an encounter with a vicious client whom she kills in self-defense. After that however she just takes to killing clients taking their money and car. Once arrested she claims self-defense but is eventually convicted.
A dark tale based on the true story of Aileen Wuornos, one of America's first female serial killers. Wuornos had a difficult and cruel childhood plagued by abuse and drug use in Michigan. She became a prostitute by the age of thirteen, the same year she became pregnant. She eventually moved to Florida where she began earning a living as a highway prostitute--servicing the desires of semi-truck drivers. The tale focuses on the nine month period between 1989 and 1990, during which Wuornos had a lesbian relationship with a woman named Selby. And during that very same time, she also began murdering her clientèle in order to get money without using sex. This turned the tables on a rather common phenomenon of female highway prostitutes being the victims of serial killers--instead Wuornos, herself, carried out the deeds of a cold-blooded killer.
Aileen Wuornos, an aging prostitute, meets Selby at a bar in Daytona Beach. Self-absorbed Selby likes Aileen almost immediately; she likes that 'Lee' wants to attend to her hand and foot and take care of her. At a roller rink, Aileen displays her ability to ascertain men's abnormal sexual proclivities at a glance. They have a passionate encounter skating together and quickly become committed to one another, then move into a motel together.Always needing money Aileen works the highways. A john drives her into the woods and beats her unconscious, then brutally sodomizes her awake. Facing certain murder, Aileen breaks free and kills the man with her own gun. Empowered, she decides to quit prostitution. Any money is partied away as Aileen tries to find legitimate work. This is not an easy task; she has no qualifications or experience, and has a very bad temper, which she often displays during job interviews. Selby demands money just to eat, but also wants a home and vacations. Aileen inevitably returns to her trade, though the worm has turned. Now she stalks the johns and kills them for their money and cars as she tries to justify her blood lust as a victim of rapists and murderers. Selby's eventual realization of the truth drives a wedge between the lovers. The lovers part and Aileen is arrested. She speaks to Selby one last time, while in prison. Selby reveals incriminating information over the telephone and she realizes Selby is with the police. To protect Selby, Aileen states she committed the murders alone. During Aileen's trial, Selby testifies against her, with Aileen's loving consent.Aileen Wuornos was convicted, sentenced to death and executed by the state of Florida.
