Based on the true story of two scuba divers accidentally stranded in shark infested waters after their tour boat has left.
A couple on a holiday in the Caribbean decide to spend the day on a scuba diving trip. But was it the wrong decision? When a mis-count happens on the boat, Susan and Daniel are left behind in the middle of the ocean, the boat long gone. With all their hopes set on the boat coming back to rescue them, they try to keep themselves safe, especially when sharks start to appear.
Happy couple Daniel 'Dan' and Susan book a tropical holiday in the Caribean. They toughen out a mosquito-spoiled night after the exhausting flight, looking forward to the scuba diving next day. They enjoy it so much they're last to come up, but by then the boat has left, despite the obligatory divers count, which got upset after Seth, who forgot his mask, convinced someone to dive as regulations-required buddy with him. The current carries them away in open water, helplessly trying to attract someone's attention in vain, stung jellyfish and fearing shark attacks. Susan starts whining and absurdly blaming Dan, who feels forced to remind her that it's her's. Both are desperately exhausted by the time their disappearance gets noticed and a rescue operation by plane and boat is mounted.
A young thirty-something couple goes on holiday to the Caribbean. One of the fun activities available to them is scuba diving off a reef several miles out. Due to a faulty head count taken by the dive boat crew, the couple is left behind in the open ocean. They find themselves drifting endlessly for hours on end, facing dehydration, saltwater sickness, jellyfish stings, and sharks! Although a boat and a large ship pass by within the couple's view, neither sees them, and they are not discovered missing until the following morning when a member of the dive boat crew discovers their gear on the boat, and their hotel manager discovers they never returned to their room. Frantically a search is mounted by plane, boat, and helicopter, looking for the missing couple.

