Freddy Krueger and Jason Voorhees return to terrorize the teenage population. Except this time, they're out to get each other, too.
It's been nearly ten years since Freddy Krueger terrorized people in the dreams, and the towns folk want to keep him erased from their memory. Freddy still has one more plan on getting back to Elm Street. He resurrects Jason Voorhees and sends him off to kill. The more bodies which fall to the ground, the stronger in which Freddy becomes. This is until, Freddy realizes that Jason isn't going to step aside easily, and must be taken down himself.
Four years after being killed by his daughter, Freddy Krueger rests in Hell. He depends on the dreams of those in Springwood to fuel his existence. But when the town covers up his existence in an attempt to make people forget, Freddy is left powerless. In a last ditch effort he springs Jason Voorhees from his own personal Hell and sends him to Elm Street, determined to strike fear in the hearts of Springwood teens. But when Jason won't stop killing Freddy's "children," Krueger decides it's time to take Voorhees out. Caught in the cross-fire are Lori and Will, both of whom feature a history with Freddy.
The ultimate forms of terror are about to be unleashed once again. Dream demon Freddy Krueger is desperate to terrorize the teenagers of Elm St. once again, but he can't since the parents of Springwood have found a way to make the kids forget about him while doping them up with dream suppressant Hypnocil. So, in order to inspire terror, Freddy manipulates hulking, hockey-masked serial killer Jason Voorhees, through visions of his mother, to go to Elm Street and dispatch the kids so the town will think that Freddy has returned. But his plans don't go according to schedule when Jason starts to kill all of his "children," which really angers Freddy. And that's when Jason finds out that Freddy has used him, which really sends him over the edge. So, it's up to teens Will Rollins, Lori Campbell, and Kia, along with a few other survivors, to get Jason back to Camp Crystal Lake and Freddy out of the dream world for both of them to kill each other once and for all...
Freddy Krueger has been forgotten by the kids on Elm Street. Their parents have feed them anti-dreaming pills, making Freddy a thing in the past. So Freddy resurrects Jason Voorhees and sends him to Elm Street to create havoc, making people think Kreuger did it. When Jason steals some kills from Freddy, the latter begins to fight the infamous hockey mask-wearing killer. Meanwhile, the group of teenagers stuck in the middle try to figure out how to get rid of Freddy. This all leads to a climatic battle at Camp Crystal Lake, which should leave all satisfied.
Two of the most remembered eighties slasher film icons finally clash together on the big screen in a film fans have long been awaiting. Trapped in Hell when the authorities of Springwood manage to erase all evidence of his existence (and thus the fear that gives him his power), nightmare spirit Freddy Krueger comes across the soul of the equally infamous Camp Crystal Lake mad slasher, Jason Voorhees. Taking the guise of Jason's mother, Freddy resurrects him and commands him to start terrorizing Springwood, hoping to instill enough fear that the name Freddy Krueger gets out again so that the ensuing panic makes Freddy strong enough to return a seventh time. The plan works, but Freddy soon discovers that Jason, true to his nature in the past, will not stop killing, and is taking each of his victims. Determined to retake his position as the most feared killer in Springwood, Freddy devises a plan to sedate Jason into unconsciousness in order to battle him to the death. In the meantime, a small band of survivors who learn what's happening make their own efforts to not only ensure Jason's victory, but to return him to Camp Crystal Lake.
Freddy Krueger is trapped in Hell, and enraged as the parents of Springwood have emerged from their psychosis and figured how to keep the children from remembering him, rendering him powerless and unable to escape. Determined to make them remember and fear him, Freddy locates Jason in Hell and disguises himself as Jason's mother, Pamela Voorhees, convincing him to rise again and go to Springwood to slaughter the teens; though Jason will kill, Freddy will be blamed, and thus be able to escape. Jason arrives on Elm Street, sneaking into the house where Nancy Thompson and Jesse Walsh used to live, now owned by Lori Campbell and her widowed father. While Lori, her friends Kia, Gibb, Blake and Trey, are in the house, Trey is brutally murdered by Jason using his machete and bent in half. The group is taken in for questioning. After overhearing several police officers accidentally discussing Freddy, Lori falls asleep and has a dream about Freddy, allowing him to gain some of his powers back. Freddy then tries to attack Blake. However, he is unable to harm him, so he decides to rest for now and "let Jason have some fun." Blake then awakens to find his father beheaded, sitting next to him, and is, a moment later, killed by Jason. The police in order to avert suscpicion to Freddy claim that Blake killed Trent, his father and then sacrificed himself.Lori has recurring dreams about Freddy and tells Kia and Gibb about it. She is reunited with her boyfriend, Will Rollins and his friend Mark, who were institutionalized in Westin Hills Asylum and escaped after hearing of the murders on Elm Street. At a rave party, Gibb falls asleep and has a dream where she is attacked by Freddy after he took the form of the deceased Trey to lure her into his trap. Another raver attempts to rape her, but Jason appears and kills the two, angering Freddy, who realizes that Jason will not stop killing and that the public is becoming more afraid of Jason than him. Jason goes on a rampage around the rave, killing several others. Afterward, Will, Lori, Kia, and two fellow students Freeburg and Linderman escape and meet up with Stubbs. The group formulate a plan to defeat Freddy and Jason: they will take Jason back to Camp Crystal Lake, and Lori will pull Freddy into the real world to fight Jason; in the real world, Freddy will be vulnerable, and Jason, at home in Crystal Lake, will have the "home field advantage" and remain in his territory, and thus no longer terrorize Springwood. Freddy kills Mark while leaving a bloody "message" on his back that says "FREDDY'S BACK", and then possesses Freeburg's body to stop the group from taking Hypnocil, a drug that will prevent them from sleeping and dreaming. Jason electrocutes Stubbs and is then confronted by Freddy in Freeburg's body, who injects Jason with two vials of tranquilizer. Jason bisects Freeburg before passing out.Once inside Freddy's dream world, Jason realizes he was tricked and engages Freddy. At first Freddy thinks that Jason is afraid of nothing, which combined with his real-world invincibility makes him impossible to kill even in the dream-world. But then Freddy accidentally discovers Jason's fear of water, then exploits it to turn Jason back into a child, then brings him to a nightmare of his childhood, and starts to drown him.But before Freddy can kill Jason, Lori enters the Dream World and interrupts the fight, causing Jason to wake up and attack the group, who are now at Crystal Lake. Freddy, enraged, attempts to kill Lori, after revealing that he was the one, who killed her mother, but she awakens and drags him into a burning cabin in reality. Jason turns his attention to Freddy, who is somewhat paralyzed by his fear of fire and whom Jason beats up and throws through the burning cabin's roof. Lori, Will, Kia and Linderman try to escape, but Linderman is wounded and dies soon afterwards. Kia tries to save Lori and Will from Freddy, but is killed suddenly by Jason. Freddy and Jason continue their battle and Lori decides to stay until Freddy is dead. While Freddy seems to be no match for Jason's physical power, he still heavily wounds Jason because of his superior speed. During their fight, Lori and Will burn the gas tanks at the docks to blow both Freddy and Jason up. Until then Jason already lost four fingers and his eyes. When the fire starts to spread Jason rips off Freddy's arm with the claws and Freddy stabs Jason's heart with the machete. The resulting explosion sends both of them into the lake. Freddy comes back and attempts to kill Lori with Jason's machete. Jason ultimately defeats Freddy despite appearing to die in the process, stabbing him with Freddy's own claws before falling into Crystal Lake, though if he did this to continue battling Freddy or for some reason save Lori for saving him earlier is unknown. Lori picks up Jason's machete, while Freddy kneels on the dock helplessly. She shouts at Freddy "Welcome to my world bitch!" then uses the machete to behead Freddy and throws the machete to Jason as he sinks. Lori and Will depart, but the next morning Jason rises from the water, carrying his machete and Freddy's severed head, which smirks and winks at the audience before laughing maniacally, leaving the winner ambiguous.
