A man enslaved by the mob since childhood and raised into behaving like a human attack dog escapes his captors and attempts to start a new life.
Two men cut off from the world in different ways become unlikely friends and protectors in this offbeat action drama. Danny (Jet Li) is a physically powerful but emotionally stunted man; never given any sort of proper education, Danny has learned little in his lifetime but how to fight, and his minder, Bart (Bob Hoskins), treats him more like a guard dog than anything else, using him in illegal no-holds-barred brawls that earn Bart plenty of money but only reinforce Danny's violent alienation. When Bart is injured in an auto accident, Danny is left to fend for himself, and stumbles upon Sam (Morgan Freeman), an elderly piano tuner who has lost his sight. Sam is the first person to treat Danny with kindness, and the music he plays soothes the troubled soul of the fighter. However, Danny's fighting skills soon come in handy when Sam runs afoul of a pack of small-time crooks who believe he knows too much about their operations.
A man treated like a dog and raised as a fighting machine his entire life, ends up in a coma and is taken in the care of good people, but his sinister owner is looking to retrieve his most prized possession: a non stop human weapon triggered by the collar leashed on his neck.
In Glasgow, Danny is a young specialist in martial arts raised like a dog by his owner, the gangster and collector Bart. When Bart unleashes his collar, Danny behaves like a savage animal, hurting and killing people as commanded by Bart. After an accident, the wounded Danny is lodged by the blind tuner of piano Sam and his stepdaughter Victoria. They welcome him in the breast of their family, humanizing Danny, who feels attracted by music. But his past haunts him.
Danny is the slave of British crime boss Bart, Bart adopted Danny when he was a child and has turned him into a dog and makes him wear a collar around his neck. When Bart removes the collar from Danny's neck, Danny unleashes his lethal fighting skills and becomes a killing machine, when Bart orders Danny to attack the targets. After being wounded in a accident and Bart ends up in a coma, Danny is befriend by a American blind piano turner named Sam and his teenage stepdaughter Victoria and they welcome him into their family. Sam and Victoria decide to teach Danny about the world and being human. When Bart wakes up from his coma and he and his gangster want Danny back and forces him to take part in an illegal gladiatorial fight club to earn money, Danny decides he doesn't want to hurt people anymore and sets out to protect Sam and Victoria and fight for his freedom.

