A suspense thriller about a reporter from Miami who travels to Ecuador in pursuit of a serial killer known as the "Monster of Babahoyo."
When the star of a sensationalistic Miami news show travels to the Ecuadorian coastal village of Babahoyo to cover the story of a serial killer who hunts children, his personal ambition gets out of hand, and his pursuit of a moment of glory carries tragic consequences.
Miami Latino TV 'Hour of Truth' star reporter Manolo Bonilla convinces his producer and lover (but the boss' wife), to stay in Babahoyo (Ecuador) where they reported on a mysterious serial rapist-killer. Vinicio Cepeda, who was jailed by mistake, is promised an interview to disclose what he heard from the mystery killer. Manolo is convinced Vinicio will ultimately confess, but his version seems to check out.
Manolo Bonilla (John Leguizamo) is a star television journalist working in Ecuador reporting on the outcome of Monster of Babahoyo, a serial killer who has been ravaging the country killing young boys and girls. Manolo and his TV crew, producer Marisa (Leonor Watling), and camera man Iv치n (Jose Maria Yazpik) are reporting on the funeral of three young children who were victims. When a local Bible salesman Vinicio Cepeda (Dami치n Alc치zar) accidentally hits and kills a young child who runs in front of his truck, the funeral crowd goes berserk and attempts to lynch the man. Manolo urges Iv치n to get pictures of the savage crowd but intercedes in stopping the crowd from killing Cepeda. Cepeda is thrown in jail where he suffers excruciating persecution for his accidental vehicular manslaughter of the little boy. Manolo visits Cepeda in jail hoping for an expose for TV to uncover the imbalance in the justice system, but when the older man reveals that he knows something that he has learned from meeting the Monster of Babahoyo, Manolo sends his crew away and determines to get the scoop that will boost his career. Cepeda explains that his interaction with the murderer is genuine and points Manolo and his camera man to a grave site where they discover another dead body. The police learn that Manolo and his crew have information that is evidence and confront the TV team in a tense showdown of will and politics.
