A group of misfits enter a Las Vegas dodgeball tournament in order to save their cherished local gym from the onslaught of a corporate health fitness chain.
White Goodman (Ben Stiller) is the owner and founder of Globo Gym, and would love nothing more than owning Average Joe's Gymnasium. Peter LaFleur (Vince Vaughn) doesn't want to lose his gym to Goodman, but can't find a way to get $50,000 in time. Peter and his gang of gym buddies think of ways to raise money, finally settling on winning a dodge ball tournament. White Goodman retaliates by creating his own dodge ball team to finish off Peter. Peter's team doesn't do too well, until legendary ADAA champ Patches O'Houlihan (Rip Torn) turns up ready to train them.
Globo Gym is a beacon of human physical prowess and perfection, a shining example of human physical fitness with several million in capital and multiple locations. It's run by White Goodman (Ben Stiller), who's not just the founder of Globo Gym, but the first customer and creator of the lifestyle. Right next door on the other hand is Average Joe's Gymnasium. It's run by Peter LaFluer (Vince Vaughn. As popular as Globo Gym is, unfortunately, Average Joe's is none of the things that Globo Gym is. As White Goodman plots a hostile takeover of Average Joe's, Peter LaFluer does everything he can short of robbing a bank. As he consults with his oddball, but closely knit membership on what to do, they ultimately settle on competing in the Las Vegas annual Dodgeball championship. They win a local regional qualifying match, and attract the attention of American Dodgeball Association Of America (ADAA) legend Patches O'Houlihan (Rip Torn) , who agrees to become their new coach. With the help of an attractive lawyer (Christine Taylor) who would want nothing more than to see White Goodman on the losing end of the finals, they quickly become sensations on a 8th seed cable network. Will Average Joe's win it all and become true underdog heroes, or will White Goodman succeed with the hostile takeover?
The odd members of a local gym rally together in order to save their beloved gym from becoming yet another property of a heartless national chain, In order to raise the needed funds, they enter into an international sports competition, with a cash prize for the winner. The competition? Dodgeball.
Peter LaFleur (Vince Vaughn) is a charismatic underachiever and proprietor of a rundown gym called Average Joe's. The facility's eclectic clientele of decidedly less-than-average Joes is comprised of: a self-styled pirate (Alan Tudyk); a scrawny nerd who dreams of impressing an unattainable cheerleader (Justin Long); an obsessive aficionado of obscure sports (Stephen Root); a dim-witted young man; and a cocky know-it-all who, of course, really knows nothing. Peter's humble gym catches the eye of White Goodman, the power-mullet-sporting, Fu-Manchu-d, ego-maniacal owner of Globo Gym, a gleaming monolith of fitness. White intends to take over Average Joe's, and Peter's non-existent bookkeeping is making it all too easy for him. A foreclosing bank has stationed attorney Kate Veatch inside Average Joe's to finalize Globo's takeover of the gym. But Peter's boyish charms win her over and Kate joins his team of social rejects to beat the odds--and their own ineptitude--to try to save Average Joe's. How? A showdown dodge ball competition against Globo Gym.
This is the story of two different people, Peter La Fleur (Vince Vaughn') and White Goodman (Ben Stiller). Peter is a man of many sorts: an underachiever, a procrastinator, and the owner/operator of Average Joe's Gymnasium, a decaying, rundown gym in a large city. Peter's employees and members consist of Owen (Joel David Moore), a man who can't even find love; Dwight (Chris Williams), a cocky Mr. Know-It-All; Gordon, a timid, semi-shy person and fan of obscure sports (Stephen Root); Justin (Justin Long), a high school geek and Steve (Alan Tudyk), a pirate looking for some treasure. White, a wealthy fitness guru, just happens to be the president/founder of the Globo Gym America Corporation and the owner/operator of the local Globo Gym, a humongous fitness center known to bring in the "big bucks" turning normal "nobodies" into mean, lean, "superfine somebodies". White wants to close and tear down Average Joe's Gym to build a brand-new parking garage structure for the Globo Gym members, so he hires Katherine Veach (Christine Taylor) an attorney from a local bank to foreclose the place, giving Peter 30 days to come up with the mortgage payment of $50,000 or Average Joe's is no more forever, leaving White to take over the gym. Unfortunately even underachievers can make dreams come true, so Peter, with the help of his rejected friends, decides to become a dodge ball team by playing in the American Dodgeball Association of America (ADAA) International Dodgeball Competition in Las Vegas for the grand prize of $50,000 to save their gym. Kate, who is won over Peter's charms, join the team as well because she believes in him. But White is NOT fooled, no less stupid. His new super buff-and-tough team, known as the "Purple Cobras" wants in on the action for some extra dough. All the Average Joe's need is ex-veteran all-star Patches O' Houlihan (Rip Torn) to whip them into killing mode shape. Can the Average Joe's kill the Globo Gym Purple Cobras, win the $50,000, and save the gym in time?
The movie opens with an infomercial for Globo Gym America Corp. We are introduced to White Goodman (Ben Stiller) - who talks about how Globo Gym is a beacon of human physical fitnes extremes, and then he is talking about how he's the company's first customer and the creator of the Globo Gym lifestyle. Then it's revealed that Peter La Fluer (Vince Vaughn) is watching the infomercial on his TV from his house. Peter is the owner and operator of Average Joe's Gymnasium. He wakes up and begins getting ready for another day at Average Joe's Gymnasium.His car barely makes it to the building where Average Joe's is, and it's being pushed by some of the people who make up the membership of the gym. We are then introduced to the members of the gym - including former airport employee Dwight (Chris Williams), teenage cheerleader wannabe Justin (Justin Long), obscure sports fan Gordon (Stephen Root), and Steve The Pirate (Alan Tudyk), and then it's learned that Peter hasn't collected membership fees in several months. Justin tells Peter about his humiliation competing in his high school's cheerleading auditions. And then there's Owen who tells Peter about his dating troubles. And then Peter reassures Owen that there's somebody out there for everybody, and in the rare circumstance, there's two somebodies for everybody, which Peter calls the jackpot. Peter then enters his office where he's being greeted by an attractive auditor named Kate Veatch (Christine Taylor), who's there to sort out Average Joe's financial woes (but was secretly hired by White Goodman to gut Average Joe's of all remaining assets).As Peter and Kate get acquainted, Kate informs them that his gym is being taken over by White Goodman, the owner and operator of Globo Gym America Corp. Peter goes over to Globo Gym to meet White, who appears more hostile than he seems on television. White informs Peter that he's $50K in the hole and that he plans on bulldozing Average Joe's and turning the place into a parking lot for his membership. It's then learned that White has an extremely bizarre lust for junk food and employes some really unusual methods for helping him ignore the temptation.Back at Average Joe's, Peter informs the members about the gym's financial difficulties and has a go round Q&amp;A session to figure out the best course of action to take. Owen suggests that they hold a car wash. Peter agrees to do so, but unfortunately bad timing and no planning means that they're out matched by a group of very attractive women in bikinis who happen to be holding a car wash across the street. The only customer they have successfully managed to attract is a creepy guy with a monster truck and an angry bull dog who keeps paying Justin to wash his car.The car wash was a failure and actually wound up costing Average Joe's some money, in addition to the $50K in the hole that they are already in. Peter decides that they've already been defeated even though they haven't done anything to make the money that they're required. Member Gordon Pibb - who's a fan of obscure sports and reads the magazine Obscure Sports Quarterly, decides that they've got a shot at the $50K by playing Dodgeball. Peter agrees, and Justin finds the training tape that they need. The tape is hosted by the American Dodgeball Association Of America (ADAA) and features legend Patches O'Houlihan explaining the rules of Dodgeball.After watching the video and a couple of practice rounds, they feel they are ready for the tournament. Unfortunately they're paired with Girl Scout Troop #417, who humiliates them after a very one-sided game and they lose. But Average Joe's is saved when one of the members of Troop #417 tests positive for a number of performance enhancing steroids and a low grade beaver tranquilizer. That means that Average Joe's is qualified for the Las Vegas open.That night, while celebrating their victory, they're confronted by White Goodman, who's announced that he's also formed his own Dodgeball team with some seriously competitive players including his fitness counsel Meshell Jones (Jamal Duff) and an extremely strong and lethal Romanian player - who Average Joe's member Owen is strangely attracted to. Gordon tells White that they failed to win a regional qualifying match, but White tells Gordon that he helped the ADAA president shed some unwanted poundage and was therefore owed a favor. White then humiliates them by knocking a tray full of Mexican food on them.Going home, while in the parking lot, Peter is confronted by a strange man in a motorized wheelchair who tells him the regional qualifying game between Average Joe's and Troop #417 was the absolute worst display of Dodgeball that he's seen in over 40 years. The strange man then reveals himself to be none other than ADAA legend Patches O'Houlihan (Rip Torn). He agrees to become their new coach and begins training them under a variety of unusual methods including throwing wrenches and making them dodge traffic.While practicing, White Goodman presents them with a cardboard cutout of himself with a hidden camera that records their every move. It's attached with 30 day trial memberships to Globo Gym, meant to be an insult. During a practice round, Kate picks up a ball and throws it, decapitating the cut out of Goodman. Impressed, Peter and White both try to woo Kate into joining their respective sides. Kate ultimately agrees to join Average Joe's because she finds White as creepy as they do, and she would want nothing more than to see him on the losing end of the final match.It's now time for the Vegas open Dodgeball championships. It's held every year at the Las Vegas Learning Annex, and this year it's being broadcast on ESPN 8: The Ocho (motto: "If it's almost a sport, it's on The Ocho"). The announcers for the tournament are Cotton McKnight (Gary Cole) and Pepper Brooks (Jason Bateman). Average Joe's makes a rather bizarre first impression from the ADAA community when Owen throws out their old uniforms and has them replaced with new ones. Thanks to a shipping error, they're forced to play the first round in S&amp;M garb, while the people who were supposed to receive the S&amp;M garb accidentally receive the Average Joe's uniforms instead.Average Joe's takes on a variety of teams - including the German Blitzkrieg, the Lumberjacks and inner city champions Skillz That Killz while the Globo Gym Purple Cobras take on their own various teams including the Japanese Kamikaze, the MilFs, and the Las Vegas Police Department. Average Joe's finds themselves in a pickle when they're on the last end in the semi finals facing The Cougars with Gordon as the sole remaining member of a four on one game. Patches instructs Gordon to get really mean. He does and eliminates the opposition without fail. Meanwhile, Globo Gym has absolutely no problem eliminating the opponents they face. That leaves the two teams without competition and they ultimately find themselves facing each other in the final round. After a well-earned victory celebration that clinches Joe's a spot in the final round, Patches and Peter decide to celebrate, and Patches gives Peter his workout towel, and invites him to his hotel room where he has some Vegas hookers waiting.On the last day before the final round, the team separates. Patches is killed when a giant neon sign falls on his head. While mourning Patches, Peter goes crazy and tells Steve that he's not a real pirate, and Steve, while walking down the Vegas strip, decides that maybe Peter's right. Justin is met by his love interest - fellow high school cheerleader Amber, who's in town for the National Cheerleading Championship finals. Amber tells Justin that their team captain has suffered a horrendous accident, rendering him unable to compete, and that Justin is the only one in Vegas who knows their whole routine. Justin helps his high school team - the Donkeys - perform their routine with rousing success. Peter is confronted by White Goodman, who offers him a $100,000 bribe if Average Joe's forfeits.Peter takes the bribe, and that day while at the airport, he's met by Lance Armstrong (Lance Armstrong), who tells Peter that he should never give up. Peter then has a change of heart and joins Average Joe's in the finals. Just as it looks like Average Joe's is four players short, Peter rejoins the group and he tells ADAA president William Shatner (William Shatner) that the team is here and ready to play. Shatner is ready to hand the trophy over to White, but thanks to an ADAA by law, if they get approval from two of the three judges, they can play the final match. Shatner then has the other judges confer and give their approval or disapproval. The final judge - Chuck Norris (Chuck Norris)- gives the thumbs up and allows them to play the finals.After a rousing match, the only member left is Justin, who catches a ball, then Kate catches a ball, to allow Average Joe's to get the upper hand against Globo Gym. They finally eliminate everyone except for White - who's nearly thrown out of the game after hitting Kate, who's already been eliminated, bringing it down to White and Peter. White then eliminates Peter and effectively ends the game. But thanks to a technicality, White has accidentally stepped over the line and has caused a penalty against Globo Gym. That means that it goes into something unheard of in Dodgeball history - sudden death elimination.Peter decides to blindfold himself with the towel that Patches had given him prior to Patches' death. The announcers comment that he's unable to see. He tells White that he looks awful fat in those pants, leaving White feeling insecure. The match resume, and White is intimidated by Peter. He throws the dodgeball first, and it passes by Peter. Peter throws the ball at White and eliminates him. That ends the game and makes Average Joe's champions.But the victory is short lived as White tells Peter that he sold Average Joe's to him the night before, and while Peter can't argue with that, Peter informs him that he took the $100K that White had given him and bet it on Average Joe's to win, and with 50:1 odds, that nets him a profit of $5,000,000. He then tells White that he plans to take his advice that he had given Peter the night before and invest the money in something - and that something happens to be the controlling stake of Globo Gym. Globo Gym is a publicly traded company and there's nothing that White can do about it. White, now having been completely defeated, goes back to his overeating ways that he had before he founded Globo Gym, and starts stuffing the face with junk food as he's walking off the court. Kate's girlfriend returns from Guam and meets up with her during the victory celebration, and Peter has hit the proverbial dating jackpot in addition to hitting an actual jackpot. Steve returns having completely cut off his pirate dreads and gone with a more conservative look. He tells Peter that Peter was right about the fact that Steve should stop being a pirate, but then Peter wonders who he's going to split all this newly acquired "buried treasure" with. We see Average Joe's on the cover of Obscure Sports Quarterly, followed by a commercial for the new and improved Average Joe's.The film ends with a morbidly obese White Goodman sitting on the couch surrounded by junk food, explaining why they're happy that Average Joe's won and Globo Gym lost, and the reason why is that Hollywood doesn't like anything that deviates from the norm - good guy wins, bad guy loses, and then blames Chuck Norris for his defeat. And then later during a post credits scene, he does the dance from the "Milkshake" video.
