Six high school seniors decide to break into the Princeton Testing Center so they can steal the answers to their upcoming SAT tests and all get perfect scores.
Six teenagers from diverse backgrounds - among them the school's star basketball player - conspire to break into a SAT testing center to steal the answers in hope of acing their exam. They ultimately realize that the answer to their problems and the key to their happiness may not lie in achieving a perfect score.
All-round good boy Kyle's only obstacle to realizing his dream, studying architecture at Cornell, is his average SAT exam score. For best buddy Matty Matthews, getting into college is his hope to be reunited with dream girl Sandy. They realize haughty brat Francesca Curtis, owner of the Princeton building where ETS makes the SAT test, can provide them security codes so stealing the SAT results before the make-ups becomes an option. Charming Kyle talks her into it, but also enlists their senior high school near-valedictorian Anna Ross, whose Brown ambition is imposed by bossy parents. She brings along basketball dumbo Desmond Rhodes. Realizing their planning was overheard in the school toilet by marijuana addict Roy, the buddies take him on board and find he's actually a natural genius without any ambition. Kyle nearly pulls off a first plan with luck, but blows it. His second plan is better, and the team improvises just enough to get the scores with one major sacrifice. But in the process, their states of mind change decisively.
The Perfect Score is a story about six high school seniors that band together to steal the answers to the college SAT exam. They have discovered that this one test will determine their future, and the college that will admit them. Each student has his or her own reasons for deciding to become criminals and beat the system. They have justified their act by concluding that the test is unfair and discriminates against them; therefore, it is ok to steal the test. Lucky for them, the father of one in the group owns the building where the testing company is located. This student gets the building plans, and she also has a door card key. Their lives change with this one act, maybe for the better. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
