A journalist uncovers an underground group who can bring back the dead and slowly becomes drawn into their world.
In London, after investigating crack addicted junkies for an article in her newspaper, the journalist Amy Klein watches a bizarre videotape. Her editor Charles Richmond received the footage of an underground group of youngsters in Bucharest apparently becoming zombies through the power of their leader Winter from a member, Marla, and invites Amy to prepare the story. Amy accepts the challenge, and once in Romania, she finds Marla dead with a puzzle cube in her hands. She brings the object to her hotel room, and opens it, beginning her journey to hell.
"Hellraiser: Deader" begins in a crack den with a woman taking pictures of certain events which took place within including a murder. She is revealed to be a newspaper reporter named Amy who then writes an article entitled "How to be a Crack Whore." She works for a boss who gives her a bizarre video of a cult of "Deaders." The video shows a ritual of a woman being brainwashed and then shot to death, then molested, and then brought back to life. Amy is appalled but smells a story and leaves for Romania where it took place. She goes to a rundown apartment after bribing he landlord to let her in for 5 minutes. She goes into the bathroom and finds the hanged corpse of Marla, the person who took the video. She sees that the corpse of Marla is clutching the magical puzzle box. After prying the box from her hands and taking her video journal, Marla's voice comes alive and attacks her. Amy escapes and watches the video in which a then-alive Marla tells the viewer not to open the box. Amy, overcome with curiosity, opens the box, only for hooked chains to spread of and impale her in the head. Pinhead appears and warns her that she is in danger. Amy then awakens, the event obviously have been a dream.Amy goes to a corrupt subway where she meets a man named Joey in a crack orgy den. he seems unresponsive, telling her to stop digging, until she shows him the puzzle box. He tells her of the cult leader, Winter. After leaving the train, she sees Winter in the subway, throwing him at a train. She is arrested by cops who believe she is crazy. Her boss arrives and bails her out. Amy then goes to follow an earlier lead to an abandoned building. She enters an underground labyrinth into darkness. She becomes trapped and is stabbed by a shadowy figure. She awakens from this hallucination unscathed. However, she does run into a man who is a member of the Deader cult. He brings her to Winter who explains that he knows who she is. He recognizes the puzzle box and believes himself to be a messiah who can bring people back to life from suicide. Winter and his cult hold her down and attempt to stab her, but she awakens in a bathtub, this event being a hallucination as well.Amy then goes to bed in her hotel room and has nightmares of a time in which she was raped by her father as a little girl. However, she awakens when a knife is stabbed through her back. She painstakingly manages to take it out and frantically tries to stop the bleeding.Pinhead appears and tells her that her soul belongs to him, and that he has prevented her from dying of her wound as the Deaders have found a way into the cenobite realm and their only missing link is Amy. She goes to the train station to ask Joey for help, but he refuses and vanishes. She is found and sent to an asylum where she meets the ghost of Marla who explains that it was her who stabbed her in the back. Amy is visited in the asylum by her boss once more who leaves her on her own. Amy meets Marla who explains that the Deaders need Amy to open the puzzle box, as only she can solve it. The asylum vanishes and Amy flees, seeing that her wound has reopened. She remembers after her father raped her, she stabbed him to death and falls unconscious.Amy awakens in the Deaders' hideout, where she is given the knife by Winter to stab herself and become a Deader. She refuses and throws the box, causing it to open and summon the Cenobites. Pinhead appears and tears apart Winter with hooked chains as well as all the Deaders. Pinhead then approaches Amy, telling her that he is here to take her to hell for opening the box. She seizes the knife and stabs herself, killing herself and causing the cenobites to be brought back through the portal they entered. In another news report, it is reported that Amy's body was never found, leaving her ending ambiguous. Her boss then seeks out another reporter to research the Deaders, believing they may still be out there.
