A new theme park, built on the original site of Jurassic Park, creates a genetically modified hybrid dinosaur, the Indominus Rex, which escapes containment and goes on a killing spree.
Twenty-two years after the original Jurassic Park failed, the new park, also known as Jurassic World, is open for business. After years of studying genetics, the scientists on the park genetically engineer a new breed of dinosaur, the Indominus Rex. When everything goes horribly wrong, will our heroes make it off the island?
Jurassic World has been running with great success for more than a decade in the wake of the disaster that haunted the island twenty-two years ago. The park's geneticists have once again broken scientific and ethical boundaries in order to raise attendance for the park, now experiencing a decline in happy customers. Convinced that the new attraction will bring in many more people, but having crossed the line once again, the results may be devastating.
Twenty-two years after John Hammond envisioned a theme park full of dinosaurs, Jurassic World in Isla Nublar now features a fully functioning dinosaur theme park. Although it is everything he originally hoped it would be, after ten years of operation and visitor rates declining, InGen scientists genetically engineer a new hybrid "attraction", the Indominus Rex, to re-spark visitors' interest. When their new creation turns on them, will anyone get out alive?
The new Jurassic World, owned by the corporation of Simon Masrani operates in Isla Nublar, Central America, with dinosaurs genetically created by the InGen Corporation. The workaholic and uptight manager Claire Dearing receives her nephews Gray and Zach in the park, but she is too busy to give attention to them, and asks her assistant to escort the boys. Meanwhile, the dedicated Owen Grady is training four velociraptors, and the InGen security guard Vic Hoskins believes that the animal can be trained for military use. When Owen and two other employees go to an isolated paddock to evaluate the new attraction of the park, the hybrid dinosaur Indominus Rex, the animal lures them, kills the two men, and flees from the spot. Owen escapes and asks Masrani to kill the Indominus, but he believes his security team can contain and capture the animal that cost lots of money. However, the team is destroyed by the Indominus Rex and Claire orders the evacuation of the tourists from the island. But the dangerous pterosaurs escape from the aviary and the place goes havoc. Meanwhile, Gray and Zach are riding a gyro-sphere in the restricted area and Claire and Owen seek them out. With the chaos on the island, Vic assumes command and decides to use the four velociraptors to locate and destroy the Indominus Rex. Will his plan work?
Under new management--and in high hopes of accomplishing the late John Hammond's ambitious dream of a fully operational, and above all, safe, prehistoric theme park in Jurassic Park (1993)--InGen's improved dinosaur park, Jurassic World, has finally managed to become a truly idyllic destination. To jolt public interest, the enormous, fearsome, and genetically engineered dinosaur, Indominus Rex, is the park's latest profit-making attraction; however, when the unmanageable beast breaks loose, it's up to the experienced Velociraptor wrangler, Owen, to stop the increasingly bloody nightmare. Now, Owen, and the two nephews of the park's operations manager, Claire, are trapped in an all-too-familiar and extremely hostile environment, where savage predators rule. Will InGen's men never learn?
Jurassic World has been running smoothly with fresh entertainment ideas, as well as developing new species of dinosaurs every few years to keep up with the short attention span of their customers. With their well-funded bravado, scientists like the long-lasting Henry Wu, move to create more terrifying and deadly creatures. When a new species, the Indominus Rex, is created everything goes awry.Claire Dearing, the organized director of the new and refurbished Jurassic World theme park, seeks out the one hope they have, the bungalow-residing Owen Grady. Two children, Zach and Gray, nephews of Ms Dearing, plan to have a nice visit to the park without their parents. Things break loose into immense danger when they encounter the Indominus Rex on board an attraction, the Gyrosphere. While the tourists take refuge, the Indominous still roams disappointed at the loss of its hopeful meal of two kids and a duo of ex's trailing not far behind searching for the children.A man named Hoskins, an employee for the raptor foundation yearns for them one of the agile, smart, killing animals to be converted into bloodthirsty war machines. Trying to take them into his own grasp, he strikes a deal with the once noble Dr Wu and brings in a battalion of his followers to ship them up. Balancing the fate of her sister's kids, the safety and customers of the park, the new breed, and the naive dinosaur seller, Claire and Owen must solve everything before Jurassic Park like its predecessor, dissolves into history.
