Despite facing the odds against cultural and language barriers, the pressure of representing a nation of 1.2 billion, as well as facing Shaquille O'Neal, the NBA's most dominant player, 7ft 6in Chinese basketball phenom Yao Ming succeeds in his first year in the NBA by finding friendship and support in his American translator, strength in the wisdom of his traditional Chinese values, and confidence in his own abilities. Through it all, Yao Ming became the most recognizable figure from China since Mao Tse Tung and a hero to millions around the globe.
Yao Ming - He stands 7 feet 6 inches tall and is just 22 years old. To the Chinese nation of one billion, he is a heroic son and symbol of its increasing presence on the world stage. To the National Basketball Association, he is a poster child for the globalization of the sport and potentially its first iconic superstar from outside North America and Europe. To his teammates on the Houston Rockets, he is the key to a successful championship season. To basketball fans, comedians and even commentators in his field, he is an anomaly: the tallest player in the NBA and Chinese. To his supportive parents, both of whom preceded him as members of the Chinese National Basketball team, he is simply son. To a young American interpreter with a passion for Chinese language and culture, he is initially a client for interpretation services and eventually, over the course of a year, a close and valued friend. THE YEAR OF THE YAO is James D. Stern and Adam Del Deos exciting, inspiring chronicle of Yao Mings tumultuous first year in the NBA. [D-Man2010]The Year of the Yao opens with a montage of stereotypical Chinese images voiced-over with stereotypical mumbo-jumbo from some white guy talking bout Chinas long history of nationalism and isolation from the world, slowly opening up to the West after Maos death (shouldve anticipated this from the title - what, is Yao a zodiac animal now?). The intent is to make Yao bigger than just a big basketball player, to prop him up as a cultural ambassador, a bridge between east and west. The Great Yellow Hope. Chronicling his rookie season with the Houston Rockets as told by his interpreter, we see Yao struggle through his first practice runs and his first few games, then finally breaking through as the season went on, forcing Charles Barkley to make good on his bet to kiss Kenny Smiths ass if Yao ever scored more than 19 points. Through quick MTV-style editing, we follow Yao around as he becomes acculturated to American food, media, and mores. We get talking head interviews from other people like the founder of Yahoo, who has nothing significant to say but is included because hes Chinese and rich. [D-Man2010]
