When a businessman learns that his wife married him only for money, he hatches a plan with her ex-lover to kill her.
Karan and Priya are part of a dance group and love each other they auditioned to perform on a cruise ship owned by Raj Singhania.But fellow competitor Jojo wins the competition by cheating.Raj goes to comfort him but he tells him to accept the defeat where in a fight breaks between the two and Jojo dies.Next day Karan gets a call that due to Jojo's sudden death they have been selected to perform on the cruise.Raj Singhania happens to attend their show and gets inspired by Priya they start meeting and become close to each other which makes Karan jealous.On Priya's birthday Raj proposes her for marriage and she accepts it.Priya goes to tell the news to an upset Karan and they both are happy as she is getting married to Raj as their plan has worked accordingly.Karan and Priya always eyed on Raj's wealth and Priya will take a share in his property and divorce Raj soon after their marriage.
Karan Malhotra (Akshaye Khanna) and Priya (Amisha Patel) belong to a rock band of sorts, and are sweethearts. Karan is the leader of the group, and finds that success is not easy. With considerable difficulty Karan is able to secure a contract with the prestigious company belonging to the most eligible and wealthy bachelor, Raj Singhania (Bobby Deol). This contract entails performing on a palatial yacht owned by Raj. The group is thrilled to get this contract and practice thoroughly to make themselves a success. Karan and Priya see this as an opportunity to save money for a happily married life. A chance meeting with Priya, throws Raj head over heels in love with her. Karan notices this, but has faith in his love and Priya. But others in the group observe that Priya is reciprocating Raj's advances. Then one day Raj presents Priya with an engagement, and Priya accepts it. He asks her to accompany him to see his family, where she is introduced to everyone. The family approve of her and a marriage is arranged. But is Priya really in love with Raj? What will be Karan's predicament when he finds out that his sweetheart has betrayed him? Does Raj really love Priya or does he want her to be one of his possessions?

