Eight unsuspecting high school seniors at a posh boarding school, who delight themselves on playing games of lies, come face-to-face with terror and learn that nobody believes a liar - even when they're telling the truth.
Nobody believes a liar - even when they're telling the truth. When a young woman is found murdered, a group of local high school students decide to further scare their classmates by spreading online rumors that a serial killer called "The Wolf" is on the loose. By describing "The Wolf's" next victims, the students' game is to see how many people they can convince - and if anyone will uncover the lie. But when the described victims actually do start turning up dead, suddenly no one knows where the lies end and the truth begins. As someone or something begins hunting the students themselves, the game turns terrifyingly real.
After a local townie is murdered, a group of teenage liars create a warning e-mail of a serial killer named the Wolf, coming on the next full moon. The teens describe each death method the Wolf uses, but when their wish begins to come true, the teens must find their way out of their own death methods before its too late.
When a private prep school is being lectured about "personal saftey" when a townie around there is found dead, a group of teens who played an innocent game of lying, decieving, and accusing, they decide to go full throttle. The teens then write a mass e-mail about a killer--"The Wolf"--who goes from prep school to prep school killing, always shooting a townie in the face first, then attacking the school, their lie becomes the truth. One by one, everything in the e-mail becomes real, until it's a race against time to save each other. Who is the wolf--and who's next? You Lie...You Die.
Eight unsuspecting high school seniors playing a game of lies come face-to-face with terror and learn that nobody believes a liar - even when they're telling the truth. After one too many incidents of bad behavior at his last school, Owen Matthews arrives at Westlake Prep - where a young woman has recently been found murdered in the dark woods near the boarding school's campus. Owen quickly falls in with the school's unofficial "liar's club," including the beautiful and savvy Dodger and quick-talking, short-tempered Tom. At Owen's suggestion, his new friends decide to expand their game's reach beyond campus, by spreading an on-line rumor that a serial killer called "The Wolf" committed the recent murder and is planning to strike again. The mischievous group's descriptions of "The Wolf's" intended victims are based on the people they know best - each other. Only when the school's journalism teacher, Rich Walker, warns the group about the kinds of predators that lurk on the Internet does Owen begin to regret sending their falsified story into cyberspace. When the described "victims" suddenly start to disappear, Owen, Dodger, and Tom are no longer able to determine where the lies end and the truth begins. As someone - or something - starts hunting the players themselves, the game turns terrifyingly real.
When the troubled Owen joins the private Westlake Preparatory Academy, he meets the senior student Dodger, who invites him to participate of a game of lies with her friends. The objective of the lying game is to avoid suspicious, manipulate the friends and eliminate the enemies. The group decides to play a prank in all the mates of the high school, using a recent unsolved murder of a student in the campus. They send e-mails to all colleagues describing fake crimes with the same characteristics of the young woman committed by a serial killer called "The Wolf". Their teacher Rich Walker advises Owen how serious this joke could be. When the students of their group start to disappear, Owen, Dodger and Tom realize that the criminal became real.

