Will and Jake Grimm are traveling con-artists who encounter a genuine fairy-tale curse which requires true courage instead of their usual bogus exorcisms.
Widely known for their valiant acts of supernatural bravado, the bogus ghost-busters, Wilhelm and Jacob, or the Brothers Grimm, try their best to banish all sorts of evil in early-19th-century French-occupied Germany. For the right amount of money, the intrepid charlatans pretend to rid superstitious villages of its local ghouls or witches, until disturbing rumours about missing children in the small village of Marbaden start to spread like wildfire. Now--exposed by the French governor and Napoleon's general, Delatombe--the shameless duo of alleged paranormal fighters will have to prove their worth, and, for the first time in their entire career, do battle with a genuine malevolent force. However, can the utterly unprepared boys confront the real deal? Above all, can the Brothers Grimm clear their name?
Folklore collectors and con artists, Jake and Will Grimm, travel from village to village pretending to protect townsfolk from enchanted creatures and performing exorcisms. They are put to the test, however, when they encounter a real magical curse in a haunted forest with real magical beings, requiring genuine courage.
In 1811, in a French occupied Germany, the crooks Brothers Grimm pretend to fight against evil witches and monsters to make money. However, they are arrested by Cavaldi and General Delatombe, but they have a chance to redeem themselves in the village of Marbaden, where ten young girls have vanished. Will and Jacob are guided by the local Angelika through an enchanted forest where they face the evil Mirror Queen that depends on the sacrifice of twelve girls in the eclipse to stay beautiful and young.
The action-adventure tale revolving around the legendary German brothers Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm - the fictional plot has the folklore collectors, now called Jake and Will, traveling from village to village pretending to protect townsfolk from enchanted creatures and pulling off exorcisms. They are put to the test when they encounter a real magical curse, requiring genuine courage.
Wilhelm (Matt Damon) and Jacob Grimm (Heath Ledger) are famous for vanquishing witches and demons for a price. They have been earning their living for years by traveling around Germany from village to village defeating supernatural fiends. They usually arrive in a village when they hear that villagers are being attacked. What the villagers don't know is that the pair are con men who stage the attack with their two cohorts. They make a deal with the villagers to drive away the evil spirits for a bag of gold. Unfortunately for them, the French army, which is occupying Germany, discovers what they have been doing to the villagers and arrests them. General Delatombe (Jonathon Pryce) will let them go if the brothers help him find the people kidnapping young girls from one village. The brothers go to the village only to find that they have encountered a cursed forest with real magical spells and real evil spirits. They must battle the enchanted forest to get the girls back. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
