After getting dumped by his slutty girlfriend, Caleb falls in love with Gwen. However, thanks to Caleb's roommate, Gwen thinks he's gay and sets him up with her roommate, Marc.
When Caleb's gay roommate Kyle reveals that quite a lot of straight woman bed with gay men (ostensibly to convert them), nice guy Caleb considers going gay to improve his unsatisfactory heterosexual sex life. He shortly thereafter falls for Gwen, whom he meets at a party, but she's got her own sexual frustrations going. She's only attracted to gay men while instantly dismissive of any straight guy approaching her, such as Caleb. Kyle quickly moves on the Caleb-is-gay campaign to benefit them, but his motives aren't entirely altruistic. He longs for Marc, a desirable hottie who's Gwen's gay roommate. Unfortunately for Kyle, Marc only has eyes for Caleb. Kyle's plan: Get Caleb to date Marc so it'll bring Caleb closer to Gwen while putting himself (Kyle) in proximity with Marc (their true targets). But as Gwen starts putting the moves on her roommate's new boyfriend, and as Kyle becomes increasingly jealous of Caleb's time spent with Marc, and as Marc persists in laying the foundations for a long-term relationship with Caleb, it becomes a question of how long the deception can continue before something gives?
After getting dumped by his girlfriend Tiffani (Rebekah Kochan), Caleb (Scott Lunsford) commiserates with his roommate Kyle (Jim Verraros), who notes that while he has trouble getting the men he wants he could get any woman because he's gay.Later at a party, Gwen (Emily Stiles) dumps her boyfriend after he comes out to her. Caleb sees her and becomes infatuated and meets Marc (Ryan Carnes), who Kyle is infatuated with. Marc, meanwhile, sees Caleb and is instantly attracted. Kyle comes up with a crazy scheme. He tells Gwen that Caleb is gay so she'll set him up with Marc. Kyle figures that Caleb can use Marc to get to Gwen, while Kyle uses Caleb to get to Marc. Also, Tiffani lives next door to Gwen and Marc so seeing Caleb date Marc would make her crazy.Caleb and Marc go out on a date then go back to Marc's place to watch a movie. Marc tries to put the moves on Caleb, who's unresponsive. Suddenly Gwen, who's stuck at a friend's house and bored, calls. She talks to Caleb, relaxing and seducing him verbally while Marc takes advantage by giving him a blow job. Gwen hangs up to come home and Marc jerks off next to Caleb. Caleb, feeling confused and insecure, leaves. He passes Gwen on her way home and she seduces him again, this time physically. Caleb goes home and goes to bed.The next morning Marc calls Caleb and leaves a message. Kyle overhears it and realizes that Marc and Caleb had sex. As Kyle storms into his room, Marc calls back. After the call Caleb goes to Kyle and tells him he's invited Gwen and Marc to dinner to clear everything up. Caleb also tells Kyle that he knows Kyle has feelings for him and that, if Caleb were at all gay, he'd love Kyle.Gwen and Marc come over for dinner and Caleb is chagrined to see that Kyle's invited Caleb's family as well. Kyle convinces Gwen to "pretend" to be Caleb's date and Marc to "pretend" to be his. Dinner is going well, if a little awkwardly, until Tiffani inexplicably crashes the party. Gwen takes upon herself to out Caleb to his parents. His parents take it quite well and everyone ends up in a bizarre group hug.After Caleb's family and Tiffani leave, Gwen verbally attacks Kyle, thinking he's trying to steal Marc from Caleb. Caleb convinces Marc to talk to Kyle and Gwen figures out the entire scheme, which she thinks is the sweetest thing anyone's ever done for her in light of the lengths to which Caleb went to sleep with her. Marc goes to talk to Kyle and realizes that he's interested in Kyle after all.In a post-credits scene, Marc and Kyle finally get together.
