Two men get laid off and have to become stay-at-home dads when they can't find jobs. This inspires them to open their own day-care center.
In the comedy Daddy Day Care, two fathers lose their jobs in product development at a large food company and are forced to take their sons out of the exclusive Chapman Academy and become stay-at-home fathers. With no job possibilities on the horizon, the two dads open their own day care facility, "Daddy Day Care", and employ some fairly unconventional and sidesplitting methods of caring for children. As "Daddy Day Care" starts to catch on, it launches them into a highly comedic rivalry with Chapman Academy's tough-as-nails director... who has driven all previous competitors out of business.
Two men get laid off in product development at a large food company and are forced to become stay-at-home fathers and take their sons out of the exclusive Chapman Academy. They create a new day care facility called "Daddy Day Care" and have kids like: the smart-mouthed-but-became-polite Crispin, the really-smart Becca, and The Flash/Tony. As "Daddy Day Care" starts to catch on, it launches them into a comedic rivalry with the Chapman Academy tough-as-nails director, Ms. Harridan.
Charlie, a busy working father, is laid off after the health division in his company was shut down. Desperate for money, he opens up a day care center with the help of two friends. As it became more popular, a nearby school's daycare became less populated, because Charlie's center, Daddy Day Care was much cheaper. Mrs. Harridan, the head mistress of that school, attempts to shut down Daddy Day Care, but fails. Charlie and one of his friends are offered a better job and they decide to take it. But not long after, Charlie soon realizes that the job isn't what he really wants to do. He returns to Daddy Day Care, only to learn that everybody left and went to the expensive school. He successfully convinces the children and their parents to come back, and Daddy Day Care becomes a raging success.
