Elektra the warrior survives a near-death experience, becomes an assassin-for-hire, and tries to protect her two latest targets, a single father and his young daughter, from a group of supernatural assassins.
In the ultimate battle between good and evil stands a warrior who makes the choice that tips the balance. A strong, mysterious and a deadly sexy action heroine - a lethal synthesis of grace and power. Not long after recovering from seemingly mortal wounds, Elektra has severed all ties with the world, living only for her next assignment. But in an unexpected turn of events, she is forced to make a decision that can take her life in a new direction - or destroy her. Key players in Elektra's journey are Stick, a blind martial arts master responsible for Elektra's "resurrection," and Mark Miller and Abby Miller, a father and daughter on the run from The Hand, a powerful syndicate whose members practice the dark version of the martial art Kimagure.
After the fateful events that changed her life in Daredevil (2003), Elektra Natchios has now transformed into a pitiless professional assassin for hire. For her next contract, Elektra has to take down the single father, Mark Miller, and his young daughter, Abby; however--for the first time in her blood-drenched career--serious doubts will pave the way for a change of plans. Now, the killer becomes the protector--and with the powerful henchmen of the nefarious criminal organisation known only as The Order of the Hand after them--Elektra must put her rigorous training in the ancient martial art of Kimagure to good use. Can Elektra appease the past and save her helpless targets?
Elektra is a lethal synthesis of grace and power with the mystical power known as Kimagure: a limited ability to see the future. She has purposefully severed all ties with the world and lives only for her next assignment. Elektra's latest job forces her to make a decision that can take her life in a whole new direction or destroy her.
Kirigi and The Order of the Hand send Elektra on a mission to kill the widower Mark Miller and his daughter Abby. Elektra becomes friendly with the two Millers and allies herself with him and defends them both from Kirigi's ninjas and other assassins. But is there more to the Millers than meets the eye?
Elektra, once a student of Kimagure, a force for good, whose masters can see the future and even bring people back from the dead, is now a paid assassin. The enemy, the force for evil, at this time is known as The Hand, whose members use the dark arts. In this tale Elektra is given an assignment to kill a man and his daughter. However when the time comes to complete the mission she is unable to. The daughter is also being sought by The Hand, for she is known as a treasure that can tip the scales in favor of either good or evil. The Hand, who have the policy of "If we can't have her then no one can", send their own people to kill her. Elektra then allies herself with the Millers and helps to protect them from The Hand. The journey to the climax, the ultimate battle between good and evil for the treasure, has some interesting revelations, heading for a finale with an interesting twist.
The storyline is based on a character from the Marvel Comics. Elektra Natchios (Jennifer Garner) is killed and brought back to life by Stick (Terence Stamp), a blind martial arts master. Stick trains Elektra in the martial art of ninjitsu, and after several years of intense training, she becomes his best student. Stick sends Elektra on her own, and she becomes a hired assassin. Elektra dresses in all red and only uses her martial arts when she goes after a target. Elektra is so skilled as an assassin that nobody can stop her from her assignment, no matter how many bodyguards with guns you have around you. The Order of the Hand, a ninja collective of assassins, is looking for Mark Miller (Goran Visnjic) and his daughter Abby (Kirsten Prout). In the meantime, Elektra receives a contract for $2 million to kill Mark and Abby. Elektra goes to a small island for a few days and gets to know Mark and Abby before she finds out that they are her targets. Elektra must make a choice between good or evil in carrying out her deadly mission. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
