A group of Indian POW (Prisoners Of War) rebels against Pakistani army and tries to escape from their captivity during India-Pakistan war in 1971.
Major Ranvir Kaul (Amitabh Bachchan) is a POW who was captured along with over 30 soldiers by Pakistani soldiers in 1971 during the war between India and Pakistan. 33 years later Ranvir's son Gaurav (Akshaye Khanna) decides to go on a rescue mission to Pakistan and bring back his father who he has not seen since he was a child. Helping him on his mission is Khan (Sanjay Dutt) who had successfully escaped from the same prison.
In the year, 1971 the Indo-Pakistani had a Valiant war. At the end of this war, 92,000 Pakistani soldiers returned home, and 60,000 Indian Defense Personnel also returned. But, 54 Indian soldiers remain unaccounted for. Pakistan denies their presence in any Pakistani jail. Thirty-three years later, their families are still waiting for their return. Yet, there is proof that the POWs continue to languish in Pakistan jails -- the verbal testimony of someone as eminent as the late Zulfikar Bhutto, photographs in Time Magazine as well as testimonies of other people who had been imprisoned in Pakistan jails. But, it makes no difference. These men are technically neither dead nor alive.
A group of soldiers and their commanding officer (Amitabh) are captured behind the enemy lines in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir. His naive son (Khanna) tries to spring him, for which he needs he help of a cynical prisoner (Dutt) who is not willing to help.
After the 1970 India-Pakistan war, which gave birth to Bangla Desh, and the defeat and unconditional surrender of the Pakistani army, some 30 odd Indian soldiers were not released by the Pakistanis. In 2003, some 33 years after the war, tensions continue between the two countries, and both are at the verge of war. Indian politicians and army personnel are aware of the prisoners, but are unable to take any action, as doing so may jeopardize their lives. Human Rights groups are kept in the dark, and the prisoners are transferred to other locations, when the news of any such group gets to the prisons. When proof of his dad, Ranvir Kaul (Amitabh Bachchan) reaches Gaurang (Akshaye Khanna), he decides to travel to Pakistan to try and free his dad. Unkown to him, his dad has already tried to escape some 17 to 18 times, only to be captured, and brutally beaten by his captors. Gaurang is told that going to Pakistan is easy as entering a mouse-trap. Once you are in, you cannot get out, no matter how hard you try.

