A wealthy East Indian man gives an apparently non-East Indian woman a crash course in his culture, so he can marry her with his family's approval.
After Rahul's white pop-star fiancée dies in a bizarre levitation accident his mother insists he find another girl as soon as possible, preferably a Hindi one. As she backs this up by postponing his sister's wedding until he does so, he feels forced to act, the more so as he knows his sister is pregnant. But it's a pretty tall order for an Indian living in Ontario, so when he meets striking escort Sunita who can 'be whatever you want me to be' he hatches a scheme to pass her off as his new betrothed. Things get complicated when his family start to take to her and he realises his own feelings are becoming rather stronger than that.
Ten years ago, teen-aged Indo-Canadian Rahul Seth swore on his father's deathbed to make family a priority and marry a nice South Asian girl so that he would lead the Seth family into continued respectability above all else. Now, a wealthy Rahul is still unmarried, and is unlikely to get married in his own estimation. He can't ever marry his one true love, Anglo pop star Kimberly Worthum, and feels no woman, let alone a South Asian one, can ever replace her in his heart. But Ruby, Rahul's drama queen of a mother, won't allow the wedding of Twinky - Rahul's sister - to go ahead until Rahul has found a South Asian bride. Knowing that will not happen, Rahul makes a very expensive and strictly business arrangement with a domineering woman named Sue to act as his future bride for Twinky's wedding. Rahul met Sue when she tried to pick him up in a bar. Rahul believes Sue works as an escort and is ethnically Spanish, but that she can legitimately pass as South Asian. As Rahul and Sue go through with the deception, aided by Rahul's faithful chauffeur Rocky who is hiding his own secret, Rahul learns that Sue's deception goes a little deeper in many different respects. What Rahul doesn't know is the baggage that Sue herself brings into the arrangement.
The Seth family reside in Canada. While Mr. Seth has passed away, his mom is still alive, living with her daughter-in-law, her son, Rahul, and daughter, Twinky. Both Rahul and Twinky are of marriageable age. Rahul shocks them all when he brings home a gorgeous Kimberly, who he wants to marry, and does get reluctant blessings from his mom and grandma. Before the marriage does take place, Kimberly passes away in an airplane accident, leaving Rahul heart-broken. When his mom and grandma impress upon to get married to another girl, especially of Indian and Hindu origin, he refuses. Then both of them lay the ultimatum to him - get married or Twinky's marriage will be canceled. A desperate Rahul hires a gorgeous escort, Sue, of seemingly Hispanic origin, convinces his elders that she is India, a Hindu, and definitely the girl he is going to marry. As preparations get way for Twinky's marriage, Rahul is going to be finding out that Sue is not who she claims to be - and may have a separate agenda of her own.

