Colonel Ranvir and ACP Jaideep joins forces to fight against Pakistani terrorists, who hijacks an Indian airplane and demands to free their militant leader in return.
Islamic terrorists, backed by Pakistan, boldly attack the Indian Parliament building. The Indian army assigns this matter to Colonel Ranvir Singh Ranawat, who along with his men, apprehends and arrests the ring-leader Baba Zaheer Khan. The Colonel takes one of his subordinates, Jaideep Rai, to task as nine soldiers were killed due to his negligence, and asks him to resign. An Islamic terrorist group, Al-Tahit, recruits a group of men to try and spring Baba from prison, albeit in vain as their plans are thwarted by Jaideep, who is now the ACP in Mumbai. On the run from the Police, this group hijacks an Indian Airlines plane, en-route from Mumbai to Kathmandu, with Jaideep's wife, Nandini, an In-Flight Supervisor, on board. The plane, with 107 passengers and crew, is re-routed to Kazan in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir where they are met with more armed terrorists as well as the Pakistani army. Together they demand the release of Baba Zaheer in exchange for the lives of the passengers. The Army and Police in India collaborate and both Ranvir and Jaideep are asked to work together. Ranvir is weary of Jaideep's capabilities, and Jaideep is investigating Ranvir and his men - who are suspected of supplying arms and munitions to terrorists and Pakistanis. The duo nevertheless work out a plan to free the hostages and apprehend the terrorists. What they do not know is that their plan has already been compromised, and they may well be headed to their respective deaths.
Terrorists aided by Pakistanis attacks on public places in Mumbai city spur out of control where-by Indian intelligence are summon for a meeting resulting in Colonel Ranvir Singh Ranawat from the Indian army along with his men displays their actions by arresting the ring leader of the terrorist gang, Baba Zaheer Khan. The Colonel take to charge, Captain Jaidev Rai, whose negligence results in the death of 9 commandos, asking him to tender his resignation with the Indian army. Then the remainder of the terrorist group, Al-Tahit, pull together their agents and attempt to not only free Baba Zaheer Khan but snatches arms and ammunition from the Indian army only to find their intentions thwarted by Jaidev Rai, who is now the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Mumbai crime branch. With the police hot on their trail; a group of four terrorists takes shelter in an air-plane en-route Mumbai to Kathmandu, only to hijack it. The Indian airplane that carries a total of 107 passengers including flight-attendant crew and Jaidev's air-hostess wife, Nandani is re-routed to Pakistan Occupied Kashmir where they are join by the complete terrorist gang as well as the Pakistani army who then demand the release of their leader, Baba Zaheer Khan in exchange for the hostages. ACP Jaidev works with Colonel Ranvir and manages to come around with a plan to free the hostages without knowing that they are traitors from within; who is leaking their information to the terrorists.
An Army colonel (Devgan) and his commandos capture a dangerous terrorist. The other members of the terrorists' organization hatch a plot to hijack an Indian jet and demand his release in exchange. In Mumbai, ACP Jay (Bachchan) is hot on their trail. He discovers Army's involvement in the case and has to work together with the colonel. However, there are some skeletons in the closet.

