Starting from childhood attempts at illustration, the protagonist pursues his true obsession to art school. But as he learns how the art world really works, he finds that he must adapt his vision to the reality that confronts him.
Jerome, a kid from the suburbs who loves to draw, goes to New York City's Strathmore College for his freshman year as a drawing major. Competition and petty jealousy consume faculty and students, with an end-of-first-semester best-student award held out as a grand plum. Worse, a strangler is on the loose, killing people on or next to campus. The idealistic Jerome falls in love with Audrey, a student who models for life-drawing classes and who responds to his sweetness. But he has a rival: the clean-cut, manly Jonah, also a first-year drawing student, whose primitive work draws raves and Audrey's attention. As cynicism seems to corrode everything, Jerome is desperate to win.
Strathmore Art School is where Jerome Platz (Max Minghella) has come to develop his drawing and painting talent and become the greatest artist of the 21st Century. Surrounded by a collection of art school clichéd misfits, and a cloud of mystery on the campus due to a strangler who has murdered many young female art students, Jerome plies his considerable talent, and is smitten by an older young woman Audrey (Sophia Myles) who models for classes. Jerome makes friends with Audrey discovering she is the daughter of a famous artist, but she has eyes for the unusually straight-laced Jonah (Matt Keeslar) whose art is broad and bold and far from the traditional art of Jerome. His teachers Professor Sandford (John Malkovich) and Sophie (Anjelica Huston) only offer consolation in broad nebulous terms for the students, so Jerome makes friends with the older talented Jimmy (Jim Broadbent) a painter whose art reflects a darkness that Jeromes admires because it is so different from his own positive viewpoint. When Jerome realizes that Audrey is not in love with him he uses Jimmy's art as his own but is surprised by an undercover activity that could be the worst and best thing that could happen to him.
