Set a few days after the original, a championship basketball team's bus is attacked by The Creeper, the winged, flesh-eating terror, on the last day of his 23-day feeding frenzy.
Stranded on a lonely road, a schoolbus full of high school basketball players, their coaches, and cheerleaders must defend themselves from the Creeper - a flesh-eating ancient beast that resurfaces on the earth every 23 years to feed. Meanwhile, a farmer and his son set out on a personal mission to hunt the Creeper down.
Returning home from a championship game, a group of varsity basketball players, cheerleaders and coaches become stranded on the infamous East 9 Highway - only it's the cunning Creeper who has actually crippled their bus. As its 23 horrifying days of flesheating come to an end, the Creeper has embarked on its final voracious feeding frenzy in Poho County. As night falls, the terrified group of young athletes must fight their own fears and prejudices and come together in a seemingly hopeless struggle against a winged nightmare, hellbent on stockpiling as many victims as it can on the ultimate night of its grisly ritual feast.
For thousands of years, the creeper has come back to life every 23 years to feast on humans for 23 days. It is now day 22 and with only two days left of feasting, the creeper must find new victims before his time is up. The bat-like creeper has greater strength with his ability to fly. The story begins with the creeper as a scarecrow in a cornfield waiting to snatch the child of Jack Taggart (Ray Wise) who ends up wanting revenge on the creeper after he flies away with his son. This leads to the 23rd and last day of the creeper. A busload of high school basketball players, cheerleaders, and coaches are returning home after a Championship game on East 9 Highway. The creeper throws a spike made from the body parts of other victims and blows out one of the bus tires. As night falls, the creeper swoops down and takes the coaches away, and then he begins to feast on the terrified teenagers. This is the creeper's last night and he loves the smell of fear on his victims. One girl fights back and puts a javelin stick through the creeper's eye and head, but it doesn't kill him. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)(spoiler alert)The very end, after the sheriff supposedly destroys the Creeper. Then a scene is shown 3 kids visiting a roadside stand advertising the "Bat from Hell" and they're told that the man's dad killed it. They pay their money and see the Creeper mounted on the wall. The Creeper's arm is shown as being sewn back on (he loses it right before he is killed). The sheriff appears as an older man; the kids ask him what he is armed for. He tells them that it's been almost 23 years and he knows that the evil thing will be back to feed again for 23 years. Thus setting us up for Jeepers Creepers 3!! And please remember folks, 23 years isn't a very long time!
