Red Flag is the international training exercise for air forces of allied countries where many of the world's best pilots meet for the most challenging flying of their careers. Red Flag is the final training for pilots and their aircrews before being sent into actual combat. Follow pilot, John Stratton, as he makes his way through this extraordinary event held in the desert of Nevada.
John Stratton is a young American fighter pilot who flies the F-15 Eagle, arguably the most potent and successful fighter plane ever built. John's grandfather was a decorated World War II flying ace, and growing up he intended to follow in his elder's footsteps.At Red Flag, the international training exercise for Air Forces of allied countries, many of the world's best pilots meet for the most challenging flying of their careers. Red Flag is the final training for pilots and their aircrews before being sent into actual combat.We follow our young pilot as he makes his way through this extraordinary event held in the desert of Nevada. He is amazed at how complex, challenging and dangerous the exercises are.He begins to notice team members who were not part of his childhood vision of heroism, the support team crucial to a successful mission and for a safe return home. In the aerial combat exercises, there are other pilots and crew members who aren't out just to prove themselves; they are helping him - watching his back. He also does the same for them. John begins to realize that being a hero is not quite as simple as he once might have thought.Captain John Stratton has since gone on from Red Flag training to serve with distinction in several combat tours.After two years of development &amp; planning as well as sixteen weeks of filming, including six days of unbelievable air-to-air footage of the most complex allied Air Force exercise in the world - "Fighter Pilot: Operation Red Flag" puts large format film audiences in the cockpit with Captain Stratton for the most incredible aerial ride ever seen on the giant screen.
