The story of a high school coach and the developmentally challenged man who he took under his wing.
Set in 1976, real life Coach Jones befriends mentally disabled black student, Radio. They then form a friendship and bond over the football season. Though things take a turn for the worst when certain fans and parents feel that Radio is a distraction, and is getting in the way of the team succeeding.
Football coach Harold Jones befriends Radio, a mentally-challenged man who becomes a student at T.L. Hanna High School in Anderson, South Carolina. Their friendship extends over several decades, where Radio transforms from a shy, tormented man into an inspiration to his community.
In 1976, in Anderson, South Caroline, the football coach Jones of the T.L. Hanna High School protects a handicapped young man from the abuse of some of his players. He says his name is Radio it's really James Robert Kennedy, who can hardly speak. After some months in the companion of Coach Jones and resistance of part of the locals, Radio becomes popular, beloved and a symbol for most of the population.
Radio is a good human-interest story that was inspired by events in 1976 in Anderson, South Carolina. Cuba Gooding, Jr., who plays the mentally challenged Radio, does such a good acting job, you will believe he is the real Radio. His real name is James Robert Kennedy, and he was nicknamed Radio, because of his radio collection and listening to the radio all the time. Radio spends his days in this small town pushing or riding a grocery cart down the street, talking to no one. After some football players harass Radio, the football coach Harold Jones played by Ed Harris takes Radio under his wing. Radio begins to help out at football practice and sits on the bench at games. In time, Radio begins to trust the coach. However, some people in town think Radio is a distraction to the team, and they want Radio to go. By this time the coach and the team are all friends to Radio and they want him to stay. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
