In 1962 New York City, love blossoms between a playboy journalist and a feminist advice author.
An homage to the early 1960s sex comedies that starred Rock Hudson and Doris Day. The story follows a best-selling female advice author who has all the answers until a sly journalist playboy starts asking the questions.
"Down with love? Just eat some chocolate, forget the man, and take control of your own life." The time is the swinging 60's, and the world is being turned upside-down by the hit bestseller, "Down with Love", which preaches to women that they don't need men to be happy. Playboy journalist Catcher Block is suddenly unable to pursue his many love affairs. Furious, he goes undercover to prove that the book's author, Barbara Novak, can fall in love. But Barbara has plans of her own, and pretty soon her best friend and publicist and Catcher's boss are all wrapped up in the romantic entanglements. Will Catcher succeed in humiliating Barbara in the eyes of the world? Will Barbara's publicist sniff out the truth before she can find her own happy ending? Or will Barbara finally fall "down with love" and take everybody else down with her? Whatever happens, nothing will ever be the same in this hilarious sex farce of mistaken identities, hidden agendas and, most of all, rollicking romance.
New York City in 1962, suave reporter Catcher Block always gets his story, the spotlight and any dames he wants. Normally he always toys around his spineless boss, Peter MacMannus, but now he's challenged by Maine novice author Barbara Novak, whose feminist book "Down with Love" preaches women should enjoy no-strings sex like men, who portrays him as the worst kind of man. Catcher promises to help Peter swing a date with Barbara's devoted but amateur editor Vikki Hiller, while he masquerades as major and astronaut Zip Martin to seduce Novak straight back into the classical marital-home-focus.
Barbara Novak has just come down from Maine to New York after writing a book called Down With Love. The book instructs women to have sex the way a man does, and to detach oneself from love completely. Catcher Block is a successful journalist tapped to write a cover story on Novak. He blows her off at every opportunity to cuddle with flight attendants. However, when Novak's book is a complete success, Catcher finds himself being blown off by her! So he starts to write an expose and disguises himself as a naive astronaut named Zip Martin. But he can't imagine what happens next!

