A brave Indian policeman named Raj beats up and then arrests a Muslim terrorist by the name of Khan. This gets him promoted, and he is congratulated by none other than his father-in-law, who is also a very high ranking policeman. Then all of a sudden, Raj finds out that many policemen would like to see Khan go free. He discusses this issue with his father-in-law, and to his surprise, does not find any support from him. Disagreements and arguments ensue, and as a result, his father-in-law gets killed. The Police suspect Raj of killing him, they begin the process of arresting him, he runs away, while Khan is all set to get freed to do whatever he likes.
Raj Shekhar Azad is a brave and honest cop idolized by wannabe cops all over India. He single-handedly nabs a notorious terrorist Wasim Khan. Later he learns that some of his associates in police force are trying to get Wasim Khan out of prison. His investigations in terrorist activities point to a millionaire Shankar Singhania. Azad confronts Singhania and the battle between good and evil begins.
Raj (popular Indian leading man Sunny Deol) is an idealistic cop who who sets out to nab an extremist saboteur named Wasim Khan (Mukesh Rishi), only to discover that the terrorist's connections extend to a prominent local businessman (Danny Denzongpa) and even to the chief of police (Raj Babbar)--who happens to be Raj's father-in-law.
DCP Rajshekhar Azad does the impossible by arresting the world-wide terrorist Wasim Khan and has him logged in a special cell for interrogation. One by one he finds that the special chosen officers assigned to Wasim Khan cell are seriously beaten up sustaining various injuries which pits him to suspect that Wasim are using his officers as a medium to send messages to his men for them to create mayhem among innocent people. Under these circumstances Rajshekhar decides that he will create situations that will force the people to show up who are hand in glove with Wasim which includes multi-millionaire Shanker Singhania and his very own father-in-law also the DGP Suryapratap Singh. Rajshekhar must now decides to go against his senior and lose his job or be a silent spectator and watch as innocent people continue to lose their lives.
DCP Rajshekar Azad does the unthinkable, he daringly, and single-handedly apprehends a notorious terrorist named Wasim Khan. While Rajshekar receives national praise and accolades, there are some within his very own police force, who do not support nor even appauld this victory. One of these persons is Director General of Police, Suryapratap Singh, who has a secret meeting with Rajshekar, and asks him to go on sick leave, so that the Government of India can arrange the release of Wasim. The fact that Suryapratap is also the father-in-law of Rajshekar merely adds more pressure on him to submit to his superior or make matters worse by disobeying him, and thus creating a rift in his personal family life. Things get even more complicated for Rajshekar, when Suryapratap is killed, and he becomes the primary suspect with a motive.

