Two friends falling in love with the same girl leads to murder and intrigue.
Multi-millionaire business-man, Dev Mallya and Rohan Potdar are childhood friends who spend considerable times in each other company. Dev assign the task of designing his bungalow to interior decorator, Saanjh Batra, only to fall head over heels in love with her. When he introduces her to Rohan, he gets to learn that both are in love with each other and is enraged by this. Eventually Rohan gets trapped in a female bar dancer's murder case and is sentenced to jail. ACP Rajveer Scindia feels that Rohan is trapped in a deep conspiracy thus with an investigation campaign, Rohan's case is reopen.
Dev and Rohan are best friends. Rohan introduces Dev to his friend Saanjh, an architect, who Dev takes an instant liking to. Saanjh, on the other hand, is in love with Rohan. The two decide to get married, but a tragic event puts that possibility out of contention. A maverick police officer Scindia enters the scene to investigate events. A cricketer tries to become a film star, and as time will tell, Jadeja will be "yet another one of those." Sunny Deol and Sunil Shetty are reasonable and hammy as ever, Celina Jaitley looks nice and predictable, thereby fulfilling her apparent purpose in the film.
Multi-millionaire industrialist Dev Mallya takes a personal interest an attractive interior designer Saanjh Batra, and wants to make marry her. He starts by hiring her to re-do the interior of his palatial home. He makes it a point to be pleasant to her and her mom, Mrs. Kiran Batra. One day Dev finds out that Sanjh has some feelings for his friend, Rohan Potdar, and this knowledge makes him insecure. Shortly after, Rohan is arrested for murder, is tried, and sentenced to life imprisonment. This news breaks Sanjh's heart, and she eventually consents to marry Dev. All is perfect in Dev's world, until ACP Rajvir Scindia announces the re-opening of the case against Rohan Potdar, as he is convinced that Rohan is the victim of a conspiracy.

