The story of a love affair that begins during a picnic on the Thai-Burmese border.
Roong longs for the day when she can be with Min, her Burmese lover, an illegal immigrant. She pays Orn, an older woman to take care of Min while she looks for a place for them to stay. One afternoon, Min takes Roong for a picnic in jungle, where they feel safe to express their love. But meanwhile, Orn has also gone to the jungle, with Tommy, co-worker of her husband, Sirote.
Min is an illegal Burmese immigrant living in Thailand who has contracted a mysterious rash that is painful and covers the upper part of his body. His girlfriend, Roong, and an older woman, Orn, take him to see a doctor. Min pretends that he cannot speak because he is not fluent in Thai and speaking would reveal him to be an illegal immigrant. The doctor treats him, but because he does not have proper ID documents, the doctor refuses to supply him with the medical papers necessary to get a work permit. Orn's prescribed medication is also mentioned, and it is unclear whether she is taking pain killers or anti-depressants. Orn brings Min to her husband Sirote's work and instead of using the prescription she got for Min's rash, Orn prepares a homemade concoction, a mix of finely chopped vegetables and store-bought skin creams. Orn also mentions to her husband that she'd like to have another child. Her husband is sympathetic, but is afraid to try again because their first-born child died. While waiting in silence, Min is approached by a man who places his hand on Min's lap suggestively. Roong works in a factory, painting ceramic figurines. She does not want to work after having worked overtime the day before. Min and Orn drive over to the factory, and Roong feigns an illness and takes off with Min. She drives into the countryside, while Min directs her to a secret location she does not know. They come upon a cliff-side plateau over looking the mountainous jungle. Roong is surprised by the beautiful view and they have a romantic picnic on the cliff and later by a river in the jungle. It is mentioned briefly by Roong that she dislikes Orn, and also claims that no one likes the older woman. Orn, meanwhile has an erotic affair with Tommy, one of her husband's co-workers. They are suddenly interrupted when the motorcycle is stolen. The man chases after the thief and disappears, leaving Orn in anxious solitude. She ends up lost in the woods, and eventually stumbles upon the young lovers by the river while Roong is engaging in fellatio with Min. Orn approaches the young couple after they finish. Roong leads Orn into a stream where they both rub lotion on Min. They then dry off and lie down by the river bank, Roong with Min and Orn by herself. Orn looks over at the couple and becomes emotional. She discovers ants on all the picnic articles and throws the majority of the garbage into the river. She brushes off the picnic blanket, lies down on it and begins to cry. Meanwhile, Roong brings Min's penis out of his pants and rubs it with her hand. She slowly falls asleep as she whispers Min's name. The final shot is of Roong turning over and gazing directly into the camera.
