Godzilla's fiftieth Anniversary project, in which Godzilla travels around the world to fight his old foes plus a new, mysterious monster named Monster X.
When the aliens Xilians invade Earth, they release monsters to destroy the big cities. The Earth Defense Force formed by mutants is incapable to defeat the creatures. Commander Douglas Gordon decides to unleash Godzilla that has been trapped for many years to fight against the monsters. Godzilla becomes the last hope on Earth to vanquish the monsters and the powerful monster x/ Keizer Ghidorah
When an alien race with an army of monsters, who were thought to have been Earths savior, plan to enslave the human race, one team of elite soldiers will go on a daring mission to free the monster that can save them, Godzilla, from an icy subdue, and save the future of man kind forever.
For years, the Earth Defence Force has buried Godzilla in the south pole. When suddenly, aliens known as Xilliens threaten Earth by sending monsters to destroy cities. On the edge of defeat, the Earth Defence Force decided to use Godzilla to save Earth and the defeat all monsters and Xilliens once and for all.
The world has been in peace since earths greatest threat has been trapped in the ARTIC . Soon a crap ton of monsters such as zilla , King Caesar, hedorah somewhere, KUMONGA, KAMACURAS,ANGUIRUS and rodan attack major cities . Soon aliens take them away and earth thinks this aliens are here to help out . Then our characters find out there evil intentions . the XLEINS release the monsters and destroy the world . With literally no options left they must use the king of the monsters , earths greatest threat , mans only hope ,the badass of the universe ,GODZILLA to fight the monsters off and to fight a new named monster x. But there is one big problem Godzilla is still pissed off at humankind for trapping him in the ice.
Evil Space Aliens called the Xilians unleashes all the Earth's monsters to lay waste to most of the world's major cities, including Tokyo, New York, Sydney, Shanghai and Paris. It is up to Godzilla and the Earth Defense Force to vanquish the monsters and aliens to rescue the world in the ultimate "Save the Earth" battle.
Years after an initial attack on Tokyo in 1954, Godzilla is imprisoned under ice in Antarctica after a battle with the Gotengo, a super flying submarine. Years later, environmental disasters cause the appearance of giant monsters and mutants, who are then recruited by the Earth Defense Force (EDF) to battle the monsters. An upgraded Gotengo, commanded by Captain Douglas Gordon, battles and destroys the dragon monster Manda, but the ship is wrecked in the process and Gordan is suspended from the EDF.Mutant soldier Shinichi Ozaki is tasked with guarding U.N. biologist Dr. Miyuki Otonashi, who is sent to Tokyo to study a mummified monster. They are teleported to Infant Island, where they encounter the Shobijin, tiny twin fairies. They reveal that the mummified monster is Gigan, an alien cyborg who fought against and was defeated by Mothra, their guardian goddess, centuries ago. They warn that a battle between good and evil will take place and that Ozaki must choose a side to fight for. Soon, the giant monsters invade several major cities, including Rodan in New York City, Anguirus in Shanghai, Zilla in Sydney, King Caesar in Okinawa, Kamacuras in Paris, Kumonga in Phoenix, Ebirah in Tokai, and Hedorah in the Bay. The EDF battles with the creatures, who then mysteriously vanish when a group of aliens called the Xilians appears over Tokyo in their mothership. Their general warn that an incoming planet called "Gorath" will soon collide with Earth. A peace pact is signed between Earth and the Xilians.But, a renegade Xilian calling himself the Controller of Planet X assassinates the general and takes over his race's mission: use humans as a food source while taking control of all the mutants. The Controller also placed all the monsters under his control and awakens Gigan to have them to wipe out the EDF. Among the mayhem, Gordon reenters the scene and convinces Ozaki, Dr. Otonashi, and others to travel to Antarctica to release Godzilla. After Godzilla is released, he does battle with Gigan and defeats him. The Gotengo then guides Godzilla into battle with the other monsters, vanquishing them one by one, and returns to Tokyo to engage the Xilians. After penetrating the mothership, the heroes are captured and brought before the Controller. He unleashes their space monster, Monster X, to battle Godzilla. He also unleashes an upgraded Gigan to aid Monster X in their fight against Godzilla, leveling Tokyo is the process. Mothra appears and engages in a final battle with Gigan, and the goddess manages to destroy the cyborg once and for all.In the mothership, the Controller reveals that both he and Ozaki are superior beings known are "Keizers." A fight breaks out, but the Controller is unable to take control of Ozaki due to the Shobijins' blessing. The Controller is fatally wounded, but he triggers the ship's self-destruct as the group falls back to the Gotengo - moments before the mothership explodes. Godzilla and Monster X continue their battle as the latter transforms into its true form, Keizer Ghidorah. While initially losing, Godzilla emerges victorious in the end. Amidst the ruins of Tokyo, the survivors watch Godzilla as he and his son Minilla return to the ocean.
