This story is about how an old man tried to show his grandson the preciousness and beauty of life in a no win situation such as cancer. It is about keeping a positive attitude towards life.
Parshuram (affectionately called as 'Parsha') is like any other child of his age - chirpy , mischievous and utterly likable . However when he complains of vision problems his grandfather Keshav Vichare (Arun Nalawade) travels all the way from their small village in the Konkan region in Maharashtra to Pune for getting his eyes checked . It turns out to be retino blastoma , a type of eye cancer that has only one cure - eye removal . Dr. Sane (Sandeep Kulkarni) asks Mr. Vichare to break the news to Parsha . Vichare is procrastinating at first but realizes later that the need of the hour is not only to break the news to Parsha , but also to show him the value of life and the joy of living even after rendered blind .
Parshuram (affectionately called as 'Parsha') is like any other child of his age - chirpy, mischievous and utterly likable. Parshuram often complains of vision problems, so his grandfather Keshav Vichare (Arun Nalawade) head for the city to get Parshuram's eyes checked. After a series of investigations, Parshuram is diagnosed with 'retino blastoma', a type of eye cancer that has only one cure - eye removal. The grandfather struggles before agreeing to the inevitable. He realizes that the need of the hour is not only to break the news to Parsha, but also to show him the preciousness and beauty of life. It is about keeping a positive attitude towards life.
Keshavram Shantaram Vichare lives in a small town called Parule in Maharashtra, India, along with his son, who works for the State Transport Bus company; his daughter-in-law, a housewife; and a seven year old grandson, Parsharam alias Parsha. When Keshavram's son has an accident, he loses the use of his legs and his job, &amp; is unable to work for the bus company. It is around this time that the family notices that Parsha is having vision problems. Tests prove that Parsha has Retino-blastoma, an eye cancer, which is incurable, but in order to prevent it from spreading, Parsha must undergo surgery and as a result will never be able to see again. Unable to make his mind up about the surgery, Keshavram dithers, but Dr. Sane persuades him to make Parsha undergo surgery without any cost. As a result Parsha is admitted in the hospital. On the day of the surgery, the operation is postponed as the surgeon is called away on an emergency. Later during the day when the hospital staff check on Parsha, they find him and his grandfather missing. Dr.Sane, Ashawari, and Parsha's uncle, Divakar together with help of the hospital staff and the police start a hectic search for the patient, and it is then that the newspapers get involved - for this is not the first time that a patient has disappeared from this hospital - as a matter of fact Parsha is the 6th patient to disappear. Watch as events unfold to show what actually happened to Parsha and Keshavram.
A poor man who lives in an Indian village, is the grandfather of a boy named Parsharam. His son drives a bus for the Government. One day the son has an accident and becomes crippled and unable to walk. Then they find out that Parsharam is unable to see well. They get him to a doctor, who carries out various medical tests and then tells them that the child has eye cancer. The child must undergo surgery or will die. The family get him admitted in hospital where they await the date of the operation - which is very difficult process in India. Will little Parsharam be able to see after this operation?

