A mysterious killer rises from the grave and terrorizes two couples in seeking revenge for his murder.
After the passing away of her parents, Simran Malhotra lives a wealthy lifestyle with her uncle, Rajendra. She has always won beauty pageants during her college days, and when an opportunity arises, she enters her name in a local beauty contest. This news is not welcomed by fellow-collegian, Tanya Khurana, who has always been the runner-up. She confides to her brother, Ajit, who assures her that Simran will be made to change her mind. Ajit makes some intimidating phone calls and even threatens her in person when she is alone, but to no avail, Simran does take part in the contest, and wins again. This breaks Tanya's heart, and an enraged Ajit, who swears that he will only rest after he kills or seriously disfigures Simran. Simran, her friend, Kajal, along with Sameer and Kunal decide to go to Khandala to celebrate Simran's win, and when the boys go to get something to eat, Ajit attacks Simran and Kajal, a scuffle ensues and Ajit gets killed. The boys return and together they decide not to tell anyone, take the body to the railway tracks, leave it to be mauled by a train, and take Ajit's car to the nearest lake. Things do not go according to plan, and the youngsters end up hiding Ajit's body in the murky waters of the swimming pool. Then a nightmare begins for the four pals as Ajit's body disappears and he mysteriously re-appears, apparently thirsty for vengeance and a violent death to anyone who dares to stop him from carrying out his gruesome task.
After the tragic death of her dad; Simran Malhotra lives a wealthy existence with her parental uncle Rajendra in a spacious mansion. She hangs out with a few of her peers Kunal, Sameer and Kajal, Simran has always won beauty contests during her college days and with the encouragement of these same peers she enrolls herself in the Black beauty contest. However her fellow collegian Tanya Khurana is quite unhappy with Simran's enrollment as she has always been the runner-up. This unhappiness got notice by Tanya's elder brother Ajit Khurana who threatens Simran over the phone and in person that he will kill or seriously disfigure her if she participates in the contest. Paying no heed to these threats Simran does participate in the contest and is crown as the black beauty queen; bearing witness to this Tanya attempts suicide but survives. To celebrate Simran's success the four friends travel to Khandala and then when the two guys go away for sometime Ajit attack Simran and Kajal thus a scuffle enfolds leaving Ajit dead. When the two guys return they decides to get rid of Ajit's body by dumping it in an unclean swimming pool. And then Ajit's body goes missing from the pool as he begins to appear in front the two couples to avenge his death not only making them loosing there sleep but also to cover some deep conspiracies surrounding Simran's dad's death.
Simran lives with her uncle Rajendra after the death of her parents,She also participates in college beauty contests and wins it when she decides to take part in a local beauty contest it doesn't go well with Tanya her collegian who is always a runner up.Tanya confines this to her brother Ajit who promises her that he will stop Simran to take part in the contest.Ajit calls Simran and warns her to stay away from the competition.Simran takes part in the contest and wins it which leaves Tanya angered.Ajit swears that he will rest in peace only after he kills Simran,Simran along with Sameer, Kunal and Kaajal go to Khandala to celebrate her win while the boys are away Ajit comes to Simran's bungalow and attacks her in the self defense Simran kills AjitAll four then decide to hide it from everyone.Kaajal and Kunal take Ajit's car and throw it in a lake while Sameer and Simran got to throw his body on railway tracks but on their way they meet uncle Rajendra whose car has broken down and they accompany him home.The next day Sameer and Kunal hide Ajit's body in the unused swimming pool of the bungalow,but the body goes missing from their and starts haunting Simran.
A wealthy and beautiful young woman named Simran Malhotra lives in a parental mansion with her uncle, Rajendra. One day she meets and falls in love with Samir and the couple befriends another couple consists of: Kajal and Kunal. Simran has always won the beauty pageant during her college-days and for the last couple of years. One day suddenly a beauty contest pops up and does not want to miss this opportunity Simran sponsor herself into the beauty contest. Tanya Khurana has always been the runner-up, when she heard about Simran's beauty and about her position she was quite sure that Simran will be this year's runner-up. Jealous at this Tanya informs her cocaine sniffing brother, Ajit, about Simran and he assure her that he will prevent this. Ajit later make some threatening phone call to Simran's mansion, when she is alone and warns her. But Simran does not obey and she does take part in the contest and win. Tanya attempts suicide but is safe by Ajit, enrage at this Ajit swears to kill Simran. Both couples decides to go to Khandala to celebrate Simran's success. Samir and Kunal goes outside to get some presents for both the young women. While they are outside Ajit manages to go inside and attacks Simran but Kajal and Simran bubbles Ajit and kills him in the indoor swimming pool. When the two guys return they are shocked but Simran and Kajal explains and together they decides not to tell anyone, but to take the body to the railway tracks, and leave it to be mauled by a train, and take Ajit's car to the nearest lake. In the way they are followed by Inspector Ashutosh Khanna but manages to get rid of him, it is too late in the night and the youngsters end up hiding Ajit's body in the murky waters of the swimming pool. But Khurana returns from the dead. He's out to seek revenge from both the couples.

