Three teens discover that their neighbor's house is really a living, breathing, scary monster.
13-year-old DJ is observing his neighbor Nebbercracker on the other side of the street in the suburb that destroys tricycles of children that trespass his lawn. When DJ's parents travel on the eve of Halloween and the abusive nanny Zee stays with him, he calls his clumsy best friend Chowder to play basketball. But when the ball falls in Nebbercracker's lawn, the old man has a heart attack, and soon they find that the house is a monster. Later the boys rescue the smart Jenny from the house and the trio unsuccessfully tries to convince the babysitter, her boyfriend Bones and two police officers that the haunted house is a monster, but nobody believes them. The teenagers ask their video-game addicted acquaintance Skull how to destroy the house, and they disclose its secret on the Halloween night.
Little DJ has suspicions about the house across the street and the cranky old man who lives there. When the old man has a heart attack and is carried away by an ambulance, DJ thinks the danger is over. Unfortunately, as he, his friend Chowder, and a candy-selling prep-school girl named Jenny discover, the house itself has plans--plans that include eating all the kids who'll be trick-or-treating that Halloween night!
Three teenagers, DJ, Chowder and Jenny think that after mean old man Nebbercracker died from a heart attack at his house, they all think it's over, but they are wrong. When DJ's Nanny Zee's boyfriend Bones goes over to the house and starts kicking its grass, he gets swallowed by the house. Now, all three of them need to try and stop the house and the only way by doing that is to go inside the house.
Three kids, DJ, Chowder, and Jenny discover that the house across the street from DJ's is alive. It eats anything that goes on its property. They try to convince the babysitter, the police, and some weirdo named Skull. They try to unravel the mystery of the house and they have to go inside.

