My Bollywood Bride tells the story of Alex, a copy-writer dreaming of being an adventure novelist someday, who meets and romances Indian beauty Reena, while she is vacationing in California. Torn by her blossoming feelings for Alex and her Indian family values and obligations, Reena returns home without saying goodbye. Alex, distraught by the turn of events, decides to follow her to Mumbai and win her back. The trouble is, Alex couldn't be more out of his element on the sub-continent, not helped by the fact Reena has kept something very important about her from him (Reena is the top Bollywood film star - the Julia Roberts of India)! However, with the help of a rambunctious rickshaw driver and some of Reenas friends, Alex just might have a chance at winning her heart. A parallel love story centers on Bobby, an up-and-coming Bollywood star, who has forgotten his roots and started to believe his own press. As a close friend of Reena, he tries to help her by taking Alex under his wing. However, his life is thrown into turmoil when he runs into his childhood sweetheart Alisha, whom he once left behind after a dance competition in order to win a role in Bollywood.
A resident of Los Angeles, California, Alex Kincade is smitten by a visiting Indian belle, Reena. He introduces himself - both appear to be attracted to each other and meet several times. Then Reena abruptly leaves for India, leaving Alex wondering as to the reasons behind her departure. Intrigued, he decides to follow her and find out if she is still attracted to him. Upon arrival in Mumbai, he sets off to locate her residence in Thakur Village, and is assisted by an auto-rickshaw driver, Priyad. Surprises and shocks await Alex when he will find out that Reena is not an ordinary woman, but a leading and very hard to reach actress - whose marriage has just been announced to Bollywood's topmost producer, Shekhar Singh.
A fish-out-of-water, cross-cultural romantic comedy based on a true story.
The authenticity of the premise, along with the winning combination of a commercial screenplay adaptation, talented filmmakers and an eclectic cast, made for a solid international movie that appeals to a universal audience. My Bollywood Bride tells the story of Alex, a copy-writer dreaming of being an adventure novelist someday, who meets and romances Indian beauty Reena, while she is vacationing in California. Torn by her blossoming feelings for Alex and her Indian family values and obligations, Reena returns home without saying goodbye. Alex, distraught by the turn of events, decides to follow her to Mumbai and win her back. The trouble is, Alex couldnt be more out of his element on the sub-continent, not helped by the fact Reena has kept something very important about her from him (Reena is the top Bollywood film star - the Julia Roberts of India)! However, with the help of a rambunctious rickshaw driver and some of Reenas friends, Alex just might have a chance at winning her heart.
A parallel love story centers on Bobby, an up-and-coming Bollywood star, who has forgotten his roots and started to believe his own press. As a close friend of Reena, he tries to help her by taking Alex under his wing. However, his life is thrown into turmoil when he runs into his childhood sweetheart Alisha, whom he once left behind after a dance competition in order to win a role in Bollywood. Alisha has a lot of attitude but remains down to earth; through her, Bobby comes to realize what is truly valuable in life.
MY BOLLYWOOD BRIDE charts the journey of self-actualization undertaken by these four people as they transition from the reel world to the real world. Both love stories build toward the climax of a wedding and a huge dance television event.
Peppered with social commentary, humor and a heart-rending finale, MY BOLLYWOOD BRIDE is shot in English with limited amounts of Hindi dialogue.
