The son of Italian immigrants to Canada struggles to find the best way to reveal to his parents that he's gay.
Angelo Barberini is the oddball son of Italian immigrants Gino and Maria, who inadvertently ended up in Canada rather than the States. Angelo shocks his parents by moving out on his own without getting married, and shocks them further still when he reveals that he's gay. But his boyfriend, policeman Nino Paventi isn't as ready to come out of the closet -- especially not to his busybody mother, Lina.
Twenty-something Italo-Canadian Angelo Barberini and his former best buddy Nino Paventi become a couple and move in together. Life could be so easy if there weren't their families who cause a complete chaos when Angelo decides to come out of the closet. A hillarious comedy full of neurotic characters, witty dialogues and great humor. A compliment to the brilliant cast who makes this comedy a really unforgettable experience.
Angelo Barberini comes from a traditional ethnic Italian family living in Montreal. Not traditional is that Angelo decides to move out of the house before he's married, even though he's twenty-seven years old. But getting married is not in the cards for Angelo as he's gay but still deeply in the closet at least to himself and his unsuspecting family. Once out on his own, Angelo runs into his only childhood friend, Nino Paventi. Always a man's type of man, Nino is now a macho police officer. But Nino is also gay and deeply in the closet. Angelo and Nino rekindle their friendship and start a romance. Nino ends up moving in with Angelo, a difficult move since Nino also comes from a traditional ethnic Italian family. Together at home, they live in coupled bliss, but outside of the house they retain their separate straight acting lives. Angelo decides that he finally wants to come out to his family so that they will really know who he is before they die. This decision does not sit well with Nino as he is not ready to tell the world he's gay. Angelo's decision has a profound effect on himself, on Nino, their relationship and their respective relationships with their families.

