In 1965, Jimmy McMahon and his group of Liverpudlians plot to win the annual céilí music competition in Ireland.
It's the mid 1960s. With a long tradition of Irish music in their bloods, middle aged John Joe McMahon and younger Jimmy McMahon, two of three brothers, grew up in County Clare, Ireland. They have long been estranged, their falling out over a woman. John Joe, still living in County Clare, has never married, while Jimmy, who long left County Clare to live in Liverpool, is on wife number five and probably counting. As fiddlers, they each lead their own ceili band, following those strict musical conventions in which they were raised. As such, Jimmy's talented flautist, Teddy, exasperates him if only because of Teddy being musically influenced by among others The Beatles. John Joe's band has won the best ceili band competition at the prestigious annual Irish music festival three years running. This year, Jimmy's band will also be in attendance for the first time. John Joe and Jimmy do not want to see each other and do whatever they can to ensure the other does not make it to the festival. Theirs is not the only estrangement. John Joe's pianist, Maisie, and Jimmy also broke up on bad terms, Maisie's bitterness and resentment of men solely resting on Jimmy's shoulders. Maisie raised her daughter Anne, a fiddler herself and arguably the best musician in John Joe's band, as a single mother, trying to shield her from men, who she sees all being like Jimmy. Beyond the music competition itself, they will all have a fight on their hands when Teddy and Anne meet and start to fall for each other.
The All-Ireland Traditional Music Competition attracts the best musicians from all over the country -- and a few from beyond the shores of the Emerald Isle as well. As John Joe and his band prepare to capture the band trophy with their County Clare jigs and reels, Irishman Jimmy bends his Liverpudlians away from jazz toward the time-honored strains of Celtic music. As the musicians make their way towards the competition, trouble rears its head for both sets of challengers: the Liverpool Shamrock Ceilidh Band and the defending champions from Clare, and at the heart of this adversity lie the vengeful interventions of two estranged brothers, Jimmy and John Joe.
Two feuding brothers and their respective Ceilidh bands compete at a music festival. Set in 1960's Ireland.
