When the President of India is kidnapped by Kashmiri terrorists in Locarno, Switzerland, an Indian secret agent is sent to find him and set him free. With the help of an Indian singer he will make the "Impossible" to complete the mission.
Adit, played by Arjun Rampal, is in the Indian army. When the Indian president is kidnapped, Adit is sent undercover to rescue the president and his daughter. Adit becomes a journalist for IndiaTimes, and manages to make his way to Switzerland with the help of a police officer called Bhatnagar. On the flight, Adit meets Alisha (Priyanka Chopra). Alysia is a singer, and has come to Switzerland under a contract in order to do a show with Sam Hams. Her friend Shilpa accompanies her. However the people who Alysia and Shilpa have come to Switzerland with, are drug smugglers. Shilpa is murdered when she finds this out, and Alysia pretends she knows nothing. She meets up with Adit, and together they help each other. In the end, Adit saves the president and Alysia is able to go back to India with Adit.
When the Indian president, Veer Pratap Singh, and his daughter, Kinjal are abducted and held as hostages in Switzerland by the Pakistani terrorist gang the government of India decides to summon, Captain Aditya Arya from the army and send him on a secret mission namely to rescue the president and his daughter. The same gang is using a dancer/singer, Alisha as a fore-front for smuggling illegal drugs thus when her friend, Shilpa finds out she is cold-bloodily murdered with the body being taken away in the trunk of a car. Upon arrival in Switzerland, Aditya meets up with an Indian Secret Agent, Atul Bhatnagar and Alisha; together the three team up to strive for the impossible in a foreign land with little resources, and no support from the Swiss nor the Indians.
The Indian army is aware of Pakistan's ISI and Al Qaeda's Pushtoon speaking agents having a meeting in Switzerland. They find out that these two groups may have abducted the Indian President, Veer Pratap Singh, and his daughter, Kinjal, and are holding them hostage. Captain Aditya Arya is assigned the task of rescuing the President and his daughter, in complete secrecy, as to do otherwise may jeopardize the life of Mr. Singh, and cast aspersions against Switzerland. Upon arrival in Switzerland, Aditya is met with Atul Bhatnagar, another Indian Secret Agent, and a beautiful singer/dancer, Alisha, who claims that she has seen her colleague murdered and the body taken in the trunk of a car. Together these three set out to try and do the impossible - try and rescue a President - in a foreign land, without any communication or support from either the Swiss or the Indians - not knowing that they themselves are being ensnared in a web of deception and lies.

