A medical student is assigned to a psychiatric patient to discover the truth about a brutal murder, but he instead rants about danger in the outside world. The student dismisses his claims as paranoia - until someone begins.
A dedicated young medical student is assigned to probe into the mind of Don Wake, a patient at a psychiatric hospital loaded with secrets. She pushes him to reveal the truth about the brutal murder of his mother, but Don instead warns her of danger looming in the outside world, including a mysterious and threatening man named Malachi. Don pleads with her to break him out of the hospital in order to bring the truth to the surface. But the student dismisses his claims as paranoia... until someone begins to follow her every step. Soon Don's delusions become her reality, and she must determine what is real and what is merely the rambling of a madman. Teetering on the edge of sanity, she is faced with one last decision - whether or not to take an extraordinary risk that could bring about a spectacular healing in Don's mind... and her own.
The medical student Eve is assigned to care of Don Wake, a catatonic patient of a psychiatric Cape State Hospital who was found covered with blood near his dead mother. She must succeed in disclosing the truth about the murder of his mother and improve his conditions to conclude her medical course. She secretly changes his medications and he starts talking to her about a theory of conspiracy leaded by the mysterious Malachi. Eve becomes obsessed and paranoid with her patient while Don dominates her mind deeper and deeper. When she breaks with Don out of the mental institution, she finally discloses the truth about the crime.
Within the confines of an insane asylum languish many would-be seers and messiahs. Medical students meet them day in, day out. But when Eve meets Don Wake, she discovers he's not your run-of-the-mill paranoic. In fact, his visions of her life on the outside tread the line between fantasy and reality as a stalker becomes known to her. She could be in danger; it could all be in her head. The only way to find out is the let Don loose.

