Sequel to the hot film Wild Things, Wild Things 2 sees teenage bad girls Maya and Britney go on a sex and killing spree to win millions.
Rich 17 year old wild thing Brittney is devastated she loses her inheritence to a classmate, Maya. An insurance investigator uncovers the two girls plan, and soon the three are involved in a steamy relationship of sex, money and people being fed to aligators.
Brittany Havers has it all - the looks, the car, the house and while classmate Maya King may not have all those things, she does have others to her advantage - cunning, intelligence, as well as looks. When Brittany's stepfather, Nyles Dunlap, is involved in a mysterious plane crash, Maya comes forth claiming to be Nyles' illegitimate daughter. Insurance investigator Terrence Bridge knows something's not right and does all he can to reveal the girls' real intentions. He then puts in motion a chain of insane events that lead up to the unveiling of Maya and Brittany's plan to steal the Dunlap fortune. Dragged along for the ride are a disgraced doctor. The girls will stop at nothing to get what they want. The swamp holds many secrets...do you want to be one of them?
Brittany Havers is the stepdaughter of billionaire Nyles Dunlap, one of the powerful and elite members of the community of Blue Bay in South Florida. Brittany's life is turned upside down when her stepfather is killed in a plane crash and it gets worse. Brittany's nemesis, bad girl Maya King is claiming Nyles is her father and sets out to claim the inheritance from Brittany. Assisting the Blue Bay police department in investigating the case, Insurance investigator Terrance Bridge suspects a conspiracy behind and suspects Brittany and Maya plot to steal Nyle's fortune. He is proves right... And both girls including their lover Doctor Julian Hayes will stop at nothing to get it in their plan involving sex, money and double-cross.
17-year-old Brittany Havers (Susan Ward), a well-to-do school-girl living in Blue Bay, Florida, is soon to inherit the fortune as her stepfather Niles Dunlap (Anthony John Denison) had accidentally died in a crash of a light plane. Her classmate Maya (Leila Arcieri) suddenly claims that she is an illegitimate daughter of Brittany's stepfather being a child of an extramarital affair when her mother was charmed by Niles Dunlap. She is asked to get a DNA test and the DNA test shows she is the daughter. Brittany is heading to the wine room suddenly she hears a noise in the corner and goes to see what it is and only turns out to be just rats. But Maya is there too and they make out and the doctor who did the DNA joins them. All three are in cahoots for Brittany to inherit her money in return for a cut of it.Terrence Bridge, an insurance investigator, considers both girls as criminals, correctly thinking they are trying to steal Dunlap's money. Bridge relays his suspicions to the skeptic Detective Michael Morris (Linden Ashby), who thinks that Bridge has just an overactive imagination.Bridge investigates that it is all a crime therefore he asks them for the half money or he will tell the cops. Brittany says she will not give up the money therefore she gets a gun to kill Bridge but instead she kills Maya. She tells him that he has to earn it.They are at a traffic light and she gets out of the car. She had just set him up and Bridge goes to jail for Maya's murder... unable to prove his innocence. Later, Brittany runs away with her very much alive stepfather Niles, who had faked his death to claim his own life insurance money. But Brittany kills him too by pushing him out of a plane to the South Pacific without a parachute. She is in the water after jumping out of the plane and parachuting into the ocean where her mother is waiting for her.After the loose ends are shown, Brittany and her mother (both of whom orchestrated this whole thing to steal Niles multi-million dollar wealth) are shown sitting in the sun somewhere on an exotic island. Brittney comes down the stairs of their villa overlooking the ocean holding two drinks and hands one to her mother. Her mother takes a drink as Brittney looks at her with a gleam in her eyes. The mother tells her it's strong and Brittney says "They do make them strong here, don't they?" with a devilish grin on her face as the end credits finish.Note: It is strongly implied that Brittany just poisoned her own mother in order to keep all the money for herself, but it was never substantiated.
