Veteran-turned-mercenary Toorop takes the high-risk job of escorting a woman from Russia to America. Little does he know that she is host to an organism that a cult wants to harvest in order to produce a genetically modified Messiah.
In a near future, the mercenary Toorop is hired by the powerful criminal Gorsky to take a woman named Aurora from a Noelite Convent in Central Asia to New York. In return, he will receive a large amount of money and a clear passport. Toorop joins Aurora and her guardian Sister Rebeka as they cross the dangerous Russian landscape chased by mercenaries that also want Aurora. On their journey, Toorop discovers that Aurora has special abilities and once in New York, they see on the news that the Noelite Convent has just been bombed. When Aurora discloses that she is a virgin and pregnant with twins, Toorop realizes that there is something sinister behind his mission and that he and Sister Rebeka are not part of Gorsky's plans.
A few decades in the future, a mercenary named Toorop (Vin Diesel) accepts a contract from a Russian mobster, Gorsky, who instructs him to take a young woman only known as Aurora (Mélanie Thierry) to New York. In order to reach his goal, Gorsky gave Toorop a variety of weapons as well as a UN passport that has to be injected under the skin of the neck. Toorop, along with the girl and her guardian nun Sister Rebeka (Michelle Yeoh), travel from the Noelite Convent in Mongolia where they lived across Russia to reach America.The towns and cities of Russia have been turned into dangerous, over populated slums by war and terrorist activity, forcing Toorop, Aurora, and Rebeka to face dangers of the human element, all the while fleeing from an unknown group of mercenaries claiming to have been sent by Aurora's supposedly dead father. The stress of humanity's situation causes Aurora to act in strange ways that neither Toorop, nor Rebeka can explain. On one such occasion, Aurora seemed, for no reason, to panic and run from a crowded train station, just before it was bombed.Later, they were forced to board a submarine that carried refugees to Canada. There were too many refugees to take at once, so the submarine was forced to leave some behind, even if it came to shooting them. Aurora, infuriated by the loss of life, suddenly knew how to operate the thirty year old submarine, without having ever learned about it. However, her attempt to save those left behind was unsuccessful.On the submarine journey, whilst Aurora sleeps, Sister Rebeka explains that Aurora could speak nineteen different languages by the age of two, and always seemed to know things she had never learned. Then, three months before leaving with Toorop, she had begun acting in ways she never had before. This occurred after a visit by a Noelite doctor who had administered a pill to Aurora. The doctor told her to go to America, and arranged for Toorop to take them.Once in New York, a news broadcast about the bombing of the Convent that Aurora and Rebeka hail from, caused the group to realize that there was more going on then they knew. Gorsky, working for the Noelites, had planted a tracking device in Toorop's passport, and then bombed the convent when he knew they were in America. The doctor who earlier saw Aurora in the convent then appears to examine her again. When he leaves, Aurora reveals (again without being told) that she is pregnant with twins, even though she was a virgin.Looking outside, Toorop sees both Gorsky's men and the Noelite group, heavily armed and waiting for them, all there to guarantee her delivery to the High Priestess. The High Priestess calls Toorop and asks him to bring Aurora outside. As they prepare to take her, Toorop changes his mind and attacks both groups with the goal of getting the two women to safety. However, because of the tracking devices, Gorsky's men can lock onto him with tracking rockets. Rebeka is shot and killed defending Aurora. A missile is launched at Toorop, homing in on the passport embedded in his neck. Aurora shoots Toorop saying the words "I need you to live." As he falls, the rocket strikes, apparently killing them both.Dr. Arthur Darquandier revives Toorop after he has been dead for two hours using advanced medical techniques, replacing parts of his right arm and his entire left leg with cybernetics. Darquandier explains that when Aurora was a fetus, he was asked by the Neolites to genetically enhance her by using a super computer to 'implant' superior intelligence in her brain. It is also implied that the Noelite group had him create Aurora to become pregnant at a certain time in order to use her as a 'virgin birth' to help legitimize their religion.After she was born, the Noelites had him assassinated, or so they thought. He remained 'dead' until he found his daughter in Russia with Toorop.Doctor Darquandier helps Toorop access his final memories before death, where he hears Aurora instruct him to "Go Home". Doctor Darquandier instructs Toorop and to take some of his men to find Aurora before the Noelites do.Toorop told Aurora the address of a property that his family owned north of New York and heads there. The High Priestess of the Noelites visits Darquandier, her ex-husband, to ask where Aurora is. When he refuses to tell she kills him, and dispatches her soldiers to find her.The Noelites troops track Toorop down just after they find Aurora. The Neolites chase and shoot at Aurora and her protectors. Only Toorop, Aurora and a driver survive.Toorop takes Aurora to a safe place where she gives birth to the twins, and just before she dies during childbirth, she tells Toorop that he is the father of her children. Toorop raises the two children, who are of two different races.
