To pay off their gambling debt, four best friends kidnap an organized crime figure having mistaken him for a wealthy businessman.
Bobby, Lucky, Jai and Omi are four young men, each one with his own reason to come to the great city of Mumbai. They meet en route to Mumbai and become best friends. Lucky is a cardsharp with a magnificent winning streak. But when he plays his first high-stakes card game, he is cheated into losing by a shady gangster Aslambhai and ends up owing a large amount of money. Omi hatches a plot to kidnap a rich businessman whom he has seen in a bar. The kidnapping goes as planned, but then they discover that the person they have kidnapped is not a businessman but a powerful and deadly organized crime figure named Musabhai. Musabhai would be more than happy to get rid of the four for their nerve but discovers that by kidnapping him, they unintentionally thwarted a mob hit on his life which was to take place sometime later. In exchange for sparing their life, Musa recruits the four youngsters to help him in striking back at his longtime rival Sultan.
Bobby, Lucky, Jai &amp; Omi are four close friends, who live in a small town, but have dreams of making it big, especially in a city like Bombay. So they accumulate enough money to travel to Bombay, and live a comfortable life there. Lucky is the card-sharp and he tries his skill with Aslambhai, and succeeds considerably. When his friends coax him to play some more, he does and not only loses everything - but owes Aslam a whooping seven lakh rupees. Since they do not have the money, Aslam gives them seven days to return the money to him or else.... The friends sit and ponder their fate, when one of them comes upon a an idea to kidnap a rich businessman, demand a hefty ransom, get the money, release the hostage, and live comfortably the rest of their lives. After some discussions, they find out that one such businessman frequents a bar every week, they accordingly chloroform him, and bring him to their hideout and tie him to a chair. When the businessman comes he tells them to check in any police station as to his identity. It is then that they find out that the person they have kidnapped is Mussabhai - a notorious underworld gangster - who is wanted by the police - and who will go to any lengths to free himself from the four, and kill them in the process.

