A suspense-thriller about a married couple whose adopted son turns up at their home after several years and has bad intentions.
Katherine "Kathy" is happily married to businessman Greg Norris and lives in his beautiful home with his about 18-year old daughter Tara. When suddenly a charming young man, who Tara first saw lurking around in the garden, turns up on their doorstep claiming he must be Jamie, the baby son she once gave up for adoption as a teenage mother on her parents' orders, the couple is delighted to meet him. They even take him in as they hear his adoptive parents have died in car accident and he's looking for a place to stay during his business studies just like Greg, to pay for which he held various jobs, even in Rio. The only one who remains suspicious is Tara, who doesn't want to be the kid sister and starts looking for holes is Jamie's story, going trough his things and having a friend examine his past- there are, since he didn't tell the Norris family about his lover who helps him unconditionally with his sinister hidden agenda...
Philadelphia real estate developer Greg Norris, his second wife and business partner Kathleen Norris and Greg's late teen daughter Tara Norris' lives are on the surface that of extreme wealth. However, Greg and Kathleen's business is deep in debt and they are close to declaring bankruptcy unless a pending real estate deal comes through. The business hits another snag when Greg suffers a mild heart attack just prior to the financing presentation for that deal, leaving Kathleen, who is more behind the scenes, to take over the presentation while Greg recuperates. One day, Jamie Fisher knocks on their door. He is Kathleen's biological son who she gave up for adoption twenty-five years earlier when she was only sixteen years old and who she hasn't seen since. Kathleen and Greg welcome Jamie into their lives with open arms. Tara, however, doesn't really trust her new found half-brother. In reality, Jamie, with his girlfriend Liz hidden in the background, is after the Norris' money. When Jamie learns that the Norrises are broke, he decides on plan B to get rich through "his family" which has a slightly more violent component than plan A.

