After a meteor strike starts a new ice age, a group of survivors tries to find a device that could give mankind new hope
Meteor Bay-Leder 7 struck earth on October 18th, 2012. Causing earthquakes, tidal waves, and a dust cloud that soon covered most of the Northern hemisphere, it changed the face of our planet forever. Leaving Russia destroyed, and turning Europe into a snow- covered »death zone«, Bay-Leder 7 was the end of civilization as we know it. For Tom Parker, head of security at the American Embassy in Berlin, it was also the end of all he held dear - having to leave his wife and his daughter in the German capitol, he effectively sentenced them to a cold death. Three years later, most of the survivors have set up shop in the habitable territories in the equator regions. It's a harsh life, with little hope of Earth's climate ever reverting back to normal. When a military command center registers a long forgotten experimental satellite going green, an expedition is set up to find the base from where it is controlled. Halfway across the »death zone« that was once Europe, the expedition's plane is destroyed by a mysterious force, controlled from the ruins of Berlin, a city that was considered dead and buried - under 30 feet of ice and snow. Fearing a threat to the New United Northern States, the President orders a new expedition to find and destroy the base and the satellite. Tom Parker volunteers to lead a group of highly trained specialists on a suicide trek to Berlin - with ground vehicles, no reliable intel, and zero radio contact. He is determined to find out who is still living in Berlin - secretly hoping that his wife and daughter are among the survivors. Tom's group also consists of Anna Starndorf, beautiful head of the company that owned and operated the satellite, Colonel Waters, the cynical military commander, and Sarah Henley, a former British SAS member # trained to kill. The flight to the outer circles of the »death zone« goes without a hitch. The expedition members suit up for the drop. Breaking through the clouds, the team gets its first real look at the world below: ice and snow, as far as the eye can see. Only a few buildings remain above snow level - including the Eiffel Tower. From there it's an epic trek across the icy plains of central Europe to Berlin. When the group finally makes it to Berlin, Parker and his men find out that a group of survivors has found a new home in the subway system of the former German capitol. Their leader turns out to be Gregor Starndorf - Anna's father. When he had discovered the means to activate the prototype microwave power satellite from an abandoned facility, he devised a brillant plan to use it to heat up the atmosphere over Europe, causing the weather to kickstart again. But there is someone in the facility who plans to exact revenge on a world that has seemingly abandoned them...
When a comet unexpectedly alters course and strikes Earth, the Northern Hemisphere is struck by a new Ice Age. American Embassy Security Man Tom Parker had to leave behind his wife and daughter in Berlin and has been looking for a way back to find them. His chance comes when a secret military microwave satellite comes to life again, destroying a plane, and research states that this could only have been an action controlled from the frozen former capital of Germany.

