A girl from a small town heads to the big city of Los Angeles to spend the summer at a performing arts high school.
This film is about a teenage girl who is very upset about her brother's death in a car crash. Terri has a love of singing and making up her own songs. Her brother (before his death) secretly submits a DVD of her singing to a musical summer camp down in L.A. Her father doesn't want her to go, but secretly her mom lets her go and everything goes fine, except she has stage fright. She gets through her stage fright with the help of her new friend Jay. At the end of the contest everyone at the musical school have to perform something. And if they win, they win a scholarship along with it. Her dad finds out, comes down to L.A. and threatens to take her home! Will he let her stay? and will she win the contest? Viewers are on the edges of their seats to find out what happens...
Raise Your Voice is a coming-of-age story centered around a small-town singer, brokenhearted by the death of her brother in a car crash, who had secretly submitted her for a summer session at a performing arts academy in Los Angeles. In the performing arts academy, she experiences a whole new way of life in the big city, far from the small town lifestyle she's used to. The film will revolve around her efforts to confront her lack of formal classic training and deal with a romantic entanglement.
A teenage girl, Terri, has a passion for music. School's out and she wants to spend the summer at a performing arts academy in L.A. She is encouraged by her mother and brother but has a hard time convincing her father, who is a little rough around the edges. Things go bad when she sneaks her brother, Paul, out to a concert and they both end up in a car crash. Terri survives but Paul was less fortunate and he died. Terri was devastated and she decides to quit music, but with a little encouragement and a sly plan from her family (except her father) she decides to go ahead to L.A. Noone is nice to her at the academy at first but gradually they got better and she made some friends; Kiwi, Denise and Jay whom she starts dating after awhile. She also meets some bullies; Robin and her friends. Throughout her time there, she learns that her brother is the reason she got accepted in the first place. She gets closer to Jay, while continuing to lie to her dad. Haunted by her brother's death, her musical talents intensify.

