By "Fist of Fury", Kim Hyun-Soo (Sang-Woo Kwone) addicted to Bruce Lee. Year 1978. Hyun-Soo moved to KangNam, Seoul. Hyun-Soo transferred to JungMoon High, Maljuk Street, Kangnam, Seoul. He goes schooling by No.78 Bus. First day a senior male took Hyun-Soo's collar and made Hyun-Soo being punished inside JungMoon playground because of forgetting collar Hyun-Soo made friends with Kim Woo-Sik (Bruce Lee fan) and Hamburger. Hamburger always bring adult magazines to school and was always being found by the school soldiers. Hyun-Soo father had his own TaeKwonDo Dojo - his wish is to see Hyun-Soo being the top 5 in his JungMoon High class, and got himself promoted to University. One day inside #78 bus, Hamburger and Hyun-Soo met Kang Eun-Ju (EunYang Female High), a female Bruce Lee fan who looks like "Olivia Hussey", whose music favorites are Agaetha (ABBA) and Celsia Chan, Hyun-Soo began to fall in love with Eun-Ju. Hyun-Soo and Woo-Sik became rivals of Cha Jung-Hoon (Triad Head, JungMoon High) when Jung-Hoon took Eun-Ju's schoolbag inside #78 Bus, and Woo-Sik settled everything. Woo-Sik tried flirting Eun-Ju but she refused him because she loves Hyun-Soo. On a Rainy day, Hyun-Soo talked with Eun-Ju in #78 Bus, knew that Eun-Ju keep listening to a midnight radio program, and she had even wrote postcards to that program but it didn't speak out her postcard messages. Hyun-Soo lent Eun-Ju his black Umbrella and ran to home. Eun-Ju ask Woo-Sik to return the umbrella to Hyun-Soo, Hyun-Soo wrote postcard to the radio program and it spoke the message at 2am when Eun-Ju was in #78 bus. Hyun-Soo invited Eun-Ju to listen to his guitar playing. Eun-Ju asked Hyun-Soo to return Woo-Sik's pen. She even wrote her reply to the radio program. Woo-Sik and Hyun-Soo were being punished inside a wardrobe, with the soldier telling them how many Viet Congs he had ever killed in Vietnam War by himself without any comrades to help. Hyun-Soo went to library and heard Eun-Ju's postcard message in the radio program which both Eun-Ju and Hyun-Soo always listened to. Eun-Ju regret asking Woo-Sik to return umbrella and she promised Hyun-Soo that she won't ever disappoint him anymore. Then, Hamburger became Jung-Hoon's gang member. Woo-Sik tore Hamburger's adult photos, Jung-Hoon challenged Woo-Sik to roof battle. Finally Woo-Sik was defeated and was carried by Hyun-Soo. Woo-Sik even left JungMoon High without contacting Hyun-Soo anymore. Eun-Ju was being rumored to leave with Woo-Sik but later Hamburger found that she had not left with Woo-Sik, but was being suspended one year for bad results. One day, Hyun-Soo met Jung-Hoon's gang. they threatened to remove Hyun-Soo's eyeballs from his eyes. Hyun-Soo decided to train himself for any further struggle with Jung-Hoon's gang. On the day of Hyun-Soo's battle, a classmate threw his milk to Jung-Hoon. Jung-Hoon's gang ran into Hyun-Soo's class and ask who did that. Hamburger tried pacifying Jung-Hoon but failed. Hyun-Soo stood up and challenged Jung-Hoon at roof. Hyun-Soo used his double-stick to hit Jung-Hoon when they went upstairs. Finally, in great resistance, Hyun-Soo won the battle and went downstairs. Soldiers stopped Hyun-Soo, but he escaped, destroyed 2 windows and spoke, "F**k all schools in Korea!" Hyun-Soo father talked to Jung-Hoon's mother but she blame Hyun-Soo for destroying her son's face. Hyun-Soo said sorry to father, father asked Hyun-Soo if Bruce Lee had ever studied into University. Hyun-Soo smiled, father knew no. Hyun-Soo studied in G.E.D. (General Education Diploma) and met Hamburger when Hamburger sold his adult magazines to classmates for 2 bucks. Hamburger told Hyun-Soo that Eun-Ju also studied this GED center. Hyun-Soo waited Eun-Ju but failed, got up to #78 Bus. Hyun-Soo missed Eun-Ju until females said "Bye-bye, Eun-Ju!" Hyun-Soo turned his head and saw Eun-Ju alone. Eun-Ju said that Korea weather is colder than before, Hyun-Soo said yes. Eun-Ju got off in HanNam station. Hamburger ask Hyun-Soo to watch Jackie Chan movie, "Drunken Master" and even said Bruce Lee is already outdated. Hyun-Soo kicked to revenge for Bruce Lee outside the cinema door.
By "Fist of Fury", Kim Hyun-Soo (Sang-Woo Kwone) addicted to Bruce Lee.Year 1978. Hyun-Soo moved to KangNam, Seoul.Hyun-Soo transferred to JungMoon High, Maljuk Street, Kangnam, Seoul.He goes schooling by No.78 Bus.First day a senior male took Hyun-Soo's collar and made Hyun-Soo being punished inside JungMoon playground because of forgetting collar Hyun-Soo made friends with Kim Woo-Sik (Bruce Lee fan) and Hamburger.Hamburger always bring adult magazines to school and was always being found by the school soldiers.Hyun-Soo father had his own TaeKwonDo Dojo - his wish is to see Hyun-Soo being the top 5 in his JungMoon High class, and got himself promoted to University.One day inside #78 bus, Hamburger and Hyun-Soo met Kang Eun-Ju (EunYang Female High), a female Bruce Lee fan who looks like "Olivia Hussey", whose music favorites are Agaetha (ABBA) and Celsia Chan, Hyun-Soo began to fall in love with Eun-Ju.Hyun-Soo and Woo-Sik became rivals of Cha Jung-Hoon (Triad Head, JungMoon High) when Jung-Hoon took Eun-Ju's schoolbag inside #78 Bus, and Woo-Sik settled everything.Woo-Sik tried flirting Eun-Ju but she refused him because she loves Hyun-Soo.On a Rainy day, Hyun-Soo talked with Eun-Ju in #78 Bus, knew that Eun-Ju keep listening to a midnight radio program, and she had even wrote postcards to that program but it didn't speak out her postcard messages. Hyun-Soo lent Eun-Ju his black Umbrella and ran to home.Eun-Ju ask Woo-Sik to return the umbrella to Hyun-Soo, Hyun-Soo wrote postcard to the radio program and it spoke the message at 2am when Eun-Ju was in #78 bus. Hyun-Soo invited Eun-Ju to listen to his guitar playing. Eun-Ju asked Hyun-Soo to return Woo-Sik's pen. She even wrote her reply to the radio program.Woo-Sik and Hyun-Soo were being punished inside a wardrobe, with the soldier telling them how many Viet Congs he had ever killed in Vietnam War by himself without any comrades to help.Hyun-Soo went to library and heard Eun-Ju's postcard message in the radio program which both Eun-Ju and Hyun-Soo always listened to.Eun-Ju regret asking Woo-Sik to return umbrella and she promised Hyun-Soo that she won't ever disappoint him anymore.Then, Hamburger became Jung-Hoon's gang member.Woo-Sik tore Hamburger's adult photos, Jung-Hoon challenged Woo-Sik to roof battle.Finally Woo-Sik was defeated and was carried by Hyun-Soo.Woo-Sik even left JungMoon High without contacting Hyun-Soo anymore.Eun-Ju was being rumored to leave with Woo-Sik but later Hamburger found that she had not left with Woo-Sik, but was being suspended one year for bad results.One day, Hyun-Soo met Jung-Hoon's gang. they threatened to remove Hyun-Soo's eyeballs from his eyes.Hyun-Soo decided to train himself for any further struggle with Jung-Hoon's gang.On the day of Hyun-Soo's battle, a classmate threw his milk to Jung-Hoon.Jung-Hoon's gang ran into Hyun-Soo's class and ask who did that. Hamburger tried pacifying Jung-Hoon but failed.Hyun-Soo stood up and challenged Jung-Hoon at roof. Hyun-Soo used his double-stick to hit Jung-Hoon when they went upstairs.Finally, in great resistance, Hyun-Soo won the battle and went downstairs.Soldiers stopped Hyun-Soo, but he escaped, destroyed 2 windows and spoke, "Fick alle Korean Hoch Schule!"Hyun-Soo father talked to Jung-Hoon's mother but she blame Hyun-Soo for destroying her son's face.Hyun-Soo said sorry to father, father asked Hyun-Soo if Bruce Lee had ever studied into University. Hyun-Soo smiled, father knew no.Hyun-Soo studied in G.E.D. (General Education Diploma) and met Hamburger when Hamburger sold his adult magazines to classmates for 2 bucks.Hamburger told Hyun-Soo that Eun-Ju also studied this GED center.Hyun-Soo waited Eun-Ju but failed, got up to #78 Bus.Hyun-Soo missed Eun-Ju until females said "Bye-bye, Eun-Ju!"Hyun-Soo turned his head and saw Eun-Ju alone.Eun-Ju said that Korea weather is colder than before, Hyun-Soo said yes.Eun-Ju got off in HanNam station.Hamburger ask Hyun-Soo to watch Jackie Chan movie, "Drunken Master" and even said Bruce Lee is already outdated.Hyun-Soo kicked to revenge for Bruce Lee outside the cinema doorThis is darkfacer in imdb. I therefore permitted IMDB member "Toyama Kazuha" using my storyline. Toyama Kazuha requested me on 24/7/2010 and I had her request. I am happy to lend my Maljuk storyline for IMDB, Toyama Kazuha She did not copy my work, thanks for those who did concern.Von,
"DarkfaceR"
