The story of how one man's crime ruins the lives of two families forever.
Leeanne Rosser'sa strong but world-weary 20 year-old solo mother. She sits on a train with her one-year-old son, Sam, on their way to visit her mum, as It's her mother's birthda. But her religious mother refuses to accept Sam, as he was born out of wedlock. Leeanne's father's helpless to bring them together. Unknown to all of them, Leeanne's brother, Brent is out pretending to be a student or a bible salesman, and then robs houses when their owners are absent. Today an unsuspecting victim,returns home during his robbery. Brent panics and sends her plummeting down the steps. For Leeanne and her family, and that of Brent's robbery-gone-wrong victim, everything is changed from that moment on.
Leeanne Rosser's life is getting tougher and tougher each day. Her mother cannot accept her as a solo mother and is feeling the pull of the Church, whilst her father cannot seem to bring them all together. Worlds separate Leanne's brother Brent, a petty thief, from Ulla Peet, wife of Athco Properties' Athol Peet. But a burglary gone wrong brings them into a confrontation that will change their lives - and perhaps end them... Brent turns to murder, of the most brutal kind. Gordon Peet, brother of Athol and son of high-flying Howie, jumps on the money-go-round and is jailed for corporate fraud. Gwen and Ulla, who is now a quadriplegic, move towards a 'criminal' solution of their problem. Meanwhile, at the other end of the scale, beer-sodden Danny abuses Leeanne Rosser at will - until Leeanne decides to fight back.
Young single mother Leeanne showers her one-year-old with love and affection, though she gets no help from her family. Rebuffed by her mother, she tries to stay close to her cool and handsome brother Brent. But she doesn't know about his secret life as a professional thief preying on the unsuspecting rich. When he bungles a burglary, his world shatters. The crime creates a crisis for all the members of the two families. As relationships begin to fracture and fall apart, Leeanne must discover if she too has the courage and strength to survive.

