In the not too distant future a new team of specially trained government soldiers called an Interception Team contend with the latest hostile alien encounter. When an alien scout ship crashes in eastern Russia, Sean Lambert and his elite force are dispatched to investigate. They come face-to-face with a seemingly invincible seven-foot tall, shape shifting foe hell-bent on blowing up a Russian nuclear power plant in an effort to destroy mankind through a nuclear winter. The stakes become personal when the alien discovers it was Lambert who killed its mate four years ago (Interceptor Force). A major battle ensues as the Interceptor Team look to save the Earth from alien annihilation.
A spaceship takes off from an alien world and flies to Earth.A US Predator Surveillance Drone has been shot down in Chechnya. Lt. Sean Lambert (Olivier Gruner) has arrived and fights the men who shot down the drone. He's captured. Sean is tortured for the code to the drone. Sean agrees and they untie him. He sets the drone to explode and fights the men. They run out when the drone is about to go off. Sean escapes.The alien spacecraft is shot down by Russian fighters.The alien (Eve Scheer) is disguised as a blonde woman.Sean and his partner, Nathan McCallister (Roger R. Cross), provides the data from the drone to his boss, Jack Bavaro (Nigel Bennett), who tells them they are going to Russia because of the UFO.The alien arrives at a tactical supply depot. She gets weapons and destroys the base.Sean practices his fighting blindfolded. Jack arrives with new intel.Jack tells Sean and Nathan about the alien's attack on the depot. He shares the tapes from the fighter jet fight. It matches the pattern of the previous alien visit (from the first movie). Jack informs them that next to the base that was attacked there is a nuclear plant which has uranium 237, which is the most dangerous of the uranium byproduct class. Jack brings up the files on Sean's team. Nathan is part of the team. Adriana Sikes (Elizabeth Gracen) is the demolition expert and is military trained. Bjorn Hatch (Alex Jolig), former German special forces, is the weapons and combat specialist.Dawn DeSilvia (Adrienne Wilkinson), a scientist, encounters Jack in the hall and tells him about her microwave gun that she's designed to fight the alien that it will keep it from re-forming.The alien has arrived at the plant.Jack informs Sean that they are leaving sooner because the plant has been taken. There's no word on the radiation levels. Jack warns that if it starts to leak, it will affect the world - it's that dangerous.The team has loaded on the plane. Jack arrives with Dawn, saying they are taking her too. Sean doesn't want to take her, but Jack insists. The team is uneasy about her, but she says she'll try to do her part.The plane ride is rough. The team discusses the mission. Adriana isn't happy about the radiation issue. Sean says they will abort if it's too hot. Dawn throws up from the rough ride.The team travels by truck. They are stopped by Russian soldiers before they reach the plant. They inspect the trucks. Gorshkov (Hristo Shopov), leader of the Russians welcomes the US team. Gorshkov tells them the radiation levels are normal. The soldiers start to unload Dawn's specimen cases, and she freaks out. One contains part of the last alien. It wakes up and the soldier tosses it. Dawn catches it and secures the sample. Gorshkov tells them to follow him to the plant.They arrive at the plant. Gorshkov orders the US team to stay outside. The Russian team is heading in. Sean informs Jack that the Russians are not letting them in the plant. Jack tells them to hold their post for now. The Russians enter the plant.The team checks out their weapons. Dawn shows them the microwave rifle, which will stop the alien from reforming. Bjorn has a razor chain gun thats used for rock cutting.The Russians move deeper into the plant.Dawn informs the team that the alien can look like anyone it has touched before, not just the last person. She tells them that it is resist to heat and brute force. They need to fight it with the microwave gun or some other way to fight the binding structure.The Russians come under attack.Sean's team can hear the gun fire. They move to enter the plant but they are stopped by the Russian soldiers. They will not let them in without orders from Gorshkov. The team fights the Russian soldiers, but they are outnumbered. They stop fighting. Sean tells the soldiers that they are going in to help Gorshkov and the others because they are getting killed. The Russians let them enter the plant. Sean gives Dawn a gun.The team enters the plant and follows the same route as Gorshkov and his men. Dawn watches the radiation levels.Gorshkov and his survivors move along. Gorshkov will not let them call in back-up until they have moved out the half billion dollars worth of black market nukes. Gorshkov says to let the US team deal with the alien. Once that is done, they will say the plant is leaking to clear the place out so they can then move the weapons. Gorshkov is not aware that Sean's team is already in the plant, so they head out to invite them into the plant. They are attacked by the alien who kills all of Gorshkov's men. She stands before Gorshkov.Sean's team arrives at the reactor. Dawn checks the levels, which are fine. Sean leaves the core in order to make a report to Jack. He orders the others to stay. Sean informs Jack that they can't locate Gorshkov and his team. Jack asks if they have found the alien. Jack says it's been in there for sure, but they haven't seen it themselves. Jack orders them to kill the alien. Sean tells Jack that he thinks Gorshkov is hiding something. Jack allows him to investigate, but his main mission is to kill the alien. Sean hears a voice and finds a Russian scientist with a dead Russian. She's the alien and she attacks him. She turns into Gorshkov and she and Sean fight. She tells him that she will destroy Earth and that she wants revenge. Sean escapes.In the reactor Dawn hears on the radio that something is chasing Sean. Sean enters the reactor and Adriana wonders how they will know its him. The alien enters and the team opens fire on her. The alien leaves. The team follows it out. They find the Russian soldiers. They hear the alien and move towards the sound. They find Gorshkov. He tells them that they have to leave. Sean shoots Gorshkov in the head, revealing that he is really the alien. They open fire, but their guns are useless. Bjorn is killed. Sean fires the chain gun at the alien, which tears it in half. Nathan shoots it with the microwave gun and it explodes. The alien starts to reform and escapes into a vent.The team moves along through the plant. Sean tells Dawn that she needs to come up with a way to kill it. The team finds the nukes and Dawn tells them that they are armed. Dawn sees that the nukes are wired to a detonator. Adriana moves to cut the wires, but Dawn stops her, telling her that if she cuts the wires, shell set off the nukes. They have to disarm it from the detonator. They will need to follow the wires to find the detonator. Sean tells Nathan and Adriana to stay with the nukes. He takes Dawn with him.The Russian soldiers outside enter the plant.Sean and Dawn follow the wires back to the reactor. The detonator is under the water that shields the uranium rods. Dawn tells him that the water is lethal. She warns him that if the nukes go off, the fallout will kill 100 million in the next 12 months - that it's a world wide problem. They understand that someone has to go under the water.Sean radios Nathan and tells him to contact Jack about what's going on.Jack informs the others back in the office about what's going on in the plant. They don't have time to send in a second team. He needs all the information he can get.Adriana takes the microwave gun and heads to the reactor room, hoping she can do something there.The Russians move through the plant.Adriana arrives at the reactor with Sean and Dawn.Nathan hears a sound and moves out into the plant. He finds more dead Russians.Adriana draws her weapon on Sean and he draws his on her. Sean isn't sure that she isn't the alien. Nathan calls in and tells them he has found a survivor. Sean orders Adriana to go out and get Nathan. He's not going to leave her with Dawn because he isn't sure she's not the alien. He says if she goes to get Nathan, he can be sure that she's not the alien. Adriana takes the microwave gun and leaves.Adriana looks for Nathan.Back at the US base, a scientist tells Jack about the nukes and that they can't be disarmed from the nukes, only from the detonator, but that to go into the tank with the detonator is suicide.Adriana finds Nathan. Adriana doesn't trust that he's not the alien when they can't find the survivor. Sean calls and they tell him that the survivor is gone. Sean orders them to return to the reactor. Adriana insists that Nathan walks in front of her. Arriving in the reactor, Adriana holds the microwave gun on Nathan. Nathan holds a gun on Adriana, saying he's not the alien. Sean orders them to stand down. Nathan does, but Adriana fires the microwave gun, killing Nathan. The alien watches.Jack contacts the president and suggests he get in air force one and also to contact the G8 countries about what's going on.Adriana looks at the pool and then takes off her jacket. She is volunteering to go in after the detonator. She jumps into the water. The alien enters the reactor. Dawn picks up the microwave gun, but it's out of power. The alien tells them about the other alien who Sean killed. The alien tells him that he was her mate. Sean says that her mate killed an entire town and his team. The alien says that since Sean killed her mate, she will kill his - Dawn. Dawn replies, "What? No, he's not. We're barely even friends!" The Russian soldiers enter the reactor and the alien blends into the wall. The Russians join Sean and Dawn and the alien appears again. Everyone opens fire. Adriana has found the detonator. The alien kills several Russian soldiers. Adriana swims to the surface and tells the others that the detonator will go off in seven minutes. She goes back under to finish disarming it.Jack orders NORAD to be turned on. Theres a joint Russian/American task force carrying deep impact missiles. Jack says that if they don't hear from Sean in five minutes, they will launch.Adriana is feeling the effects of the radiation, but she keeps working to disarm the detonator. The Russians keep firing at the alien. The last of the Russians are killed. Dawn runs to the microwave gun which has finished charging.The task force fires their missiles.Dawn hits the alien with the microwave gun, which cuts it in two. Adriana finishes disarming the detonator. She swims to the surface to report. The alien escapes down a grate. Adriana tells Sean that she was successful and then dies.Sean and Dawn leave the reactor and contact Jack. He tells them about the missiles, but Sean and Dawn cant get out in time. Jack tells the team in the US base that they have four minutes to send the disarm codes to the missiles. They get started.Sean and Dawn run. Dawn notices some of the containers around them contain chemicals that will affect the alien. She says they need to open the tanks. The alien arrives and attacks Sean. Dawn opens one of the tanks. The liquid hits the alien and it runs out. Sean goes after it. Sean enters a room with the alien. He fires, which ruptures several tanks. The liquid is harmful to him too. He and the alien fight on a small 'island' surrounded by the chemical. Sean defeats the alien and knocks it into the chemical. It breaks up and dies. Sean rejoins Dawn and she helps him along.The missiles have been disarmed.Sean contacts Jack and tells him that the alien is dead.Sean and Dawn return to the US base to applause. Sean looks at the files on the team members that died. The president calls and wants to talk to Sean, but Sean leaves the room with Dawn.When Sean and Dawn are alone, they start to make out. Jack calls them to tell them that theres another situation and he needs them back in the control room. They go back in.
