Sophie Jacobs is going through the most difficult time of her life. Now, she just has to find out if it's real.
When her boyfriend is shot to death in a robbery, LA photographer Sopie Jacobs tries her hardest to put the event behind her. But as she struggles to get over the murder, Sophie's life begins to change, leaving her clueless as to what's coming. But worst of all, the line between reality and fantasy is beginning to shatter.
The movie begins with the trauma of the death of the boyfriend of an LA photographer whom is shot to death when the two stop for a candy bar and he goes inside the LA corner store to make the purchase for where a robbery occurs. The film consists of how the two met and, in the montage of scenes that follows the particulars to each of their lives are revealed within flashbacks the protagonist Sophie Jacobs experiences. While she is living with her boyfriend, Hugh, a lawyer, she becomes involved with a second man, Jesse, a co-worker, where the two teach photography at what seems to be community college. Based on conflict with Jesse who she ends it with, during the flashbacks, it seems there may be more to Hugh's death when a slide of a photo taken on Nov 7, the date of the shooting, turns up during one of her student's class presentations though the student claims it is not hers. In a subsequent presentation by the same student is another slide of Sophia Jacobs outside the grocery store waiting in her car just before the shooting on Nov 7. It seems either the slides may be planted by Jesse who may have arranged the shooting of Hugh. Sophie sees two people regularly, her mother whom she attends luncheons with and a psychiatrist who has been prescribing some sort of pills and although the movie begins with her discussing Hugh's death it later becomes apparent she had to have been seeing the psychiatrist prior to his death. Meanwhile Sophie confesses to Hugh that she slept with another man and how long it had been going on. In one flashback it seems Hugh may have perpetrated battery against Sophie without her remembering it afterwards and, suddenly quirks in the character of Hugh become apparent where there are subtle hints in his behaviors all along that he may be a successful, normally nonviolent, psychopath. He counts her pills and attempts to hold her accountable for not taking her medication. Meanwhile during luncheons with mother is is discovered Sophie is an alcohol user. Then film becomes a whodunit based on motive for the shooting of Hugh to get him out of the way, based on the slides and, Sophie not having a memory of paying by credit card and signing for the slides and was it Sophie herself. A great film!
