Ishwar Chandra Thakur is living the good life, content with his loving wife Sumitra and son Adiya. There is but one thing which gradually comes to annoy Ishwar: his son's laziness and dependency on his father. When Adiya marries his father's enemy's daughter and gets her pregnant, Ishwar decides to teach his son a lesson in the poverty that he himself experienced and fought himself out of.
Waqt is the story of a father and a son between whom there is a special bond. Unlike many other father son relationships, these two are more like friends; the father being Ishwar Sharawat and his son Aditya .Ishwar is the owner of a toy manufacturing company and is extremely generous and big hearted making sure to spread as much as joy to kids as he can, and that is why he makes sure that during the festive season of Diwali he distributes toys to the orphans. On the surface Ishwar's life seems like something every man would crave for; a great and profitable business, a loving son and a caring and dutiful wife Sumitra or so it seems. Aditya is in love with Mitali and vice-versa who is the daughter of Nathu. However after the initial problems that occur, the two of them finally end up getting married. Ishwar hopes that marriage will make Aditya a more responsible man but he is disappointed. His efforts to turn Aditya into a more responsible individual turn futile. One thing leads to another and Ishwar doesn't have an option but to throw Aditya out of the house. Aditya is shocked that the same doting father is now behaving in this fashion towards him and his now pregnant wife. After the initial problems, Aditya takes it upon himself to take care of his wife and his unborn kid. Aditya starts working as freelance stuntman and at the same time prepares for a star search contest. Aditya starts turning into an independent man but the rift in the relationship between him and his father grows. In the climax of the film Aditya has been chosen to participate in the finals of the star search contest and this is where all the reasons of the father's cruel behavior are exposed and this forms the end of the story when the father and son get back together.
Ishwar Chandra Thakur never had it so good in his life before. He has a faithful and loving wife in Sumitra, who he affectionately calls Sumi; and a good rapport with his only child, a son named Aditya, who he affectionately calls Adi, and a servant named Laxman, who is not exactly the brightest star on the horizon. So what if Adi has failed his matriculation exams, so what if Adi is unable to secure any job; so what if Adi has no skills whatsoever to land any job; so what if Adi is lazy and a slacker; so what if Adi marries his critic's daughter, Pooja,; so what if Adi wants to be dependent on him all his life; so what if Adi is about to become a dad....but wait a minute. Why would he let Adi &amp; his children depend on him? Didn't he himself start his life with a mere Rs.35/-, didn't he work as a mailman and toy salesman? These thoughts overwhelm both Sumi and Ishwar, and they ask Adi to get out of their house and live in the servants' outhouse, which they do so. But again, Adi reaches a state of vegetation, without making any effort to find any employment, and it is then Ishwar asks him to pay rent of Rs.1500/ and a Electricity deposit of Rs.5000/- or else even this shelter will be taken away from him. With Pooja pregnant and expecting a baby shortly, Adi will really have to come to terms or be out on the streets, living on the footpath - with no future prospects whatsoever for him, Pooja, or his newborn child. But without any skills or education, what possibly can Adi do to earn money? And what is the real reason why his dad threw him out of the family home?
Ishwarchand Thakur (Amitabh Bachchan) and Sumitra Thakur (Shefali Shah) are a married couple who run a toy factory together. They have a son named Aditya Thakur (Akshay Kumar) who does not have any interest in responsibility or what he wants to do in life. It gets even worse when he elopes with his girlfriend, Pooja (Priyanka Chopra), the daughter of Natu (Boman Irani).When Pooja gets pregnant, both Ishwar and Sumitra decide to make Aditya realize his responsibilities, as he will have to take care of his wife and child. They take drastic measures and throw Aditya out of the house along with Pooja. As a result, Aditya and Pooja live in a room at the back of the house in the garden. The force becomes so bad that Aditya begins to hate his father and they do not speak to each other for a long time. At the same time Aditya becomes aware of his role in life.However, Ishwar has done all this for a reason and is hiding something. Ishwar is trying to make sure that his son is secure but because he is suffering from lung cancer and he wants his son to be responsible. Aditya succeeds in becoming a responsible man and also finds out the truth about his father when his father comes for his performance on the stage. He steps on the stage but instead he asks the audience to pray to god to give a minute of their lives to keep his father alive until his son's birth. His father is alive until his son is born and he names the baby boy 'Ishwar' after himself and he dies. The movie reaches its climax with Aditya welcoming children at his father's toy factory and playing with an alone, disabled boy like Ishwar did at the start of the film with his family there including his toddler Ishwar. The spirit of Ishwar touches Sumitra's flowers in her hair and it reminds her of the old times.
