Jon Arbuckle (Breckin Meyer) buys a second pet, a dog named Odie. However, Odie is then abducted and it is up to Jon's cat, Garfield (Bill Murray), to find and rescue the canine.
Garfield (Bill Murray), the fat, lazy, lasagna lover, has everything a cat could want. But when Jon Arbuckle (Breckin Meyer), in an effort to impress veterinarian and old high-school crush Liz (Jennifer Love Hewitt), adopts a dog named Odie and brings him home, Garfield gets the one thing he doesn't want. Competition. One night, Odie runs away and gets dog-napped after Garfield locks him outside. Garfield, in an out of character move, goes to search for and rescue Odie with the help of a variety of animal friends along the way.
Garfield (Bill Murray) the lazy cat has anything a cat could want. But he gets something he doesn't want, a dog named Odie that Jon Arbuckle (Breckin Meyer) brought home from veterinarian Liz (Jennifer Love Hewitt). But after Odie runs away, Garfield is annoyed by all this and he goes to rescue Odie himself.
Garfield (Bill Murray) is a fat cat who loves nothing more than laying about and eating lasagna, but when his owner, Jon Arbuckle (Breckin Meyer) gains a dog as a new pet, Garfield feels left out and would constantly try to be the better pet. But locking Odie out of the house and causing him to run away, Garfield decides that the best move is to finally get off the couch and rescue Odie.
Garfield (Bill Murray), who competes with a dog named Odie for the affection and attention of their human master, Jon Arbuckle (Breckin Meyer), when Odie is introduced into their home much to Garfield's disgust. When Odie runs away, he gets picked up by a mean dog trainer. However, Garfield feels responsible, so he gets off his favorite spot and gets into action to rescue his fellow pet. Liz (Jennifer Love Hewitt), Garfield's veterinarian and Jon's romantic interest; Nick Cannon plays Louis, a "city mouse", who helps Garfield in his search; Debra Messing voices Arlene, Garfield's girlfriend.

