When a massive fire kills their parents, three children are delivered to the custody of cousin and stage actor Count Olaf, who is secretly plotting to steal their parents' vast fortune.
Three children - Violet (Emily Browning), Klaus (Liam Aiken), and Sunny Baudelaire (Kara and Shelby Hoffman) - are left orphaned when their house burns down, with their parents in it, in mysterious circumstances. They are left in the custody of a distant relative, Count Olaf (Jim Carrey). It is soon apparent that Count Olaf only cares about the children for their large inheritance.
After the three young Baudelaire siblings are left orphaned by a fire in their mansion, they are carted off to live with their distant relative, Count Olaf (Jim Carrey). Unfortunately, Olaf is a cruel, scheming man only after the inheritance that the eldest Baudelaire, Violet (Emily Browning), is set to receive. The children escape and find shelter with their quirky Uncle Monty (Sir Billy Connolly) and, subsequently, their phobic Aunt Josephine (Meryl Streep), but Olaf is never far behind.
Violet (Emily Browning), Klaus (Liam Aiken), and Sunny Baudelaire (Kara and Shelby Hoffman) are three intelligent young children who receive terrible news that their parents have died in a fire and have left them an enormous fortune not to be used until the eldest child is of age. When they are sent to live with Count Olaf (Jim Carrey), a greedy distant relative, they soon learn he is trying to steal their fortune for himself.
This is the story of the Bauedelaires, three young orphans, Violet (Emily Browning), Klaus (Liam Aiken), and Sunny (Kate and Shelby Hoffman), looking for a new home, who are taken in by a series of odd relatives and other people, including Lemony Snicket (Jude Law), who narrates this movie, and starting with the cunning and dastardly Count Olaf (Jim Carrey), who hopes to snatch their inheritance from them. Violet is the oldest of the Baudelaires at fourteen, and is their brave and fast-thinking leader. The only boy is middle child Klaus, twelve, who is intensely intelligent and obsessed with words. The youngest is infant Sunny, who speaks in a language only her siblings can understand, and she has a tendency to bite.
After the tragic death of their parents, Violet (Emily Browning), Klaus (Liam Aiken), and Sunny Baudelaire (Kara and Shelby Hoffman) travel from guardian to guardian by a good friend of their parents, Mr. Poe (Timothy Spall). The orphans stay with herpetologist Montgomery Montgomery (Sir Billy Connolly) and grammar-wise Josephine Anwhistle (Meryl Streep), but the worst one was Count Olaf (Jim Carrey), an evil and greedy man, who, with the help of his assistants, Bald Man (Luis Guzmán), Hook-Handed Man (Jamie Harris), Person of Indeterminate Gender (Craig Ferguson), and the two white-faced women (Jennifer Coolidge and Jane Adams), tries to steal the Baudelaire fortune. To do this, he disguises himself in the forms of assistant Stephano and ship Captain Julio Sham.
Inventive Violet Baudelaire, her intelligent younger brother Klaus, and their sharp-toothed, precocious baby sister Sunny are orphaned when a mysterious fire destroys their parents' mansion. Mr. Poe, in charge of the Baudelaire estate, entrusts them to their "closest relative," the obnoxious Count Olaf, who is only interested in the money Violet will inherit when she turns 18. He loses custody of the children after unsuccessfully attempting to kill them in a train accident.Poe then sends the Baudelaires to live with their uncle, Dr. Montgomery Montgomery, a cheerfully eccentric herpetologist. Planning a trip with the children to Peru, their stay with Uncle Monty is cut short when Olaf appears in disguise as a man named Stephano, who murders Monty and frames a large and poisonous viper for the killing. As the disguised Olaf prepares to spirit the children away, Sunny reveals the snake's true gentle nature, and Olaf's plot is exposed. Poe accepts Olaf's guilt, though not his true identity. Olaf abandons his disguise and escapes.The orphans are then sent to live in Lake Lachrymose, where their Aunt Josephine resides in a house perched precariously on the edge of a cliff overlooking the waters of the vast lake. She has numerous irrational fears, and yet lives in a house populated with many of those things of which she is terrified by - her fear of realtors prevents her from moving. A room of photographs and documents apparently contains clues to the cause of the fire that killed the orphans' parents. However, Olaf arrives once again, disguised as a sailor named Captain Sham, and quickly gains Josephine's confidence. A hurricane comes to Lake Lachrymose, and Olaf regains custody of the children after rescuing them and leaving Josephine to be eaten alive by deadly leeches.Olaf concocts his final plan involving a play starring himself and Violet. In the play, his character marries Violet's character, but in such a way that the staged marriage is legal, gaining him access to her inheritance. This move is accomplished by Olaf's casting of Justice Strauss, as the supposed judge in the play; with her in this role, the marriage is technically legal. To ensure Violet's co-operation, he holds Sunny hostage. However, Klaus succeeds by incinerating Olaf's marriage certificate when he triumphantly climbs to a nearby tower, using the same light-focusing apparatus that Olaf used to set fire to the Baudelaire mansion. Olaf is arrested, but subsequently escapes. At the ruins of the Baudelaires mansion, the three orphans find a letter left to them by their parents before the Baudelaires became orphans, which contains words of hope and encouragement. The envelope also contains a spyglass, one of several that Klaus signifies to imply the presence of a secret society his parents and relatives belonged. The orphans are then sent to new "fortunate" guardians.
