Two LAPD detectives who moonlight in other fields investigate the murder of an up-and-coming rap group.
When not solving murders in Tinseltown, Detective Joe Gavilan and his rookie partner Kasey Calden both moonlight in other fields: Gavilan sells real estate (poorly), and Calden aspires to become an actor (Brando, namely). Assigned to the vicious in-club slaying of a promising young rap act, the two detective delve into the recording industry where they hope to find answers - ideally ones that also come with property buyers or auditions.
Joe Gavilan and his younger, more inept partner, K. C. Calden, are at target practice at the police station. K.C. misses all of his shots, and Gavilan easily hits both his target and Calden's dead-center.Later, at a rave, a DJ plays the music as a rap group sings on stage. Two men make their way into the club's back rooms, don masks, and then brandish guns. They step out of the rooms and shoot up the club, killing the rap group. Amid the chaos, the perpetrators flee. Later, Gavilan, who is pulled away from an appointment with a potential buyer for his old house, meets Calden at the crime scene and the two investigate, finding several important clues. After the investigation, Gavilan and Calden part ways, and Calden sees a hooker get into Gavilan's car, but he's too far away to notice that the hooker is actually an undercover male cop in drag, who knows Gavilan. Gavilan and the man drive away and discuss their respective current cases, and Calden drives off as well. Gavial drops the man off and goes home, where he drinks and calls into a late-night psychic talk show, where he appears to be a regular caller. Meanwhile, a man in a suit meets with the two men who shot up the club, and kills them, and burns their corpses. The next day, at the police station, Bennie Macko, and a few other internal affairs people search Gavilan's and Calden's lockers, and, unsatisfied, leave them alone. Gavilan and Calden go to the office of the rap group's manager, Antoine Sartain, and question him, and Calden runs into some old friends from school. That night, Gavilan meets with Ruby, the psychic from the talk show, who is his girlfriend.Gavilan and Calden meet with a man who Gavilan is selling a house for, as he moonlights in real estate. They leave, and Calden goes to examine the corpses without Gavilan, who has to see another client, and in exchange, Gavilan will come to his upcoming stage performance of A Streetcar Named Desire. Called, who is obviously not comfortable around dead bodies, examines the charred corpses of the two gunmen at the autopsy room in the station and calls Gavilan about it. Gavial thanks him, and then meets with the DJ from the club, and they agree on a price for a home. That night, Gavilan meets with Ruby again.
Macko, who is determined to ruin Gavilan due to their bad history, frames Gavilan and Calden, and has them interrogated, After getting off free, Gavilan and Calden, gain a lead when they learn that K-Roc, a songwriter for the group, has gone missing. They track him to his home, and after a lengthy chase, apprehend him for questioning. They learn that the group was about to terminate their contract with Sartaine, so he had them killed. The two grab Ruby, and she helps them track down Sartaine and his henchmen. After a large-scale chase and shootout, Gavilan chases Sartaine to a rooftop where the two engage in a brutal fist fight that finally ends when Sartaine falls from the roof and meets his demise in a dumpster below.
