Amidst his parents' impending divorce, Kevin McCallister must foil his old nemesis Marv and his wife Vera's plot to kidnap a Crown Prince despite opposition from his dad Peter, Peter's fiancee Natalie, and Natalie's butler Mr. Prescott.
Kevin McCallister's parents have split up. Now living with his mom, he decides to spend Christmas with his dad at the mansion of his father's rich girlfriend, Natalie. Meanwhile robber Marv Merchants, one of the villains from the first two movies, partners up with a new criminal named Vera to hit Natalie's mansion.
Caught in the middle of his parents' impending divorce, the now-nine-year-old Kevin McCallister reluctantly accepts to spend Christmas with his dad's affluent new girlfriend, Natalie, at her lavish mansion crammed with the latest hi-tech gadgets. Once more, Kevin will find himself home alone and neck-deep in trouble when Marv--the remaining member of the notorious Wet/Sticky Bandits in Home Alone (1990) and Home Alone 2: Lost in New York (1992)--and his equally maladroit sidekick wife, Vera, cross paths with him, intent on pulling off the ultimate Yuletide heist. However, Kevin is already an expert in thief psychology, and, this time, the house is bigger, and the crime-fighting equipment is more sophisticated. Will things work out between Kevin's parents? Under those circumstances, can he take back the house?
Christmas this year looks bad to Kevin McCallister. His parents Peter and Kate have been separated for the past 8 months, and things at home with Kate are difficult enough. Peter invites Kevin and his siblings to stay with him and his rich new girlfriend Natalie for Christmas. Natalie lives in a mansion where almost everything responds to remote commands. Butler Prescott and kindly housekeeper Molly are at Kevin's beck and call. Peter and Natalie leave for a while. At Christmas, they will be picking up some house guests at the airport, including an 11-year-old crown prince. Kevin witnesses his old enemy Marv Merchants and Marv's wife Vera breaking in the mansion. Natalie and Peter don't believe Kevin, and Prescott says he saw nothing. Marv and Vera plan something and decide to make their move on Christmas morning. Upon learning about this, Kevin rigs the house with booby traps. Come Christmas morning, Kevin is left at the mansion while Natalie and Peter go out to pick up the guests. In their absence, Marv and Vera break in again. But they didn't know that they'd find Kevin in there, with a bunch of painful booby traps for them.
Peter is about to get divorced from Kate and announces that he's living with his new girlfriend, Natalie. He tells his three children, including Kevin, that they are hosting the visit of a royal family and invites everyone to spend Christmas with him and Natalie. After initially refusing, Kevin takes his father up on his offer after being tormented by his older brother Buzz.Kevin enjoys life at Natalie's mansion, until he goes into the security room, where he runs into Mr. Prescott. While Natalie and Peter are away, Kevin notices his old nemesis Marv and new sidekick Vera (taking the place of Harry) outside the house. Kevin drives them away by flooding the house, but Peter and Natalie arrive while Kevin is cleaning up and Peter doesn't believe Kevin's explanation. He attempts to use the security camera footage to prove himself, but discovers that the camera had been turned off and is caught by Mr. Prescott, who Kevin now believes to be Marv and Vera's ally.At a party for the royal family, Kevin notices Marv and Vera dressed up as caterers. Kevin has them fall out and break his bedroom window, then has Mr. Prescott frozen in ice. The royal family are unable to attend the party because their flight was cancelled so Peter and Natalie instead announce their engagement. When Kevin breaks his promise not to mess up the special occasion, Peter gets mad and believes that Kevin is trying to end his relationship with Natalie.Since no one believes him about the heist, Kevin decides to deal with matters himself, and sets booby traps for Marv and Vera and locks Mr. Prescott in the basement. But then he discovers Marv and Vera's real ally is actually Molly the maid, who turns out to be Marv's mother. Kevin gets locked in the basement; after apologizing to Mr. Prescott for misjudging him (and vice-versa), Kevin manages to escape through the dumbwaiter. He then runs to the bedroom and plays a recording of Marv, making it sound like he's insulting Vera, which causes her to break up with him. He also gets Molly trapped in the elevator. Marv and Vera end up swinging from a chandelier, fall and are knocked unconscious. Molly, having escaped, grabs Kevin, but Mr. Prescott knocks her out with a serving tray.As Peter, Kate, Buzz and Megan arrive, they and Kevin chase Marv and Vera out of the house and trip them up. The royal family and Natalie arrive and Natalie is confused when she sees Marv, Vera and Molly getting arrested. Prescott resigns and the royal family choose to spend their Christmas with the McCallisters instead of Natalie. Peter then breaks up with her and Natalie hyperventilates. The McCallisters embrace as the film ends.
