A couple visits the husband's family in India and finds itself in the middle of a fratricidal battle.
Settled in Canada, of Indian origin, Nandini and Shekhar live a fairly harmoniously and busy lifestyle with their young child. While Nandini has family in Canada, Shekhar has no one to call his own. Then one day there is breaking news of violence in India, and that's when Shekhar asks Nandini to accompany him to India as he fears that his parents may have been in killed. Nandini is shocked to find out that Shekhar does have family, but had never discussed this with her, nevertheless she accompanies him. Upon arrival, they are greeted by Shekhar's uncle and cousin, and it is then that this young couple learn that they have entered a war between the two families - a war that they and their child may not survive.
Nandini and Shekar meet and get married soon their love blossoms into a son.Shekar finds that bloodshed still continues in his village in India between his father Narsimha and his step brother which was the reason he shifted to Canada.Shekar decides to travel to his village with Nandini and their son and sees that nothing has changed and both families are still thirsty for each other's blood.Nadini finds her son unsafe and wants to return back to Canada.But before that Shekar gets killed due to rivalry.After Shekar's death Nandini plans to go back but Narsimha doesn't allow to take her son as he is the last surviving male member of their family who will take the rivalry ahead after him.Nandini is kept locked indoors away from her son she manages to escape with him with the help of Narsimha's wife and daughters.But still she is unsafe as a sharpshooter along with Narsimha's man is followings her until a local Jai Singh comes to her aid.
Nandini is brought up by her uncles in Los Angeles. She falls in love with Shekhar, a self made man who's been in US for six years. Nandini and Shekhar marry and soon have a kid. Everything is perfect and happy till three years of their marriage, where one day Shekhar hears about carnage in a village in Northern India. He gets very agitated and reveals to Nandini that his mother may have been hurt and wants to visit her for a few days. Nandini is very surprised that he has a family, but insists on accompanying him to his village. There she discovers that his family, headed by his charismatic, powerful and extremely violent father Narsimha has been at war with another family for several generations. She is shocked and completely unnerved by this violent way of life here. She is very apprehensive of the influences that may occur on her three year old son to whom her father-in-law is very attached. Out of this concern, she gets into a couple of very intense confrontations with her father-in-law leading to a very intense situation within the family. Unfortunately, her father-in-law is tricked by his politician associate into sending Shekhar to meet the collector, and brutally murdered by the enemy family. Nandini is heart-broken and wants to leave for Canada immediately. But, her father-in-law now insists on keeping her son with him. She dislikes this decision, but to no avail, as he is strong and extremely stubborn, so, she tries to escapes on her own. After two failures, she is locked up in an outhouse. What will happen to her? Will she ever be able to go to Canada?

