Ana Rios is a former Miami police detective-turned-lawyer who becomes hell-bent on seeking revenge after tragedy shakes her stable existence. As part of her plan, she plots to seek out the gang members responsible for her brother's murder. But Ana also finds some for romance with a former boyfriend, Hector, but that only leads to more complications for her.
Anna Rios (Yancy Mendia) is a former policewoman-turned-lawyer who negotiates property agreements in the city of Miami. Anna learns that her younger brother was murdered in a gang-related attack and learns that her father has emotionally broken down. Not capable of opposing the call of her home, she proceeds to the vile streets of North Miami where she was raised to look into the subject. She takes a sabbatical from work, and heads back to the barrio she once knew, sending her father on vacation so she can get down to business. It isn't long before she enlists the help of a loose-cannon childhood friend, named Vanessa (Mirtha Michelle), and rekindles an old flame, named Hector (Kalex), all in the name of finding and avenging her brother's murder.During Anna's investigation, she meets two female police detectives, Edith Garcia (Edith González) and Roselyn Martinez (Eva Longoria Parker) who are investigating the murder, but are renowned less for their detection skills and they both tell Anna to stay out of their way. Both Garcia and Martinez become persuaded into believing that one of Anna's childhood friends, Hector, witnessed the slaying, but he is unwilling to cooperate.Not satisfied with letting the police handle the investigation alone, Anna becomes 'Señorita Justice'. At night, she sheds her expensive city clothes for street clothes, embarks on a one-senorita mission of vengeance, crossing paths with scumbag after scumbag and beating the Miracle Whip out of them.Anna's search for the killers lead her to a sleazy gang leader named Mo (Michael Francis) who turns out to be under the thumb of a greedy local businessman, named Manny Sanchez (Tito Puente Jr.) whom is determined to instigate a gang war to drive them out of the neighborhood for a real estate business. Anna eventually finds herself in over-her-head when she gets persuaded not only by Detective Garcia, but also Mo's gang members, and a ruthless female Yakuza assassin hired by the real villains of the story. When Mo is killed in a similar drive-by shooting, Anna thinks that she has been looking in the wrong place and focuses her attention on Hector who admits to her that he was with her brother that night, but thinks that HE was the target, not her brother.When Hector makes plans with Anna to leave the neighborhood for a while, he too is gunned down in a drive-by shooting which fills Anna with grief and rage. Thinking that Manny Sanchez is behind it, Anna teams up with Vanessa where they abduct Manny as he is leaving his office for the day and try to get him to confess. But Anna is betrayed by Vanessa who reveals that she was the one who killed her brother. Vanessa admits that Hector was the target for he was investigating Manny, plus he was also romantically involved with Vanessa. But Anna manages to talk Vanessa into lowering her gun, in which she turns the gun on herself and commits suicide by shooting herself in the head out of guilt. Anna forces Manny to take her to a seedy motel where the two thugs he hired to terrorize the neighborhood and whom killed Hector are residing. Anna breaks into their room and kills both of them in a quick shootout, as well as Manny.Afterwards, Anna goes back to her law office building where she confronts her former boss, Charles Adams, who has been working behind the scenes to orchestrate this whole thing. When Anna tries to shoot him, she is attacked by Chiba, the brutal Japanese assassin sent from Japan to kill her. After a climatic and brutal fistfight between the two women in the lobby of the building, Anna gets the upper hand and kills the female Yakuza by slashing her neck with her cross necklace that she wears around her neck. Relieved but exhausted, Anna is only confronted by Charles, pointing a gun at her. Before he can shoot Anna, Detective Garcia runs in and shoots him dead.In the final scene, detectives Garcia and Martinez arrive at Anna's house to thank her for solving the case for them. Anna tells them that she has decided to stay in her old neighborhood and live with her father when he returns, and that she will open up her own law practice to help those less fortunate then her. Garcia thanks Anna for her help, but also tells her to stay out of trouble. When the two women detectives leave to respond to a call, Anna gets out her street clothes from her suitcase, implying that she intends to continue her second lifestyle of fighting crime as Señorita Justice.
