The legend of Siegfried and Brunhild, loosely based on characters from the Norse sagas and the pre-Christian Germanic heroic motifs outlined in the Nibelungensaga.
The young blacksmith Siegfried, who, not knowing that he is heir to a conquered kingdom, becomes popular with the Burgunds by slaying their bane, the dragon Fafnir. When the reward seems to be a huge treasure, Siegfried ignores the curse that lies on the hoard - which now seems to endanger his love to beautiful Norse warrior queen Brunhild.
The Saxon twin kings' army sacks Xanthen and kills its royal couple, but their child heir Siegfried survives as blacksmith Eyvind's adopted prodigy son under the name Erik. A meteor awakens the dragon Ffafnir, guardian of the magically cursed Nibelungen treasure. Erik wins the heart of island's passing-by queen Brunhild and slays the dragon, whose blood renders invulnerable, capturing the gold, which he entrusts to Burgundy's king Gunther, and a magical helmet which enables shape-shifting. Royal counselor Hagen consorts with his banished pa to magically make Erik fall in love with Gunther's sister Kriemhild After defeating the Saxons and remembering his royal lineage, he is offered Kriemhild's hand but can only marry her after winning Brunhild for the king by defeating her in a duel. This starts a tragic cascade of revenge.
The blacksmith Siegfried meets the Queen of Island Brunhild in the crater of a fallen meteoroid and defeats her in an ax battle. They fall in love and Brunhild promises to wait for him in her kingdom. Siefried forges a sword using the strange ore; he slays a dragon and baths in its blood to become invincible and wealthy with the Treasure of the Nibelungen. Then he fights and defeats the dwarf Alberich from the Realm of the Nibelungen, and gets his magic helmet that makes the user take whatever form he wishes. When Siegfried meets Kriemhild, she drops a magic love potion in his wine and he immediately falls in love with her and forgets Brunhild. When Siegfried asks the hand of Kriemhild to her brother, Gunther - King of Burgundy, he advises that he would accept if Siegfried helps him to win over the strong Queen of Iceland Brunhild. Siegfried uses his helmet to defeat Brunhild pretending that he is Gunther and Brunhild agrees to marry him.

