A woman falls for a charming and mysterious businessman. The whirlwind romance turns sour when she is framed for his underworld crimes. Now, finally out of prison she is ready for sweet revenge.
Sarika and Karan are employed in a big city called Mumbai in India. They meet, have a date, and find that they are attracted to each other. They do not know nor care of each others' backgrounds, and get married. They start to live in a small apartment. One day Karan asks Sarika to deliver a parcel for him via an Indian airline, which she does. The authorities stop her, and a search reveals that she was carrying drugs in the parcel, and she is arrested. After her arrest, Karan visits her and assures that this is all a big misunderstanding, and she will be found not guilty and let out soon. This does not happen, Sarika is found guilty, is convicted and sentenced to a long jail term. While in prison, it slowly and painfully dawns on her that she has been used, and wants to avenge this. In order to get even with Karan, she must first of all either wait for the sentence to get over or be more daring and escape, take Karan by surprise and avenge her humiliation. Which way will Sarika take?
Sarika Vartak is a single working woman living in Mumbai. By chance she bumps into Karan Rathore, a dapper and mysterious stockbroker who takes a fancy towards her. They draw closer and Sarika falls in love with Karan. That's when the fairytale ends and the nightmare begins. Sarika is unintentionally drawn into a world of international crime, wrongfully accused of smuggling and imprisoned. In the prison, Karan's manipulative nature dawns upon Sarika. Her personality undergoes a radical change; from a mild-mannered simpleton she transforms into a wronged and vindictive woman who won't stop until she has avenged all those responsible for her predicament.... and Karan is the most wanted person on her list.
It is about a travel agent called Sarika ( Urmila Matondkar) who meets and falls for a mysterious businessman Karan Rathod (Saif Ali Khan in his first negative role). After Karan involves Sarika in looking after a suitcase full of illegal firearms belonging to his friend, a hit man, she is arrested for having links with the underworld and is remanded to judicial custody. Karan sends Kamalesh Mathur to her, a defense attorney, seemingly to fight her case, but who in fact tricks her into confessing that she knew the hit man and was acting of her own free will. The judge sentences her to 7 years hard lab our without parole. Sarika then realizes that Karan is actually an associate to the underworld and that he had her framed to keep police eyes away from himself. She finally escapes from prison with help of another prison-inmate. The way she is made to confess to a crime she did not commit, the portrayal of the hard life in prison and her friendship to a prison inmate who ultimately helps her escape the prison seems to be inspired from the novel If Tomorrow Comes by Sidney Sheldon. Once outside, she begins to plot revenge on Karan. Not only does Sarika want to kill Karan, she wants him to suffer and wants to humiliate and frighten him. First she kills Mathur and throws his body off the balcony of his multi-storeyed flat. Karan remains oblivious to the fact that the murder could have been done by Sarika, even though he knew that she had escaped from prison. He blames the murder on rival gangs. Sarika then books a hotel room immediately next to Karan's and follows him for days. Karan is staying with a new girl in his hotel room, and she watches him and this girl go shopping, dining, swimming, and enjoy life as a whole. However one evening Karan is whisked by underworld men to meet their leader and Sarika follows them. Karan meets Sanjeev, brother of underworld don Nanda. Sanjeev is shown counting a huge booty of cash. Sarika watches Karan and Sanjeev exchange heated words through an open glass window. Karan leaves Sanjeev's room after a while and returns to his hotel. Half an hour later, Bilall, an aide of Sanjeev, getting no response from Sanjeev's room decides to check for himself. Bilall is shocked to see Sanjeev murdered, and the entire load of cash missing. Everything points to Karan being Sanjeev's murderer. The underworld's begins to hunt down Karan. Sarika, whose long patience has paid off, enjoys this moment. Not content with Karan hurt and frightened, Sarika meets Karan when he was trying to elude hit men sent to kill him. She pretends to be still in love with him, feigns surprise and happiness. She offers him refuge in her hide-out, so that she can enjoy his misery first hand. Karan feels that he has been framed by Bilall and goes after him. After he has killed him, police come and arrest him. They interrogate him about Sarika who they think are involved with him since they were staying at the same hotel and since they feel that she has killed Mathur. The realization that Sarika was there with him at the hotel, leads Karan to finally realize that Sarika is the person who framed him. However, before the police can take him to the police station, he manages to escape during a shoot out between the police and Nanda's men who have come after him. Karan then takes Sarika forcefully to Nanda, Sanjeev's elder brother, but a police raid cuts short their heated exchanges. Sarika escapes, as does Karan, but Sarika manages to take him hostage in his car. At gunpoint Sarika asks Karan to drive to some hills miles away from the city. She takes him inside a cave, knocks him unconscious and ties him with chains to the rocks. On regaining consciousness, Karan finds himself captive, and Sarika leaving him after telling him that she had searched for days to find such a place for him to die slowly in. She leaves her torchlight. Once the light from the torch goes out, rats come out and begin to attack him, as Karan used to tease Sarika for her fear of the pests. Karan dies a long and painful death. Sarika voluntarily returns to jail as she had had the pleasure of killing Karan in the manner she desired.
Karan Rathod and Sarika Vartak are in love and have been so for quite sometime. Sarika trusts Karan completely, and so one day when he asks her to take a parcel for him, she readily agrees. She is apprehended at the airport for possession of drugs, arrested, and imprisoned. Karan makes her promise that she will not reveal his name, and he promises her that he will get her out of prison, to which she agrees. Karan arranges a lawyer for her, but unfortunately the Judge sentences her to seven years in prison. In prison, Sarika goes through a harsh reality test, and is hardened by the rough life. She plans an escape with some of the inmates successfully, and goes in search of Karan, who she still loves. But this is a different Sarika, one who is bent on avenging her stay in prison, and will not spare anyone who conspired to send her there.
It is about a travel agent called Sarika ( Urmila Matondkar) who meets and falls for a mysterious businessman Karan Rathod (Saif Ali Khan in his first negative role). After Karan involves Sarika in looking after a suitcase full of illegal firearms belonging to his friend, a hit man, she is arrested for having links with the underworld and is remanded to judicial custody. Karan sends Kamalesh Mathur to her, a defense attorney, seemingly to fight her case, but who in fact tricks her into confessing that she knew the hit man and was acting of her own free will. The judge sentences her to 7 years hard lab our without parole. Sarika then realizes that Karan is actually an associate to the underworld and that he had her framed to keep police eyes away from himself. She finally escapes from prison with help of another prison-inmate. The way she is made to confess to a crime she did not commit, the portrayal of the hard life in prison and her friendship to a prison inmate who ultimately helps her escape the prison seems to be inspired from the novel If Tomorrow Comes by Sidney Sheldon. Once outside, she begins to plot revenge on Karan. Not only does Sarika want to kill Karan, she wants him to suffer and wants to humiliate and frighten him. First she kills Mathur and throws his body off the balcony of his multi-storeyed flat. Karan remains oblivious to the fact that the murder could have been done by Sarika, even though he knew that she had escaped from prison. He blames the murder on rival gangs. Sarika then books a hotel room immediately next to Karan's and follows him for days. Karan is staying with a new girl in his hotel room, and she watches him and this girl go shopping, dining, swimming, and enjoy life as a whole. However one evening Karan is whisked by underworld men to meet their leader and Sarika follows them. Karan meets Sanjeev, brother of underworld don Nanda. Sanjeev is shown counting a huge booty of cash. Sarika watches Karan and Sanjeev exchange heated words through an open glass window. Karan leaves Sanjeev's room after a while and returns to his hotel. Half an hour later, Bilall, an aide of Sanjeev, getting no response from Sanjeev's room decides to check for himself. Bilall is shocked to see Sanjeev murdered, and the entire load of cash missing. Everything points to Karan being Sanjeev's murderer. The underworld's begins to hunt down Karan. Sarika, whose long patience has paid off, enjoys this moment. Not content with Karan hurt and frightened, Sarika meets Karan when he was trying to elude hit men sent to kill him. She pretends to be still in love with him, feigns surprise and happiness. She offers him refuge in her hide-out, so that she can enjoy his misery first hand. Karan feels that he has been framed by Bilall and goes after him. After he has killed him, police come and arrest him. They interrogate him about Sarika who they think are involved with him since they were staying at the same hotel and since they feel that she has killed Mathur. The realization that Sarika was there with him at the hotel, leads Karan to finally realize that Sarika is the person who framed him. However, before the police can take him to the police station, he manages to escape during a shoot out between the police and Nanda's men who have come after him. Karan then takes Sarika forcefully to Nanda, Sanjeev's elder brother, but a police raid cuts short their heated exchanges. Sarika escapes, as does Karan, but Sarika manages to take him hostage in his car. At gunpoint Sarika asks Karan to drive to some hills miles away from the city. She takes him inside a cave, knocks him unconscious and ties him with chains to the rocks. On regaining consciousness, Karan finds himself captive, and Sarika leaving him after telling him that she had searched for days to find such a place for him to die slowly in. She leaves her torchlight. Once the light from the torch goes out, rats come out and begin to attack him, as Karan used to tease Sarika for her fear of the pests. Karan dies a long and painful death. Sarika voluntarily returns to jail as she had had the pleasure of killing Karan in the manner she desired
