Arun is an Indian undercover agent enlisted to stop ISI chief Ishaq Khan. The village girl Reshma helps him but endangers her own life.
Arun Khanna is a spy for the Indian government whose aid is enlisted to stop ISI Chief Ishak Khan. Khan is trying to build a nuclear bomb with which he can liberate Kashmir from the Indians. A battle of wits ensues. When Khan detonates a bomb at Khanna's engagement party to a fellow spy, Khanna's resolve is only strengthened. Now not only does he have to fight Khan, but he also has to track down his missing fiancee.
An Indian undercover agent, Arun Khanna alias Batra penetrates deep into Pakistan's intelligence service with the help of a local village girl, Reshma. He carries out the operation of exposing the spies and returns to his home city. He and Reshma fall in love and get engaged. During the engagement, there is an explosion and both are separated. Giving her up for dead, he actively returns to work. The trail of spies leads him to Canada where he meets with Shaheen Zakaria, and she falls in love with him. During his engagement with Shaheen, the girl dancing faints, and he realizes that she is Reshma. Will he give up his cover for the sake of his love? Will Reshma expose him for what he is?
A Kashmiri Indian belle by the name of Reshma is asked by Indian anti-terrorists police officer, Arun, to spy on Pakistani spies. She agrees to spy for them. Through her, the Indian government is able to thwart a plot, resulting in the death of Pakistani terrorist Issak Khan. Due to this, Arun and Reshma first become friends, then fall in love, and hope to get married. On the day of their engagement, a big bomb explodes, disrupting the ceremony. Reshma is badly injured, and is looked after in Canada by a kind woman named Shaheen. Reshma is all set to recuperate and start a new life, when she comes across Arun, who is also in Canada to search for a funder who is financing terrorism in India. She is shocked to find out that Arun is now getting married to Shaheen, and feels that he may be using young woman around the world to get further promotions in his job as an Indian policeman.
Arun Khanna is a super-spy who is sent to Kashmir to check cross-border terrorism. There he meets Reshma, a young local maiden who falls for him. She is sent to Pakistan to spy on the activities of ISI head Issak Khan who wishes to make a nuclear bomb and demand the liberation of Kashmir. Arun and Reshma get engaged but their engagement party is torn apart by a bomb blast. Arun survives but Reshma is feared dead. Arun puts his past behind him and travels to Canada to search for Issak Khan. He learns that Issak Khan is being helped by a millionaire Zakaria. He feigns love for Zakaria's daughter Dr. Shaheen to get in touch with Issak Khan. Meanwhile, unknown to Arun, Reshma is safe and sound and being treated by Shaheen.
An Indian spy, Arun Khanna who works in the army has information about Pakistani terrorists trying to create a deadly bomb using scientific researches. He is told that the army needs a girl's help, of which he agrees. He soon reaches up with a poor shepherd, Reshma, makes friend with her, falls in love with her and asks her to uncover this task for him. She does so, but is caught and rescued by Arun. To celebrate her victory, Arun announces his engagement with Reshma. But at the engagement party, a Pakistani bomb explodes, disrupting the occasion as well as separate Arun and Reshma. Reshma is left paralyze in a hospital bed in Canada and is taken care of by a friendly doctor, Shaheen. Shaheen soon announces that she is getting married to her fiancé, Wahid and invites Reshma to her wedding, of which she attends. But when she arrives there she gets a nasty shock as the groom is non other than Arun Khanna. She feels betrayed by her love and blot by Arun as he maybe using young girls to not only maintain his position but get a promotion in his job as an Indian soldier.

