A buttoned up newlywed finds his too organized life falling into chaos when he falls in love with an old classmate.
Reuben Feffer thinks he's found the love of his life but on his honeymoon he discovers her cheating on him with a scuba instructor. Reuben travels back home to get his life on track. On a night out with best pal, Sandy Lyle, Reuben discovers an old school friend, Polly Prince. Reuben feels a connection straight away, and tries constantly to get her to like him. But it's not going to be easy for Reuben, especially when he spends his days calculating risks, and when someone unexpected turns up.
Can a risk-averse insurance salesman on the rebound from his bride's infidelity (during their honeymoon) find happiness with a waitress he knew in junior high who's averse to commitment? Reuben is a sweet klutz who's ready to settle down but sees in her a chance to recover from disappointment and have some fun; Polly is a sweet itinerant, not ready to settle down but sees a chance to spend time with a nice guy who likes her. What will he do when his bride comes crawling back? What will Polly do, when he runs the numbers and thinks she's a good risk? Sub-plots involve his self-centered pal, who's a has-been actor, and an assignment to assess the insurability of a balls-out Aussie.
While in his honeymoon in a paradisaical beach, the conservative risk analyst of an insurance company Reuben Feffer finds his wife Lisa Kramer having intercourse with her scuba instructor Claude in his boat. Reuben immediately returns to New York and his friend Sandy Lyle invites him to go to a party. There he meets his former high school friend Polly Prince, who is a very independent woman that lives in the edge with her blind ferret in a cozy but simple apartment. Although having very different behaviors, they date and fell a great attraction for each other. When Lisa returns, Reuben has to decide if he wants to live his life in the suburb with his unfaithful wife, or have a risky relationship with Polly.
Risk analyst Reuben Feffer loses his wife on their honeymoon when he discovers her being intimate with a scuba instructor. When he returns home, Reuben's friend and coworkers try to cheer him up and take him out to meet new people. He has a chance encounter with middle school classmate Polly Prince. The movie then follows the dating of Reuben and Polly, he risk-avoider and she a free spirited wanderer. When Lisa, Reuben's wife, returns from her fling with Claude Reuben must choose to take back his cold-hearted wife or run with the commitment-fearing Polly.
Reuben Feffer (Ben Stiller) works as a risk analyst for an insurance company. He has lived his whole life avoiding risk, when he finally gets married. On the first day of their honeymoon, his wife Lisa (Debra Messing) has an affair with a French scuba diving instructor. Reuben is devastated and flies back home leaving Lisa. Two weeks later, Reuben meets Polly Prince (Jennifer Aniston) an old friend from the 7th grade. Polly has traveled the world and has just broken up with her latest boyfriend. Reuben has hit rock bottom and takes a chance by getting involved with Polly. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
