A dentist's life turns into a roller coaster ride when he is unknowingly embroiled in gang wars.
Vikrant and Gulab Khatri are brothers-in-law who hate each other, and it is only through Vikrant's dad, who is also a mafia underworld don, that an uneasy peace is maintained. But when he passes away, a vengeful Vikrant frames Gulab in the murder of a politician, forcing Gulab to flee to the United States. Once there, Gulab hopes to re-build his life, but this thought is in vain as his neighbors, the Acharyas, find out about him and the reward offered for his arrest - and create a mini-hell for him - forcing him to show his true colors to them - colors that may well lead to the demise of the entire family.
The death of a mafia don (Om Puri) creates a rivalry between his son Vikrant and his son-in-law Guru Gulab Khatri. Vikrant falsely implicates Guru Gulab in the murder of a minister which forces Guru Gulab to flee India. Around the same time in New York, Dr. Anmol Acharya is having a hellish time with his spitfire wife and bossy mother-in-law. When he discovers that his new neighbour is none other than Guru Gulab, his wife and mother-in-law force him to go to India with his father-in-law Manilal, tell Vikrant about Guru Gulab's whereabouts and claim the prize money over Guru's head. When Vikrant learns about this he dispatches a hitman Yeda Anna to eliminate Guru. A series of double crosses ensue and very soon it becomes difficult to predict who is supporting whom.
Awara Paagal Deewana is an action comedy, which revolves around a dentist who accidentally gets trapped into underworld and goes in for a roller coaster ride. A mafia don dies and leaves behind such a will which starts an unending war between Guru Gulab Khatri, don's son-in law and Vikrant, don's only son. Guru Gulab is married to Vikrant's stepsister Preeti. The don's legal will, which also includes diamonds worth hundred crores kept in a foreign bank, has to be equally divided between these three and to claim the diamonds from the bank all three all three have to be present at the bank and personally sign the papers. In event of death of any of the inheritors' death, a death certificate has to be produced to the bank. The will factor vertically splits the gang in two. Vikrant and Guru Gulab become rivals. Vikrant wrongly implicates Guru Gulab in a very serious crime, which forces him to flee out of the India. Guru Gulab leaves India for America and comes to stay in the neighborhood of Dr. Anmol Acharya. Meanwhile in India, Vikrant announces grand prize money to those who tell him the whereabouts of Guru. Anmol's greedy wife Mona forces him to meet Vikrant in India and inform him about Guru Gulab and collect the prize money. Anmol comes to India with his father-in- law and the moment they step into India they are picked up by Choto Chhatri, who takes them to a local goon, Eaida Anna. Anna strikes a deal with Vikrant that he'll kill Guru and acquire the prize money offered by him. Vikrant gives him the contract. So Anmol returns, not with prize money but with Anna and Chota Chhatri, and others have this wrong notion that Anna is just interested in the petty contract money. His interest lies in the diamonds. So this race to reach the diamonds becomes deadlier and all three powers - Vikrant, Guru and Anna clash. And the rule of this race is to kill the other contestants to win the race!!!
Reduced to a henpecked husband, his dream of making it big and being independent in the USA, Dr. Anmol Acharya is, in short, disillusioned and sad. He is not alone, he has his father-in-law, Manilal in the same leaky boat with him. Then this family has a new neighbor, namely Gulu Gulab Khatri. They find out that he a crime lord from India, and has a price-tag of two crore rupees on his head. Anmol and Manilal's wife want their respective husbands to go to India and arrange to hand-over Khatri, so they can collect the dough. Anmol and Manilal do go to India, but things don't go well as planned, and the hapless duo end up as hostages by Chota Chatri and Yeda Anna, who have orders to kill Khatri, and anyone else who gets in their way.
The story centers on the legacy of a dead Indian underworld don Baba Baldev Prasad (Om Puri), who dies of a heart attack. He leaves a diamonds worth $200mn at the New York Bank, to be distributed equally between his son Vikrant (Rahul Dev), his daughter Preeti (Preeti Jhangiani), and Preeti's husband Guru Gulab Khatri (Akshay Kumar). To claim the diamonds, all three benefactors must be present at the bank or, if dead, their death certificates must be presented.Shortly after the Don's death, Vikrant attempts to eliminate Guru by assassinating the Indian home minister in full view of television cameras while disguised as him. Guru flees to the US disguised as someone else to escape prosecution. Guru moves to the street where Anmol (Aftab Shivdasani) and his family live. Anmol recognizes him from the news. His mother-in-law (Supriya Pilgaonkar) forces him to go to India, along with his father-in-law, Manilal (Paresh Rawal) to tell Vikrant about Guru and get the reward. But everything turns wrong when Vikrant doesn't give the reward and instead sends Anmol and Manilal back to the USA with his hired men, Yeda Anna (Sunil Shetty) and Chota Chathri (Johnny Lever) to kill Guru. Later, they find out that Yeda Anna was a double agent: He was working for Guru the whole time because he offered more money. The group receive Vikrant and Preeti at the airport and drive to the hotel. At the hotel, Vikrant is kidnapped by a mysterious group of Chinese goons. Yeda Anna receives a phone call and finds out that the kidnapped Vikrant was a duplicate of the real one and the real one was going to come later by plane. They kill the second Vikrant and put his body in a car by the Brooklyn Bridge.With Vikrant's death, Preeti and Guru each get half of the diamonds. When they are outside the bank, a group of policemen arrest them and take them to an unknown desert area. It is revealed that Vikrant is still alive and the first Vikrant was kidnapped by Chinese goons. Vikrant gets the diamonds and tries to kill Guru. A fight occurs. At the end of the fight, Guru kills Vikrant. When it's all over, they ask each other to find out who has the diamonds. Anmol has them and says he will give them to Guru if he gives Preeti a divorce. Guru arrives at the location selected by Anmol and gets the diamonds, while giving Anmol the divorce papers. Yeda Anna betrays Guru and tries to steal the diamonds. Guru wins in a fight and gives the diamonds to Yeda Anna while hanging him to a bar and having him stand on Chota Chathri's shoulders. In the end, Anmol and his love, Preeti, are seen going to India. Anmol's ex-father-in-law gives him some diamonds that he received from Guru. Preeti comments that she didn't know that Guru was so nice.
