The gang go to Australia to investigate the recent disappearances of the performances at the music festivals, by the so called 'Yowie Yahoo'.
On vacation in Australia, Scooby and the gang attend a music contest held at Vampire Rock---where the legendary 'Yowie Yahoo' Vampire is kidnapping the musical acts, including the Hex Girls. Masquerading as heavy-metal band 'Those Meddling Kids,' Scooby and the others must discover the identity of the Vampire's minions.
Scooby Doo, Shaggy, Daphne, Velma, Fred, and the Mystery Machine are
vacationing in Australia. After sight-seeing in Sydney, they head for the
Outback to attend the Vampire Rock Music Festival. Legend says that
Vampire Rock is the home of the Yoweeyahoo, an ancient Australian vampire.The events of last year's festival are making Malcolm, Daniel, and
co-promoter Russell very nervous. Following the festival, one of the bands
called Wild Wind went camping on Vampire Rock and were never heard from
again. Rumor has it that all three were kidnapped by the Yoweeyahoo and
turned into vampires. Now, strange things are happening at this year's
festival--sounds, lights, and smoke are issuing from Vampire Rock. And
last night three vampires (who look like the members of Wild Wind) swooped
down and carried off the band members of Matt Marvellous. Most of the
finalists have pulled out of the contest and are going home.When Scooby and his party arrive at Vampire Rock, they are warmly
greeted by their friends, the Hex Girls, who are scheduled to open the
show. Sensing a mystery to be solved, Fred, Daphne, and Velma decide to
form a rock group themselves and go undercover as The Meddling Kids.Next band to arrive is the Bad Omens and their rather shady manager,
Jasper Ridgeway. Fred immediately suspects them, as Jasper Ridgeway also
managed Wild Wind. Fred, Daphne, and Velma go nosing around Jasper's
motorhome, where they find the costumes worn by Wild Wind. Scooby and
Shaggy are chased by the three vampires, who also show up during
rehearsals and carry off The Bad Omens. That night, Russell's pick of the
show--Two Skinny Dudes--arrive, and Jasper immediately offers to be their
manager.It's finally the night of the festival. The Hex Girls start playing
but, during their performance, they too are kidnapped by the three
vampires. In search of The Hex Girls, Scooby and company climb Vampire
Rock where they find a secret passage that leads into a cave holding a lot
of stage equipment. Enter the Yoweeyahoo and the three vampires, leading
to a long chase around the mountain. When the morning sun breaks over the
horizon, the Yoweeyahoo disappears in a puff of smoke, but the vampires
still persist. The sun doesn't seem to harm them, and running water
doesn't stop them either.Eventually, Daniel traps the three vampires in a net, and the
identities under their vampire masks are revealed. It's The Two Skinny
Dudes and Russell. No, wait! Pull off their second masks, and it's really
Wild Wind. They had planned from the beginning to scare away all the other
bands, leaving just The Two Skinny Dudes who would also disappear during
their performance to be followed by Wild Wind's triumphant return. They
figured the publicity would make them famous.The Yoweeyahoo, by the way, turns out to have been a hologram created
by all the stage equipment found in the cave. [Original synopsis by bj_kuehl]
