As an executive is held captive by a former employee, it's up to his wife to deliver the ransom.
After decades of happy marriage and a life surrounded by luxury and wealth, Wayne Hayes (Robert Redford), a successful car-rental businessman and his loving wife Eileen (Dame Helen Mirren), are looking forward to a tranquil and comfortable retirement. However, the dreams of a peaceful life comes crumbling down like a pack of cards, when at gunpoint, Arnold Mack (Willem Dafoe), a disgruntled former employee, abducts Wayne in broad daylight right in front of his mansion in Pittsburgh. Suddenly, the life of the accomplished entrepreneur and seasoned negotiator rests entirely in the hands of his nervous, yet ruthless kidnapper, who has nothing to lose and everything to gain. This is Wayne's most important negotiation in his life, nevertheless, has he the strength to succeed?
Wayne (Robert Redford) and Eileen Hayes (Dame Helen Mirren) live the American Dream. Together, they've raised two children and struggled to build a successful business from the ground up. But there have been sacrifices along the way. When Wayne is kidnapped by an ordinary man, Arnold Mack (Willem Dafoe), and held for ransom in a remote forest, the couple's world is turned inside out. Eileen finds her home full of F.B.I. Agents and their lives under scrutiny. While Wayne is engaged in the negotiation of his lifetime, Eileen works frantically with the F.B.I. to secure his release. The terrifying ordeal causes Wayne and Eileen to reassess their marriage and come to a deeper sense of their commitment to each other. With each passing hour, the need and desire for Wayne to return home safely becomes ever more urgent.
Wayne Hayes (Robert Redford), and his wife Eileen (Helen Mirren) are living the American dream, having raised two children and built up a successful business from scratch. He is looking forward to a peaceful retirement with Eileen. However, everything changes when Wayne is kidnapped in broad daylight by a former employee, Arnold Mack (Willem Dafoe). While Wayne tries negotiating with the kidnapper for his life, and Eileen tries to secure her husband's release, she finds herself being investigated by the FBI.The kidnapping causes Wayne and Eileen to reevaluate their relationship, after Eileen discovers that Wayne has continued an extramarital affair that he promised to end months previously. Eileen begins to wonder whether she should pay the ransom, as it increasingly appears unlikely that Wayne will be safely released.However, Eileen's efforts to secure Wayne's release turn out to have been in vain, as Wayne was murdered by Arnold early in the kidnapping. Eileen's ordeal takes place over the course of a week, while Wayne is only held for a day before he is killed. The time discrepancy is only revealed towards the end of the movie, and until then it seems that Wayne and Eileen's experiences are occurring simultaneously.
