After her sister and brother-in-law die in a car accident, a young woman becomes the guardian of their three children.
Helen Harris (Kate Hudson) is living the life she's always dreamed of: her career at a top modelling agency is on the rise; she spends her days at fashion shows and her nights at the city's hottest clubs. But her carefree lifestyle comes to a screeching halt when one phone call changes everything. Helen soon finds herself responsible for her sister's children: fifteen-year-old Audrey (Hayden Panettiere), ten-year-old Henry (Spencer Breslin), and five-year-old Sarah (Abigail Breslin). No one doubts that Helen is the coolest aunt in New York City, but what does this glamor girl know about raising kids? The fun begins as Helen goes through the transformation from super-hip to super-mom, but she quickly finds that dancing at 3a.m. doesn't mix with getting kids to school on time, advice that Helen's older sister, Jenny Portman (Joan Cusack), is only too quick to dish out. Along the way, Helen finds support in the most unusual place, with Dan Parker (John Corbett), the handsome young pastor and principal of the kids' new school, and realizes the choice she has to make is between the life she's always loved and the new loves of her life.
Single and successful executive of the fashion world, Helen Harris (Kate Hudson), becomes the guardian of her two nieces and one nephew after the death of her sister and her brother-in-law. She moves from Manhattan to Queens, and faces difficulties trying to raise the children.
Helen Harris (Kate Hudson) is living the high life in New York City and working for a top-modeling agency, when her sister and brother-in-law die in an auto accident. Her good times are over when she gets a letter from her sister's attorney. Helen has been given custody of her sister's three children. Helen has never raised any children, and she thinks her older sister, Jenny (Joan Cusack) is better qualified to raise the children. Helen accepts the custody of the three children, and they move to a new apartment in Queens. Helen loved staying out late and going to nightclubs, but she now has to take care of the children. Helen is forced to change her lifestyle and become a real mom, which in turn gets her fired from her glamorous job. In the end, Helen learns what is really important in life. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
