The story of what happens after a master thief achieves his last big score, when the F.B.I. Agent who promised he'd capture him, is about to do just that.
Having already in their possession two of the rare Napoleon Diamonds, the masterful jewel thief, Max Burdett, and his seductive partner-in-crime, Lola Cirillo, decide to retire in the sun-kissed Bahamas. However--bent on keeping the precious third and last Napoleon diamond out of Max's clutches--the maladroit FBI agent, Stan Lloyd, follows them to the tropical haven, convinced that the intrepid duo is planning the next heist: stealing the last fabulous gem being displayed on the island. But, is this truly Max and Lola's intention? Above all--after a successful and lucrative career in crime--how hard can it be to resist the temptation of one more job?
After a successful last score, a master thief retires to an island paradise. His lifelong nemesis, a crafty FBI agent, washes ashore to ensure he's making good on his promise. The pair soon enters into a new game of cat-and-mouse.
This film is about a couple of retired jewel thieves and an FBI agent who is destined to catch them. While beginning their retirement, Max Burdett and Lola Cirillo are met by FBI agent Stanley Lloyd, who was made a fool by the thieves after they stole a rare jewel that was handcuffed to his wrist. Believing the thieves aren't really there to retire, he begins to watch them because a Diamond Cruise off the island coast where they are staying has the Napoleon number three diamond on the ship. When questioned, Burdett doesn't seem to know anything about the diamond, but when propositioned by a wealthy tycoon, he cannot refuse to steal it. So Burdett sets off on a plan to steal the diamond, but can he steal it right under Lloyd's nose again?
Two master thieves are finally retiring after one last successful mission. Residing in their own tropical paradise, their old nemesis, FBI Agent Stan P. Lloyd shows up to make sure they really are retired. Docked in the port is an ocean liner called the "Diamond Cruise" and Stan is convinced that they're not really retired at all, and that this is the next setup. While Lola is busy settling into their new life and trying to find ways to keep busy, Max is contemplating whether or not to steal the diamond. Now the question is, will he? Will Stan finally catch him after eight years of chasing him? Will Lola help Max steal it? And what of that shady character that told Max he must steal the diamond for him?
After the Sunset begins with master thieves Max Burdett (Pierce Brosnan) and his beautiful accomplice, Lola Cirillo (Salma Hayek), retiring to Paradise Island in the Bahamas after one last big score, having lifted the second of the three famous Napoleon diamonds. Their financial future is set, their career in crime a thing of the past. However, Stanley Lloyd (Woody Harrelson), the FBI agent who has spent seven years doggedly pursuing Burdett, only to be foiled time after time, refuses to believe their retreat into domesticity. After a few months, Lloyd shows up, accusing Burdett of hiding out in the same place where a cruise ship is displaying another large rare diamond, the third of a set of diamonds that he stole. He thinks the two are planning to lift the third Napoleon diamond, one of the three largest non-flawed diamonds in the world.When the two adversaries meet up in paradise, Burdett unwittingly turns the tables and befriends the frustrated detective, showing him the pleasures that Paradise Island has to offer. Lloyd, out of his element, adapts quickly to the easy-going Caribbean lifestyle. Despite his pleas of innocence and placing Lloyd in first-class accommodations to show how he doesn't need to steal anything, Burdett's curiosity gets the better of him and he starts casing the ship. However, not only does Lola suspect that he's ready for one more job, so does the local thug, Henri Mooré (Don Cheadle), who threatens Burdett to steal the diamond for him.Burdett pretends to work with Mooré, even giving him a fake plan as to how he would steal the diamond (which he earlier related to Stan). Stan teams up with local police officer Sophie (Naomie Harris) to catch Burdett, and tails him to Junkanoo, a local parade, where Max loses him, warning that he shouldn't tail so closely. Stan and Sophie then have sex, and Lola kicks Max out after realizing his activities. Max is forced to bunk with Stan, and they share their thoughts about each other's lives. The next morning, the authorities and Sophie discover them, revealing that Stan's FBI license is suspended.After a night of drunkenness on Stan's part, the two come up with a plan to get Sophie and Lola back, involving a scuba diving trip. Mooré's man attempts to steal the Napoleon diamond, providing a diversion for Burdett to steal it himself. He cuts off Stan's air supply to confuse the others, then returns saving him. On land, Sophie gets the call about the diamond being stolen. Stan and she angrily leave, while Lola prepares to leave. However, she is stopped by Mooré, who threatens to kill her if Max doesn't tell him where the diamond is. Fortunately, Stan and Sophie arrive and shoot him. Lola is nevertheless unfazed, and leaves Max anyway. After spending the night alone in their home, he realizes he wants her back, and catches her just before she leaves, proposing with "the only diamond I ever bought".The next day, Max meets with Stan, who tells him he was never drunk, and entails how he let Max do all the work while he later recovered the diamond. Max concedes that his nemesis has won this time, and is simply happy to live out his life with Lola. However, he has fun with Stan by remote controlling his car once more, promising Lola it is the last time.
