An army major goes undercover as a college student. His mission is both professional and personal: to protect his general's daughter from a radical militant, and to find his estranged half-brother.
When India and Pakistan decide to end their hostilities, there is one army person in India who is unhappy, because of his son's death in the Indo-Pak war. He decides to launch terror attacks and bring an end to peace, and for this purpose he shoots and gravelly injures an Indian army officer. After the death of this officer, Raghavan then decides to do away with the army officer's daughter, Sanjana, who is studying in hostel. Raghavan and his men descend on the hostel and hold over 100 students hostage. There is only one student who can save them, and his name is Ram, he claims he is a student, but is here on a mission - a mission that when told will reveal his real identity and two plans which he must carry out simultaneously.
The governments of India and Pakistan have launched, "Project Milaap", where both the governments will release the POVs from the previous wars. Raghavan, a deranged ex-army man-turned-militant does not want the peaceful operation to turn to reality and makes an attempt on Gen. Amarjeet Bakshi's life. While trying to rescue Gen. Bakshi, Brigadier Shekhar Sharma falls prey to a stray bullet. While on deathbed he confesses to his son Major Ramprasad Sharma that his wife and son had left him many years ago due to his infidelity. He tells Ram his last wish: his family be reunited under one roof, and dies. Meanwhile, Gen. Bakshi tells Ram that his teenage daughter Sanjana's life is in danger, and asks him to go undercover to Darjeeling and pose as a student in Sanjana's class . As the fate would have it, Ram learns that his younger brother Laxman "Lucky" is studying at the same college. So Maj. Ram starts off on his dual mission: personal and national.
Laxman Prasad Sharma lives with his mother, Madhu, in a small town in India. He studies in a local college and has a sweetheart in tom-boyish Sanjana Bakshi. The College gets a new student when Ram joins the college. Initially there is considerable friction between Ram and Lakhsman, which soon turns to close friendship. Lakhsman even lets out a room in his house to Ram for rent, and he also introduces him to his mother. Then all hell breaks lose in the college campus when a renegade former Indian army soldier, Raghavan Datta, holds about a 100 students hostage to stop the prisoner swap between India and Pakistan. Raghavan also exposes Ram for what he really is - a fact that Ram had managed to conceal from all the townspeople and the collegians, and an ulterior motive for entering the lives of Lakhsman and Madhu.
The movie takes place against the background of the political relationship between India and Pakistan. The governments of the two countries have launched "Project Milap", where both the governments will release the POWs from the previous wars.Major Raghavan (Sunil Shetty), a rogue ex-para commando-turned-militant does not want the peaceful operation to turn to reality, and makes an attempt on Gen. Amarjeet Bakshi (Kabir Bedi)'s life. While trying to rescue Gen. Bakshi, Brigadier Shekhar Sharma (Naseeruddin Shah) falls prey to a stray bullet. On his deathbed, Shekhar confesses to his son, Major Ram Prasad Sharma (Shahrukh Khan), that Ram is his illegitimate child, and his wife and son had left him many years ago due to this infidelity. He tells Ram that his last wish is to see his family reunited under one roof, and dies.Gen. Bakshi tells Ram that his teenage daughter Sanjana's (Amrita Rao) life is in danger, and asks him to go undercover as a student in Sanjana's class, to ensure her safety. Ram is reluctant at first but then learns that his younger half-brother Lakshman "Lucky" (Zayed Khan) is studying at the same college. Ram agrees, and starts off on his dual mission: personal and national. At first, Ram is not able to fit into college life due to his age and military background. Ram meets Sanjana, who is Lucky's friend and is secretly in love with him. Lucky is portrayed as a popular student who is not interested in studies and has been at the college for some time now, unable and unwilling to pass his final year. Sanjana is constantly irritated by Ram because of his attempts at friendship, and tells him to stay away from her. Lucky and another student, Vivek, then end up in a competition, which involves getting to the roof of the school. Lucky slips off the roof, but is caught just in time by Ram, and this causes the two to become friends.Soon thereafter, Mrs. Sharma (Kirron Kher), Lucky's mother, advertises for a paying guest in their house in order to make ends meet, and Ram takes this opportunity to live in their house. Ram finally starts adjusting to college life, building a good relationship with the other students and himself. He succeeds in wooing his lecturer, Ms. Chandini (Sushmita Sen), and Lucky and Sanjana engage in a romantic relationship. At the same time, Major Raghavan arrives at the college, also posing undercover as a member of staff.Mrs. Sharma and Lucky find out that Ram is actually Shekar's son, and kick him out of their house. Ram then explains why he entered their lives, revealing his father's ashes and his last wish. This causes Mrs. Sharma to have a change of heart and realize her mistake of not reuniting with Brig. Sharma when he was alive. Major Raghavan kidnaps Sanjana and holds a large number of students and staff members hostage. In return for their safety, he wants Ram to call off the prisoner exchange program. Raghavan and Ram engage in a dangerous battle and Ram emerges as the victor. The film ends on a positive note, showing the success of Project Milap.
