A forensic psychologist (Collette) is tasked with determining whether or not a minor should face murder charges for killing his schoolmate.
The forensic psychiatric Sally Rowe is called by Detective Martin Mackenzie to analyze the profile of the teenager Alex Forbes, who was found in a train station holding the body of his schoolmate Nigel Colby and with powder in his hand. Alex discloses his relationship with Nigel, who believes that they were descendants of the Templar Knights, and how Nigel used the power of his mind to control him. Mackenzie believes that Alex is the killer, but Susan investigates the family of Nigel under pressure of Alex's father, and finds that all of them belong to an ancient and powerful secret society.
A forensic psychologist, Sally Rowe, is appointed by police to determine whether there's enough evidence to lay murder charges against 17 year old Alex, accused in the shotgun death of his school mate Nigel. With no tangible evidence, the detective on the case is under pressure from Alex's influential father to have the charges dropped. Delving deeply into Alex and Nigel's bizarre symbiotic pact, Rowe discovers that though dead, Nigel's psychological effect on Alex is far from diminished.
A forensic psychologist, Sally Rowe (Toni Colette), is appointed by the police to determine whether there's enough evidence to lay murder charges against 17 year old Alex (Eddie Redmayne), accused in the shotgun death of his school mate, Nigel (Tom Sturridge).With no tangible evidence, the detective on the case, McKenzie (Richard Roxburgh), is under pressure from Alex's influential father to have the charges dropped. Delving deeply into Alex and Nigel's bizarre symbiotic pact, Rowe discovers that though dead, Nigel's psychological effect on Alex is far from diminished.A web of hidden connections is revealed to entangle the lives of those involved, where all is not as it first seems and the role of an ancient secret society remains unclear.At its core is the psychological tug-of-war betwen Rowe and Alex, leaping from the stark present day of the police interrogation room to Alex's flashback account of unfolding events leading up to the horrific night of Nigel's death. Did Alex pull the trigger?
