The heroes compete on the greatest stage of all, the FIFA World Cup Finals.
From the producers of GOAL and GOAL 2 comes the latest installment in the fast-paced, action packed trilogy. With the actual World Cup as its dramatic backdrop, this is the story of two players, Liam Adams (J.J Fields) and his best friend and Real Madrid teammate Charlie Braithwaite (Leo Gregory). Their journey playing for home country England takes them to the center of the greatest stage on Earth and is filled with humor, romance, tragedy and redemption. Liam's world is turned upside down by a chance reunion just as he's set to enjoy the pinnacle of his professional career. This is also a 'coming of age' story for young Liam who finally faces up to his responsibilities on and off the field of play. [D-Man2010]Mexican football star Santiago Munez (Kuno Becker) is pitted against his Real Madrid team-mates and England players Charlie Braithwaite (Leo Gregory) and Liam Adams (JJ Feild) in a quest to lift footballs ultimate prize: the FIFA World Cup.
Santi is motivated to try and win the trophy for his late father and family back in Los Angeles and Madrid, whilst Charlie and Liam just want to try and end the Three Lions 40 years of pain. For all three charismatic footballers, the path to football glory is one fraught with temptations and torments - and all three have to deal with personal issues off the pitch that affects their roles on it.
Triumph and tragedy sit side by side in equal measure on this journey as the players compete on the field of dreams to achieve their ultimate dream to score the winning goal in the World Cup final and lift the cup in victory to the delight of a whole nation of fans. [D-Man2010]The third installment of the football drama trilogy. Kuno Becker reprises his role as Mexican footballer Santiago Munez, who finds himself pitted against his best friends, Real Madrid team-mates and England players Charlie Braithwaite (Leo Gregory) and Liam Adams (JJ Feild) in the hope of winning the sport's ultimate prize at the 2006 FIFA World Cup Finals in Germany. Santi is motivated to try and win the trophy for his late father and family back in Los Angeles and Madrid. Meanwhile, Charlie and Liam just want to try and end the Three Lions 40 years of pain. For all three charismatic footballers, the path to potential success is one fraught with temptations and torments - and all three have to deal with personal issues off the pitch that affects their roles on it. Also following the tournament around Germany in their St. Georges Cross festooned camper van are the Geordie Boys, whom we first met back in Goal!. Providing the often hilarious fans perspective of the matches are Gordon (Mike Elliott), Foghorn (Christopher Fairbank), Walter (Jack McBride) and Phil (Craig Heaney). [D-Man2010]
