A Martian explorer discovers the secrets behind the USA's prosperity: oil and free enterprise!
Ogg, the supreme dictatorial leader of Mars, holds a special rally to celebrate the exploits of Mars' first space explorer Colonel Cosmic, who has just returned from a trip to Earth. That trip was initiated by Ogg to overcome the problems of Ogg's own explosive-powered state limousine, by finding out how state limousines on other plants operated. By chance, Cosmic landed in big city USA, where he found that all Americans could move quickly and efficiently by gasoline powered automobiles. Despite the difficulty of finding and getting the raw resource of petroleum out of the ground, petroleum and distributing it to the masses is the panacea for many of the problems that Americans may have faced otherwise, not only as that efficient fuel source, but also for the manufacture of many other transportation and non-transportation related products. Cosmic also found another important component - competition - in making America the most most prosperous nation on Earth, which, if adopted on Mars, could overthrow Ogg's dictatorship.
The American Petroleum Institute presents "Destination Earth"... The cartoon begins by establishing the planet Mars, ruled by a dictator named Ogg. The Martians are small green guys with big noses and space helmets. The poor guys are herded by soldiers into a space-age coliseum where Ogg forces them to applaud as they hear his criticisms of problems with martian ground transportation - no good fuel and too much friction. A single Martian is sent to Earth to find a solution. The intrepid Martian crashes his saucer into a farm, sets forth into the city, learns about the glorious benefits of petroleum AND capitalist competition, steals a few library books, and heads back to Mars. He excitedly reveals the truths he's learned to the crowd in the coliseum. The crowd is fueled by the spirit of capitalism and the dictatorship breaks down instantly, to be replaced by the Oil Pioneers, the Oil Explorers, and new management. And we learn that a future with oil and competition is Destination Unlimited.

