A tiger expert, his wife, two tourists and a village chief engage in a battle for survival against supernatural beasts within Jim Corbett National Wildlife Park.
In Orbit Park, India; two British nationals are killed by a fierce man-eating tiger, followed by a few other incidents, all related to the death of human-beings. Two months later, National Geographic researcher, Krish Thapar and his photographer wife, Riya, decides to take a trip to the park to investigate on these incidents. On their way; they are introduced to five other hunters, Dev Malhotra, his girlfriend, Ishika, Vishal, Sajid and Bagga. The two groups join each other and are soon guided by Kaali Pratap Singh; little realizing that Kaali is a wrecked soul determined to take them down one after the other.
Many foreign tourist are killed in Corbett National Park in India which is to be believed the work of man eating tiger.National Geographic sends their correspondent Krish Thapar to the park for their inquiries he is accompanied by his wife Riya.Youngsters Dev ,Ishika,Sajid and Vishal have planned a hunting trip in the jungle.Both the groups meet in the jungle and decide to travel the jungle Safari.Once they are trapped by tigers and have no way to escape.A local Kali Pratap Singh arrives and saves them.But the trip becomes more and more haunting when one by one is getting killed.
Two British Nationals are killed by a ferocious tiger in Orbit Park, India. This incident follows several other incidents, and many deaths result, prompting a National Geographic correspondent, Krish Thapar, and his sexy photographer, Riya, to take a trip to this park and ascertain what really happened. A group of youngsters, consisting of Dev Malhotra, Ishika, Bagga, and Vishal, on a thrill and hunting trip also arrive there in the hopes of sighting and shooting some big prey. Both Thapar and Malhotra groups meet with each other, and seek the guidance of a local called Kaali. What these folks do not know that they are the ones who have been singled out to be the prey - and soon they will find out that there is no escape from Kaal (death) - as it hunts them down one by one.

