A simple man, Vijay, is recruited by a police officer to masquerade as Don, the leader of an international gang of smugglers. But things go wrong when the officer is killed and Vijay is left to fend for himself.
In 2006, the drug trade is booming; trafficking between Asian and Europe is at an all time high. It is at this time that the Malaysian intelligence and Anti-Narcotic department are called upon for assistance by their Indian counterparts. There are rumors that the gang recently moved their operational headquarters. The cartel is headed by the dreaded Singhania, but what many people do not know is that the business is truly managed by his lieutenant, Don. A man who lives life on the edge, Don is constantly expanding the size of his empire while evading arrest or death at the hands of his enemies, both within and outside the law. He is unstoppable in his pursuit of absolute power. His chief pursuer is an Indian police officer, Desilva. He is a man who has sworn to put an end to this nexus of evil and knows that in capturing Don lies the key to unlock this puzzle. And one day he succeeds. Don is captured and Desilva puts his plan into action. Unknown to even his own department, Pesilva has recruited and trained a man who is a spitting image of Don. His name is Vijay. Vijay infiltrates the cartel and manages to give Desilva all the information he needs to bring it down. But in a bizarre twist of fate, Desilva is killed during a raid and the secret that Don is in fact Vijay, a police informer, is buried within him. The only people who realize that he is in fact an imposter are the members of Don's cartel, and they want their revenge. Vijay manages to escape and is now on the lookout for the one last piece of evidence that can get him out of this mess. Helping him on the quest are two people. The first is a Roma, a young woman who was working in the gang, but only to avenge her brother's death. He had been mercilessly killed by Don when he had decided join the gang. The other is Jasjit, the real father of Vijay's adopted son, Deepu. He owes Vijay for having looked after the boy while he was in prison. Wanted by the police, hunted day and night, forever on the run. The chase has begun.
The Soviet Union is a criminal empire lists among-st the largest world-wide and is made up of every criminal activities that exists. This empire is controlled and headed by Boris who is then killed by Singhania in the year 1990. Years later it is this same Singhania who is now heading the criminal empire - controlled by the dreaded and elusive, Don. The police particularly, DCP De Silva and CBI officer Vishal Malik arranges a meeting to discuss measures that will successfully help them capture Don through their informer, Ramesh but Don gets news of this and killed Ramesh. Ramesh's wife, Kamini attempts to avenge his death but is also killed by Don. Then Ramesh's sister, Roma successfully inducts herself in the gang secretly wanting to get her own revenge by getting closer to Don only to invite the wrath of Anita; Don all time girlfriend. DCP De Silva manages to gravely injured, trapped and hospitalized Don without the knowledge of anyone. He then approach Vijay; the look-alike of Don to play the role of Don with a motive of passing on the gang's information to the police. Vijay agrees to play Don on condition that De Silva takes care of his responsibility - an orphan named Deepu by funding him education wise. Vijay then inducts himself in Don's Malaysian gang by feigning a memory loss. As he gets knowledge of the gang he regain his memory only to find himself trapped both by the Malaysian law and Don gang when DCP De Silva is killed.
The Malaysian drug trade is run by Singhania and his right hand man, Don - a suave, cynical and dangerous man. Don kills gang member Ramesh who wanted to leave the gang. Ramesh's fiancée Kamini tries to get Don arrested but fails. Ramesh's sister Roma too is out for revenge. The Indian police are after Don and manage to capture him. A plan is hatched by Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) DeSilva to train a street singer look-alike and send him back to Malaysia to infiltrate the gang and help the police. Roma has found a place within the gang and wants to kill Don. But nothing is as it seems, no one is to be believed. The story twists and turns and packs in surprise upon surprise before culminating in a gripping finale that will keep you on the edge of your seat.
During the 1990's the Soviet Union broke up into several different countries resulting in the creation of many underworld dons, one of who was Boris, who had three associates namely Singhania, Vardhaan and Don. Singhania and Don got together, killed Boris, while Vardhaan disappeared, and was believed to be dead. Singhania and Don become Drug Lords and had drugs smuggled from Afghanistan, Pakistan and India to Europe and America. The authorities, particularly DCP De Silva and CBI Officer Vishal Malik, in present day India meet together to hatch a plot to catch the elusive Don through their informer, Ramesh. But Don finds out and kills Ramesh. His wife, Kamini, attempts to avenge his death, but she too is killed. Roma, his sister, successfully infiltrates his gang and becomes close to Don much to the chagrin of Anita, his longtime girlfriend. De Silva manages to entrap and grievously injure Don and has him hospitalized without informing anyone. He then recruits Don's look-alike, Vijay, who makes a living singing and dancing at Bhagwan Shri Ganesh Mahautsav's as well as Garbas, and looks after an orphan named Deepu Ahuja. Vijay agrees to impersonate Don on the condition that Deepu is looked after and is given a good education, to which De Silva agrees. Deepu is re-located to Malaysia and enrolled in a prestigious school. The ailing Don passes away, De Silva successfully has Vijay pose as Don and has him returned back to his gang in Malaysia, which consists of Mac and Narang amongst others. Here Vijay feigns a loss of memory but after attaining enough knowledge admits that he has fully regained his memory. Vijay is just about to turn the tables on Singhania and the rest of the gang when the unexpected happens - De Silva is killed, and Vijay is arrested. With no evidence of his ever assisting the Police, Vijay will be tried according to Malaysian laws - which has a mandatory death sentence for drug trafficking.
Don (Shahrukh Khan) is a ruthless criminal, wanted by police in many countries. DCP D'Silva (Boman Irani) and Detective Malik (Om Puri) are two cops who will do anything to capture Don. Don soon brutally murders one of his own men Ramesh (Diwakar Pundir) as well as his fiance Kamini (Kareena Kapoor). By doing so, Don makes an enemy out of Ramesh's sister Roma (Priyanka Chopra) who swears to kill Don no matter what it takes.Don is soon injured in a police pursuit and is admitted to hospital in a coma. D'Silva tracks down a look alike of Don named Vijay (also Shahrukh Khan). He persuades Vijay to enter Don's gang posing as Don. Vijay agrees to hand over a disc to D'Silva, a disc which contains vital information about the gang - this disc may be a way for the cops to arrest the gang. Roma attempts to kill Vijay, but stops when she learns about D'Silva's plan.During a police raid, Vijay and the gang members are all arrested by Malik. During the raid, D'Silva is killed. This causes problems for Vijay - D'Silva was the only person who could prove Vijay is not the real Don. Will Vijay be able to prove his innocence?
