A grief counselor working with a group of plane-crash survivors finds herself at the root of a mystery when her clients begin to disappear.
After a plane crash, a young therapist, Claire, is assigned by her mentor to counsel the flight's five survivors. When they share their recollections of the incident -- which some say include an explosion that the airline claims never happened -- Claire is intrigued by Eric, the most secretive of the passengers. Just as Claire's professional relationship with Eric -- despite her better judgment -- blossoms into a romance, the survivors begin to disappear mysteriously, one by one. Claire suspects that Eric may hold all the answers and becomes determined to uncover the truth, no matter the consequences.
Dr. Claire Summers, a therapist, has lived her life within a small comfort zone without taking any risks. It is because of that life that her mentor Perry, to get her out of that comfort zone, assigns her to act as the group therapist for a handful of airplane crash survivors, that handful out of just over one hundred passengers who did not survive the crash. Perry warns her especially about one survivor, Eric Clark, who, instead of grief, feels ecstatic about life. Indeed, Eric does not want to attend group sessions along with the others, but he does encourage Claire to come see him anytime as a friend in his personal interest in her. On the caveat that he no longer hit on her, Claire decides to do so in her effort to help him. As such, she has to tread that fine line of acting but not acting as his therapist while he still has that attraction to her. Her ulterior motive in seeing Eric is that he, without coming right out and saying so or why, seems to know small details of her personal life. In the group sessions, Claire finds that there are conflicting details from some of the surviving passengers against the official statement of the airline, which is that it was pilot error that caused the crash, the pilot who is among the deceased and thus cannot defend himself. Claire wants to discover the truth behind the crash if only to help the survivors heal properly. In trying to discover the truth, Claire begins to butt heads with Mr. Arkin, the airline representative who she does not trust, especially as he seems to be following her. Also following her and the other survivors is an unknown man. As such, Claire also begins to believe the conspiracy theory of one of the survivors that the airline is trying to get to them to shut them up, permanently if need be, that unknown man suspected to work for Arkin. That theory is strengthened in Claire's mind as one by one, those surviving passengers stop attending the group therapy sessions, she not knowing where they are. Through it all, a kindly neighbor seems to be able to provide Claire with extra comfort during this time, like Eric she who seems to know what she needs without her asking.
By some miracle, five extremely lucky passengers of a commercial airliner manage to survive a devastating emergency landing. Still unable to come to terms with their horrible experience, the fortunate commuters are entrusted in the capable hands of the dedicated trauma therapist, Claire, whose sessions attempt to shed light on their conflicting memories. Right from the start, Eric, one of Claire's seemingly less-traumatised patients, clearly stands out. Is it because of his amazing ability to overcome this disaster, or is it because Eric may be a part of a dark and well-planned conspiracy?
After a plane crash where only a few passengers survive, Dr. Claire Summers (Anne Hathaway) is sent to act as their therapist. She befriends Eric (Patrick Wilson), one of the survivors, and soon after, strange things begin happening. Eric seems to know personal things about Claire such as her sister Emma (Stacy Grant). Claire's neighbor keeps helping her, and Eric's dead dog is seen again. After discussing the incident with the other patients, Claire begins thinking that the airline company is trying to cover up what happened, by saying that the accident was just an accident, although the others say they saw an explosion. One by one the survivors begin disappearing, and Claire is getting more convinced that the airline is going after them. Later, Eric realizes that he is dead - he jumps in front of a train and attempts to suicide, but fails. Claire goes to her sister Emma's house where she finds Arkin (David Morse), a man from the airline's company who was hiding the information. He tells her that everyone on the plane is dead - there were no survivors. He leaves a briefcase of information, and Claire reads the passenger list - Claire Summers was one of the passengers on the plane. None of them had survived, and they were just being visited by loved ones to help them on their transition. The strange neighbor who helped her - her aunt, Eric - the man she befriended on the plane before the crash, Perry (Andre Braugher) - a teacher from when she was a child. Arkin was actually the person who caused of the accident - he left the cockpit into the hands of the co-pilot, and after the explosion they crashed. At the end, Claire's sister Emma visits, and their ties are closed.For each of the plane victims, someone close to them comes to help in passaging from life to death.
