An American journalist on assignment in the Australian outback encounters a man-eating crocodile while trapped on a rapidly flooding mud island.
A handful of tourists looking for adventure get more than they bargained for when they cross paths with a massive man-eating beast in this thriller. Pete McKell (Michael Vartan) is a writer for an American travel magazine who has been assigned to write a story about vacationing in rugged Northern Australia. Pete signs up for a cruise along a river that's home to a large crocodile population, with tough but pretty Kate Ryan (Radha Mitchell) serving as guide. Pete soon finds he's roughing it in the Aussie wilds with an eclectic variety of travelers, including Russell (John Jarratt), who is dealing with the death of his wife; Simon (Stephen Curry), a tactless amateur photographer; and Allen (Geoff Morrell), a member of the British upper crust making the trip with his ailing spouse (Heather Mitchell) and their rambunctious daughter (Mia Wasikowska). While Kate's former husband, who also works on the river, makes a pest of himself in the early stages of the voyage, the travelers soon find they have more to worry about when their craft is attacked by a massive 25-foot crocodile, who is just clever enough to know how to trap its prey before enjoying them for dinner.
An idyllic wildlife cruise disintegrates into terror when a party of tourists are stalked by a massive man-eating crocodile. Pete McKell, a cynical American travel writer, joins a disparate group of holiday-makers on a river cruise through the waters of Kakadu National Park. Initially Pete clashes with their tour captain, Kate, a feisty young woman who assumes he is just another 'city-slicker' in search of a quick thrill. After an uneventful day cruising the river, Kate is reluctantly persuaded to steer their boat into unexplored territory. They discover a secluded lake but terror strikes when their craft receives a powerful blow from beneath the murky depths and begins to sink. With little choice, she beaches the vessel on the closest dry land -a tiny mud island. With a rising tide and only half an hour of daylight left, fear grips the group as they realize they are trapped in the lair of a 'rogue' crocodile, governed only by its need to hunt and kill. Begrudgingly, Pete and Kate join forces to keep hysteria at bay and in the process start to see beyond their initial impressions. Their first attempt to escape fails, but then Pete has an idea - they must trap the crocodile to enable the group to flee to the other side of the island whilst Kate swims for help. Pete volunteers to stand guard, but without warning, the beast breaks free and targets Kate who fails to resurface. As darkness descends and the muddy waters rise, a terrifying struggle ensues with only one probable outcome death.
While carrying out his research as a travel journalist, cynical American Pete McKell joins a group of tourists on a crocodile watching river cruise in Kakadu National Park of Australia's Northern Territory. Among the other passengers are a photographer named Simon, a local Australian family of Elizabeth, Sherry, and Allen, a local couple named Gwen and Russell, an American couple named Mary Ellen and Everett, local tour guide Kate Ryan, and Kevin, her dog. After a run-in with two locals, Neil and Collin, the cruise winds to a close and Kate prepares to return the group to base.Everett spots a flare in the distance, and Kate tells the group that they must investigate to determine whether someone is in distress. A few miles up river, they come across a half-sunken boat when suddenly something crashes into the tourists' boat, creating a crack in the side. Kate's only choice is to run it ashore on a small island in the middle of the river. The group disembarks and begins discussion of what to do. Everett suddenly disappears, pulled into the water by an unseen predator. Kate comes to the conclusion that they are in the heart of a large crocodile's territory and that it will be more aggressive than usual. As the afternoon wears on, the tourists realize that the tide is rising: in a matter of hours their small island will be submerged.Neil and Collin arrive soon after and as they near the island, the 25-foot long crocodile smashes Neil and Collin's boat and sinks it. Neil manages to swim to the island safely, but Collin has disappeared.As night falls, Neil proposes that he swim to the mainland and string a rope between two trees, creating a zip-line to allow the group to cross above the river. Neil succeeds in setting up the rope and Mary Ellen crosses first only to freeze in fear halfway across. Allen becomes impatient and aggressive and attempts to get himself and Sherry across with Mary Ellen still on the line. While trying to secure the rope, Neil is attacked by the crocodile and gets eaten alive. The tree holding the rope snaps and the three on the line fall into the water. They scurry back to the island, but as Allen crawls up the beach, the gigantic crocodile suddenly lunges out of the water and throws him further into the river where he is also eaten alive.Later that night, Pete suggests they can delay the croc with a hook and bait on one side of the island while everyone escapes off the other side. Kate hooks two dead birds onto the boat's anchor while Pete secures the anchor rope to a boulder and throws the bait out into the river. After a long wait, the anchor is suddenly grabbed and pulled and the entire group jumps into the water and makes a break for the far shore. Pete tries to stop the boulder from being pulled over as Kate swims across behind the group. The croc suddenly lets go of the hook and bait, seizes Kate, and drags her underwater. Pete hurriedly makes the swim across the river with the dog Kevin in tow, and heads off into the bush to meet up with the others.As day breaks, Pete is crossing a stream when Kevin runs away. Pete chases the dog into a cave and falls down a narrow chute into a larger cave, where he sees Neil's partly eaten corpse. He quickly realizes that the cave is the crocodile's lair, and to his surprise, he finds Kate who is still alive but badly injured and unconscious with her part of her left leg and right arm missing having been eaten. He attempts to carry her out but has to hide when he hears the crocodile eating Kevin outside the cave. The huge crocodile then slowly enters the cave, laying down, and going to sleep. Trying to reach the entrance carrying Kate, Pete accidentally wakes the crocodile and it makes several attempts to devour both him and Kate as he retreats into the narrow confines of the cave. Finally, after a long fight in which he gets tossed around and is bitten in the hand, Pete makes one last stand. He braces a broken log against a large boulder with the sharp end pointing out towards the croc. The croc lunges at him, and Pete successfully impales it through the head killing it. He escapes from the cave with Kate to join the other tourists and waiting paramedics.As the credits roll, the camera zooms in on a newspaper article detailing Pete's heroic battle with the croc and rescue of Kate.
