The new season of "American Dreamz," the wildly popular television singing contest, has captured the country's attention, as the competition looks to be between a young Midwestern gal (Moore) and a showtunes-loving young man from Orange County (Golzari). Recently awakened President Staton (Quaid) even wants in on the craze, as he signs up for the potential explosive season finale.
Martin Tweed is the host of a talent show called American Dreamz, and whilst he despises each new season, it's a hit with the ratings. Tweed decides it's time for a new and interesting batch of contestants, and sends out his team to find the weirdest bunch possible. Whilst all this is happening, the President of the United States is becoming more and more depressed, and relies on his Chief of Staff to talk him through everything, even into appearing as a judge on the TV show. Perfect news for the terrorists who use the talent contest as a way to reach the President.
A satire who focuses on reality shows like American Idol. Sally's dream is to become a music star and to participate in American Dreamz show. In order to achieve this, she leaves her boyfriend and mixes up with the host of the program. Meanwhile, an Arabian boy travels to the USA to visit their relatives and, accidentally, he becomes a participant of the show. The president of the USA is kind of depressed, but the chief of staff comes up with the idea of a live presentation in the show.
President Staton (Dennis Quaid) hasn't looked at a newspaper since he was elected to office. Then on the morning after his re-election, he decides to read the newspaper. He locks himself in his bedroom for several weeks, and begins to examine his view of the world. Vice President Sutter (Willem Dafoe) believes the President is having a nervous breakdown. To snap the President out of it, the Vice President gives him happy pills and books him as a guest judge on the American Dreamz television show. The weekly talent show contest is hosted by America's most hated/loved judge, Martin Tweed (Hugh Grant). The show makes celebrities out of everybody who makes it to the finals. Sally Kendoo (Mandy Moore) and Omer (Sam Golzari) make it to the final round where the President will be judging with Martin. Get ready for all the fireworks, because this show will be seen by millions of people and be the highest rated show in the country. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
