"Being Cyrus" is a dark, comedic venture by the debutante director Homi Adajania that spins around the Sethnas - a Parsi family.
The Sethna family resides in the hills of Panchgani. A retired sculptor Dinshaw heads the family of Dinshaw's wife Katy , brother Farokh, sister-in-law Tina and father Fardoonjee. When the bizarre Cyrus comes into their lives, it is soon revealed that things aren't quite right with the Sethna family. The original Indian title is "Akoori."
Young Cyrus Mistry(the narrator) comes unexpectedly into the lives of Dinshaw and Katy Sethna, a couple with an almost nonexistent marriage. Having been apprenticed by Dinshaw, a pottery-teacher, he starts to do his household chores. He is recognized by Katy as the perfect opportunity to put her devious plans in action. She starts by simply sending him to Mumbai, where her brother-in-law(Dinshaw's brother, Farrokh with whom she has an affair) lives, to give some gifts to her father-in-law - Mr Fardoonjee Sethna(who lives in a small back-room of a building he owns where Farrokh mistreats him), while also investigating about a large sum of money that she claims Mr. Sethna has stashed. Unknown to her, Cyrus has some plans of his own about the Sethnas' funny little family.
Orphaned at a very young age Cyrus and his sister live in an orphanage in Jamshedpur. This is how their youth is spent. When they grow up both take to different paths. Cyrus travels to Panchgani to be an apprentice to renowned sculptor, Dinshaw Sethna. Upon arrival there he is met with Dinshaw and his wife Katy. Cyrus finds out that the Sethna family consists of Dinshaw's brother, Farokh, who lives in Bombay, with his much younger wife, Tina, and his semi-senile elderly dad, Fardounji, who owns the building. Katy asks Cyrus to visit her father-in-law with some chocolates. Cyrus is shocked to find out that Fardounji lives in a shabby back-room of the flat where Farokh lives in luxury. Cyrus also finds out that Fardounji is often abused by Farokh and Tina who have placed a number of restrictions on him. It is here that a devious plot will be formed - a plan so deadly that it will result in the dramatic killings of two people. Watch what happens when the two murders take place, and how Police Inspector Maninder Lovely goes about to solve this case.
Cyrus is an art/pottery student, come to apprentice under the famous, but defunct in his old age, Dinshaw Sethna. Sethna lives in Panchgani, away from city-life, with his pretty, but dissatisfied wife Katy. He also has a brother Farokh who lives with his demure, docile wife Tina and his old father Fardounjee in Pune, where Farokh manages his father's property, an apartment building. As Cyrus settles into the Sethna household and begins an affair with Katy, under Dinshaw's unsuspecting nose, he along with helping with household chores is often sent into Pune by Katy, with gifts for her father-in-law. Slowly but surely, amiable Cyrus is embroiled into Katy's devious plan, to get what she thinks she deserves...

