London is a drug laden adventure that centers on a party in a New York loft where a young man is trying to win back his ex-girlfriend.
In New York, the drug-addicted Syd is consumed by drink and drugs - missing his girlfriend London, who broke up with him six months ago after a two-year relationship. When Syd finds that London's friends throw a going away party for her, he decides to go to the party without an invitation. But first he meets the banker and drug-dealer, Bateman, in a bar to buy coke, and he invites his new acquaintance to go to the party with him. While locked in the bathroom with Bateman snorting coke and drinking booze, Syd recalls moments of his relationship with London, inclusive that he had never said "I love you" to his girlfriend despite her countless requests. Bateman also "open his heart" under the influence of cocaine and tells his impotence problem to Syd; in the end he convinces Syd to talk to London.
New York City. Syd has not seen or heard of his ex-girlfriend London in two months when he learns that her friend Rebecca is throwing her a farewell party at her parents' upscale spacious condo as London is moving to Los Angeles tomorrow to be with her new boyfriend. Syd, still obsessed with London, decides to crash the party, and brings along Bateman, who he has just met, the two who have a common drug dealer and Bateman who is looking for a clean place to do their large stash of blow. Syd's appearance does not sit well with Rebecca who wants to protect her friend from who she considers her crazy ex. Before London's arrival, Syd and Bateman spend much of the party in the large upstairs bathroom - it the size of most apartments - to do their blow along with whoever else may show up in the bathroom. Syd is trying to get up the nerve to go out and face London, which becomes more and more difficult as time goes on if only because of not wanting to face her without a clear head. In the process, Syd, Bateman and their parade of guests in the bathroom talk about sex, love, philosophy, karma, and other broad life topics while certain talking points make Syd reflect on his two years with London. Even if he does get up the nerve to face London to tell her how he really feels, will it lead to London changing her mind about moving and will it bring London back into his life?
Syd (Chris Evans) is a stressed out coke-head who goes to a going away party for his ex-girlfriend, London (Jessica Biel) without being invited. Before the party, he meets up with Bateman (Jason Statham), a banker who brings cocaine to the party. Bateman is an impotent man who has had his share of life troubles. The movie consists of Syd, who locks himself in the bathroom, and remembers his life while dating London for over two years. At the end of the party, Syd finally confronts London and they leave together, to have sex for one last time. They wake up barely in time to make the airport the next morning. Just when one believes they will get back together, London walks to her gate. Syd is seen driving away, though London does promise she will see him again.
