At the end of the Civil War, a colonel hunts down a man with whom he has a grudge.
In the 1860s, five men have been tracking a sixth across Nevada for more than two weeks. They shoot and wound him, but he gets away. They pursue, led by the dour Carver, who will pay them each $1 a day once he's captured. The hunted is Gideon, resourceful, skilled with a knife. Gideon's flight and Carver's hunt require horses, water, and bullets. The course takes them past lone settlers, a wagon train, a rail crew, settlements, and an Indian philosopher. What is the reason for the hunt; what connects Gideon and Carver? What happened at Seraphim Falls?
Somewhere in the desolate and snow-capped 1860s-Ruby Mountains, a rugged and solitary man, Gideon, runs for his life, wounded by the unyielding Carver's murderous four-hired-guns posse. In this imposing but unforgiving landscape riddled with treacherous hazards, the two indefatigable enemies test the limits of their strength and endurance, with skilled Gideon always a step ahead of his relentless pursuers. But who is really Gideon? What has he done to deserve such hatred? In the end, what secrets are buried in Seraphim Falls?
The film is set after the end of the American Civil War. Gideon (Pierce Brosnan) is hiding in the American Rockies, contemplating a fire. A shot pierces the silence and hits Gideon, who is then convulsed in pain and quickly runs away, followed by his pursuers. Soon the audience learns why: Gideon is a hunted man. Colonel Morsman Carver (Liam Neeson), a Confederate officer, has hired several mountain men to trap Gideon so that Carver can avenge a terrible wrong that he once committed.From the snowy peaks, the story descends into the savannasfull of rapacious traders, vicious railway foremen and overly-welcoming missionariesand moves finally into the desert, where the two men challenge each other in the face of Mother Nature at her harshest, with surreal visitations (from Louise C. Fair) to guide them to their final confrontation.
