An exploration into the life and art of the renowned author of "Last Exit To Brooklyn" and "Requiem For A Dream." Hubert Selby Jr., a self-described "scream looking for a mouth," against all odds, reached international acclaim with his controversial novels. His is a classic story of the great American novelist, overcoming tuberculosis, drug addiction and financial ruin, Selby eventually triumphed in his life and penned seven of the most remarkable and distinctly American books ever written.
"HUBERT SELBY JR: It/ll Be Better Tomorrow," directed by Michael W. Dean &amp; Kenneth Shiffrin, executive produced by Suzanne Selby, edited by Ryan Brown and narrated by Robert Downey Jr., is a harrowing and engaging exploration into the life and art of the renowned author Hubert Selby Jr., who against all odds, reached international acclaim with his controversial novels. Overcoming tuberculosis, drug addiction and financial ruin, Selby eventually triumphed in his life. His novel "Last Exit to Brooklyn" banned upon release in England went on to become a major motion picture and to gain the literary respect it demanded. "Requiem for a Dream" another of Selby's works made into a major film stunned audiences around the world. Selby's canon of work represents seven of the most remarkable and distinctly American books ever written.The feature length documentary, "HUBERT SELBY JR: It/ll Be Better Tomorrow," is a fascinating look at the writer who described himself as "a scream looking for a mouth," by those who knew him best. Archival footage and new interviews from the legion of artists and friends that shared his passion for literature and love of life, drive this insightful film. Sharing their love, appreciation and insight are Lou Reed, Ellen Burstyn, Jared Leto, Darren Aronofsky, Uli Edel, Nicolas Winding Refn, Henry Rollins, Jerry Stahl, Richard Price, Nick Tosches, Amiri Baraka, Gilbert Sorrentino, Anthony Kiedis, James Remar, Michael Silverblatt and others. It also features rare footage of Selby himself reflecting on his life and work. Music by Imperial Crowns, Martyn LeNoble, Steve Munger, Bob Bartosik and others.
