Joanna Mills, a traveling business woman, begins having nightmares of a murder that occurred 15 years ago. Soon she is drawn to an old farmhouse, where the murder took place.
The restless sales representative of a transport company Joanna Mills travels from Saint Louis to Texas in a business trip. She is haunted by violent visions and after meeting her client, she visits her lonely father. On the next morning, she decides to visit La Salle, a small town where she has never been before, but she had recollections of many locations. She lodges in a hotel and later she meets and is befriended by the local widower Terry Stahl, who helps her from an aggression. Her daydreams and nightmares increase and she becomes obsessed for disclosing the truth about her visions of a brutal murder of a woman in a barn. Along her investigation, Joanna gets close to the killer and feels that her life is in danger.
Joanna Mills, a tough young Midwesterner, is determined to learn the truth behind the increasingly terrifying supernatural visions that have been haunting her. Joanna has made a successful career for herself, as sales representative for a trucking company. But her private life has been difficult; estranged from her father, stalked by an obsessed ex-boyfriend, and with few friends, Joanna fears that she is losing control. She sees and feels the brutal murder of a young woman she's never met, at the hands of a heartless killer, a man who appears to be making Joanna his next target. Determined to fight back, Joanna is guided by her nightmares to the murdered woman's hometown. Once there, she will discover that some secrets can't be buried; some spirits never die; and that the murder she is trying to solve may be her own.
Joanna Mills been having strange visions since she was 11 years old after an automobile accident, which they are violent and making her life difficult. Now a young woman, she beginning to realize her visions are memories, after befriending a man named Terry Stahl, who appeared in one of them. As she getting closer to the truth, she will know some secrets should stay hidden.
Since a car crash when she was 11, Joanna Mills (Sarah Michelle Gellar) has had visions of a town she's never been to of people she's never met. She finally decides to go to the town and investigate exactly why she keeps having these vivid visions of a murder.While there Joanna begins to realize that these visions all mean something and connect somehow. She also begins to realize that the visions are what were causing her to hurt herself and others around her. While there Joanna meets Terry (Peter O'Brien), who looks familiar even though she's never met him.When Joanna's visions start to add up and she puts them together, she realizes who the murderer is and the murderer realizes that she knows who he is as well.
