Aunt Mei's famous homemade dumplings provide amazing age-defying qualities popular with middle-aged women. But her latest customer - a fading actress - is determined to find out what the secret ingredient is.
In Hong Kong, Aunt Mei is a cook famous for her home-made rejuvenation dumplings, based on a millenarian recipe prepared with a mysterious ingredient that she brings directly from China. The former TV star Mrs. Li visits Mei aiming her dumplings to recover her youth and become attractive again to her wolf husband Mr. Li. Along the sessions, Mei tells Mrs. Li that she was a gynecologist in China with more than 30,000 abortions along ten years. When Mrs. Li requests an acceleration of the process, the opportunity comes when a fifteen years old teenager with a five months incestuous pregnancy comes with her mother and asks Mei to make an abortion.
A former TV star, plagued by the thought of her shallow and unfaithful executive husband leaving her due to her advancing age visits Mei, a retired gynecologist who now makes "miracle dumplings" for women looking to regain their youth. The main ingredient, however, might be more than she can handle.
No woman can resist the temptation of potential rejuvenation - for some it's a dreamy blissful chase; for others a never-ending nightmare of endless pursuit. But Qing can afford it all. An ex-starlet turned wife of a prominent rich man, Qing is destined to have this dream come true. Qing uses a lot of connections to get to the mysterious chef, Mei to obtain her famous specialty dumplings. Qing is no gourmet but simply dying to recover her youth and beauty. At stake is her new "career" as a housewife of the rich. Mei's dumplings claim to deliver the goods. Mei, a former gynecologist, developed a secret recipe for rejuvenation which has allowed her to bid farewell to her career as an abortionist. Now Mei only serves desperate rich women like Qing. Mei understands a woman's need and she can fulfill a woman's desire -- all you need is a leap of faith to take a bite into her special dumplings with usual fillings.
Neil's a doctor, with a dark past. Though show looks very young, she also has a secret, as well; a seemingly magical dumpling, home-made from a special recipe. A neglected wife of an executive is looking for youth in order to hold on they her materia, sms the wealth sms prestige agw believes come work it, and is willing to pay any price for the dumplings. The dumplings' ingredients are rare, but then a mother with her pregnant daughter shows up...

