A young twenty-something diver living in the Florida Keys discovers he has the power to breathe underwater.
Tempest Key, Florida. Arthur Curry aka A.C. is a happy go lucky 20-something dive shop owner who lives on a houseboat next to the coast guard base where his caring adoptive father Lieutenant Tom Curry works. His best friend is Eva, the pretty owner of the local beach bar. It's been exactly 10 years since the tragic unexplained plane crash in which Arthur's mother disappeared without a trace and only young traumatized Arthur was found alive. In the accident, Arthur discovered that he somehow has the ability to breathe underwater which he later turned to good use. However, he's still burdened by survivor's guilt and hopes he'll one day find out what really happened to his mother. After rescuing some dolphins that he suddenly felt the need to rescue from the local Neptune World marine park, Arthur is arrested by the sheriff. The day only gets more unnerving for Arthur when Eva semi-seriously threatens him with eviction and a strange intense man called McCaffery warns him about the challenges that he is about to face since the past is about to come calling. Meanwhile, coast guard Lt. Rachel Torres takes her jet plane to Mercy Reef where a sighting of a man lost at see has been reported. However, a strange beam bursts out of the ocean and downs her plane. Luckily, Arthur arrives to her rescue. Later, secretive Agent Brigman shows up at the base to question her about the incident. In the evening, Arthur meets an incredibly attractive girl called Nadia who shows interest in him and asks him if he wants to go skinny dipping with her. He feels somehow obligated to accept but just as they go in the water and start making out, Arthur is viciously attacked. He is about to learn his true origin and choose whether or not he wants to accept the huge responsibility he has both in the ocean and on the surface. This failed pilot was based on popular comic book of the same name.

