Four runaway crooks take shelter in a bungalow which is owned by a blind couple.
Gopal, Lucky, Madhav and Laxman - four guys bound together by their child-like notoriety, aimlessness and petty business of conning people for fun and money. Laxman is an intelligent student who is not allowed to pass by his mischievous band of friends Gopal, Madhav and mute Lucky. This is because all four friends use his hostel room to conduct their activities. He is peer-pressured into running a series of scams in order to earn himself and his friends some money. Once thrown out of college bag-n-baggage, the naughty foursome finds refuge in the bungalow of a blind couple as their grandson. A cat mouse game unfolds as Laxman's body and Gopal's voice makes for Sameer (The grandson from US). Each time the blinded Dadaji comes amidst them, hilarious situations arise Enter Nirali with a bath towel and the group now have time, place and 'resources' to fall in love. Their individual efforts at winning the lady's heart, fail, resulting in rib tickling comic scenes. Apart from their amorous interests, there is a quest for hidden treasure in the old couple's house. For, there is also a gangster in this story by the name of Babli who has his own story to tell.
Madhav Singh Ghai along with two ex-college slackers, Gopal and Lucky who is mute, team up with college student, Laxman, to extort money from students as well as sell question papers in advance. The four are also on the run from a Garage owner to whom they owe money. While on the run one day, they come across a spacious bungalow occupied by a blind couple, Somnath and Mangala. They overhear that their grandson is to return from New York, and decide to con the couple and live in the bungalow in style. Laxman becomes the grandson, Sameer, while Gopal lends his voice to fool the couple. The four find that they have an attractive neighbor in Nirali and each of them comically propose their love to her. To complicate matters, a gangster is interested in a wooden sealed box in Somnath's house. Hilarious chaos prevails when the hapless foursome find out that Somnath is already aware of them; the gangsters take over the house to claim the wooden box; and the garage owner is all set to recover his loan, at the same time Nirali also enters the scene to declare who she has chosen to be her husband.
Four absolute-good-for-nothing con-men force themselves into a blind couple's home, pretending that one of them is the couple's America returned grandson. There they meet the beautiful, brainless neighbor Rimi Sen, and promptly fall in love. More foolishness ensues as the foursome evade their debtor Vasool bhai and plan on foiling a gangster's plan to retrieve stolen diamonds.
The story revolves around the lives of Gopal (Ajay Devgn), Lucky (Tusshar Kapoor), Madhav (Arshad Warsi) and Laxman (Sharman Joshi).Laxman is an intelligent student who is diverted from doing well in college by his mischievous band of friends Gopal, Madhav, and Lucky. Lucky is a mute in the movie. The three friends use Laxman's hostel room for their mischievous activities. Laxman is peer pressured into running a series of scams to earn himself and his friends some money and is punished by being thrown out of college. The naughty foursome then finds refuge in the bungalow of a blind couple, Somnath (Paresh Rawal) and Mangala (Sushmita Mukherjee), who are waiting for their grandson, Sameer, to inherit his paternal grandparents' treasure chest hidden in the old couple's house. Gopal pretends to be Sameer returning from America, and enters the house, while the other three friends sneak in hidden.A cat-and-mouse game unfolds as Laxman's body and Gopal's voice make up Sameer. Each time the blind Dadaji comes amidst them, hilarious situations arise. Enter Nirali (Rimi Sen), the saucy girl-next-door, and the group now have time, place and 'resources' to fall in love. Their individual efforts at winning the lady's heart fail. Apart from their amorous interests, there is a quest for the chest. There is also a gangster named Babli who wants to steal the chest from the couple's bungalow. All his attempts are unintentionally and unknowingly thwarted by the foursome.After the foursome find a chest hidden behind an old painting in the house, despite Laxman pleading not to open the chest, Somnath reveals about Sameer's death to Gopal, Laxman, Madhav, and Lucky. The real Sameer, along with his parents, were killed in a car crash after his father and mother left with him for India to meet his grandparents, after Somnath's son learned that Somnath and Mangala were permanently blinded in a lethal accident. Somnath goes to America and lights the pyres of his son, daughter-in-law and grandson, the ashes of whom he later kept in an urn, as per the Hindu tradition which he kept in the chest. Mangala is shocked to hear the stories, breaks into tears and condemns her husband for lying to her all those years and not allowing her to cradle her grandson or light the pyres, and she also condemns the foursome for tricking her and hurting her feelings. Babli then arrives with his gang and later reveals that he hid the diamonds in the urn Somnath was carrying his grand returned to India and arrived at an airport. Panducharang, an assassin previously sent by Babli as an undercover servant later joins Gopal's team and fights the gangsters off, with the fight finally ending with Gopal being accidentally stabbed by Babli in his behind with a knife, falling unconscious soon after, but not before warning Madhav, Lucky and Laxman to not touch the knife, leaving the three friends in laughter. Babli also falls unconscious after seeing blood flowing from Gopal's behind.After being admitted to a hospital, Gopal finally has the knife removed from his back, and Babli is arrested for his crimes. Laxman, Gopal, Madhav and Lucky are then rewarded with ten percent of the original value of the diamonds for arresting Babli. Nirali then chooses Lucky as her husband-to-be, saying that she found true love and loyalty in him and him alone, leaving the remaining three disappointed.
