A mild-mannered guy, who is married to a monstrous woman, meets the woman of his dreams, and schemes to find a way to be with her.
Norbit is a normal person, who after being adopted by Mr. Wong, ends up being married to the very large, Rasputia. Norbit's childhood love, Kate Thomas arrives back in town to buy the orphanage. Norbit sees this as his chance to get back together with Kate, until he discovers that she is in fact engaged to Deion Hughes. Norbit isn't going to lay this to rest, whilst he tries to survive life with Rasputia, and it looks like Deion also has something he would like to keep secret.
In 1967, the orphan Norbit was abandoned by his parents when he was a baby. He was raised by the owner of the orphanage Mr. Wong, and becomes a great friend of the also orphan Kate. When Kate is adopted, Norbit feels lonely but is protected by the fat and big Rasputia. They grow up, Rasputia becomes a monstrous woman and they get married. When Kate returns to her hometown decided to buy Mr. Wong's orphanage, Norbit recalls his good moments and falls in love for her. But Rasputia, her gangster brothers and Kate's fiancé Deion Hughes have other intentions with the orphanage.
Mild mannered nice guy Norbit Rice is as normal as anyone else. But he has one problem: he is married to a monstrous slob named Rasputia who won't let Norbit out of her sight. Everything seems to be a massive nightmare for Norbit living with Rasputia until his childhood flame Kate returns into his life. Norbit sees this as his chance to get reacquainted with her. Unfortunately, Norbit finds that Kate is already engaged to the snotty Deion Hughes. Kate is planning to take over the orphanage from Norbit's father figure Mr Wong. But it seems that Rasputia, her nasty brothers, and Deion have their own plans for the orphanage.
Norbit is a normal man with a big problem: he is married to Rasputia, a morbidly obese, overbearing loudmouth who has tyrannised and belittled him to keep him all to herself. When Norbit's childhood crush Kate comes back to town, he must figure out a way to be with her.
Perpetually down on his luck, the wimpy and meek orphanage-reared, Norbit Albert Rice, finds himself pushed into a loveless marriage with the aggressive plus-size terror, Rasputia, after his kind-hearted childhood soul mate, Kate, abandons him. However, now that Kate is back in town, poor Norbit must summon up the courage to confront his mountainous adversary to break away from her, even if it kills him. Will Rasputia and her thuggish three brothers let him, especially now that profit is involved?
Norbit (Eddie Murphy) was abandoned as a baby by being tossed from a moving car in front of the Chinese Golden Wonton Restaurant and Orphanage in Boiling Springs, Tennessee. Mr. Wong (Eddie Murphy), a kind and caring person, brought the baby into his orphanage. As children, Norbit met Kate (Thandie Newton), another orphan, and they became best of friends and were always together until Kate was adopted. Norbit was now alone until Rasputia (Eddie Murphy) rescues him from three school bullies on the school playground. The huge Rasputia makes Norbit her boyfriend. When they become adults, Norbit is intimidated into marrying the gigantic Rasputia, and they don't live happily ever after. Norbit was compelled to work for Raspitia's three brothers at the Latimore Construction Company. The whole town lives in fear of the three brothers and Raspitia. A new day comes for Norbit when Kate returns from Atlanta to buy the orphanage from Mr. Wong. However, the Larimores want to buy the orphanage and turn it into a strip club, "The Nipplopolis". Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
