Josh Sagers drives cross-country on a mission to deliver his father's birthday gift - a giant purple LazyBoy.
Josh and Emily are in a relationship, but he can be inattentive and unromantic and she can shift her focus from small things to emotional issues in a moment. He invites her to drive from New York City to somewhere in Virginia to pick up a chair that he's bought on eBay for his father's birthday. On the way, he stops at his brother Rhett's, outside Philly, and invites him along. Josh tries to save money at a motel, has to negotiate with the seller of the chair and with an upholsterer, and faces tough questions from Emily. He calls her "Dude," he's moody, and it looks as if the relationship will end soon. Is there more than meets the eye here? How do people decide?
As a surprise birthday present for his father, Josh has made an online purchase of a second-hand, overstuffed burgundy recliner, exactly like the one his father had when Josh was growing up. As children, Josh and his younger brother Rhett affectionately referred to that recliner as the puffy chair. Josh's initial plan is for he and his band mates to drive from New York, where Josh lives, to pick up the chair from the second-hand furniture store in Millbridge where he bought it, before driving to his parents' house in Atlanta, his parents who also have no idea that Josh is coming for the birthday. Due to circumstances and to make it up to her for an argument they had the night before the departure, Josh instead makes the trip with his girlfriend Emily, who sees the invitation as an unexpected romantic gesture from usually unromantic Josh. As it becomes more a family trip, Josh decides to make a short stop in Virginia to say hello to Rhett, who Emily has never met. That stop results in Rhett deciding to make the trip with them the rest of the way so that the brothers can celebrate their father's birthday as a family. The trio get into one misadventure after another based partly on circumstances and partly on the different priorities each has for this trip. Unsentimental Josh, who generally does sweat the small stuff, just wants to make it to Millbridge then Atlanta with little fuss but more importantly on his terms. Emily just wants to spend quality time with Josh, who she hopes one day to marry despite Josh's unspoken and seeming phobia to commitment. And free-spirited and irresponsible Rhett, who believes in general aura as an overriding factor, wants to do whatever makes him happiest at any given time. These misadventures may ultimately affect the individual relationships Josh has with Rhett and Emily.
Josh and high maintenance girlfriend Emily are having a nice dinner and decide that Emily should sleep over. Emily is only slightly upset because Josh has to leave tomorrow to go on a road trip, but the dinner is still pretty calm. But the calm does not last when dinner is tainted by an inappropriate phone call to Josh. Emily throws the table about half way through the call and leaves. Josh tells the man on the phone that he will call him back and calls Emily leaving an apologetic voicemail. The next morning Josh, feeling bad about what happened, goes to Emily's house and picks her up for the road trip, despite the original plan to go by himself, visit his brother Rhett, and get his father a purple recliner for his birthday. Instead of just visiting Rhett as planned, Rhett tags along for the rest of the trip against Emily's will. They, next, stop at a motel where Josh tries to act like he is the only one there to get the room cheaper but fails. The next day, they go to pick up the chair but it has been falsely advertised and is in awful condition, entitling them to a payed for reupholstering job. The chair is at the shop while in the mean time, Rhett is falling in love with a woman named Amber and that night they are unofficially married, by Josh. Later, Josh expresses his true feelings about what is going to become of Rhett and Amber's relationship (It'll probably last a week and then Rhett will get bored.) to Emily and she gets very angry at him for not appreciating romance. But the fight turns when she claims she deserves better and Josh gets very angry with her and stomps out. The next morning, Josh goes to pick up the chair and has to get extremely firm, some would say hostile, with the man who does the reupholstering because he is being very unreasonable. Rhett does not appreciate the way that Josh obtained the chair and says it has "bad mojo". Later that night he burns the chair and Josh catches him doing this. He tackles him and Josh ends up breaking his own arm. The next morning, they finally show up at dads house, no chair and Josh in cast. After a talk with his father about marriage, Josh talks to Emily about the future of their relationship and they mutually decide that they should break up.
