An elderly writer visits the small village where he grew up and as he walks through he catches a glimpse of the same woman he fell in love with in his youth but she has not aged at all! He follows her, but is not ready for what he finds
Tomás is a successful writer who has spent the last forty years living outside Spain. After the strange death of his wife, he receives an old tarot card, the love card, which has a strong meaning for him due to something that happened in his past. So he returns to the small village in which he was born and raised. He is haunted by memories of the tragic events from the long past. At a young age, he desperately fell in love with a mysterious woman, whom everyone in the district shunned, considering him a witch. She died a painful death during a fire - And now he is haunted by nightmares and visions, from which the blood freezes in his veins and her hair moves on his head. Here and there he sees the ghost of a woman. Overwhelmed by vague suspicions, he decides to go to the place where his beloved's house once stood .
Alejandro is an elderly writer, and is driving back to the small costal village where he was born and raised. But the peaceful place of his memories has been turned into a vast tourist resort, full of brazen consumerism with no charm left at all. Once there, Alejandro reminisces about a painful episode from his past. When he was a child he met a mysterious woman whom he has been trying to forget ever since. A woman of wild beauty, she was married to a sailor. However, there were rumours in the village that she was having a relationship with another man and so all her neighbours disowned her because of her supposedly adulterous behaviour. But Alejandro was totally and madly in love with her. 
Back in the present day, and still wrapped up in his memories, Alejandro suddenly thinks he sees her appear just around the street corner. No. No. It cant be...It was someone else. But even though it seems like madness.. it is her it is the same woman with whom he fell in love. Time has stood still for her. 
Perturbed, nervous, fearful and yet excited, Alejandro follows her but he will soon discover that she has been waiting for him
