Climb in the van, buckle your seat belt and hang on tight because you're about to experience life on the road with the founding fathers of punk rock, The Ramones! The band that started it all stars in this all encompassing video scrapbook spanning the Ramones history making career circa 1979-1996, most of which is seen here exclusively for the first time anywhere! Ramones Raw includes vintage concert footage professionally shot on film in 1980, archived and nearly forgotten for over 20 years, plus countless memorable moments from the band's illustrious career, rare TV appearances, backstage footage and LOTS more all set within the core; a plethora of home video from the Ramones personal archives. Armed with a Hi-8 camera on the road for the final 8 years of the band's world tours, Marky Ramone captured it all on tape; the good, the bad and the ugly, immortalized here your viewing pleasure. No. 1 selling Director and Ramones aficionado John Cafiero has culled the cream of the crop of "raw" footage from the Marky Ramone video library and then some, compiling and presenting it in a unique style that gives Pinheads and Ramoniacs everywhere an exclusive fly on the wall perspective that's the next best thing to actually being in the band! See Johnny, Joey, Dee Dee, Marky and CJ prove why the Ramones have stood the test of time with their simplistic yet immortal brand of music that influenced generations the world over. Also featured is an eclectic mix of guest celebrity appearances from Drew Barrymore, Carly Simon, Gilbert Gottfried, "Grandpa" Al Lewis (of "the Munsters"), Bono &amp; U2, Debbie Harry &amp; Chris Stein of Blondie and many more noteworthy personalities including legendary guitarist Robbie Krieger of the Doors performing the classic "Take it as it comes" live with the Ramones at the Hollywood Palladium in October 1992, touted by Johnny Ramone as "one of the highlights of my career." From their humble NYC beginnings at CBGB'S to induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, the Ramones have done it all. With "Ramones Raw" you'll feel like you were right there with them the whole time, standing beside one of the most important bands to break ground since the Beatles led the British invasion.

