An outgoing, sexually aggressive young woman meets and begins a torrid affair with an equally aggressive young man in which their affair begins to bring a strain on their personal lives.
In Toronto, the nymphomaniac Leila spends the nights dancing and having sex with men to satisfy her sex drive. Leila learns that her parents are divorcing and she is affected by their decision. When Leila meets David, she has a torrid affair with him. David is an artist that lives with his father, who is very dependent on David. Leila and David have a complicated relationship since he is a possessive man that demands commitment but Leila does not know how to love a man and has the need of different partners in her sex life.
Leila is a highly sexual being. She knows the difference between love and sex, in fact believing that one has absolutely nothing to do with the other. She does not understand why anyone would give up great sex for love. And in that divide, she does not go out on what she considers "dates" in the entire connotation of the word, as she is only looking for sex, not an emotional connection or commitment of any kind. Conversely, she believes that men do equate love and sex with each other, if only at that specific moment of the physical act. Her beliefs may be a manifestation of not having role models of a happy relationship when she was growing up, her parents who were always fighting and who are on the verge of splitting permanently. There is an unspoken attraction between Leila and David when they see for the first time but don't speak to each other at a party. Although they do not connect in the traditional sense that night, they do eventually have sex and embark on a sexual relationship with the full knowledge that he already has a girlfriend, Victoria, who in turn quickly learns about Leila in his life. With David, Leila begins to feel an emotional connection to another person through sex for the first time. Beyond Leila never having navigated anything like this situation in her life before, other issues in each of Leila and David's lives driving their current emotional needs may make it even harder for them to make a true connection with each other.
Lelia is a happily unattached, sexually voracious young woman who satisfies her instable appetite for sex with a host of young male bed partners. But all that changes when a chance encounter has Lelia meets and beings an affair with David an artist looking for a committing relationship. David is just as sexually aggressive and ravenous as Lelia and whenever they get together, they grow more hopelessly entangled, both physically and emotionally.
Leila is a sexually voracious young woman who connects with men through brief physical encounters. One night at a crowded house party, Leila meets David and its lust at first sight. Later, as she has casual sex with a stranger just behind the house, David and his girlfriend mirror her actions in their car. Leila and David's eyes lock as they watch each other having sex with others, a courtship ritual that initiates their own sexual affair. Seduction is easy and very satisfying. Leila and David get to know each other -- which means being intimate -- in bed, at the park, on the roof, everywhere. For them, and for other members of their generation, sex is a form of communication. But Leila starts to realize that her attachment to David is different from anything she's experienced before, and David is just as serious about her. For the first time, they experience needs and desires that go beyond the physical. It is an emotional connection they crave. Afraid of the feelings they have unleashed in each other, they retreat to the safety of their former lives. Real life, and the messiness of emotional attachments, have punctured their sexual and romantic bubble and threaten to keep the lovers apart. David's father dies after a long illness and he turns to his ex-girlfriend for support. Leila, meanwhile, is distracted by her parents' looming divorce. Leila and David are trapped between two worlds. Anonymous sex, or sex without context, is losing its appeal. But a conventional approach to commitment - marriage and the seemingly inevitable divorce that follows, as evidenced by Leila's parents -- is not the answer. They set out to find a way to build lust and love, spontaneity and substance, into a new life together.

