A trio of black female soul singers cross over to the pop charts in the early 1960s, facing their own personal struggles along the way.
Detroit, the early 1960s. Curtis Taylor, Jr., a car salesman, breaks into the music business with big dreams. He signs a trio of young women, the Dreamettes, gets them a job backing an R&amp;B performer, James "Thunder" Early, establishes his own record label and starts wheeling and dealing. When Early flames out, Curtis makes the Dreamettes into headliners as the Dreams, but not before demoting their hefty big-voiced lead singer, Effie White, and putting the softer-voiced looker, Deena Jones, in front. Soon after, he fires Effie, sends her into a life of proud poverty, and takes Deena and the Dreams to the top. How long can Curtis stay there, and will Effie ever get her due?
It's the mid-1960s. Detroit-based The Dreamettes, a black girl singing group, is comprised of lead Effie White, and her backup singers Deena Jones and Lorrell Robinson. They are struggling to make a name for themselves despite their talent. At a local talent competition, they are approached by Curtis Taylor Jr., a used car salesman who wants to break into the music business on the management side. He offers them a job singing backup for James "Thunder" Early, a renowned local black performer who has more of a reputation as a married man seducing his backup singers than his onstage actions, hence the reason he is having problems finding those backup singers. The girls reluctantly accept the offer, that reluctance based on Effie in particular not seeing themselves as backups to anyone else. In making a name for himself and the girls, Curtis brings along for the ride Effie's songwriting brother C.C., and in the process also takes over Jimmy's career. Despite embarking on a sexual relationship, Curtis and Effie, both strong personalities, begin to have diverging views of what it takes to make it in the business, Curtis who sees them needing to break what is racial barrier by sounding more mainstream or "white". The others have to decide what to do, and to who their loyalties lie as they try to make it to the top. Those views may change over time with the onset of the seventies and the change of mainstream musical tastes to disco, and as they see the view from the top in trying to stay there as opposed to looking at the top from the bottom.
Based on the 1981 Broadway musical comes Dreamgirls, a story of greed, tough hate, and romance. Three young women - Deena Jones, Effie White, and Lorrell Robinson - desire to become pop stars and get their wish when they're picked to be backup singers for the legendary James "Thunder" Early. Then they're set free for leads, but Curtis Taylor and Effie's brother C.C. decide for Deena to be lead which upsets Effie.
During the late 1960's and early 70's, three friends from Detroit, Effie White (Jennifer Hudson), Deena Jones (Beyoncé Knowles), and Lorrell Robinson (Anika Noni Rose), form an R&amp;B act called 'The Dreamettes'. The women compete in a local talent contest where they are discovered by Curtis Taylor, Jr. (Jamie Foxx), a ruthless talent manager who offers them a job to be the backup singers for headliner James 'Thunder' Early (Eddie Murphy). They take the job and soon find out that Curtis has now taken over their lives. Their first professional show is at the Apollo Theatre in New York City. Effie's brother, C.C. White (Keith Robinson) is a talented songwriter who begins to write songs for Early and the group. Using the talents of C.C., Curtis decides to change their style from R&amp;B music to pop music and to go out on their own. Curtis also moves the beautiful Deena to the lead singer spot and moves Effie to backup. Now called 'The Dreams,' they become a worldwide success with Deena as the lead singer. However, in time the three women realize that life is not all about fame and fortune. The moral of this story is that family and friends are the most important aspect of life. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
