The Great New Wonderful weaves five stories against the backdrop of an anxious and uncertain post-9-11 New York City.
In New York City, five concurrent and ultimately intersecting stories of emotional despair are presented leading up to the first anniversary of 9/11. Emme Keeler, a high end cake designer, and her businessman husband Danny are all about presenting the perfect life, much like the perfection Emme strives for with her cake designs. Despite that perfection, Emme and her team have lost most of the recent contracts against their main competitor, Safarah Polsky. Emme is hoping things will change with the upcoming annual competition to win the lucrative contract to provide the birthday cake for now teenager, spoiled heiress Lisa Krindle, Emme who will do whatever she can to get a leg up on Safarah. Married Allison and David Burbage do whatever they need to to provide for their adolescent son Charlie, who is in expensive therapy to deal with disruptive sometimes bordering on violent behavior against others. They may not realize that they are really placing their own relationship at risk in not putting effort into it in focusing on their direct roles what they feel are Charlie's needs. Both married with families, Avi and Satish are best friends, next door neighbors and coworkers, they part of the same security detail for the Indian government. While Avi chatters on about trivial matters in life in general as he and Satish spend hour after hour with each other, he may not be able to see that Satish is a powder keg waiting to explode. Elderly Judy Hillerman is in a routine and thus unsatisfying marriage to Henry Hillerman. Being in the twilight of life, she may contemplate having that small piece of happiness when she meets an old high school classmate, seemingly happy-go-lucky Jerry Binder. And in the lead-up to the anniversary, Sandie's company has offered him therapy as a survivor of the twin towers, many of his coworkers who he didn't know on the seventh floor where he was at the time using specialized equipment who didn't make it. The therapist, Dr. Trabulous, uses provocative, passive-aggressive methods to find troubles buried deep within mild mannered Sandie that may or may not be there, but which on the surface don't seem to exist.
Avinash alias Avi and his partner Satish are Manhattan-based Security guards, hired in the wake of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in New York. They have now been assigned to ensure the protection of a visiting Indian General, Ganjee. While Avi is a flirt, and of a cheerful disposition, Satish is quite grouchy, wrestling with personal and family problems. During their time together Avi will confess to Satish of his having sex with another woman and the consequences he must face. Emme Keeler caters to the rich and wealthy by making cakes and desserts, she must face up to facts especially when her closest competitor, Safarah Polsky, is on the verge of suicide; Judy Hillerman lives a routine and mundane life with her husband, Henry, and does feel like throttling him and tossing him over their 10th floor balcony; David and Burbage and his wife, Allison, must now accept that their overweight son, David, does have issues that need to be addressed, that is if they ever find time for him from their professional careers and their mutual attraction to each other; A mentally troubled man, Sandie, must decide whether his therapist does or does not deserve to get his head smashed; Watch how these people face their respective fates on September 11, 2002.
Civilization and its discontents. September, 2002; five stories in New York City. An older woman lives in a wordless marriage with her TV-watching husband; she reconnects with a man from her high school and sees new possibilities. A brittle maker of expensive cakes tastes the bitter fruits of competition. Two Indian security guards interact: one is a constant flirt, the other an irritable bully. An employee who has lost colleagues is interviewed over several days by a pushy and unorthodox psychologist. A couple faces financial problems while their overweight son exhibits more and more problematic behavior. What's behind the ennui and unhappiness? Are the stories at all connected?

