One summer, four orphans boys who have grown to be the closest of friends find themselves competing for the attention of the same family.
An adult nicknamed Misty is narrating a story about one summer in his life when he was an adolescent in the late 1960s. He was living in a Catholic orphanage in the Australian outback. His best mates were the "December boys" - Maps, Spark and Spit - the four of them so named because they were the boys in the orphanage born in the month of December. With a recent windfall, the orphanage decided to give each of the boys a group vacation for each of their birthdays, the December boys the first to go. Their vacation was to Lady Star Cove on the Australian coast, to stay at the home of Mrs. and Mrs. McAnsh - Bandy and "Skipper". Their relatively carefree Christmas vacation took a turn primarily from three events: learning the reason the McAnshes hosted the boys specifically at this time; Maps, the oldest in his mid-teens, exploring his sexuality with a girl named Lucy, who was also visiting Lady Star Cove for the summer; and Misty secretly learning that a young couple in the cove, Fearless and Teresa, were thinking about adopting one of them, the couple who were unable to conceive a child of their own. Beyond the dreams of especially the younger three to be adopted by a loving family, Fearless had the extra wow factor of being a stunt motorcyclist as his profession. Misty, the youngest, tried the hardest to be the one chosen, even initially keeping the fact of Fearless and Teresa thinking about adopting one of them from the other three. Misty concludes his story with the reason why he is telling it at this stage in his life.
The film is based on Michael Noonan's novel and focuses on four orphans who leave their orphanage for a holiday by the sea. A rumor about two of the seaside residents possibly adopting one of the orphans causes tension to rise among the orphans. .
In the late 1960s four orphans, the December Boys, leave their orphanage for a holiday by the sea on the South Australian coast. When rumor gets out that two of the seaside residents are looking to adopt one of the orphans, friendships are tested and new alliances are made. In the end each boy learns something about himself and his place in the world.
In the late 1960's, four close-knit orphans in Australia, called the December Boys because they were all born in the same month, leave their orphanage for a holiday by the sea. Having all but given up hope of ever being adopted, the friends are on a seaside holiday one winter when they hear a rumor that a seaside couple are looking to adopt one of the orphans, friendships are tested and new alliances made as the four boys compete for the chance to gain a real family.
It's the 1960s, Australia. 4 orphaned boys, who are best friends, are sent from their orphanage and go to a beach resort. At the resort is a couple that's keen on adopting a boy, which causes tension &amp; competition between the boys. One of the boys also has his first romance with a girl that's there.

