A drama based on an ancient Chinese proverb that breaks life down into four emotional cornerstones: happiness, pleasure, sorrow and love. A businessman bets his life on a horse race; a gangster sees the future; a pop star falls prey to a crime boss; a doctor must save the love of his life.
A frustrated and clumsy bank clerk overhears the conversation of three coworkers in the toilet about a fix in a horse race, and bets a large amount. He loses the bet and owes the money to the dangerous and powerful mobster Fingers. A gangster who works for Fingers has the ability of foreseeing pieces of the future; he is assigned to collect money for the boss, with his troublemaker nephew Tony, and is beaten up by a gang. The manager of pop-star Trista loses her contract to Fingers without her agreement and she is threatened by the gangster. A dedicated doctor seeks a blood donor that might have a rare blood type to save the life of his secret and unrequited passion, a beautiful epidemiologist who's married to a friend.
Happiness, Sorrow, Pleasure and Love are the four respective themes that writers Jieho Lee (who also directed) and Bob DeRosa tackle in these bizarre stories. This is a film about luck, both good and bad- and what perspective you choose to look at the characters fates will probably determine whether you like this movie or not. Happiness is presented first, with Forest Whitaker playing a nerdy office worker who decides to take a huge risk, betting everything on what he thinks is a fixed horse race. Does the risk pay off? You decide. Next up is Sorrow, in the form of Sarah Michelle Gellars fragile pop music star, who finds out that her contract has been sold to a vicious mobster called Fingers. Fingers is played by Andy Garcia, in a memorably over-the-top performance (care to take a guess how he got his nickname?) and he is the one constant in each of these stories. He is the single piece of thread that connects all of these individuals. Third and best of this series, is Pleasure, in the guise of Brendan Frasers mob henchman with psychic abilities. Namely, he can see into the future. He works for (you guessed it) Fingers and has an adventurous night babysitting Fingers nephew Tony, a young, wanna-be mobster with a foul mouth and a reckless streak. During the course of that night, however; something happens and he isnt able to see the future and as a result, gets the crap kicked out of him. This is actually great for him, because he regards his psychic gift as more of a curse. Soon he is asked to baby-sit the pop star (who Fingers is basically holding hostage) and the pair fall in love which leads to some complications. The fourth and final scenario involves Kevin Bacon as a doctor who will do anything to save the woman he loves (Delpy), another doctor who is dying from a serious injury. All of these characters connect, to a certain degree and events set in motion by one individual, effect others; either favorably or not.
