A villager, Gurukant Desai, arrives in Bombay 1958, and rises from its streets to become the GURU, the biggest tycoon in Indian history.
A school-teacher in India sires a son named Gurukant, but is disappointed as the child fails to live up to his high expectations. When Gurukant grows up, he is unable to secure decent employment in India, so finds a way to go to Turkey, where he finds employment. When he returns back to India, he wants to start his own business, but is unable to do so, as he does not have enough money. So he does some research, gets to meet Sujata, the daughter of a wealthy man named Jignesh, and marries her. After the marriage, Gurukant finds out that Sujata has a dark past, but he ignores this - for his one motive is to be to rise in the eyes of his father - and get rich.
Gurukant Desai hails from Idhar, a small village in Gujarat, but dreams of setting up his own business in Mumbai. After he returns from Turkey, he marries Sujatha for getting the dowry and arrives in Mumbai to start his business. This film chronicles the obstacles he meets, his subsequent rise and the huge backlash he receives when it is revealed that he used unethical means to rise in the business circuit.
Kantilal Desai lives in Idhar, Gujarat, in India, along with his son, Gurukant, and his second wife. He is disappointed with his son, but subsequently relents when Gurukant offers to re-locate to Istanbul, Turkey, to work there as a petroleum attendant. Gurukant accordingly relocates there, and with a lot of hard and diligent work, progresses, so much so that his salary is tripled and he is promoted as Sales Supervisor. But Gurukant rejects this promotion, returns home to his shocked family, gets married to a semi-senile woman by the name of Sujata, gets enough dowry so that he can start a polyester business in Bombay along with his brother-in-law, Jignesh. Upon arrival in Bombay, he faces numerous hurdles and opposition from the wealthy class, especially from Arzaan Contractor and I.A.S. Officer K.R. Menon, but with the help of Manikdas Gupta, the owner of a daily newspaper called 'Swatantra Mani', overcomes these problems, starts his own business and progresses so much so that he returns home to Idhar, opens a factor, Shakti Polyester, and goes on to become India's biggest entrepreneur. He also becomes father to twin daughters, Disha and Dhristi. Then things spiral out of control when he finds himself facing off against Manikdas himself, when evidence surfaces that he has been breaking various excise, income tax, customs, and even smuggling to improve his business. Manikdas even recruits Shyam Saxena to expose Gurukant. Unable to bear this shock, Gurukant becomes ill, and ends up paralyzed, while Manikdas, Shyam and the Government of India set up the Thapar Commission, which has charged Gurukant with 29 counts of breaking a variety of laws in India - which when proved - will end up finishing not only career of both Gurukant and Sujata - but also see them end up behind bars.
In a small village of Idhar in Gujarat, a young man dreams of making it big one day. His father a headmaster of the village school tells him that dreams never come true. But this young lad did dream. As he grew up, so did his dreams. He loved Idhar. It was quiet, peaceful, lazy and green. But he knew that his destiny was beyond this village... Set in the picturesque beauty of the 1958, Bombay, this young man comes to the city of fortune with only two shirts, a wife, a brother-in-law and Rs.15,000 to start a business. But all doors were shut for a newcomer. Indian business and trade were run by a handful of the rich and the privileged. Only they were given the licenses. They had the quotas and they controlled all government trade. It was an exclusive club where it was impossible for an ordinary middle class newcomer to enter, let alone succeed. He had to kick the doors open or cajole them to open. He did both and would not take no for an answer. And that's because he never knew the word 'no'. Despite all barriers, he started his own company called Shakti Trading in a 350 sq feet room, with one telephone, one table and three chairs. Forty years on, Shakti Corporation became the first Indian company to enter the Forbes top 500 lists. People asked him how this happened and he said think big, think ahead and think fast.
Gurukant Desai (Abhishek) is the ambitious son of a small-time school teacher (Rajendra Gupta). After failing at school and earning his pessimistic father's displeasure he travels to Turkey for work. There he does well, but opts to return home to work for himself. Home, and lacking enough capital to start his own business, he marries his best friend Jignesh's (Arya Babbar) elder sister for her dowry money. The lady in question, Sujata (Aishwarya) has a tainted reputation, since she has attempted previously to run away with a lover. Now, "saved" by Guru, she becomes his loving and devoted wife. Guru embarks in his new business venture in the city with his wife and her brother (who is his partner), and thus starts his journey . . .

