A young woman arrives in Paris where she finds a job as a waitress in bar next on Avenue Montaigne that caters to the surrounding theaters and the wealthy inhabitants of the area. She will meet a pianist, a famous actress and a great art collector, and become acquainted with the "luxurious" world her grandmother has told her about since her childhood.
Jessica, raised by her grandmother, comes to Paris and gets a job at a bar across from a performance complex where a play, a concert, and an art auction will occur the same evening. It's a world in flux: the play's star wants off a popular TV soap that's made her rich, and she covets the lead in a film about de Beauvoir and Sartre; the pianist hates the concert circuit, but his wife who's his manager may leave him if he quits; a self-made widower with a girlfriend less than half his age is selling his collection of modern art - his son, a professor, objects to his father's love life. The stage manager at the complex is resigning after 30 years. Jessica sets the tone for how all plays out.
Catherine, hugely popular (and becoming very wealthy) from her television soap opera, longs for more substantial and prestigious work. She prepares to star in a Feydeau farce about to open on the 17th. Jean-François, a piano virtuoso with an international reputation, is preparing for a major Beethoven recital on the 17th, but he is becoming exhausted and disenchanted with the elitism of his milieu. Jacques, an old art connoisseur, has amassed an extraordinary, highly personal art collection, but on the 17th it will all be sold off. Catherine, Jean-François and Jacques frequent the café where Jessica, a charming and refreshing girl recently arrived from Macon, waits on and befriends them.
A famous actress ([Link=nm0501256]), that dreams with inner cinemaa gifted piano player ([Link=nm0501256]) who wants to play for an ignorant an ingenuous audience,an old collector ([Link=nm0105475]) thats sells his life collection in one night, and a young village girl ([Link=nm0208426]) that looks for a job in paris: all this characters are going to meet for one night at café des téâtres and enjoy the best of their lives..
