In Sancharram ("The Journey"), Kiran is mortified by her growing lesbian desire for the effervescent Delilah, in an idyllic Indian village where arranged marriage is the only acceptable form of coupling.
It was on an auspicious day--the day of Kiran's arrival from Delhi, and the wedding day of Delilah's eldest brother--that the two girls first meet as children; and though they couldn't be more different, they become fast friends. Delilah (Shrruiti Menon) blossoms into a fiery irreverent beauty with the unconditional love of her grandmother, and despite the controlling eye of her hard-working widowed mother. Kiran (Suhasini V. Nair), as the only child of an intellectual father and aristocratic mother, matures into an introspective young woman. Theirs is an idyllic life of family and community, and most of all an enduring friendship. But when Kiran comes to terms with the fact that her physical attraction to Delilah is something she can no longer suppress, her once idyllic and familiar world is shattered. Mortified by her desire for Delilah, and acknowledging that she herself can never realize the object of her affection, Kiran agrees to help a mutual friend, Rajan, pursue Delilah. However, through a bizarre circumstance, Delilah is shocked to discover that Kiran is the suitor behind Rajan's poetic efforts. Delilah responds, to everyone's astonishment, to Kiran. Though their first stab at intimacy leaves Delilah shaken, the two embark on a romance that proves an evolution for both young women. In particular, Kiran's characteristic restraint evaporates, as her confidence blooms. But when their romance is discovered, the scandal is explosive, and a both tragic and triumphant culmination is triggered. Kiran and Delilah will come to learn that it is their life's journey, both enchanting and heartrending, that will forge the women they ultimately become; most importantly, it is through the journey that they will come to know who they are. As the film concludes, a new journey begins.

