A beautiful woman helps an inept scam artist get his game together.
André, a small-time ex-convict, seems to owe money to everyone in Paris, including a crime boss who promises to kill him if he doesn't repay him by midnight. After failing to find protection from the American embassy and the French police, a despairing André scrambles onto a bridge over the Seine, intending to leap to his death. He is surprised to see a tall, beautiful girl clinging to a rail on the same bridge, apparently preparing to end her life as well. She jumps, and he jumps too, suddenly resolving to save her life. After scrambling ashore, she tells him her name is Angel-A. Together, they take a cruise on the Seine, repay André's creditors, visit a Parisian nightspot, and more, as Angel-A helps André. He learns that for this purpose she has fallen out of the sky and into his life. André finds himself falling in love with this mysterious beauty.
In Paris, the twenty-eight year-old small-time crook André Moussah owes a large amount to powerful bosses of the Parisian underworld and he needs to pay until the next day. His legitimate business with olive oil from Argentina has never succeeded to pay the loans. He seeks protection in the American Consulate and in the French police and finally in despair, he decides to commit suicide jumping from a bridge in the Seine. In the same moment, he sees a beautiful tall woman ready to jump in the water from the same bridge. He jumps in the water and saves her life, and she introduces herself as Angela. They spend the rest of the day and the night together and she provides enough money to him to pay his creditors. Then she confesses that she is a fallen angel assigned to help him to retrieve his self-esteem since he is a good person inside. Sooner André falls in love for her, but Angel-A will retrieve her wings in the end of her journey.
In Paris, André is a loser: a short disheveled Arab with a U.S. green card and a withered hand he keeps shoved in a pocket. He's a constant liar, spinning tales of Argentine olive oil. He owes lots of money to two thugs who both demand payment by midnight. In despair, he importunes God for forsaking him, and he climbs an abutment to jump off a bridge. Something distracts him - it's a leggy blonde in a short skirt about to leap off the same bridge. She jumps, he leaps and swims to her rescue, and thus begins their two-day odyssey. Can André ever tell the truth, accept himself, and express emotion? And the blonde - what's her history, and did she really need saving?
Andre has just returned to Paris in the hope of making some easy money, give up his life of petty crime, and start his life over as an honest man in America. In Paris for only a few hours, Andre finds himself dangling high over the edge of the Eiffel Tower, begging for his life from a man he hoped never to see again. With his underworld dealing catching him up, Andre is given 24 hours to find 20,000 Euros to pay off his debts and save his life. Frantically trying to find ways to avoid certain death, Andre turns to the police begging them to place him safely behind bars for a couple of nights. They laugh at his pathetic attempt and throw him to the streets. Andre is left with nowhere to turn and with his deadline fast approaching, he despairingly climbs onto the ledge of a bridge and gathers the resolve to jump into the river. But, he is not alone. Beside him, a beautiful and mysterious woman is a moment away from throwing herself into the Seine. Despite Andres attempts to persuade the woman to climb back over the railing, she lets go and jumps into the water. A split second later, he too jumps into the water.With much effort, he hauls her limp soaked body to the shore and tries to coax her back to life. Sitting alone on the quay with a lifeless woman in his arms and hit men on his tail, Andre desperately hopes for a miracle. About to give up on the mysterious woman, Andre is relieved when she finally opens her eyes. Her name is Angela. As a thanks for being saved, Angela pledges her life to Andre, doing anything and everything she can to help him. Confused as to why such a gorgeous woman should want to help him, Andre is skeptical. Only when she delivers the money he so desperately needs does he begin to trust her and agree to let her help. Although Angela helps him to get the money he needs, Andre begins to think she may have an ulterior motive. Why else would such a beautiful woman help someone like him? Angela is not just helping Andre to find money, she is also helping him to find the courage to see the good deep inside himself, and for the first time, he actually believes there might be some good to be found. And Andre, who has never been a hero, must believe he can stand up for himself in order to convince Angela, the woman who he has fallen madly in love with, to give up everything to be with him.
