Part documentary, part narrative, part instructional format, this film aims to teach young inexperienced youth about all things involved with "getting down", while also pointing out some of the pitfalls associated with the party lifestyle.
Tongue-in-cheek look at 20-something singles clubbing and partying in L.A.; it's organized into 15 chapters from overview and preparation to partying and the morning after. Voice-over narration, charts and graphs, and visits to a research laboratory punctuate the story of a single night when groups of friends go out, drink alcohol, take drugs, dance and talk, and look for someone to go home with. Dangers, minor and major, await those who don't plan well or behave foolishly, and the rewards, even for those who plan well, are few. But the species' survival may depend on these rituals.
All over the world, kids are getting down. They are getting down at the club, at work, in the car, at the party, in the alley and at your front door. And chances are, if youre a kid, you want to get down too.Part documentary, part narrative, part instructional film THE BOYS AND GIRLS GUIDE TO GETTING DOWN teaches kids about the things they'll need in order to get down things like vodka and drugs while showing them how to avoid some of the pitfalls associated with this lifestyle like the police and getting sick.Learn the real reason people go to bars. Marvel at the ways to gain entrance to the coolest club in town. And learn what not to say to that girl whos been eyeing you across the bar.Years of painstaking research have gone into the creation of THE BOYS AND GIRLS GUIDE TO GETTING DOWN - from Dr Heizakeit's experiments with alcohol and mice to observations of Hollywood hipsters in a party environment. The Guide truly gets into the science of getting down and is replete with charts, graphs and kick ass graphics.THE BOYS AND GIRLS GUIDE TO GETTING DOWN is written and directed by Paul Sapiano. The film was edited by master editor Enrique Aguirre at King Cut in Venice, California. All the films graphics were done by design marvel Larimie Garcia of Gigspot. [D-Man2010]
