A man falls in love with a beautiful woman, but later discovers that her brothers are gangsters.
After the passing away of his dark-skinned wife, from who they sired Uday, Dubai-based criminal don, Shankar Shetty re-married a fair-skinned woman, who gave birth to fair-skinned Sanjana. After the couple's passing, Uday takes over in his dad's footsteps, and takes it upon himself to try and get Sanjana married - in vain, as no one wants to be associated with a crime family. Then Uday's associate, Sagar Pandey, aspiring live-action painter, who had loved Iravati, got beat-up by her brothers, and was re-named Majnu, assists in finding a young man, Rajiv, who lives with his maternal uncle, Dr. Ghunghroo and aunt, and through extortion compels Ghunghroo to accept this alliance. But Ghunghroo, at the very first opportunity, gets Rajiv to fall in love with another young woman in Sun City, South Africa. When the time comes to get Rajiv formally engaged to this woman, he finds out that Sanjana and she are the very same woman. With no escape from this predicament, the wedding is planned, invitations are sent out, and even Ranvir Dhanraj alias RDX, an Italian-based criminal don, also makes an appearance. On the day of the engagement, a woman claiming to be Rajiv's child-hood betrothed shows up, makes a successful plea to Ranvir, and gets the engagement annulled. When Dr. Ghunghroo finds out that Rajiv and Sanjana have fallen in love with each other, he decides to accept Sanjana into the family on the condition that Uday gives up on crime. Rajiv and Sanjana attempt to get Uday to take up acting in a Bollywood movie - with considerable success - so much so that Uday has no time for crime. Things get complicated when Ranvir's son, Lucky, gets wind of Rajiv's scheme and arrives in India with one mission - get Uday back on track with crime - and if necessary do away with Rajiv - once and for all.
The sister of two mafia dons falls for a simpleton. The resulting chaos unfolds a drama with hilarious consequences.
