A group of diamond thieves on the run kidnap the wife of a recently discharged marine who goes on a chase through the South Carolinian wilderness to retrieve her.
John Triton is a heroic Marine who returns home after being discharged--against his will--from the Iraq War. Stateside, he finds himself back in action, when a group of murderous diamond thieves on the run led by a merciless criminal named Rome has kidnapped his wife and John goes on a chase through the South Carolinian wilderness to retrieve her. With everything on the line, the Marine will stop at nothing to carry out his toughest and most important mission.
After returning home from Iraq, former Marine John Triton (Cena) and his wife Kate (Carlson) decide to take a vacation. Meanwhile, criminal mastermind Rome (Robert Patrick) robs a jewelry store with his accomplices: his attractive girlfriend Angela (Abigail Bianca), Morgan (Parker), Vescera (Gibson), and Bennett (Bennett). While running from the cops, they stop at a gas station, where John and Kate have stopped as well. When a patrol car arrives to fill up, Morgan murders one of the officers while Rome injures the second officer. After Bennett knocks John out with a fire extinguisher, Kate is kidnapped. Morgan shoots at the gas tanks, causing the store to blow up with John inside. John survives, emerging to take the abandoned patrol car. He gives chase, with every single member of the gang shooting at him. They go through a construction area, and to the edge of a lake. Under heavy fire, John falls out of the car and into the lake.The criminals decide to travel through the swamps to avoid the police, still with Kate as their hostage. John revives and, despite an officer denying him permission to, he continues to pursue them. After an altercation between Morgan and Vescera to show how crazy Morgan is, Rome decides that they have no further use for Vescera and shoots him, leaving the body for the alligators. Kate gets into heated arguments with the group, Angela especially, who strikes Kate whenever she insults her or tries to escape.The criminals eventually arrive at a shack and rest there for the time being. Triton gets delayed when some fugitives attack him. He subdues them both and tracks the gang to the lodge. He arrives and kills Morgan, who was sent out to turn on the electricity, with a knife that Vescera dropped when he was killed. He then kills Bennett when he goes out to check on Morgan, beating him down and stomping on his neck. As he drags the bodies under the shack, the police officer he met earlier "grants" him further permission to do what he must and turns off the electricity for a distraction.Kate takes advantage of this and rushes out of the building, only to be pursued and captured by Angela. John crashes through the window and meets Rome for the first time in his journey. The cop also enters the room and points his gun at John, revealing himself to be working with Rome the whole time (and thus the mystery individual Rome tried to cut out of the deal in an earlier phone call). Rome opens fires at Triton, but he uses the corrupt cop (V.B.) as a human shield. Rome makes his escape and joins up with Angela and the still captured Kate before firing at a gasoline tank and destroying the shack. John makes a narrow escape out the window.Rome takes V.B.'s car and drives off, but because of the police monitor, they have to abandon it, and Angela hitchhikes and shoots a truck driver to steal his trailer-less. John is arrested by an officer in a boat and steals the vessel after handcuffing the officer, heading for Rita's Marina (the destination he heard the criminals speaking of earlier). John arrives and sees the truck cab, jumping onto the back. He then sees a bus heading the opposite direction and runs along the running board to the passenger seat where he opens the door, grabs Angela by the neck, and throws her into the bus's windshield, killing her and spilling the diamonds. Rome then knocks John off the truck by driving into the side of a building and careens through a warehouse, leaping out before the truck crashes through a window into the lake beyond. Triton confronts him in the fiery warehouse and thinks he kills Rome by burying him in debris after a vicious battle. He rushes to rescue his wife, who is handcuffed inside the sinking truck cab, dragging her from the water and administering CPR successfully. A badly-burned Rome returns and chokes him with a chain. John turns the tables and breaks Rome's neck with the chain and the scene ends with John and Kate kissing.
