As her species decays succumbing to infections and illnesses, an alien seductress immunologically stronger becomes the only hope for them to live on.
While being transported in a military ambulance and supposed dead, Eve delivers an offspring and is killed by a half-breed. The baby girl is abducted by Dr. Abbot, and a couple of days later she grows up, reaching adulthood and becoming a gorgeous young woman called Sara. Dr. Abbot expects to develop a perfect DNA using Sara's eggs and win the Nobel Prize, and invites the student Dean to be his assistant and share his research and future awards. But while Sara unsuccessfully chases a perfect mate for her to generate a perfect being, the flawed half-breeds led by Amelia try to reproduce with her to survive their species.
Hours after the events of the previous film, the medical van transporting the lifeless Eve has lost its way, but when the co-driver tries to radio their superiors, the driver stops and holds him at gunpoint. They are ambushed by the "half-breed" alien child hiding in the van, who kills the co-driver with his tongue. The driver discovers both the half-breed and a reviving Eve in the back of the van; the half-breed strangles Eve to death while she gives birth to a newborn alien, which the driver flees with. Government agent Wasach orders an autopsy, discovering Eve's pregnancy, then has her body burned.The driver, Dr. Abbot, returns to his usual job teaching biochemistry at a university, where he teaches his belief that it is wrong to decide whether a species should live or die. He raises Eve's child in his home, and she grows into a young girl he names Sara. One night at his office, Abbot is visited by the half-breed boy from the van, who has dramatically aged and is critically ill. While Dr. Abbot tries to treat him, the half-breed demands to see "it" (Eve's child) and reveals to Abbot that there are other half-breeds suffering from similar illnesses. Afterward, he dies horribly while sitting in the chair. Shocked by these events, Abbot approaches Dean, one of his students whose funding for an experimental power plant project is in jeopardy, and asks for his aid in perfecting the alien DNA to save the species. In return, Abbot promises Dean a share of any funding or awards their work receives.In Abbot's absence, Sara pupates inside a cocoon, and emerges as an adult. Abbot's superior, Dr. Turner, arrives at the house seeking Abbot and comes across Sara, who initially tries to seduce him but then rejects him when she senses imperfections in his genes. He attempts to rape her, and Sara kills him. Sara leaves to seek a mate, and Abbot returns home and sees evidence of Sara's transformation and disposes of Turner's body. Sara eventually connects with another half-breed, but discovers his illnesses and knocks his tooth out. As Abbot and Dean continue their experiments on Sara, Dean begins to bond with her. Abbot informs Dean of the government's "Project Athena," which created Sil in the first film and Sara's heritage as the child of an astronaut infected with alien DNA and Eve, Sil's clone. The half-breed Sara rejected breaks into the lab, mortally wounds Abbot and attempts to impregnate Sara, but is killed by hydrochloric gas Abbot sprays over the lab. Left alone, Dean ponders whether to continue Abbot's work, and Sara urges him to save her species.Dean's roommate at the university, Hastings, discovers a website posted by a woman named Amelia who wants to date biochemists. After snooping through Dean's notes, he forwards them to Amelia, who agrees to meet him. En route, Amelia - who is another half-breed - has sex with and murders a gas station attendant who attempts to rape her. At the campus, she senses Sara and kidnaps Hastings, taking him to Abbot's home. Both Amelia and Sara force Hastings to work on perfecting the alien DNA using Sara's purer biology to save the half-breeds and create perfect mating partners for them. Agent Wasach, whose team also monitored Amelia's website and discovered its connection to Project Athena, picks up Dean and helps him save Hastings.Dean, Hastings and Wasach flee to Dean's experimental power plant with Sara and Amelia in pursuit. While attempting to keep Sara's harvested eggs away from them, the three decide to try trapping Amelia and Sara in the plant's core, but this tactic risks causing a catastrophic meltdown. Dean drops the eggs into the core, prompting Amelia to attempt to kill him, but Sara attacks her and throws her into the core as well. Dean, Hastings and Wasach manage to close the core in time to prevent a meltdown.Later, Hastings visits Dean at Abbot's home and discovers both Sara and a half-breed alien boy. Dean reveals that he actually managed to pull Sara to safety before sealing the plant's core, then completed the refined alien DNA to create a mate for her so she would not be alone. After the boy is grown, Dean tells Sara she's on her own and to be careful, but before Sara and her mate leave, Dean asks Sara why she saved him from Amelia when there was no reason to. She does not answer, but it is implied she has come to care for him. Dean then reassures the nervous Hastings by revealing he ensured Sara's mate would be sterile, preventing them from reproducing.
