A porter and a top-model have to pretend to be a couple in order to salvage a CEO's marriage.
A Parisian valet loves a woman who rejects him: she's in debt to open a bookshop, and he's not her ideal man. A billionaire two-times his wealthy wife with his beautiful mistress, a young supermodel. To draw the paparazzi and his wife off the trail of adultery, and to give his lawyer time to arrange a divorce that won't cost him a fortune, the billionaire pays the supermodel and the valet to pretend for a month to be a couple. Within days, the bookshop owner and the billionaire are jealous, the supermodel experiences life with a nice guy, and the valet has status and self-confidence. What will each do with newfound wisdom?
Middle-classed Pierre Levasseur's life changes after he marries wealthy Christine. With wealth at his beckoning, he has an affair with leggy supermodel, Elena, and makes her his mistress. Things spiral out of control after Christine gets a photograph of both of them together along with a strange male. The only way Pierre can get out of this mess is by locating this stranger, and asking him to pose as Elena's boyfriend/spouse. He is able to locate and identify him as Francois Pignon, a Valet, pays him handsomely to enact this charade, and as a result Francois and Elena move in to live in small apartment. Chaos results when Christine hires a private eye to spy on Elena, and Pignon juggles his life between the woman he adores, Emilie; this charade; his attraction towards Elena herself; an overly inquisitive friend, Richard; while a suspicious Pierre, afraid of losing Elena to Pignon, recruits a male to spy on the couple!
Pierre Levasseur, an important CEO, is photographed with his lover, Elena, a world-famous model. In an attempt to salvage his marriage, he tries to convince his wife that Elena is not his lover, but that of François Pignon, a valet who was passing by and ended up on the photograph. To make his story believable, Levasseur then has to convince Pignon and Elena to move in together and to pretend to be a couple. Things get more complicated when this creates tensions between Pignon and his former flatmate Richard and his love interest Émilie, and when Levasseur's wife discovers the truth and decides to play games with her husband.

