A young journalist, a seasoned cameraman and a discredited war correspondent embark on an unauthorized mission to find the No.1 war criminal in Bosnia. However, their extremely dangerous target decides to come after them.
A young journalist, a seasoned cameraman and a discredited war correspondent embark on an unauthorized mission to find the no. 1 war criminal in Bosnia; they find themselves in serious jeopardy when they are mistaken as a CIA hit squad and their target decides to come after them.
Duck is a television news cameraman who worked with journalist Simon Hunt. But while working in Bosnia during the mid 90s, Hunt fell in love with a local girl and she was carrying his child. But Serbs attack the village killing her. Hunt would have a breakdown on camera and lose his job. He would then wander around looking for the man who ordered the attack who is known The Fox. 5 years later, Duck comes to Bosnia to cover the anniversary of the end of the war. He runs into Hunt who tells him he knows where the Fox is. He wants to go find him and interview him and wants Duck to come along. Also accompanying them is Benjamin who's the son of a network executive. But it's when they're far away that Hunt reveals his true intention - to capture the Fox and turn him in for the reward. And things don't exactly work out because no one is willing or brave enough to tell them where the Fox is. And when they are assumed to be CIA, someone tries to take them out.
2000. Network news anchor Franklin Harris, the network's chief news cameraman Duck, and aspiring newsman Benjamin Strauss, a recent Harvard Journalism graduate who only got the job with the network as the son of one of the network VPs, are in Bosnia to cover the official fifth anniversary ceremony of the end of the Bosnian War. Who they run into there is Simon Hunt, who once worked for the network as one of its most fearless (i.e. crazy) and acclaimed war correspondents, that acclaim and employment which abruptly ended in 1994 when, covering this war, he had a very public on-air meltdown. While Simon was fired having struggled since to find any meaningful employment in the field, Duck, who was his loyal cameraman for nine years, got promoted to the cushy New York studio job in having filmed that meltdown, which is still covered in journalism school. Regardless of having been shot four times without Simon ever having gotten more than a scratch in those nine years, Duck still considers Simon not only a friend but the best time he's had in his career. Simon is able to convince Duck to delay his booty-call vacation to Greece in having a lead on what could be the biggest global story: the location of the most wanted Bosnian War criminal Dragoslav Bogdanovic, better known as The Fox in his penchant for fox hunting. Simon's goal is for an exclusive interview. Tagging along is Benjamin who, smelling that Simon and Duck are working on a big story, wants to prove to his VP father that he isn't the screw-up his father believes him to be. It isn't until they embark on this venture that Simon tells them the second part of his mission: to capture The Fox in order to collect the $5 million reward money, Simon basically penniless. With their lives at risk every step of the way, they may stumble onto an equally big story with greater implications, telling that story only if they are able to survive this ordeal.
After discrediting himself, ace Journalist, Simon Hunt, stops appearing on the U.S. National media, leaving his assistant, Duck, to be promoted. Now years later Duck, along with Franklin Harris and Benjamin Strauss, the son of the Network's Vice-President, have landed in Bosnia during the fall of 2000, 5 years after the Bosnian war. It is here that Duck will get to meet Simon, who will convince him to join him to hunt down war criminal Boghdanovic, who is on the most wanted list and carrying a 5 million dollar reward for systemically killing tens and thousands of Muslims (ethnic cleansing). Duck and Benjamin join Simon and journey out of Bosnia to travel to Montenegro. It is here they will meet with UN Official, Eknath Bharwani, who is not even aware of indictment details for Boghdanovic, and is quite content following instructions to not go anywhere near the last known location of the culprit. The trio will soon find out that the UN, NATO, The Hague, CIA amongst others are not only intent on keeping this war criminal's whereabouts a secret, but will oppose anyone who even tries to locate him. The trio find themselves in a soup when Boghdanovic and his henchman, a Psycho who has a tattoo on his forehead, find them and begin torturing them as they suspect them of being CIA Agents. The question remains who will come to their rescue?
In 1995, the reckless but efficient war correspondent Simon Hunt and his cameraman Duck are covering the war in Bosnia. After a massacre in a Muslin village, Simon has a meltdown live on TV; he is fired and discredited by the network and disappears in the world of journalism while Duck is promoted, working for the famous anchor Franklin Harris. Five years later, while covering the peace in Bosnia with Franklin and the son of the network's VP Benjamin Strauss, Duck is visited by Simon who convinces his friend to chase the most wanted war criminal Boghdanovic a.k.a. The Fox, who has a five million dollar reward, for an interview. Ben joins the group in a journey to Celebici, in the border of Republic Srpska and Montenegro. However, Simon discloses the real intention of their hunting while they are mistaken as a CIA hit squad getting into serious trouble.
After years of covering one war after another, journalist Simon Hunt (Richard Gere) loses his composure during a live broadcast covering the Bosnian War. While his career spirals downhill, that of his long-time camera man Duck (Terrence Howard) goes in the opposite direction. Duck gets a cushy job at the network, while Hunt is left following war after war, unemployed, in an attempt to get back on top.Years later, Duck returns to Bosnia to shoot a "puff piece" of the network anchor Franklin Harris (James Brolin) covering a peace treaty, along with fresh young journalist (and son of the network vice-president) Benjamin (Jesse Eisenberg). Duck runs into Simon - by this point a desperate, cynical freelancer who needs a story big enough to propel him back to the realm of credibility. He tells Duck that, through a source, he has located Dragoslav Bogdanovic - known as "The Fox", who is a wanted war criminal with a US$5 million bounty on his head: he is assumed to be in the village of Elebii in Republika Srpska (Serbian entity in Bosnia), near the border with Montenegro.Convinced by Simon, Duck comes along to shoot the interview, with Benjamin in tow. On the way, Simon confesses his plan to capture the Fox - something Duck and Benjamin consider insane even to think about. Along the way, the group is mistaken for a CIA hit squad by several groups, including the United Nations police force and the Serbians themselves; at one point, at the initiative of Benjamin, they claim to be CIA agents themselves, using a threat to avoid paying a fee for a tip. Simon, Duck, and Benjamin are then captured by the Fox's guards and taken to a barn to be executed. At the last moment, a team of CIA assassins storms the barn and frees the journalists, but Fox escapes. It quickly becomes evident to the journalists that, even in the international community, there are people who do not wish the Fox to be captured. The CIA orders the journalists to board an airplane bound for the US, but they run away to carry out their plan to catch the Fox. They capture him while he is hunting in the woods without his guards. The journalists then release him, with his hands securely bound, in a village filled with the surviving family members of victims of his war crimes.
