In the Seventeenth Century, while Hungary is fighting the Turks, the population of a small village in the Carpathian Mountains faces the evil Countess Elizabeth Bathory, accused of drinking and bathing in blood of virgin women. Count Thurzo imprisons the Countess in the tower of a monastery and brings her daughter to live with him. In the present days, Keith is writing a book about Countess Elizabeth Bathory and traveling through Hungary with his friends J.J. and Kim researching her life. While trying to find the monastery, he meets the gorgeous and seductive Elizabeth, who guides the trio to the place. Keith and Elizabeth fall in love for each other, and after a car accident, they have a supernatural journey with revelations and fatalities.
"Metamorphosis" is a grab on to your seat thriller that takes us on an unforgettable journey exploring life beyond death through a passionate and dangerous love story between a young American writer and a gorgeous and exotic vampire. Through the power of myth, we uncover the lost details of medieval history and the legend of vampires to discover a new reality. Unpredictable and mesmerizing, this film will take us to a space of unknown terror leaving us questioning our own eyes...
Along the lines of Roman Polanski's "Rosemary's Baby," METAMORPHOSIS deals with the supernatural in an innovative, edgy way. This love story between a young American and a beautiful and seductive vampire transcends time and space while it explores the strength of the soul and the heart. It's been said that if something doesn't kill you, it will make you stronger. METAMORPHOSIS creates a paradox: even if something kills you, it will make you stronger. When three young and carefree Americans on an Eastern European trip pick up an attractive stranger, Elizabeth, they can't foresee that she'll take them on the journey of their lives. As Keith, a novelist fascinated with ancient mysteries, and the exotic Elizabeth, fall in love, they set off a series of events that puts them all in mortal danger. The group ventures through the mountains to a medieval castle, where they soon discover that their survival depends on outwitting and eluding supernatural forces. As the fast-paced, horrifying action accelerates, sections of the story's Rubik's cube begin to lock into place. Then, with a surprising twist, along the lines of the "Sixth Sense" and "The Others," the plot takes a sharp, mind-bending turn. Some people have a fascination with the paranormal; others have a passion for horror and action. METAMORPHOSIS offers something to whet anyone's appetite... even a vampire's.

