Gina and Seth have been pen pals for 13 years and now will have the chance to meet. Both used their best friends pictures to send to each other and now will let their friends meet.
Now in young adulthood, Gina and Seth have been pen pals for thirteen years. They have graduated from handwritten letters when they started corresponding to email, but with both being insecure with who they are as people have decided not to exchange telephone numbers. Even when they have discussed exchanging photographs of the other, they have sent photos of their more outgoing best friends, Ellen and Matt, passing them off as themselves without telling either Ellen or Matt. Each has been there for the other through every major event that has happened in their lives, and as such, they have both fallen for the other without either admitting it to themselves or having the nerve to tell the other. Living in different cities - Boston and Denver - they have never even seriously considered meeting in person, until now. Seth, a junior executive at a toy company, is heading to Boston just before Christmas to attend a toy convention, which Gina, a struggling reporter stuck in "obituary" purgatory at her newspaper, is given her first real reporting assignment to cover. Gina knows that Seth is on the attendee list, tells him that she knows he's coming, but she doesn't tell him that the convention is her assignment. They both know that they have to meet at least once, and as such convince their "photo" alter egos, Ellen and Matt, to take their place at that meeting. The first problem is is that Ellen and Matt, after acting more like themselves than what Gina and Seth are supposed to be, begin to fall for each other, which causes issues in their friendships with Gina and Seth. The second problem is that Gina and Seth meet at the conference without knowing who the other is, and they slowly fall for each other, not wanting to betray their feelings for who they believe are Seth and Gina in Matt and Ellen. But a further issue arises when Seth knows that "the reporter" he is falling for has some sensitive information gleaned accidentally from him that could ruin his career if it came to public light, but that could break open her stagnating reporting career.
Junior Toy Matters executive Seth Always remained too shy to date except as Internet pen pal with Gina since boyhood, unlike his housemate buddy, would be-actor Matt. A toy convention brings him Gina's home city Boston, so they agree to meet. However neither knows the other only posted pictures of Matt viz. her fresh girl buddy Ellen, so each delegates the fake to the first date, which goes surprisingly well for the initially reluctant stand-ins. Meanwhile Seth is horrified that anonymous Gina proves the newspaper reporter who overhears him phoning at the convention about his boss's business-wise potentially disastrous affair with another toy company boss. They meet again by accident, spying on Matt and Ellen, and to defuse the scandal, which could be the scoop getting Gina promoted from obituaries to news. Gradually to fall in love and discover the truth, which is hard to stomach.
Gina and Seth became pen pals 13 years ago in a class assignment. Gina lives in Boston now and finds out Seth will be in town for a toy conference she is going to cover for her paper. They both had sent pictures of their best friends, Ellen and Matt to each other instead. Now Gina and Seth force their best friends to meet as them. Unfortunately for them both, Ellen and Matt start to fall for each other.
Gina and Seth became penpals when they were in the 6th grade. It is now 13 years later, and they still have been writing to each other but not met. She is a journalist while he is a toy inventor. An opportunity arises when there is a toy convention in Boston. They decide to meet. One problem. They have been exchanging pictures of their better-looking friends. When they actually do meet for the first time, it is not all fireworks. Can they reveal themselves to each other before it is too late? or is it?

