Munna Bhai embarks on a journey with Mahatma Gandhi in order to fight against a corrupt property dealer.
A hilarious underworld gangster known as Munna Bhai falls comically in love with a radio host by the name of Jahnvi, who runs an elders' home, which is taken over by an unscrupulous builder, who gets the residents kicked out ironically with the help of Munna's sidekick, Circuit, while Munna is busy romancing Jahnvi elsewhere. Munna, who is now masquerading as a Professor specializing in the life of Mahatma Gandhi, must now battle his very own forces and the builder - but he has one ally on his side - none other than the great man - Mahatma Gandhi himself. Only trouble is that Munna may have problems convincing everyone about this presence - as he is apparently is the only one who can see and hear him.
In order to meet and impress radio hostess, Jhanvi, Murliprasad alias Munna Bhai, dreaded underworld Don of Bombay, dons the guise of a Gandhian Professor, wins a contest, appears on the radio, has a date with Jhanvi, gets to meet Jhanvi's family, consisting of six elderly gentlemen who live at a palatial house called '2nd Innings', and wins a place in her heart. While Murli, Jhanvi, and the residents go on a trip to Goa, '2nd Innings' is taken over by Lakhbir Singh alias Lucky, who intends to give this away as a dowry gift for his daughter, Simran, when she gets married to Sunny Kkhurana. An enraged Murli is all set to confront Lucky and seize the house back, but decides to do it the Gandhian way - by launching a peaceful Satyagraha in front of Lucky's house in a bid to get him to change his mind. The Satyagraha and a bit of negative radio publicity Lucky does change his mind, organizes a press conference, gets Murli to admit that he has been talking with none other than Mohandas K. Gandhi himself - and as a result makes him look insane and lose all credibility. To make matters worse, Jhanvi finds out the truth about Murli. Watch what Murli and his side-kick, Sarkeshwar alias Circuit, do to get him back in Jhanvi's good books as well as teach the egoistic Lucky some truly Gandhian lessons.
In this sequel to the highly successful and much appreciated Munnabhai MBBS , the affable goon Murli Prasad Sharma aka Munna and his trusted aide Circuit are employed by Lucky Singh who's an unscrupulous builder . Munna is in love with the voice of a radio jockey named Jahnvi . He gets to meet her in person after winning a radio contest , and decides to learn about Mahatma Gandhi's life and principles to win her heart . But then something happens which is quite inexplicable : Munna begins to see Mahatma Gandhi in person , who wants to help him . Later , when Jahnvi's house is seized by the corrupt Lucky Singh , Munna embarks upon using Gandhi's principles of truth and non-violence to bring about a change in Lucky Singh's heart .
Munna is in love with the voice of popular Radio Jockey Jhanvi. Her effervescent greeting of "Good Morrrning Mumbai" on her daily radio show makes Munna's heart skip a beat each time he listens to her. Life is beautiful for Munna--his "dadagiri" business is flourishing, he listens besottedly to the radio for hours every day, he dreams of marrying Jhanvi. There is just one "minor" problem. Jhanvi thinks Munna is a "Professor of History." And in all her innocence, Jhani even invites Munna to give a history lecture to her family. Poor Munna! What should he do?! As Munna tries to sort of this "minor" entanglement in his otherwise perfect life, Circuit comes up with a bright solution. And then, the most unusual thing occurs in Munna's life. What happens when the 'Present' meets the 'Past'? What happens when our very own "Professor of History" encounters a 'Figure from History'?
Munna and his sidekick Circuit are local goons working for Lucky Singh in caring out kidnapping ,ransom and many illegal activities. Munna is in love with a Radio Jockey Jhanvi and wants to meet her any how by winning a Radio quiz based on Mahatma Gandhi (Bapu) on 2nd October.Circuit, kidnaps and bribes few professors in order to help Munna win the quiz.Munna wins the quiz and gets a chance to meet Jhanvi and lies to her that he is a professor.Jhanvi introduces Munna to 2nd Innings house where her grandfather lives in with many of his friends who were part of freedom struggle but now in old age have been deserted by their children.In order to impress Jhanvi. Munna tries to learn more and more about Mahatma Gandhi (Bapu) and eventually starts seeing him.Lucky who's eyeing 2nd innings house property sends Munna along with Jhanvi and 2nd innings members to holiday in Goa and empties the house with help of Circuit whose unaware that the house belongs to Jhanvi,Upon returning Lucky blackmails Munna to expose him in front of Jhanvi.Munna scolds Circuit for his mistake.Bapu appears to him tells Munna he should forgive Circuit and fight against Lucky to gain the 2nd innings house by Non Violence.

