The penguins of the Central Park Zoo have an adventure in the city on Christmas Eve.
On Christmas Eve, Private slips out of the zoo for some last-minute shopping. In the city he's mistaken as a cute chew toy by a mean old woman named Nana, who gives Private to her vicious dog, Mr. Chew. On a mission to rescue their penguin pal, Skipper, Kowalski and Rico risk life and flipper as they take on Nana and Mr. Chew with an explosive solution that will leave you laughing out loud.
On a cold Christmas Eve, Private, Central Park Zoo's youngest penguin and the waddle's most compassionate member, summons up all his courage to sneak out in Manhattan's festive bustling streets in search of a little something for Ted, the solitary polar bear. However, the densely-populated city is definitely not a place for a small creature--and before long--Private will find himself in a real predicament, as Rico, Skipper, and Kowalski try their best to rescue the helpless companion from a true Yuletide tragedy. But, will they make it in time?
During the holiday season, when the animals of the Central Park Zoo are preparing for Christmas, Private, the youngest of the penguins notices that the Polar Bear is all alone. Assured that nobody should have to spend Christmas alone, Private goes into the city for some last-minute Christmas shopping. Along the way, he gets stuffed into a stocking. His fellow penguins venture after him after noticing his absence, and try to save him.
One of the Madagascar penguins feels sorry for a lonely polar bear at Christmas, so he goes to buy him a present from the town. However after being mistaken for a toy and being bought by an elderly lady, the three other penguins must save him from the evil wrath of the lady's small dog, who appears cute and cuddly on the outside, yet is evil, with menacing eyes and dagger-like teeth on the inside. The chaos and fun ensues from there, in this hilarious short by Gary Trousdale.
The penguins from "Madagascar" escape from the zoo to get back one of their group who has gone in search of a X-Mas present for the Polar Bear in NYC, The Old Lady has mistaken him for a toy and taken him home...now they have to rescue him.

