Three ex-girlfriends of a serial cheater set up their former lover to fall for the new girl in town so they can watch him get his heart broken.
Kate (Brittany Snow) is the new girl in school. She catches John Tucker (Jesse Metcalfe) dating three different girls at once: Carrie - the smart girl, Heather - the cheerleader, and Beth - the activist slut; none of them are aware that they are not the only girl in John's heart. Kate, having been raised by a single mother, has seen the pain caused by playboys like John Tucker, and she won't stand idly by. Together with the three jilted ex-girlfriends, they hatch a plan to teach John a lesson. Things rarely go as planned, especially when Kate starts to think that she might be falling for John herself.
Teenager Kate Spencer has always felt invisible to the world, largely living in the shadow of her beautiful divorced mother, Lori Spencer, who catches the attention of every man she meets. Kate has collectively nicknamed all Lori's boyfriends "Skip", as they always skip out on her, Lori who picks up and moves in the aftermath. In moving to Portland, Oregon, Kate's invisible status changes out of circumstance. She gets drawn into a school crowd consisting of media expert Carrie Schaeffer, head cheerleader Heather Straham, and sexually active activist Beth McIntyre, the three who did not travel in the same social circle until Kate's arrival. Their common bond is popular John Tucker, the school's star basketball player and big man on campus. The three learn that John has been dating each of them behind the other two's backs, telling each that they are "the one". This revelation brings out the claws in each of the three who attack the other two. However, Kate, in her experiences with the Skips, convinces them that the other two are not the enemy, but John himself, who has played each of them, making them feel like the guilty party instead of him. So Kate convinces them that the best course of action is for the three of them to bond together to get their revenge against John. Being too close to the subject, the three believe they need Kate's help. Their plan is to transform Kate into the perfect girl - an amalgam of the three of them - to catch John's wandering eye, after which she will dump him and break his heart. There are several potential problems in their plan. John's popularity may make him immune to any backlash against him that they may try to cause. Inexperienced Kate, who has never had a boyfriend, may not only not be equipped to navigate dating, but she may fall under John's spell despite she having seen the slime-ball in him in action. And Kate being involved with John may jeopardize any possibility of a relationship with who she seems to be mutually attracted, namely John's younger brother, Scott Tucker, who, like Kate, has largely lived in the shadow of his more popular relative.
John Tucker is popular, sexy, talented and a complete player. He dates three girls at once, the total stereotypes of every high school: the cheerleader, the brainiac and the slut. When a new, very pretty, sweet and clever girl, Kate, comes to town after her mother's heart is broken and she packs their lives up yet again, they set out to use Kate in their scheme to humiliate John. But this fails and he breaks up with them after "finding his emotional needs". Now they seek to kick the gear to overdrive and use Kate to break his heart and be the ultimate challenge for him. They mold her into the ultimate high-school femme fatale mystery chick and help her get John's appetite whetted. While John is hankering after her, she meets his younger brother, Scott, and becomes his lab partner. In Scott she finds friendship and starts to like him more than just platonically, and Scott reciprocates these feelings, until he realises that his brother wants her. Scott's seen John pick up and quickly drop off every girl in the school, and chooses to keep his distance from Kate, thinking she's like every other John Tucker groupie in the school. John starts to fall in love with Kate, and she realises what a nice guy he is under the alpha male mask. So what is she to do? Go along with the scheme and break John's heart at his annual birthday bash to be accepted by the "popular" chicks, be with John and confess her sins, or leave both of these parties and go to Scott if he'll have her? And who will truly lose in the end? John Tucker, Kate, the scheming trio or Scott? It seems everyone will lose as their well-laid sabotage of John's heart spirals out of control. After all, John Tucker Must Die...
