Ajay Kumar the newly appointed, honest SSP of Lucknow police cracks down on the nefarious cop-mafia nexus in Uttar Pradesh, but finds a cunning and ruthless adversary in Gajraj. Can Ajay win this unjust war ?
At the tender age of 8 Ajay Kumar is traumatized with the death of his army officer dad, who kills himself with his service revolver as he was being accused of being a deserter, leaving a widowed Prabha to bring up Ajay on her own. Ajay grows up, studies, and successfully becomes an IPS officer with the title of SSP. Due to his honesty, he gets transferred to various states in India. At this new posting in Uttar Pradesh he comes to terms with criminal don and ruthless killer Gajraj Singh. Ajay would like a set up a Special Task Force to deal with Gajraj, however, he does run into problems as Gajraj is politically well-connected. Then a child, who is a close friend of the state Chief Minister's, is kidnapped by Gajraj, and this paves the way for formation of the STF, consisting of about 8 honest and dedicated men, and this does results in the rescue of the child. Gajraj continues to elude the STF, using more modern technology such as the use of cell phones. But the STF bounces back and is able to monitor Gajraj's cell phones - only to find out that Gajraj is going to contest the elections - and if he wins than no police officer of any rank, leave alone the STF, can dare to arrest him or even consider him a suspect, and which may well result in the STF being mere paper tigers.
Ajay Kumar (Warsi) is the newly appointed, honest SSP of Lucknow police. Of his family only his mother (Mulay) remains, and she inspires and motivates him to do the right thing. Ajay tries to crack down on the UP mafia, but more often than not is betrayed by information-leaking local police officials. His boss tries to aid him by shielding him from political pressures, and by getting sanction for Ajay's brainchild - a Special Task Force (STF), which would work across local jurisdictions, and state lines. Criminal activities in UP are dominated by Gajraj (Sushant Singh) and his gang. Aided and abetted in his nefarious activities by feudal lords and politicians, Gajraj is an intelligent and ruthless criminal. Trying to pin him down, the STF takes help from a physics professor Tiwari (Kapoor) who helps them track down cell-phone conversations, and thereby the location of the criminals. The STF then makes headway in combating crime across the state, but is still unable to get Gajraj. The final attempt to get Gajraj forms the climax of the film.

