A rib tickling tale of two flirts who constantly flirt with women despite one of them being engaged. Chaos ensues when the fiancé finds out that her to-be groom is cheating on her.
Shyam and Makarand work as photographers in a commercial advertising agency. Both of them like to fool around with women, even though Makarand is engaged to be married to a doctor named Anjali. In order to outsmart each other, they two get into a competition of shooting a photograph, and Sam wins it, goes on a trip to the United States of America. Upon his return, he finds that Makarand is living a very enviable lifestyle with three of the most beautiful girls, who also work as air-hostesses. Sam meets them all, and finds out that the trio are unaware of each other, falls in love with Pooja; and begins several moves to upset Makarand lifestyle, and possibly get promoted as a Supervisor.
Makarand a.k.a. 'Mac' and Shyam a.k.a. 'Sam' are two flirtatious bachelors who live together and work together as photographers in an ad agency. Mac is engaged to Anjali but this does not deter him from having a fling or two. Both of our protagonists are trying to win the affections of their co-worker Maggie which sours their friendly relationship. The rift widens further when Sam cheats to win a photography contest, is promoted as Mac's boss and sent to USA for a few days. Meanwhile, Mac wants to get back at Sam and in order to make him feel jealous, he starts wooing three beautiful air hostesses simultaneously - Sweety, Puja and Deepti. Mac also gets the possession of a big apartment and starts living in with his three girlfriends who are unaware of each other's presence. When Sam returns from USA he starts feeling jealous and to get back at Mac he sets his sight upon Puja whom he has hots for and begins to live with Mac under the pretense of helping him manage to three-time his girlfriends.
Makrand Godbhole alias Mac works as a Photographer with a firm, and spends considerable time photographing attractive young women in various attire. His office has provided him with accommodation, and an assistant named Shyam alias Sam. Mac and Sam are both in love with the firm's secretary, Maggie, although Mac is engaged to be married to Dr. Anjali. Both do their best to upset the other's plan in order to get in Maggie's good books, often with hilarious results. Then both are entered in a competition for the best photograph, while Mac hustles in vain, Sam actually borrows an old photograph, wins the contest, is promoted as Mac's supervisor, his pay is doubled, he takes over Mac's accommodation, and also goes for a 10 day trip to the United States. When Sam returns back to India, nothing is the same anymore, Mac has moved into a palatial flat, has a cook named Mambo, and three gorgeous air-hostesses, namely Sweety Nair, Deepti, and Pooja, who time share this flat with him, each unaware of the others' presence. Sam is envious of Mac's women, and moves in with Mac - a action that will result in hilarious chaos - as both men must now out-do the other to win the affections of the unsuspecting beauties.
The film starts off when two photographers Makrand, aka Mac (Akshay Kumar) and Shyam, aka Sam (John Abraham) are doing a photo shoot. While Mac is shooting the models in exposing poses, his fiancée Anjali (Rimi Sen) leaves in disgust due to Mac's closeness to the models. Their boss calls them into his office and tells them that they are good-for-nothing photographers. He threatens to reduce their pay if they don't get some good pictures for the world photography competition to make his magazine Garam Masala famous.Both Mac and Sam ask Maggie (Neha Dhupia), the boss's secretary, on a date on the same day, at the same restaurant at the same time. As all three meet up at the restaurant a pickpocket takes Mac's and Sam's wallets. After the meal, the competition to impress Maggie heightens thus evoking humorous events after which Sam and Mac leave Maggie to pay the bill.Sam visits a famous photographer, praising him and asking for a few outstanding shots. These stolen shots help Sam to win the world photography competition. He gets promoted, is given ten percent of the prize money and has his pay doubled, whilst Mac receives a demotion to assistant. Sam flies off to the US to enjoy his holiday, leaving Mac fuming in Mauritius.The chief editor persuades Mac to show up Sam by getting three women to be his fiancées, getting a very expensive flat and driving very expensive, imported cars. Following his promise, Mac gets a high-quality flat and gets access to three beautiful air hostesses. His driver, Babban (Rajpal Yadav), is his key to the high life. Not only does Babban get Mac access to the flat, he delivers very high-end cars to impress his fiancées. He drives Mac's cars and does all his services for a small amount of liquor every day. Lastly, Babban gets Mac a housekeeper, Mambo (Paresh Rawal), who has an attitude problem and doesn't care what goes on in his flat so long as his demands are met.He has affairs with each of the three women-Deepti (Daisy Bopanna), Puja (Nargis Bagheri) and Sweety (Neetu Chandra)-and creates chaos. Sam returns from America, only to find his friend turned rival, playing around with three women at once. He tries to help his friend and tries out his own luck with the girls.The story turns into mayhem when it's hard for the two boys to maintain the three girls simultaneously. Mac's original fiancée Anjali learns about Mac's acts, and it creates a bigger mess. When their cook Mambo leaves, they begin to realize their mistakes and Mac attempts reuniting with Anjali; in the end they escape with each other.
