A deluded taxidermist plans the perfect crime.
In Buenos Aires, the epileptic taxidermist Esteban Espinosa is a painstaking man that likes to plot the perfect heist. When his wife leaves him, he accepts the invitation of his friend Sontag to hunt in a forest. They rent a cabin owned by Diana Dietrich and her husband Carlos Dietrich but soon they have an argument and Sontag returns to Buenos Aires. Esteban stays alone and while hunting a deer, he accidentally kills Dietrich near a shed. Esteban opens the shed and finds a plan for the heist of an armored truck. When he returns to the cabin, he stumbles with the criminals Sosa and Montero that are seeking out Dietrich. Now Esteban has the chance to execute the perfect crime he has dreamt on.
A quiet, cynic taxidermist, who suffers epilepsy attacks, is obsessed with committing the perfect crime. He claims that the cops are too stupid to find out about it when it's well executed, and that the robbers are too stupid to execute it the right way; and that he could do it himself relying on his photographic memory and his strategic planning skills. After he is invited on a hunting trip away from his home, an accident gives him the chance of his life: the possibility to commit the perfect crime he has been waiting for.
Espinoza is a shy taxidermist who secretly dreams of executing the perfect robbery. On his first ever hunting trip, in the calm of the Patagonian forest, his dreams are  made reality with one squeeze of the trigger. Espinoza accidentally kills a man who turns out to be a real criminal and  inherits his scheme: the heist of an armored van carrying casino profits. Caught up in a world of complex new rules and frightening violence, Espinoza's  lack of experience puts him in real danger. And he has another, more dangerous liability: he is an epileptic. Before each seizure he is visited by the ''aura'': a paradoxical moment of confusion and enlightenment where the past and future seem to blend. These attacks appear without notice when he least expects them, just when he needs all his wits about him...
El Aura, sinopsisEsteban tiene una memoria fotográfica y ha ideado un plan para asaltar una escolta de remesas de dinero observando como se comportan los guardias de seguridad y una infinidad de pequeños detalles que le permitirían realizar un asalto en 60 segundos justos sin disparar ni un tiro. Él no es del tipo rudo, capaz de llevar el plan a la acción, pero la casualidad lo lleva descubrir el plan concreto elaborado por un cazador en un área remota donde funciona un casino que envía fuertes sumas en un camión blindado; las coincidencias lo van llevando hasta que conoce a los cómplices del cazador, ahora muerto, y lo suplanta. Se presenta la oportunidad para llevar el atraco a cabo. El punto débil de Esteban es que padece de ataques epilépticos...
