After their cave is destroyed, a caveman family must trek through an unfamiliar fantastical world with the help of an inventive boy.
"The Croods" are an eccentric family of cavemen, who survive the harsh terrain by living accordingly to a strict set of rules. But when their home is destroyed in the wake of an impending disaster known as "The End", they are forced to leave their home of shelter and security, and into the wilderness of the unknown to find a new home.
The Neanderthal family the Croods lives in a cave, protected by the father Grug in accordance with the rules of survival that he has learned. His teenage daughter, Eep, is teen-aged rebellious and questions why the family lives in the dark. One night, Eep sees light and finds a Homosapien, Guy, who can control fire, is intelligent, and tells the family their World will end. When their cave collapses, Eep seeks out Guy to follow him to the new world. But the stubborn Grug does not accept the change of rules and wants to find another cave to protect his family.
Meet the Croods, the only caveman family still alive because they think new discoveries are dangerous. One night, their oldest child, Eep (stone), sneaks out and meets Guy (Reynolds), an inventive person who knows things the others don't. Later, in the morning, their cave is crushed by what he calls "The End". Grug (cage), Eep's father, is sad their cave is gone. Now they need to figure out how to survive with the help of Guy in a new set of open land.
Follows a semi-dysfunctional family living in the stone-age. But with the end of the world right behind the corner, the rules that used to keep them alive can't apply, and the Croods must use inventions and outside-the-box thinking to survive in this new world.
Longing to explore the great outdoors and see firsthand what lies beyond their stony cave, the prehistoric teenage cave-girl, Eep, is the first one in the large Croods family who thirsts for adventure. However, when her overprotective but well-meaning father, Grug--who believes that there's no safer place than their own cave--sees their home fall apart, the Croods will run for their lives for the first time in the wide and dangerous Palaeolithic landscapes. Only a confident cave-teen named Guy seems to know something about the impending global catastrophe; but will Grug and the rest of the family believe him? Can the Croods find a new place to call home?
Eep (Emma Stone) is a girl in a family of cavemen living and hunting in pre-historic times. Her family is one of the few to survive, mainly due to the strict rules of her overprotective father, Grug (Nicolas Cage). In their cave home, Grug tells a story to the family, which includes his wife Ugga (Catherine Keener), his daughter Sandy, his son Thunk (Clark Duke), and his mother-in-law Gran (Cloris Leachman). He uses the story of a character who mirrors Eep's curious nature to warn the family that exploration and 'new things' pose a threat to their survival, and says to never not be afraid. This irritates the bored and adventurous Eep, and after the family falls asleep, she leaves the cave, against her father's advice, when she sees a light moving outside.Seeking the light's source, she meets Guy (Ryan Reynolds), a clever and inventive caveboy. She at first attacks him but then becomes fascinated with the fire he creates and is eager to learn more. He tells her about his theory that the world is reaching its 'end' and asks her to join him. She refuses and Guy leaves, but not before giving her a noise-making shell to call him if she needs help. Eep is then caught by Grug (who had been searching for her), and is later grounded for what she had done. Grug brings Eep home and is joined by the rest of the family. Eep tells them about Guy and shows them the shell given to her, only for them to destroy it in fear of 'new things'. An earthquake then occurs, sending everyone running for the cave, only to be stopped by Grug moments before the cave is destroyed by falling rocks. They climb over the wreckage to discover a land with lush vegetation, much different from their usual surroundings of rocky terrain. Grug takes his family into the forest to find a new cave.The family is chased by a "Macawnivore" (a large, macaw-colored machairodont later called "Chunky") and attacked by a swarm of "Piranhakeets" (deadly red-feathered, piranha-like birds). In panic, Eep finds and sounds a horn similar to that which Guy gave her. Guy hears this and rushes to her. Thinking quickly, he creates a torch of fire, which scares the birds away. The other Croods are captivated by the fire, having never seen it before. They steal Guy's torch and accidentally set the land around them in flames. Some giant corn is also lit, which rockets up to the sky, prompting a display of "fireworks" as the kernels explode. After feeling impressed by Guy's intelligence and 'ideas', Grug bottles him in a hollow log to carry him in, then suggests that they take solitude in the cave of a nearby mountain mentioned by Guy. Guy is forcibly persuaded to lead the way and learns of the Croods' way of living, which he thinks of as unusual.After an unsuccessful hunting attempt, Guy, his "pet" sloth Belt (Chris Sanders), and Eep build a puppet to fool and lure nearby Turkey-Fish. After they make their capture, the family greedily devours everything they caught. Grug then tells another of his morale-lowering tales, this time mirroring the events of their day. Guy then tells a story of his own about a paradise he calls "Tomorrow".The next day, the family reaches a path coated in spiked rock which Grug, Thunk, and Gran get pricked upon trying to cross them. A freed Guy tries to flee but then presents one of his inventions called shoes making some out of all the resources he can find for each family member. This gains him some respect from the others except for Grug, who feels jealous of Guy's cleverness. After Guy's ideas help the Croods on their journey, the family members gain something. Ugga, Gran, and Sandy have their first idea to get past carnivorous plants by hiding under flower heads as they pass, Thunk encounters and befriends a crocodile-like dog he calls Douglas, and Eep and Guy grow closer while Grug is stranded in a ravine forcing Ugga to go back for him. The next day, Grug shows the others some of his ideas (like a see-saw, shades made out of wood, and a snapshot that involves the family being slammed with a flat rock) which fail and humiliate him. They soon reach the mountain where Grug is unable to convince the family that settling in a nearby cave is a better option. Angry, he attacks Guy. The two become stuck in tar and Guy reveals his family died drowning in a tar pool and their last words inspired his traditions of "Tomorrow." Grug has a change of heart; he and Guy trick Chunky into freeing them by pretending to be a female "Macawnivore" in trouble.As they are about to reach their destination, an earthquake opens a deep ravine in their path. Grug throws each of them across the gap and reconciles with Eep while creating the first hug with her. Grug then throws her across the ravine and is left behind. He takes shelter in a cave and makes a torch. After seeing a blank rock face, he paints a large cave-drawing of the Croods and Guy together. He then encounters Chunky, who attacks him until Grug's torch is accidentally blown out, panicking them both. The frightened Chunky lies near Grug for comfort, who then has his first good idea. Using a bigger torch and a large skeletal rib cage, Grug manages to lure the Piranhakeets into transporting himself, Chunky, Douglas, and several other animals across the ravine, barely escaping the oncoming destruction. Afterwards, Grug shares the "hug" when he embraces his daughter again, followed by the Croods inventing the group hug.The family discovers that they have found an ocean-like area where the sun goes down over the sea. Grug and his family - including Guy, Chunky, Belt, Douglas and all their various pets - settle down in this paradise-like environment. He stops being so over-protective; as a result the family becomes more adventurous, bringing happiness to them all.
