Boog, a domesticated 900lb. Grizzly bear, finds himself stranded in the woods 3 days before Open Season. Forced to rely on Elliot, a fast-talking mule deer, the two form an unlikely friendship and must quickly rally other forest animals if they are to form a rag-tag army against the hunters.
A happily domesticated grizzly bear named Boog (Martin Lawrence), has his perfect world turned upside down after he meets Elliot (Ashton Kutcher), a scrawny, fast-talking one-horned wild mule deer. They both end up stranded together in the woods during hunting season and it's up to the duo to rally all of the other forest animals and turn the tables on the hunters.
Orphaned as a cub, tame grizzly Boog (Martin Lawrence) lives as Park Ranger Beth's (Debra Messing's) oversized pet in her garage, but the warden wants him returned to the wild at last. Thug hunter Shaw (Gary Sinise) is looking forward to the season opening to shoot a bear, and meanwhile, "accidentally ran over" Elliot (Ashton Kutcher), a skinny, wild mule deer who lost one antler when expelled from the herd. The fast-talking screw-up convinces Boog to cut him loose and invites himself to move in. After a disastrous park opening show, the pair ends up helicopter-lifted to a far part of the park. Elliot promises to lead Boog home if he can move in for good, but that proves an apocalyptic adventure for the whole wildlife after Boog accidentally wrecks the beaver dam, with Shaw on the prowl.
A grizzly bear named Boog (Martin Lawrence), domesticated by Park Ranger Beth (Debra Messing), helps deer friend Elliot (Ashton Kutcher) escape from the mullet-sporting hunter, Shaw (Gary Sinise). When Elliot decides to return the favor to help Boog escape from Beth, he finds that Boog is very happy with his domesticated home. After a misunderstanding, Beth is convinced that Boog is reverting to his wild nature and releases him in the woods just as hunting season begins. Boog has no idea how to survive outside of his garage home with his beloved Beth. Elliot and Boog develop a strong bond not only between themselves but also with the wild animals and attempt to drive the hunters out of the forest.

