The true story of Graeme Obree, the Champion cyclist who built his bicycle from old bits of washing machines who won his championship only to have his title stripped from him and his mental health problems which he has suffered since.
The Flying Scotsman is a feature film based on the remarkable true story of Scottish cyclist Graeme Obree. In 1993, and as an unemployed amateur, Obree broke the world one-hour record on a bike of his own revolutionary design, which he constructed out of scrap metal and parts of a washing machine.
Graeme Obree (Miller) cycled into a wood preparing to hang himself. There is then a flashback to Obree's childhood, where he was routinely bullied, events which leave severe psychological scars. One day Obree is given a bicycle and we see Obree evading the bullies on his bike.The adult Obree is married with a child and whilst competing in local races runs a failing cycle shop and having to supplement his income as a courier. An ex-minister turned boatyard owner Baxter (Cox) befriends Obree, which results in Obree coming up with a daring idea - he's going to try and beat the hour record.This is unlikely as Obree has neither the funding , nor the machine required to take on such a record. Obree is determined and constructs 'Old Faithful', a revolutionary bicycle, designed by Obree for maxinum efficiency, made up from scrap metal, and components from a washing machine. With help from his friend Malky McGovern(Boyd), who becomes his manager and against all odds, Obree makes an attempt on the world record in Norway and though he fails initially, he tries again the following morning and actually succeeds in beating it. However, his initial victory is short-lived, when his record is broken by Chris Boardman a week later, and the cycling sports authorities then rewrite the rules to try and make it impossible for Obree to win using his more experimental methods.It is shown the night Obree breaks the record he is prone to crippling bouts of depression, which is exacerbated when Boardman breaks the record and he meets up with one of his childhood bullies.After winning the Individual Pursuit World Championship in 1993, the authorities change the rules just as Obree tries to defend his title and he crashes after being unable to adapt a new riding position. This leads his depression to spiral out of control to the point where he attempts suicide in the woods shown at the start of the film. However, the rope snaps and with the help of his wife Anne (Fraser) and Baxter, Obree starts to receive help for his condition.It is then shown Obree comes back and regains his world title.
