A group of unaccompanied minors bond while snowed in at the midwestern Hoover International Airport during the holiday season and ultimately create a makeshift holiday themselves.
Spencer and his little sister, Katherine, are flying to Pennsylvania for Christmas with their dad. While changing planes, a blizzard moves in and cancels all flights out of Hoover Airport: they must stay in a basement room with the other unaccompanied minors. Spencer and four others - a chubby boy, a non-stop-talker, a surly girl, and a rich kid - go AWOL and get in trouble with Mr. Porter, the Christmas-hating airport supervisor. The five misfits spend the night evading and enduring Porter's punishments, discovering all sorts of things in back rooms, making sure Katherine gets her visit from Santa, and finding among themselves a new kind of family.
When Katherine and Spencer are on there way to their fathers house, a blizzard hits delaying all plane flights
at Hoover International. Zach Van Bourke (Wilmer Valderrama)
takes Katherine and Spencer to the UM room (Unaccompanied Minors Room)
In the huge concrete room there are lots of crazy kids in there. That is where Spencer meets Donna (Quinn Shephard), Charlie (Tyler James Williams), Grace (Gena Mantegna) and Beef (Brett Kelly).The five kids decide to escape the UM room and try to find something to do. Spencer grabs a bite to eat, Grace goes to the high flyers room, Donna steals a golf cart type vehicle inside the airport, Beef goes into the safety equipment room and plays around in there and Charlie sings at Sharper Image. They are eventually caught and brought back to the UM room where they discover no one else is there. They also get a lecture from Oliver (Lewis Black), the head of the airport. All the kids, including Spencer's little sister, were brought to the Hoover International Lodge to spend the night on Christmas Eve. Spencer, Donna, Charlie, Grace and Beef are all forced to sleep in the dirty UM room. The kids find a way to trick Zach Van Bourke and they manage to escape the UM room. When they get out, Beef says that he will find a Christmas tree for Spencer's sister to make her Christmas better. Donna and Grace get into a fight after arguing over something stupid. The 4 kids eventually make a trip to distract the guards by letting a dog out of its cage. The 4 kids eventually go to the unclaimed baggage wearhouse, where they find some cool things. Charlie finds 4 walkie talkies and Spencer finds a doll. Both of those things will eventually help them. They are caught on camera and must make a run from Oliver and the guards. They eventually go to the the lodge to see Spencer's sister and deliver the doll that Spencer found for Katherine. Charlie and Donna knock on people's doors and blame it on Oliver who gets punched in the face by a man. Spencer puts the doll next to his sister as she is sleeping.Oliver catches them and Spencer tells Oliver not to wake up his sister. The 4 kids are brought back to private rooms where there are guards next to the doors. They all 4 still have walkie talkies so they manage to get out through the vents in the ceilings. They are in the vents and Charlie falls through the celing into a room with decorations. The 4 kids decorate the airport because it has no Christmas decorations. Beef comes back with the Christmas tree even though he had to go a long way to get it. Oliver doesn't like Christmas because his wife left him on Christmas a couple years back. Oliver catches them but congratulates them for escaping. Oliver decides to bring Christmas to the airport so he dresses up as Santa. They get a list of all people flying alone so they give gifts to them. Spencer meets up with Katherine and there father comes to see them. He drove to the airport all the way from Pennsylvania to meet them. His car blew up on the way so he had to use a Hummer to get there.THE END
