GOODBYE BAFANA is the true story of a white South African racist whose life was profoundly altered by the black prisoner he guarded for twenty years. The prisoner's name was Nelson Mandela.
James Gregory once lived in a farm and had befriended a native youth, Bafana, and had even had a photograph taken with him. Years later, now married to Gloria and father of three children (Chris, Brett, and Natasha), James has nothing but shame and regret, as many South African Caucasians in the oppressive Apartheid-era ridiculed him, leading him to hate Africans. He seeks to redeem himself by spying on imprisoned African National Congress Leader, Nelson Mandela. In the restrictive high security prison his job is to censor all written and verbal communications between prisoners, their visitors, and correspondence. James is uncomfortable when he witnesses Caucasian police and security officers' brutality against civilians, including infants, and tries to understand why Nelson became a rebel. This leads him to examine the 'Freedom Charter', a banned document, reportedly known to incite violence against 'whites'. And when he does read this document, he changes his mind about Nelson's freedom struggle. Soon he, himself, will be alienated by his very own peers. Isolated, he receives death threats over the phone and has to face the trauma of the 'accidental' death of Brett. In addition, he and his family are kept under close watch by the security forces amidst tight economic sanctions by the international community, and growing unrest by the natives who continue their fight for equality, and freedom for Nelson Mandela.
James Gregory, a male Caucasian, lives in a South African farm, and is friendly with a black native, Bafana. Both children communicate in the local language, and James even poses in a photograph with his arm around Bafana. Both children bid each other goodbye when James re-locates to live in the city.Years later, James, who now works for the Government, is married to conservative Gloria, who has been taught, and in turn, teaches her children, Brett, Chris, and Natasha, that the suffering of the native blacks is 'God's Will', and is not to be questioned.James' friends view the photograph of Bafana and himself and make fun of him, leading James to hate blacks.The South African Secret Service finds out about James' knowledge of the native language, and they recruit him as a Prison Censorship Officer, and he is instructed to monitor and censor all information and meetings of all inmates, especially Nelson Mandela, the leader of the African National Congress, who has been imprisoned since 1963 for allegedly inciting riots against the government.James converses with Nelson and even finds out his native name is Madiba. When Winnie is permitted to visit Nelson, James monitors the conversation along with another guard, and interrupts them when he finds out that they are talking about the African National Congress.James also finds out that Nelson's son has acquired a driver's license, and he reports this to his supervisor. Shortly thereafter, he is told to hand over a newspaper report that Nelson's son has been killed in an automobile accident.While conversing with another guard, James is told that the 'Freedom Charter' of the African National Congress is the 'extermination of whites'. James sets forth to examine this document, and finds out that it is banned and special authorization is required to even view this document. He does manage to obtain a copy and keeps it on his person.His children experience the trauma of watching police brutality on civilians, including women, children, and infants.
While James continues his conversation with Nelson, both men come close to almost being friends. It is then Nelson asks James to give Winnie a piece of chocolate as a Christmas present during her visit to see him. James secretly hands this over - setting into motion a series of events that will isolate him from his very own peers, and force him to consider resigning from his current position.Not able to witness Gloria's distraught and isolation, he resigns, but his resignation is not accepted. He is then asked to accompany Nelson to another prison, which he does.Amongst mounting international pressure to free Nelson, as well as imposition of crippling economic sanctions, the South African government representative meets with Nelson and agrees to free him if he re-locates, but Nelson refuses.Amongst mounting riots from the natives, James' family starts to receive threatening phone calls, and their movements are closely watched by the secret service, a visibly shaken James receives news that Brett has been killed in an automobile accident.He must now attempt to find out if this action was carried by his superiors, the members of the African National Congress, or was it just plain natural justice for betraying Nelson's son.
