A young man with a terminal illness makes an unconventional request on local television.
A boy, Dylan (Michael Angarano), in grade ten with terminal cancer gets a last wish from the Wish Givers Foundation. His makes a new wish which seems a little inappropriate. As his last wish he wants to be with a super model (Sunny Mabrey) for a week alone. At first Nikki (Mabrey) has pity for him but soon it turns into love.
Sixteen year old Dylan Jameison of Marcus Hook, Pennsylvania, is terminally ill with cancerous tumors spreading throughout his body. A confirmed atheist, Dylan does not believe in such concepts as heaven, hell or an afterlife. Receipt of a long prepared early eighteenth birthday present and increasing seemingly real life visions he has of his deceased father Earl Jameison make Dylan at least examine these beliefs. Although she wants him to have as happy and comfortable a life as possible, Dylan's caring widowed mother Karen Jameison still has problems seeing him as anything but her sixteen year old son, and as such has difficulties, for example, watching him openly and happily smoke medically prescribed marijuana to relieve the nausea associated with the radiation treatments. The United Wish Givers identifies Dylan as a recipient of their program, his desired wish which the organization has arranged to be granted being to go fishing - a cherished pastime he did with Earl - with Philadelphia Eagle Jason O'Malley, his longtime favorite football player. After a last minute powwow with his best friends Ricky and Slap, Dylan throws Karen, Jason, and Madelene the United Wish Givers representative for a loop when, at the arranged press conference live on air, he announces that he has changed his mind about the wish he wants granted for what is truly in his heart: a weekend alone with supermodel Nikki Sinclair. Behind the glamorous photos and runway appearances, Nikki, unknown to Dylan, is a troubled young woman. Nikki's agent Arlene wants Nikki at least to make a short visit with Dylan as good PR to overcome some recently bad and potentially snowballing publicity. Nikki is mentally and emotionally ill-prepared even for this short visit let alone what Dylan really wants, it which he doggedly pursues in his dying days. Dylan gets some direct or indirect help from other good Samaritans who want Dylan to have those happy final days, including Jason, Dylan's oncologist Dr. Emerson, and a seemingly all knowing New Yorker named Babba which if Dylan has his way means his ultimate final wish on Earth actually happening.
"One Last Thing..." is the funny and heartbreaking story of Dylan and his mother, Carol, as they struggle with the boy's terminal illness. Invited onto local television by an organization that grants last wishes to dying children, Dylan surprises everyone by making an eyebrow-raising request. As Dylan gleefully prepares to have his final wish fulfilled, Carol struggles with the idea of losing the most precious thing in her life.
About a teenage boy who is dying with a terminal illness, and his last dying wish before he goes is to spend thr weekend with a super model.
The young lady her self is facing issues of her own, and has trouble coping with her life. She is facing problems with her career, and decisions she has made with her life. During the film the young boy has to come to terms with his quick ending. Well the young boy never gives up on the young woman, and takes a trip to nyc to find her again. In NYC, he faces a lot of reaizations, and gains a some acceptance of his situation. In the end he comes to terms, with his life, and surprisingly the model shows upis last waking moments with him.. I thought it was a very touching, and warm film which makes you think. It's not a film I would ususally watch, but I lost my clicker for an hour, and it was on. I am glad I watched it.
