A man embarks on journey to find his love in Dubai, only to learn she has different suitors and admirers.
This is the story of Karan and Tanya. Karan is in love with Tanya but is too shy to tell her. One day Tanya witnesses the murder of a scientist by his evil twin brother, the underworld don Mehboob, and needs to flee the country. When Karan's friend coaxes him to track Tanya after she migrates to Dubai, he enlists the aid of a deceptive investigator, Rocky to track her down. Rocky ends up falling in love with her at first sight and tries to stop Karan from wooing her. Meanwhile, Tanya's physically disabled friend, Sanju also has a soft spot for her and tries thwarting Rocky's attempts at getting close to Tanya. The plot thickens when Don Mehboob and his gang track Tanya down in Dubai.
Natasha Mulchandani has three admirers Rocky Hiranandani, Sanju Malwani and Karan. Rocky and Sanju has always manages to outwit each other and other lovers in order to attain her love at any and all costs. The only one who wholeheartedly loves Natasha and does not want to attain her love by deceit is Karan.
Natasha Mulchandani is an established singer and dancer in Dubai, U.A.E., and lives a comfortable lifestyle with her challenged brother, Gullu, aunt, Sweety, and a puppy by the name of Jayantilal. Gullu suddenly passes away and in his place enters Tommy, who was run over by Natasha's car, becomes physically and mentally challenged and is taken in by a guilt-ridden Natasha. Natasha and Raj Sinha are in love with each other and want to get married, however, a handicapped friend of Natasha, Sanju Malwani, cautions Natasha that Raj is a drug smuggler, and as a result Natasha refuses to see Raj anymore. Then romance enters Natasha's life in the shape and form of Rocky Hiranandani, an Architect. But Sanju again warns her that Rocky is a fraud and not an architect. When questioned Rocky admits that he is a Navy Captain, which is accepted by Natasha. Then Natasha's life changes when another young man enters her life, a young man she had known as Karan in her college days, who used to study and work in the cafeteria. The only problem is that Tommy, Rocky, Sanju, and a blind man hate Karan. There is also a fifth admirer of Natasha namely Sunny Khurana, also from her college days in Bombay, who will do anything to get married to her. The only similarity between Sunny and Karan is that they know her as Tanya, a young woman who suddenly left Bombay and settled in Dubai for unknown reasons. None of her admirers know that Tanya has changed her name in order to hide a secret - a secret that an underworld Don by the name of Khurana would kill to get his hands on.

