The life and times of Albert Pierrepoint - Britain's most prolific hangman.
Albert Pierrepoint delivered groceries - and was a hangman. Following in his father's footsteps he quickly became known for his efficiency and compassion, rising to become 'the best in the land'. From early 1933, until the end of his career in 1955, he executed 608 people, including the 'Beasts of Belsen' (war criminals), for which he earned the gratitude of a nation. But by the time he hanged Ruth Ellis, the last woman to be executed in Britain, public sentiments had changed... and so had Pierrepoint.
Albert Pierrepoint trains to be a prison executioner, as his father had been before him. Pierrepoint views his job with seriousness and dedication, applying science and logic to each hanging. He can swiftly determine the proper length for the gallows rope, depending on the height, weight, and physical condition of the condemned. While not a cruel or cold-hearted man by any means, Pierrepoint simply views execution as any other job, and is not as visibly emotionally affected by it as some of his co-workers.As Albert's talent for the field begins to be noticed by the British government, he and his wife Annie are excited for the new opportunities awaiting him. He is eventually told that he is the best executioner in Britain, and that he will be England's proof of their swift, efficient, and humane execution system. Pierrepoint is sent to Germany to hang 47 Nazi war criminals after the Belsen trials in 1945. While he is staggered by the number of deaths he must conduct, he carries out his duties. Pierrepoint's inner values begin to emerge in his work when one of the bodies is left without a coffin. Pierrepoint angrily demands the coffin, saying that the man had paid the ultimate price and should now be treated with dignity.Albert slowly begins to find his work emotionally draining. He becomes a local celebrity, with many neighbours applauding him for "stringing up" criminals, and others criticizing him for enforcing capital punishment. He and Annie purchase a nearby pub, which draws in good business due to Albert's fame.Pierrepoint receives a shock one morning when he must execute a friend of his, James Corbitt, who is known to Albert as "Tish." Corbitt is a meek-looking man, but had murdered his ex-lover in a jealous rage. Though Pierrepoint knows he must perform his job, he breaks his usual stoic demeanor and speaks kindly and calmly to Tish, who meets his fate in an almost content state. His last words are 'Thank you, Albert," and he smiles as the hood is put over his head.Pierrepoint goes to his pub that night and expresses his anguish to his wife. Annie is uncomfortable hearing Albert's inner turmoil, as their rule regarding his occupation had always been "never talk about it." Albert breaks down and confesses the guilt and misery he felt as he watched his friend hang by his own hand. He considers resigning from his profession altogether.Pierrepoint later executes Ruth Ellis, a young, pretty woman accused of killing her lover. Angry mobs outside the prison protest the execution, and Pierrepoint's car is spat on and shaken as he drives home. After conducting over 600 executions and setting the fastest ever hanging record (7.5 seconds), Albert Pierrepoint officially resigns.
