An honest and decorated police officer is arrested on charges of mass murder and trapped in a corrupt political system, where he finds himself sinking in deep trouble.
Crime has taken its toll heavily on Mumbai city; with the police force restricted by the norms of the law. Unable to witness this the police commissioner, Samar Singh decides to appeal to his superiors and seniors for permission to conduct a shoot at sight mission for all criminals. Thus Assistant Commissioner of Police Arjun Ranawat and his college Haider Ali Khan is assigned to head the crew as they go about bringing all criminals to justice. When the gangs are speculated this trigger international terrorist, Zafar Supari who takes help from a corrupt Minister Khashi Trevadi to put extreme pressure on Samar Singh. Soon Khashi Trevadi takes up the Chief Minister post forcing Samar Singh to tender his resignation with immediate effect. Then there is a show-down when inspector Haider Ali is murdered and is accused of having connection with the terrorists and ISI agents forcing Arjun to take a stand - but situations only frustrates him to the extent of revolting by murdering all corrupt high-ranking public personalities. Then Arjun is arrested by the police; his case is called up in a court of law where-by there are many charges lay on him - one of them involves having an illicit relationship with his very own sister, Rakhi Dixit. With Trevadi still in the port-folio it certainly looks like Arjun will get a life sentence.
Bombay's Senior Police Inspector, Samar Singh, tenders his resignation when he finds out that Kashinath Trivedi, who is known to have connections with the underworld, has won the election. This news does delight Kashinath Trivedi, and his men, which include notorious gangster Zafar Supari. But there is a catch, as there are two honest police inspectors who prove to be thorns on their sides, and they are Inspector Arjun Ranavat and Hyder Ali, two inseparable friends. Kashinath's attempts to separate the two with the assistance of corrupt Police Commissioner, Yeshwant Pandey, are in vain. Then Zafar Supari takes over the task of separating the two. And he succeeds, and as a result Hyder Ali is killed in a fake police encounter on the grounds that he was a Pakistani spy; while Arjun Ranavat, whose attempts to avenge Hyder's death, results in the deaths of 18 people - results which prompt the Police Commissioner to dismiss Arjun from the police force, and issue orders for his arrest - dead or alive. Arjun is captured alive and his trial commences, with one of the allegation being that he was having an intimate affair with his very own sister, Rakhi Dixit, as well as having underworld connections, and killing 18 people. Will Arjun be able to answer to these charges? Or will he become another victim to Kashinath and his men.

