An NFL quarterback living the bachelor lifestyle discovers that he has an 8-year-old daughter from a previous relationship.
Joe Kingman is a huge football star. He's got women, money, and a good career. Everything is perfect for him. Then one day an 8 year old girl shows up at his door telling him that she's his daughter from a past relationship. Once he has proof that she is for a fact his, he tries but fails miserably at "parenting." From problems such as his super speedy car with no backseat, to leaving her in a bar at 3 am, he's got a lot to deal with. Eventually though, she gets him, (and his football team) wrapped around her finger. When she has a near-death experience and Joe finds out her mother died early that year, he wants her to move and live with him. Her aunt though disagrees and takes her home. Joe has to play the game of his life and when he's injured, and things don't look good for him, his daughter comes out and gets him right back on the field.
Top Boston Rebels football star, Quarterback Joe Kingman, has an unknown 8-year old daughter from a former marriage show up on his doorstep. This precocious youth, Madison Pettis, transforms his life from a egotistical, promiscuous bachelor to a loving father. Instead of decreasing his popularity, his daughter makes the athlete even more popular among fans and teammates. Joe Kingman admires Elvis Presley (The King) and fills his life with Elvis memorabilia and actions. Little Madison steers her Dad away from his exotic, blonde Russian girlfriend, Tatianna, towards her wholesome ballet teacher, Monique Vasquez. A turn of events ends with a happy ending for both the football and romance sides of this Disney family big-budget film.Joe Kingman was living the average life of a star football player until 8 year old Payton Kelly shows up at his door insisting that she is his daughter. After some remembering he realizes this could easily be possible and accepts the challange of taking care of her while her mom is away.At first it does not go so well. Finally Joe Gives in to Payton and signs her up for a ballet program where they meet Monique who helps Joe to figure out how to take care of Payton. When Joe and Payton get in a fight and Payton accidentally eats her allergen, Joe realizes he needs to get her to the hospital quickly. When they find out she is ok Payton's mother's sister shows up, who Payton had said was dead, and tells Joe that Payton was not supposed to be there and her mother had died. She takes Payton back right before Joe's championship game and he gets injured. When he is resting in the locker room Payton shows up and tells him she missed him and her aunt decides she should stay with Joe. Joe returns to the game and they win. this is not everything but it is a pretty detailed review correct any mistakes
