The story of General Romeo Dallaire's frustrated efforts to stop the madness of the Rwandan Genocide, despite the complete indifference of his superiors.
In the end of 1993, the Canadian General Romeo Dallaire is assigned to lead the United Nation troops in Rwanda. In 1994, when the genocide of the Tutsis by the Hutus begins, General Dallaire gives his best effort to help the people in Rwanda, inclusive negotiating with the Tutsi rebels, the Hutu army and the Interhamwe militia. However, he fights against bureaucracy and lack of interest from the United Nations and witnesses the West World ignoring and turning back any sort of support, inclusive USA opposing in the security council of UN to any type of help.
A film adaptation of the Romeo Dallaire autobiography Shake Hands with the Devil. The book details the personal journey of Dallaire through the 1994 Rwandan genocide and how Dallaire's request for more aid went ignored by the United Nations.
(this first appeared on www.realmoviereview.com)
Canadian Lt. General Romeo Dallaire was the military commander of the UN mission in Rwanda and this movie is personal and, all too true, story of his time there during the genocide of 1994. It is not quite as moving as the earlier Hotel Rwanda and is less geared to drama and emotional manipulation, but it is still grim and upsetting. The direction is slightly surreal and the acting is quite good, though I found Dupuis to be just a little too wooden (just a little over that line between stoic and wooden) in the lead role. It suffers a little from being virtually a one man show, with Dupuis lead character being the focus of virtually every scene but there is no denying the power and importance of this film.Romeo Dallaire is a very brave, and equally honest, man and that is really what makes this film work. He is not afraid to show his human emotions and frailties, and this makes his courageous effort to save lives during The Rwandan genocide, at no small personal risk, all that more impressive. This film carefully documents the beginnings of the atrocity and fearlessly lays blame. Dallaires helplessness is enveloping and we feel his frustration in the face of ever-increasing shortages of men and equipment.
