Turning her back on her wealthy, established family, Diane Arbus falls in love with Lionel Sweeney, an enigmatic mentor who introduces Arbus to the marginalized people who help her become one of the most revered photographers of the twentieth century.
In 1958, in New York City, the upper class Diane Arbus is a frustrated and lonely woman with a conventional marriage with two daughters. Her husband is a photographer sponsored by the wealthy parents of Diane, and she works as his assistant. When Lionel Sweeney, a mysterious man with hypertrichosis (a.k.a. werewolf syndrome, a disease that causes excessive body hair), comes to live in the apartment in the upper floor, Diane feels a great attraction for him and is introduced to the world of freaks and marginalized people, falling in love with Lionel.
The film begins with Diane Arbus(Nicole Kidman)entering into a park were all the residents resides their are naked.The head person tells her to be like so, if she want to stay their.She asks them to gave her sometime.
Then the story is told as THREE YEARS before.Diane Arbus is an housewife(having two daughters)and as a assistatant to her photographer husband Alex.But this was not the job she wants moreover she also wants to be a photographer.Then Lionel Sweeney(Robert Downey Jr.) a mysterious man(whose body is fully covered )came as their new neighbour.She decides to knew more about him.With the permission of her husband she decides to take pictures of her neighbour but the real reason is to meet Sweeney.They begin to meet together every night at his room.She told him that she want to make a portrait of him. From their first meeting Diane discovered that Sweeney was suffering from hypertrichosis (a.k.a. werewolf syndrome, a disease that causes excessive body hair) Diane feels a great attraction for him and is introduced to the world of freaks and marginalized people.Slowly she begins to love him.Her husband began to notice sudden changes in her and became very upset.On her marriage anniversary Sweeney revealed Diane that he is having Emphysema and will die soon.She became very sad and when they begin to kiss they was interrupted by her husband.At night a fight occurs between Diane and her husband and she promises him that tonight she will end her relation with Sweeney and goes to Sweeney's room.Their she saw him naked with his body full of fur and asks her to shave him.After that, they had sex and slept together,At that time her husband was sticking photos took by her in their room to give her a surprise and to welcome her back to their old life.The next day Sweeney insists her to take his picture for her portrait. Diane was gifted by a cloth made by Sweeney with his fur and took her to his favourite location to the beach.Their in front of her eyes he swims deep into the sea(he dies). A sad Diane return to the apartment with her husband waiting for her.But she decides not to go their and instead she went to Sweeney's room.She was given an album by Sweeney's fiend with all pages left blank.In the first page it is written -"Plate one Lionel " by Diane Arbus and at the last page written -"plate fifty untitled by Diane Arbus". She smiles by looking at it. Then after some time she kisses her daughters and leaves from their apartment.
The film ends with Diane walking naked in the park with others with her camera and their, she befriends a lady.The lady asks Diane wheather she is gonna take her picture.Then Diane said no.
Then Diane asks the lady to tell her secret,then the lady insisted to tell hers first.
Then Diane said OK.
