In 2002, two rival Olympic ice skaters were stripped of their gold medals and permanently banned from men's single competition. Presently, however, they've found a loophole that will allow them to qualify as a pairs team.
When rivalry between the world's best men's figure skaters - sex addicted, improvisational Chazz Michael Michaels and germophobic, precise Jimmy MacElroy - breaks into a fight on the awards platform, they're banned from the event for life. Three years later, desire for a gold medal and a careful reading of the rules lead them to compete as skating's first male-male pair. Can they overcome mutual dislike, limited time to prepare, their coach's secret past, and the dirty tricks of their main opponents, the Van Waldenberg siblings? The key to victory or defeat may lie in the attraction of the virginal Jimmy toward Katie, the Van Waldenbergs' little sister.
Chazz Michael Michaels and Jimmy MacElroy are two professional ice skaters, who after getting into a fight, are both banned from mens figures skating. Fortunately, it is soon discovered by an obsessed fan that they are banned from mens singles competition and not doubles competition. Now Chazz and Jimmy must team up as the first double mens team and take on the team of Stranz and Fairchild Van Waldenberg, who are eager to do anything to get the victory.
Americans Jimmy MacElroy and Chazz Michael Michaels are not only the two most decorated male singles figure skaters, but rivals who hate each other. Jimmy is arguably the most successful of billionaire Darren MacElroy's children, Darren having created a high performance athletic family by adopting orphans who showed talent a decade ago to become today's athletic superstars. Jimmy has had every opportunity to hone his natural athletic, artistic and creative skating skills, his father who accepts nothing but his children being the best. Conversely, Chazz is from the streets of Detroit, self taught and uses his animal magnetism and overt sexuality (he also being a part-time porn star being a sex addict) to wow the crowds. As such, Jimmy has won the hearts of the public, while Chazz has won the groins of the public. An incident at the World Wintersport Games, the most prestigious event held every four years, of unbecoming conduct leads to both Jimmy and Chazz being stripped of their joint gold medals and being banned from competitive skating for life. Three and a half years later, both Jimmy and Chazz's lives are in the gutter, Darren who immediately disowned Jimmy after the ban. However, Jimmy's most rabid fan and longtime stalker named Hector discovers a loophole one month before the nationals: that Jimmy is still eligible to compete in the pairs division. Jimmy's ex-coach comes up with the further legal idea that Jimmy and Chazz should team up together, which they do in their stronger want for the Worldsport Games gold medal than their mutual hatred for each other. Beyond needing to getting over their mutual hatred and meshing their two vastly different styles, they have to overcome the actual competition, most specifically US darlings, the brother and sister team of Stranz and Fairchild Van Waldenberg. What the public is unaware of is that the Van Waldenberg's routinely win by cheating, including they having guilted their innocent younger sister Katie Van Waldenberg into secretly filming their competitors' rehearsals. Further complications ensue when Jimmy and Katie start to fall for each other. Over and above these issues, the Coach believes that Jimmy and Chazz need a signature move to win, something special that only two men can do together. However, what he has developed as that move is also so dangerous to be potentially deadly.
Banned for life from men's solo competitions after a shameful fight at the World Figure Skating Championship, the polar opposites--the rink's bad boy, Chazz Michael Michaels, and the graceful former child prodigy, Jimmy MacElroy--come up with a clever idea. Now, as figure skating's only male pair, Chazz and Jimmy must bury the hatchet to achieve perfection, even though the undisputed king and queen of the ice--the scheming brother-sister duo of Stranz and Fairchild Van Waldenberg--will stop at nothing to ensure a second victory in a row. Will the embittered partners become the next ice-skating sensation?
In the National Figure Skating Assocation, professional ice skaters Chazz Michael Michaels (Will Ferrell) and Jimmy MacElroy (Jon Heder) are rivals in the world championship competition. After each has finished their performance, the scores result in a tie for the gold medal. During their acceptance of the gold medal, the two skaters engage in a public altercation that results in them being banned permanently from the men's figure skating division.A few years pass, and each has seen a disintegation in their skating career. Michaels (Ferrell) finds work in a no-name children's production and MacElroy (Heder) finds himself working in a retail store fitting others for ice skates amongst other things.While working at the retail shop, an obsessed fan of MacElroy comes to him and pleads with him to continue his dream of being a champion figure skater. He points out a technicality that would allow MacElroy to re-enter the National Figure Skating Assocation, not in the men's division, but in the pair's division. The only problem is he needs to find a partner.A short time later MacElroy and Michaels end up encountering one another during MacElroy's search for a partner and proceed to have another televised brawl. MacElroy's former coach (Craig T. Nelson), happens to see the highlights from the brawl on the evening news, and while he's watching the two men engaged in their scuffle, an idea occurs to him that the two skaters could very well partner with each other.After some convincing, Michaels and MacElroy begrudgingly agree to partner and they soon sign up for the World Championship Pair's Division. Not without their share of problems, they start rehearsals and soon begin to work out the kinks not only in their physical performance, but in their relationship with each other as well.However, just when all seems harmonious, a rival pair in the competition(Will Arnett &amp; Amy Poehler) began a scheme to get Michaels and MacElroy out of the competition. Through a series of manipulations and a kidnapping, the rival pair almost succeed, but can't quite stop the pair from making it to the championship. Michaels and MacElroy manage to complete their performance, including a death defying original move created by their coach, and proceed to win the gold medal after all.
