Two roommates discover that the family of one of their girlfriends is populated with vampires.
Thierry has just become acquainted with Claire, and already he is deeply in love with her - even if she has the one characteristic he doesn't like in a woman: very pale skin. Despite Claire's attempts to dissuade him, they are fatally attracted to each other. Thierry is obsessed with her, and his best friend Henri sees him physically and mentally decaying. When Thierry finds out that Claire's sister had tried to kill Henri in a hotel, he realizes he knows very little about her, and about the mysterious genetic laws of heredity.
While celebrating his anniversary with his black roommate and friend Henri Dieudonné in a bar, Thierry Richard is invited by Henri to a program with two hookers. They go to a motel, and Henri is attacked by his girl, being saved by Thierry. Later, Thierry meets the red-haired musician Claire Lefrançois, they have wild sex and he falls in love for her. But she tells him that she has a disease and she breaks with him. When Thierry meets Claire again, he finds how she may be cured.
Thierry Richard [Marc Paquet] and Henri Dieudonné [Frédéric Pierre] are students at the University in
Montreal, as well as good friends and roommates. Thierry is white and
Henri is black, which leads them into many philosophical discussions about
the human races and some newly-discovered information that blackness is
the original color of the species and whiteness is a genetic mutation.
Thierry only knows that, as a straight white guy, he'll never be able to
get his writings published. He also knows that, when it comes to skin
color, he doesn't like redheads with their pale, translucent skin and
visible veins.It's Thierry's birthday, and Henri has decided to make him a present of
a hooker. They hire two girls; Thierry gets the brunette while Henri takes
Marquise [Jessica Malka], the redhead. Shortly after they pair off in separate rooms,
Thierry becomes aware that Henri's moans have turned into screams. Thierry
runs to Henri's room and finds his friend covered with blood from a knife
wound to the neck. Marquise opens a window and jumps out into the street.
Thierry helps Henri get to the hospital but, rather than admit they were
in a whorehouse, they concoct a story about Henri being attacked in the
street by a bunch of racist skinheads.Several days later, Thierry notices a girl playing a flute in the
Metro. Despite the fact that she is a redhead, he is so drawn to her that
he follows her until she disappears into an elevator. Haunted by her face,
he misses his classes the next morning and goes over to the Music
Department looking for her. Instead, he finds an announcement with her
picture. She is Claire Lefrançois, and she is playing piano in a recital
that is going on at that very moment. Thierry races over to the
chamberhall and waits for the recital to end, then asks her out to dinner
with him. At first, Claire is reluctant, but she finally gives in. They
end up back at Thierry's apartment, where they have sex. Before Claire
leaves, they agree to meet each other the next day at 2 pm.Of course, Claire doesn't show, although Thierry skips class just to
wait for her. Later, he happens to run into her in the hallway, and she
acts very distant, telling him to forget about her. But they can't stay
away from each other and wind up making love again in Thierry's bed. After
Thierry tells Claire that he's in love with her and begs her to tell him
why she is trying to give him the brush off, Claire reveals that she has
cancer.But there's more wrong with Claire than just cancer. For one thing,
Claire doesn't like Blacks and is barely civil to Henri and his girlfriend
Sandra [Anna Beaupré Moulounda]. For another, she never eats. Henri invites Thierry and Claire to
have dinner with him and Sandra. Sandra spent the entire day cooking
traditional Haitian food, but Claire excused herself from the table. And
then there's the condom. Henri is certain that he saw Claire in the
bathroom licking the condom after having sex with Thierry. On top of all
that, Thierry is also beginning to look like death warmed over.The next day, Thierry accompanies Claire to the hospital to begin her
chemotherapy treatments. While there, Thierry is introduced to Claire's
family -- mother Diane [Lise Roy] and sisters Isabel [Julie LeBreton] and Marquise. Although Marquise
is now a brunette, Thierry immediately recognizes her as the hooker who
tried to kill Henri. Still stunned, Thierry returns to his apartment to be
hit by another stunner -- Henri is in the process of moving out. Henri
can't bear to see what's happening to Thierry and is tired of being
treated like a stranger in his own house, so he's moving in with Sandra.
Thierry finally tells Henri about Claire's cancer, and Henri mellows.Meanwhile, back at the hospital, Dr Paul-Émile Gagnon [Marcel Sabourin] is also stunned by
Claire's bloodwork. Her adrenalin is sky high, TSH is near zero, her
hormones are nonresponsive, and Dr Gagnon exclaims, "Impossible! She'd be
having a heart attack right now." Claire's family is aghast at her
appearance (bald), and Thierry overhears them arguing with Claire over her
choice of treatment. "I want to live a normal life with a normal guy,"
Claire maintains, but her mother vows that she will stop this treatment
even against Claire's will.As Thierry leaves the hospital, he runs into Marquise, who throws him
up against a fence, sticks her hand in his pants, and warns him to stay
away from her sister and to keep Henri away, too, or she'll f**k Henri so
hard that he'll never recover and eat Thierry for dinner. When Thierry
tells Henri about Marquise, Henri calls his Haitian aunt Marie-Pierre
Janvier [Joujou Turenne] for help. She drives them over to Claire's apartment. Thierry has
never been to Claire's place and doesn't have a key, so Henri uses a
crowbar to break the lock. Except for a few pieces of bare furniture, they
find Claire's apartment empty -- no clothes in the drawers, no cosmetics
in the bathroom, no piano, nothing to show that anyone lives there.
Suddenly, Marie-Pierre gets a feeling and forces them all to leave the
apartment and get in the car. The snowstorm has become blinding and the
tires have been deflated, but Marie-Pierre is anxious to get out of there.
As they drive away, the car strikes Marquise. Thierry gets out of the car
to tend to her body, but it is not there.Thierry rushes over to the hospital only to find that Claire has
checked out. He gets the nurse to give him Diane's telephone number, but
the phone has been disconnected. Meanwhile, Henri is googling. He links to
Succubes.net and reads about them. When Thierry comes home, Henri attempts
to enlist his help tracking down Marquise, but Thierry won't hear a word
of it. Scared for his life, Henri buys a gun and goes over to Dr Gagnon's
house, only to find the front door open, no one at home, and the bathtub
splattered with blood, so Henri enlists Marie-Pierre's help again. They
stop at Henri's apartment to pick up Thierry but find, instead, Marquise
and Diane. As Diane watches, Marquise stabs Henri.Meanwhile, Thierry has been met after class Claire's sister Isabel.
Isabel informs him that Claire isn't well and takes him to their house
where Claire is languishing in bed. Thierry rushes to Claire, intent on
taking her back to the hospital, when Isabel suddenly lifts him off his
feet and throws him across the room. Claire doesn't need pills, Isabel
explains. She shows Thierry some packages in the freezer and explains that
the cuts of meat are Dr Gagnon and that Claire is going to have to eat
them if she is going to recover. Isabel drives Claire and Thierry back to
Thierry's apartment while explaining that, insofar as they know, they are
genetic mutations from humans, just as Whites are mutations from Blacks.
Yes, they feed on humans, and the best feeding is on Blacks because they
are more genetically pure. They need human males to reproduce, and they
can only bear daughters. As soon as they can bear sons, however, they will
no longer need humanity...they will BE humanity.When they arrive at Thierry's apartment, they are surprised to see
Diane's car parked out front. Inside, they find Diane just leaving,
Marie-Pierre dead in the kitchen, and Marquise is in the bathtub feasting
on Henri. Isabel and Marquise begin to argue about Marguise's
indiscretions. Unable to stand it anymore, Claire takes Henri's gun and
shoots Marquise in the head.Epilogue: Thierry has been expelled from the university, at least for the
summer but plans to return in September. Claire is pregnant. Thierry has
installed an indwelling catheter in his arm so that he can draw out a
syringeful of his blood, squirt it into a can of Cherry Cola, and feed it
to Claire whenever she needs it. Diane and Isabel wait in the hospital
hallway while Thierry and Claire see the results of the ultrasound. The
doctor asks if they would like to know the sex of their baby. "Let's keep
it a surprise," says Thierry. [Original synopsis by bj_kuehl]
