Zombified chickens attempt to kill the fast-food workers that cook them in a restaurant built on an ancient burial ground.
When the American Chicken Bunker, a military-themed fried-chicken chain, builds a restaurant on the site of an ancient Indian burial ground, local protesters aren't the only ones crying fowl! The previous tenants, fueled by a supernatural force, take "possession" of the food and those who eat it, and the survivors discover that they must band together before they themselves become the other white meat! Film lovers have been starved for sustenance. The relentless diet of predictability and pretense Hollywood has been serving up just doesn't cut it. Poultrygeist is hearty food for thought. In Poultrygeist, Troma takes on the the fast-food industry-skewering the soulless restaurateurs-in the world's first horror-comedy film to feature zombie chickens, American Indians and a bit of singing and dancing! It's Poultrygeist!
When Arbie's girlfriend turns out to be a lesbian, he decides not to go to college but to work at the American Chicken Bunker where she always protests. One thing, the American Chicken Bunker was built on an Ancient Indian Burial Ground and on Toxic Waste. What will Arbie do when the mutated toxic spirits of the Indians enter the dead carcass of the Chickens? It's POULTRYGEIST! ATTACK OF THE CHICKEN ZOMBIES!
A former member of the Ku Klux Klan, General Lee Roy, now owns and runs a fast food chain 'American Chicken Bunker'. His new store is located on a site that was the burial ground of Native Americans. He has leased this franchise to an African-American, Denny, and has hired a Jew-hating/chicken-loving employee, Carl Jr.; a Burkha-clad Muslim woman, Humus; a Mexican, Jose Paco Bell; a male named Arbie, who is now called 'Daisy' amongst others. He attends the official opening of the store amidst protests from the local community of atrocities carried out on chickens, and the Indian burial grounds' desecration. Watch what happens when Lee Roy decides to pacify the protesters with free chicken meat.

