Long ago in the Iron Age, a shadow loomed over a lonely village. For generations, the village youths are stolen from their families and delivered as sacrifice to a mythical beast - the Minotaur that dwells beneath a great palace. Theo, haunted by the loss of his love in an earlier sacrifice is convinced that the beast isn't real, and that his girl still lives as a slave within the palace. His father, Cyrnan, the village leader, tries to reason with Theo not to go, but Theo is driven by blind rage. He devises a plan and is taken with the other youths who are dragged screaming from their families.
In the age of gods and spirits, the world was ruled by a dark empire from a palace in the Island of Minus. The locals worshiped the Bull, and the ambitious queen got pregnant of their god, generating an offspring part human part bull. When the prince is killed in the island, the dwellers blame the villagers and they are sentenced to give eight young women per year to satisfy the Minotaur. The shepherd Theo, son of the village leader Cyrnan, misses his girlfriend that was abducted a couple of years ago. When he meets a leper seer, she tells him that his beloved Ffion is alive, and that Theo must go to the island to kill the beast and save his love. Theo goes to the palace and faces the king Deucalion and the Minotaur, supported by Deucalion's sister, the queen Raphaella, who discloses the truth about the Minotaur.
Long ago in the Iron Age a shadow loomed over a lonely village of Thens. For every five years, eight village youths are stolen from their families to the capital of the Minos Empire and placed in the underground labyrinth to be a sacrifice to the Minotaur, the Minoan god. Theo, haunted by the loss of his love, Fion, in an earlier sacrifice, is convinced that the beast is not a deity and that his love still lives within the labyrinth. His father Cyrnan, the village leader, tries to reason with Theo not to go but Theo is driven by blind rage and made his way in with seven other youths to be sacrifical lambs. However, Theo intends to kill the Minotaur. Along with his fellow captives, Tyro, Danu, Vena, Morna, Didi, Ziko and Cyrnan, they are placed in the labyrinth by King Deucalion, with the youths slaugthered one by one by the Minotaur. However, Theo is aided by Deucalion's sister, Queen Raphaella, who reveals that her mother gave herself to the most disturbing actions to create a living god, the Minotaur. As the Minotaur grows, so does its appetite when it murdered Deucalion's brother, resulting with the human sacrifices to appense the Minotaur while ensuring Minos's surival.Theo along the way discovers the labyrinth is connected to an underground vent and Tyro tempts the Minotaur to crash into one of the vents but is unsuccessful as the Minotaur eats him alive. Theo then tempts the Minotaur and in the process, the Minotaur breaks his left horn, but continues to charge after Theo. As Theo ran back towards the enlarged vent, he scratches the walls and generates a spark that ignites the whole labyrinth, and dives into a pond of water where Raphaella was waiting for him. They emerge from the water as the flames die out, but the beast is still alive and attempts to charge at them again. Theo takes the horn out of the rubble from where the vent was, and just as the beast attempts to kill him, stabs the Minotaur through the mouth and continues on charging until it hits a collapsed rock formation which impales the horn through the Minotaur's head and finally kills it. Once out, they find Deucalion near death from the explosions decimating the palace as Raphaella smothers him to death, ending the cycle of fantaism and starting a new age.
