It's the true story of a Punjabi woman named Kiranjit Ahluwalia who leaves India to marry a London-based guy, only to be badly abused. She ends up in prison for murdering her abusive husband.
Provoked is the true story of Kiranjit Ahluwalia, a Punjabi woman who moved to London after her marriage with Deepak Ahluwalia. Her husband seemed caring at first but then began to beat her up. He started drinking a lot and sleeping around with other women. he also subjected her to spousal rape. After ten years and having two children with him, out of fear, she sets him on fire while he is sleeping, two hours after another scene of domestic violence. He succumbs to the injuries ans she is sentenced to prison for life for premeditated murder. However the Southall Black Sisters, an NGO which fights against domestic violence helps her get justice. And after spending 3 1/2 years in jail, she is set free and reunited with her two children.
Kiranjit was born in a Punjabi-speaking Sikh family in Chak Kalla in Punjab, and was the last of 9 siblings. Her dad passed away a few months after her birth, while her mom passed away when she was 16. Kiran wanted to become a lawyer, but her marriage was arranged with Deepak Ahluwalia of London, England, who lived with his mom. She hoped to continue her education, but was prevented by Deepak, who became increasingly alcoholic, and abusive - both physically and verbally, even sexually molesting her, and having multiple relationships with other females. Things only got worse even after the birth of two sons, Sandeep and Rajeev. On May 9, 1989 the Police and Fire Department were summoned to their residence on reports of Deepak sustaining numerous burns as a result of a fire. A hospitalized Deepak complains that Kiran attempted to kill him by setting his bed afire. As a result Kiran is arrested, tried in Court, and would have likely got a prison sentence for manslaughter - which was changed to murder - as Deepak dies. After a quick trial, she is found guilty and sentenced to life in prison. Will Kiran be ever set free or will she be spending her life behind bars, away from her two sons, and if she decides to appeal, what would be the grounds - as she herself believes that she has committed an unforgivable crime.

