The tale of two socially-awkward misfits and the strange ways they try to find love: through revenge on high-school bullies, burgers, and video games.
In Wellington, wallflower Lily is inexplicably attracted to loser Jarrod. She's out of a job; he's nursing a decade-long grudge against someone who teased him in high school. When she accompanies him to his seacoast hometown where he intends to take on his nemesis, she meets his father, his daughter from a one-night stand, and other family members--plus the memory of his talented, dead brother. Jarrod treats Lily badly, invents a relationship with his dead brother's fiancée, and gears up for his fight. Will she finally have enough and go home?
Unbeknownst to cocky store clerk Jarrod, kind but gawky fast-food waitress Lily has a major crush on him. By a twist of fate, the two strangers meet at Jarrod's dress-as-your-favourite-animal party and Lily, dressed as a shark, earns the eagle-outfitted host's respect by demonstrating her mastery in video games. But Jarrod is unwilling to commit to the relationship, his focus on his revenge mission to settle a decade-long score in a no-holds-barred showdown with his childhood nemesis Eric. Are the two opposites, the eagle and the shark, truly destined to be together?
Lily works at a fast-food restaurant...and is lonely. She has a crush on Jarrod, who works at a nearby store, but he hardly notices her. Then he invites a work colleague of hers to a party of his, and Lily goes in her place. Soon, a relationship blossoms.
In New Zealand, Lily McKinnon, a shy waif who marches to her own drumbeat, clerks at a Meaty Boy fast-food joint; her only true friend is her brother Damon. She does whatever she can to ensure that she is always the one who waits on a customer who regularly comes into Meaty Boy just after noon. This is her secret crush, mullet-topped Jarrod Lowe, a video-game geek who works at a local mall's Screen Blasterz electronics shop; he too goes his own way. Lily believes they are destined to be together, partly because they both have upper-lip moles. After Lily is laid off due to "downsizing" (in reality, fired) so will no longer see Jarrod regularly, she does anything to insert herself into his life, despite his obvious attraction to her colleague Jenny. Lily and Jarrod do somehow become a couple and she accompanies him to his seaside hometown on his longtime mission: to get back at the "big Samoan", Eric Elisi, who bullied him in school. Jarrod, who has been in training, has learned that Eric will soon be coming home, so he plans to challenge him to a schoolyard brawl. On the trip, Lily meets Jarrod's family, who are all as eccentric as he is, and finds out that Jarrod's now-deceased brother Gordon was the family favorite. The path to a happily-ever-after between Lily and Jarrod is not smooth or certain, mostly because of Jarrod's insecurities. What happens between the two is largely affected by the circumstances of the fight.
Love blossoms for Lily over the double Meaty Boy burgers at mid-day when uber-computer nerd comes in and leaves with free extra large fries. After gatecrashing Jarrod's party and proving her skills on the console kicking butt, Lily goes down to Jarrod's home town so he can settle an old score with a past school bully.Jarrod goes into training helped by the fiancee of his dead brother, so Lily turns to his family for company and comfort, who warm to her after a frosty start. Lily reconciles father and son, and uncovers the true fate of the dead brother.Jarrod meets his nemesis and goes on to recognise and declare his love for Lily, having shunned Lily throughout the film.
