Priscilla Chase is a woman who has never had an orgasm.
In Ohio, Priscilla Chase is the VP of a company that works bringing new business to Cleveland. She has been married for more than ten years with Jack Chase, the biology teacher from the local public school. Priscilla is successful in her career but is frigid and has never reached an orgasm, hurting her frustrated husband. When Priscilla decides to buy a vibrator, Jack is seduced by his teenage student Kristen Taylor and recovers his self-esteem, working out, losing weight and dressing adequately. Priscilla has new sexual experiences and becomes closer to Wayne the Pool Guy, the constructor of swimming pools in her neighborhood since she was a child. The new relationships upgrade the personal and professional lives of Priscilla and Jack.
Priscilla Chase seems to have it all -- the perfect job, the perfect house, the perfect husband -- except for in bed, where sex has always left her a bit short of the finish line.
Priscilla Chase (Pose) and her husband Jack (Rudd) have a problem: despite having had sex three times a week each week for the 10 years of their marriage, she has never had an orgasm. That leaves her feeling incomplete and him feeling inadequate. He looks for his manhood in the arms of teenager, and she looks for her "O" with the help of a mechanical devise. Of course neither finds the answer they were looking for, and continue to search for meaning and fulfillment.
A woman gets a belated introduction to the joy of sex in this comedy. Priscilla (Parker Posey) is a thirtysomething public-relations agent with the unenviable job of trying to lure new businesses to Cleveland, OH. Priscilla is married to Jack (Paul Rudd), a high-school teacher who is reaching the end of his patience with his career. Things aren't going especially well at home for Priscilla and Jack -- she seems unable to have an orgasm, and while Priscilla insists she's perfectly happy with their sex life, Jack is driven to distraction by his inability to arouse his wife. When Kristen (Mischa Barton), one of Jack's students, begins displaying an extra-curricular interest in him, he throws caution to the wind and begins an affair with her, and has soon moved out of the house. Left on her own, Priscilla finally begins feeling sexual frustration, and turns to Alyssa (Liza Minnelli), an outspoken sex therapist who advises her to learn how to pleasure herself. Alyssa's advice proved to be right on the money, and soon Priscilla is a changed women who is looking for a new man in her life. She soon finds one in Wayne (Danny DeVito), a swimming-pool salesman whose sloppy appearance belies his talent in the bedroom. The Oh in Ohio was the first feature film from director Billy Kent, who previously established himself making television commercials.
