Two Canadian detectives, one from Ontario and the other from Quebec, must work together when a murdered victim is found on the Ontario Quebec border line.
When the body of the executive of hockey Benoit Brisset is found on the billboard of the border of Quebec and Ontario, the jurisdiction of the crime is shared between the two police forces and detectives David Bouchard from Montreal and Martin Ward from Toronto are assigned to work together. With totally different styles, attitudes and languages, the reckless David and the ethical Martin join force to disclose the identity of the Tattoo Killer, a deranged serial-killer that is killing managers of hockey.
When a crime is committed on the border of Quebec and Ontario, everyone is forced to come together, whether they want to or not. As the investigation gets underway, we meet David Bouchard and Martin Ward, members of their respective provincial police forces who are forced to work together. The two men couldn't be more different. In fact, the only thing they appear to have in common is that they are both cops, albeit cops with totally different styles.
A dead body is found draped over the joint "Welcome to Ontario/Bienvenue à Québec" sign. There are obvious jurisdictional issues in investigating this case between the Ontario Provincial Police and la Sûreté du Québec, but neither side really wants the case. Finally, they decide to work on it jointly, with the two officers assigned being straight-laced Martin Ward, the "bon cop", and rough and tumble David Bouchard, the "bad cop". Beyond the organizational and language differences, Ward and Bouchard have different working styles that clash with each other. Despite their differences, they quickly learn that they have to work together to achieve their end goal of finding the killer. As they progress in the case, there are more victims, the similarities being that each is tattooed before and after death - hence the media nicknames the perpetrator The Tattoo Killer - and that the victims are associated with professional hockey. The murders seem to be related to the sale of Canadian hockey franchises to U.S. markets. Ward and Bouchard's job becomes one not only of catching the killer but also anticipating who the next targeted victim will be. But as Ward and Bouchard get closer, the Tattoo Killer begins a personal vendetta against the two police officers and their families.

