A folk tale - supernatural love story about a ghost who falls in love with a newlywed woman.
Parsimonious Bhanwarlal is a Bania (businessman) who lives in Navalgarh, Rajasthan, along with his wife; his sons Sunderlal and Kishanlal; Sunderlal is married to Gajrobai and has a son. During the annual camel race, Sunderlal loses the race to the Thakur and out of shame leaves home, never to return. Now Kishanlal has come of age and is married to Lachchi. But on the very next day of the marriage, he must leave for Jamnagar to expand business, and can return only after 5 years. A tearful Lachchi bids him goodbye, but to her pleasant surprise he returns within a few days, and informs his dad that he met a holy sage who had instructed him to return as he will find five gold coins every morning. Pleased with this, Bhanwarlal does not object to Kishanlal's return. After four years, it is now time for the camel race again, and this time Bhanwarlal's camel wins, much to the chagrin of the Thakur who suspects witchcraft. Then Lachchi gets pregnant and on the day of the child's birth the family finds out to their horror that there is an impostor who is claiming to be Kishanlal, and the husband of Lachchi. The family and the town are unable to decide who is real and who the impostor, as both look identical, so they decide to approach the king and do his bidding. The question remains, who is the second Kishanlal and what possible motive could he have for coming to claim Lachchi as his wife?
Lachichi, a girl mildly jealous of her friends (because they are married) finally accepts the arrangement of marriage with the son of a very rich family, hoping all the while that it will be True Love. On the trip to her new home, a ghost sees her and falls in love. Lachichi is frightened by this but still confident that her marriage will bring her love and safety. However, her new husband, Kishanlal, shatters her illusions by leaving on business the morning after arriving home and without consummating the marriage. The ghost then takes on the guise of Kishanlal and woos Lachichi. He succeeds, yet still tells her who he is, finally destroying her hopes for marital bliss, but proving how much he loves her by telling her the truth and offering to leave. They live and love together happily until the real Kishanlal returns early from his 5 year business trip to find his wife pregnant by the ghost who claims to be him, and who his family likes a lot more. A "wise" shepherd sorts out matters by identifying the ghost and imprisoning him in a bag. Life, seemingly, must begin anew for Lachichi and her new, real Kishanlal and her infant daughter (by the ghost). But after confessing to Kishanlal that she knew that the ghost wasn't her husband and that she loved him, "Kishanlal" reaveals that he is the ghost. Never imprisoned in the sack, he has possessed Kishanlal's body so that he could be with his beloved and his daughter again.
