A forty-something preschool teacher looks to the personals for a change of pace and a relationship, with hilarious results.
Preschool teacher Sarah Nolan, divorced for eight months, is still grieving the end of her marriage. Although she didn't see it as being perfect, she probably would have stuck it out as what she saw as the "for better or worse" obligation of the wedding vows, that is if her ex-husband, Kevin, didn't end it for what ended up being leaving her for a younger woman. She is urged by her over-supportive family, comprised of her many siblings, their partners, and her widowed father, to get back into the dating scene, something she has been reluctant to do in not feeling ready. As such, her most proactive sister in the matter, Carol, sets her up on an Internet dating site. Within her less than prepared state, Sarah does go along with meeting men by the means offered to her. Beyond especially her female siblings, Sarah is given unique perspectives on the whole issue of dating and commitment by her father, Bill, who is exploring dating after losing who was the love of his life in Sarah's mother, thrice divorced Dolly, one of Bill's conquests who he meets online, and Sarah's gay teaching colleague, Leo, who she sees as being in the most committed loving relationship with his partner Eric of anyone she knows. Of the men she meets, Sarah makes what she believes is a connection with two, albeit awkward in both cases. One is Bob Connor, the divorced father of one of her students, her hesitance in dating him only because of crossing the professional/personal line. The other is custom wooden boat builder Jake Anderson, who too was pushed into trying online dating by his best friend/divorce lawyer Charlie, who wants Jake solely to get some action despite Jake wanting his love life to be more like Lara and Yuri in Doctor Zhivago (1965). Much of what happens between Sarah and the two men is based on what stage they are in post-divorce dating life, but is also dependent on how much Sarah is willing to take a chance on each, which may also include she and the respective man just not meshing at a given point in time, and she making a wrong decision in the process based on what she sees as the prospects.
Sarah Nolan, a recently divorced thirty-something year old, has a family that just can't help getting involved in her personal life, or lack there of. After her sister puts her profile on PerfectMatch.com, this preschool teacher goes on a number of outrageous and hilarious dates. But will she be able to find the one, who must love dogs?
Sarah Nolan, a preschool teacher in her thirties, is recently divorced. Her family's new pet project is to find her a boyfriend. After a series of disastrous, but hilarious, dates she decides to swear off dating for good. Her well-meaning family and friends are not going to let her give-up quite so easily though. Her sister enrolls her in on-line dating and includes the description of "must love dogs." She loves dogs but doesn't own one of her own, so she borrows her brother's dog to meet Jake Anderson at the dog park; he, too, had to borrow a dog. It's a hit-and-miss beginning - but could true love wag its tail for these two?
The preschool teacher Sarah divorced from her beloved husband eight moths ago, but she is still very vulnerable and alone. Her family presses her to find a new Mr. Right, and her sister Carol puts her profile on the site PerfectMatch.com. She has blind dates with odd guys, but she particularly likes Jake, who divorced three months ago and still misses his former wife. Jake likes her too, but Sarah has one night stand with Bob, the father of one of her students, and Jake gives-up on her. Later Sarah finds that Jake is her perfect match.

