Mr A, a fearless thief, steals valuable artefacts and teams up with the girl he is attracted to but who cannot be trusted. Close on their heels are three police officers trying to apprehend them.
The world's oldest desert, the Namib - A solitary railway line - A royal family on a royal journey. From the sky - like lightening - A flash - the centuries old royal crown is stolen. Back in action - DHOOM:2 reinvents the action comedy genre and propels it into the 21st century. Ali's (Uday Chopra) dream of becoming a police officer has come true. He is now ACP Jai Dixit's (Abhishek Bachchan) right hand man. Together they are trying to keep a tight leash on the crime in India, little do they know what they are going to be up against. Enter Aryan - Mr.A (Hrithik Roshan) A high tech international thief after pulling off a series of impossible heists all over the world. His next target is Mumbai, India. The case is given to ACP Jai Dixit and Ali helping them put the pieces of the puzzle together is ACP Shonali Bose (Bipasha Basu). For the last two years Shonali has been tracking these amazing thefts and is now an expert on this thief, who no one has seen. Once in Mumbai Mr.A finds his match in Sunehri (Aishwarya Rai). A petty yet clever thief. She makes him an offer he finds very hard to refuse. A partnership Aryan accepts. And so the game begins. The cops, Jai, Shonali and Ali and they are after Aryan and Sunehri - The Robbers. From the desert of Namibia to the backwaters of Goa, the mean streets of Mumbai and the ancient forts of Rajasthan and finally to wild and exotic Rio Brazil. Does ACP Jai Dixit manage to nab Mr.A? Go on. Enjoy the ride!. Once again!!.
The worlds oldest desert, the NamibA solitary railway lineA royal family on a royal journeyFrom the sky, like lightning a FLASH! The centuries old Royal Crown is stolen!BACK IN ACTION... DHOOM:2 reinvents the action comedy genre and propels it into the 21st century.Alis (Uday Chopra) dream of becoming a police officer has come true. He is now ACP Jai Dixits (Abhishek Bachchan) right hand man. Together, they are trying to keep a tight leash on the crime in India. Little do they know what they are going to be up against.Enter Aryan - Mr. A (Hrithik Roshan) - A hi-tech international thief. After pulling off a series of impossible heists all over the world, his next target is Mumbai, India. The case is given to ACP Jai and Ali. Helping them put the pieces of the puzzle together is ACP Shonali Bose (Bipasha Basu), Jais college mate, now a police officer in her own right. For the last two years Shonali has been tracking these amazing thefts and is now an expert on this thief, who no one has seen. Once in Mumbai, Mr. A finds his match in Sunehri (Aishwarya Rai), a petty yet clever thief. She makes him an offer he finds very hard to refuse. A partnership! Aryan accepts.And so the game begins a game of cat and mouse a game of good v/s bad.The COPS - Jai, Shonali and Ali; and they are after Aryan and Sunehri The ROBBERS.From the desert of Namibia to the backwaters of Goa, the mean streets of Mumbai and the ancient forts of Rajasthan, and finally to Wild n Exotic Rio, Brazil.Does ACP Jai Dixit manage to nab Mr. A? Or does Mr. A prove to be too much for him? Never-Seen-Before Action Sequences, Hi-Tech Heists, Breathtaking Hi-Speed Chases, Non-Stop Laughter and Excitement will lead you to the answer to these questions.Go On! Enjoy the RIDE!! ONCE AGAIN!!!
