Through the plights of seven different children, seven cruel destinies unfold, as the unknown innocents who share the same sensitivities and desires struggle for survival, understanding--and above all--love, in an apathetic grown-up world.
Seven shorts about childhood problem through the eyes of seven directors. 1) "Tanza": Mehdi Chafer shows a boy called Tanza in an undefined country in Africa fighting in a civil war with machine gun and explosives, and dreaming on having his home and going to school. 2) "Uros": Emir Kusturica shows a gypsy boy called Uros in his last day in a juvenile prison in Serbia-Montenegro without any other perspective but returning to the place. 3) "Jesus Children of America": Spike Lee shows a HIV positive girl called Blanca, daughter of junkies' parents with Aids and the cruelty of her schoolmates in school. 4) "Bilu and João": Kátia Lund gives an optimistic approach of two homeless children that fight to survive working on the streets, collecting beer and soda tins and paper to sell in a junkyard, and transporting shops in street fairs. 5) "Jonathan": Jordan and Ridley Scott show a photographer correspondent of war in pain for his past experiences. 6) "Ciro": Stefano Veneruso shows a young boy in Naples that pickpockets to survive. 7) "Song Son and Little Cat": John Woo shows a tale of fantasy, with a homeless orphan and a spoiled wealthy girl.
Through the plights of seven different children, seven cruel destinies unfold, as the unknown innocents struggle for survival, understanding--and above all--love, in an apathetic grown-up world. Yearning of a carefree life, the unripe guerrilla warrior, Tanza, finds himself trapped in a hostile battle zone, as the young Romani, Uros, escapes from the house of correction, unaware of his father's plans. Later on, infected with HIV, the innocent student, Blanca, is bullied daily for the sins of her parents, while the poor siblings, Bilu and João, strive to eke out an existence in the favela. Next, once a Bosnian war child, Jonathan documents the war's lunacy through his camera, and in Naples, the juvenile delinquent, Ciro, misses his mother's touch. Lastly, in the corner of the world, the abandoned infant, Little Cat, seeks for a family, hoping for a bright future. Is there hope for a better world, when all that our children see is only its monochrome and dreadfully unjust side?

