A specially trained squad of guinea pigs is dispatched to stop a diabolical billionaire from taking over the world.
The story is about a team of trained secret agent flies and a mole that takes on a mission for the US government. A specially trained squad of not guinea pigs is dispatched to stop a diabolical billionaire, who plans to taking over the world with household appliances.
Tycoon Leonard Saber's multinational company makes a Barnum presentation of its intelligent system to link all Household appliances with shopping lists etcetera. Ben Kendall's secret government agents team, mainly comprising Guinea pigs, plus a mole and insects like the fly Mooch and even cockroaches, must stop it, being a cover for a deadly weapon which would exterminate humanity. The FBI is not impressed and shuts down Kendall's program, but he and his animal team go on.
Producer Jerry Bruckheimer
brings his first 3-D film to the big screen with "G-Force," a comedy adventure about the latest evolution of a covert government program to train animals to work in espionage. Armed with the latest high-tech spy equipment, these highly trained guinea pigs discover that the fate of the world is in their paws. Tapped for the G-Force are guinea pigs Darwin (voice of Sam Rockwell), the squad leader determined to succeed at all costs; Blaster (voice of Tracy Morgan), an outrageous weapons expert with tons of attitude and a love for all things extreme; and Juarez (voice of Penelope Cruz), a sexy martial arts pro; plus the literal fly-on-the-wall reconnaissance expert, Mooch, and a star-nosed mole, Speckles (voice of Nicolas Cage), the computer and information specialist. Along the way, the G-FORCE encounters myriad other members of the animal kingdom, including pet shop layabout Hurley (voice of JON FAVREAU) and the rabidly territorial hamster Bucky (voice of STEVE BUSCEMI). Its fun to take films based on familiar, even classic themes, give them a twist and see what evolves, says Bruckheimer. Movies about secret agents have been on screen long before James Bond, and movies in which animals speak and have personalities have also been with us for quite some time. What weve never seen, however, is a movie about secret agents who also happen to be animalswhats more in a combination of live action, animation and Digital 3D. [D-Man2010]A group of guinea pigs trained by the government to work in espionage, armed with the latest high-tech spy equipment, soon discover that the fate of the world is in their paws. Tapped for the G-Force are guinea pigs Darwin the squad leader determined to succeed at all costs; Blaster, an outrageous weapons expert with tons of attitude and a love for all things extreme; and Juarez a sexy martial arts pro; plus the literal fly-on-the-wall reconnaissance expert, Mooch, and a star-nosed mole, Speckles, the computer and information specialist. Along the way, the G-Force encounters myriad other members of the animal kingdom, including pet shop layabout Hurley and the rabidly territorial hamster Bucky. [D-Man2010]The film revolves around a team of trained secret agent animals: guinea pigs Darwin (team leader) (Sam Rockwell), Juarez (martial arts) (Penélope Cruz), Blaster (weapons/transportation) (Tracy Morgan), mole Speckles (cyber intelligence) (Nicolas Cage), and fly Mooch (high-tech surveillance) (Edwin Louis). The team takes on a mission for the US government to stop evil billionaire Leonard Saber (Bill Nighy), who plans to destroy the world with household appliances. Before they can accomplish their mission, the government shuts them down and they are sentenced to a pet shop. Darwin, Juarez, Blaster, Speckles, Mooch, and their new friends Hurley (Jon Favreau) and hamster Bucky (Steve Buscemi) will escape the cage to defeat the villain, stop his threat, and save the world. [D-Man2010]
