A debt-ridden young man attempts suicide, but is rescued only to find that his luck is finally turning.
A young man named Jeetu finds himself in debt with his father receiving harassing visits from money-lenders. Although his father is scolded daily for his non-progress in their debts, his mother and his fiancée Pooja believe he can successfully fulfill his task and live happily, but burdened with high debt, Jeetu sees suicide as his only way out of the situation (insurance money for the family). Unfortunately for him, taking a plunge off a dock into a placid ocean doesn't kill him. He awakens in a boat with two very interesting characters, Gundya and his servant Bundya. In the cost of putting Jeetu in a hospital and saving his life, Gundya and Bundya believe Jeetu owes them a debt. Already in much debt , Jeetu decides to play off that he is deaf and mute. He then finds himself mortgaged to a wealthy man, Prabhart Singh in return for Gundya's confiscated boat and thus ends up as a servant boy at a mansion in Kolkata. It is here where he meets Prabhart's beautiful daughter Meenakshi and mute (not dumb or deaf) niece Shruti. After many convolutions later, Jeetu and Shruti fall in love, and Mangal (Shruti's brother and the true head of the family) is ready to have them married, but something from Jeetu 's past comes back to haunt him .
Young Jeet lives with his father Jaidev Prashad and his sweetheart Pooja in the country. Once Jeet owes some insurance money to some village people but were unable to pay it. And as a result of this he decides to commit suicide but this was unsuccessful too since next morning he woke up in another area called Kolkata in a fisherman net called Gundya and his pal side way Bandiya. Jeet decides to pretend as if he was deaf and dumb in order to bump Gundya and Bandiya and escape. But this was unsuccessful too since he finds himself mortgage for Gundya's boat at a rich man residence called Chauhan. There he was deemed a maid servant and suddenly reach up with Prabhat Singh's beautiful and Pretty daughter Meenakshi and her dumb and deaf niece Shruti. All of a sudden Shruti falls in love with Jeet and her brother Mangal decides to get them married but his love at first Pooja came back into his life, she was made a widow before she could be married to Jeet who commits suicide but finds him alive and okay she decides to marry him but all had to be sacrifice and Jeet was made to marry the deaf and dumb girl Shruti. Young Jeetu lives with his father Jaidev Prasad and his sweetheart Pooja in the country. Jeetu owes money to quite a few villagers for many failed business ventures but is unable to pay. He decides to commit suicide to have insurance money cover his debts and get his family out of bad standing but this, too, is unsuccessful, and next morning he wakes up in another area called Kolkata, rescued in a fisherman's net by Gundya and his lackey Bandya. Jeetu decides to pretend he's deaf and dumb in order to bump Gundya and Bandya and escape, but at this he is unsuccessful, too, and finds himself mortgaged for Gundya's boat at a rich man residence called Chauhan. There he is deemed a servant, where he connects up with Prabhart Singh's beautiful and pretty daughter Meenakshi and mute niece Shruti. All of a sudden Shruti falls in love with Jeetu, and her brother, Mangal, decides to get them married, but Jeetu's first love, Pooja, who has made herself Jeetu's widow even though they never married, discovers he's alive and okay and expects to marry him. Now Jeetu's lies have caught him between two beautiful women who love him. Whom shall he marry?
In overwhelming debt, young Jeetu jumps in the ocean to drown himself so life insurance money can reimburse his creditors. He is rescued by two explosively idiotic, out-of-area fishermen (boat-owner Gundya and deckhand Bandya) who believe him deaf and stupid, which Jeetu elects not to contradict. In debt themselves, their boat is taken; to get it back Gundya turns over both Jeetu (whom they call Jabba) and deckhand Bandya as indentured servants to their money-lender, Prabhart Singh Chauhan. In his household, Jeetu meets Shruti, a mute girl in the family. They slowly begin to fall in love with each other, but how is Jeetu to admit he's been deceiving everyone about his false muteness and idiocy? Plus there's Pooja, a young girl back in his village who has been promised to him since childhood and who has taken on the guise of his widow.
A debt-ridden young man Jeetu has an old father, who is harassed and humiliated by the daily calls of various money-lenders. His mother is however still full of "motherly love" and his beautiful young fiancée Pooja loves him. Plagued by financial worries Jeetu commits suicide (for the insurance money). However his attempt at suicide is also unsuccessful, and he ends up in a fisherman's net. When awakened from his near drowning, Jeetu finds himself in Kolkata, in the august presence of boat owner Gundya and fisherman and sidekick Bandya. Jeetu pretends to be deaf and dumb, so that he can sponge off them. However he finds himself "mortgaged" to Prabhat Singh in return for Gundya's boats, and thus ends up as a servant in a palatial haveli in Kolkata. Here he meets Prabhat Singh's beautiful daughter Meenakshi and dumb (not deaf) niece Shruti. When, many convolutions later, Jeetu and Shruti fall in love, Mangal is ready to get them married, but more problems occur . . Jeetu, a debt-ridden young man, has an old father who is harassed and humiliated by the daily visits of various money-lenders, a mother who is still full of "motherly love for him," and a faithful and beautiful young fiancée, Pooja. Plagued by financial worries, Jeetu commits suicide (for the insurance money), however his attempt is unsuccessful, and he ends up in a fisherman's net. When awakened from near drowning, Jeetu finds himself in Kolkata, in the august presence of boat owner Gundya and fisherman and sidekick Bandya. Jeetu pretends to be deaf and stupid so that he can sponge off them, however he soon finds himself "mortgaged" to Prabhart Singh in return for Gundya's confiscated boat, and thus ends up as a servant in a palatial haveli in Kolkata. Here he meets Prabhart Singh's beautiful daughter Meenakshi and mute (not deaf) niece Shruti. When, many convolutions later, Jeetu and Shruti fall in love, Mangal (her protective brother) is ready to get them married, but more problems occur.
Jeetu (Shahid Kapoor) is constantly getting himself and his father into trouble because of his inability to properly manage money. Plunging them both into debt, Jeetu breaks off his engagement with his fiancé, Pooja (Sushma Reddy) and decides to commit suicide by throwing himself into the sea. Jeetu believes that by killing himself, he can do something right for once: his father can use the money from his life insurance to pay off his debts. Unfortunately, it does not go as planned and Jeetu is found tangled in some nets by a pair of fishermen, Gundya (Paresh Rawal) and Bandya (Rajpal Yadav). Gundya owes money to a Gujarati businessman, Prabhat Singh Chauhan (Om Puri). They find a note containing people's names with amount written next to the name in Jeetu's pocket, which makes them think Jeetu is rich who has lent money to these people, rather than in debt. Jeetu does not want to reveal too much, and therefore pretends to be mute and deaf. To add to their problems, Prabhat Singh Chauhan takes away Gundya's boat, the only source of Gundya's income so that he pays back the money he owes to Prabhat. The two fisherman visit Prabhat's house to request back their boat, only to be asked by Prabhat to leave something of value in return as a guarantee. Gundya cunningly makes him believe that Jeetu is his loving nephew and leaves both Jeetu and Bandya as guarantee.A hilarious sequence of events follows as his pretense gets both him and the fishermen into comical situations. Soon, it is revealed that Prabhat's niece Shruti (Kareena Kapoor) is mute too, but not deaf. Her brother Mangal (Sunil Shetty) wants her to get married and everything seems okay when her marriage is arranged. However, the groom's family breaks the marriage, humiliating Shruti and angering Mangal. One night, when Jeetu gets drunk, he begins to sing, but is caught when Shruti and her cousin Meenakshi (Neha Dhupia) hear him (and consequently learn of his secret). They promise to keep his secret but in return he must do something for Shruti. A greedy bridegroom is interested in marrying Shruti only for her wealth; so they ask Jeetu to pretend to be Shruti's lover, which eventually breaks off the marriage.Meenakshi finds out that Jeetu is in debt and she thinks he will do anything for money. Unfortunately, Jeetu is involved in a car crash with Prabhat who, at the time, was carrying a lot of money. Meenakshi tells the police about her suspicions and they beat Jeetu mercilessly. Her views about him change however when Prabhat announces that Jeetu was the one that saved him and took him to the hospital. Shruti who has developed a soft corner for Jeetu sends a suitcase full of money to his village through Bandya to repay his debts. Bandya returns from the village and tells Jeetu that Pooja is married now, though they are unaware that Pooja believing herself to be Jeetu's widow,is living with Jeetu's family. At the same time, Shruti confesses her love for Jeetu. Mangal finds out about the romance and practically forces Jeetu to marry Shruti. Free of debt, he agrees to marry Shruti, having fallen in love with her too. But when his family learns of this, they intrude on the marriage, wanting him to return and marry Pooja instead. However, when Pooja learns that Shruti is mute, she has a change of heart and tells Jeetu to marry Shruti. Jeetu and Shruti get married and live happily.
