A semi-paralyzed radio reporter is sent out to investigate a story that leads him into an odd subculture and on a journey of disturbing self-realization.
Isaac Knott is a public radio reporter in New York, in a wheelchair since an auto accident in which his parents died. He's on the rebound from a relationship when he gets a tip about people who want to be disabled, who offer money to interns to cut off a limb. He searches out a group of these wannabes, but none will talk to him. Then he meets his tipster, Fiona Ankany, an art conservator, attractive and attracted to him. She discloses her desire to be disabled, to be in a wheelchair. Meanwhile, Isaac tries on a pair of wing-tips, spectators, that restore feeling to his feet. What are the connections? What's Fiona's quid pro quo? Will Isaac get his story?
Isaac Knott has been a paraplegic since he was eight years old, the result of a car accident that took his parents' lives. He has no illusions, but hopes one day to walk again. He is well known by name by those physically disabled in New York City as he is an on-air reporter/commentator for NPR, he often telling stories related directly or indirectly to disabilities, his own or that of others. He is provided an anonymous tip of an able bodied person going to a hospital requesting to have his legs amputated, that request which the hospital denied. He is provided a further tip by the same anonymous source which leads him to a subculture of able bodied people who have a fixation on physical disabilities, the most extreme of those, called wannabes, who want to be physically disabled themselves, such as the man who requested his legs be amputated. Isaac eventually meets the source, Fiona Ankany, an art conservator. In a quid pro quo, Fiona vows to tell Isaac what she knows about her friend who is within this subculture if he tells her about himself. In this quid pro quo, Fiona eventually admits that she is a wannabe. Regardless of this information, Isaac and Fiona fall for each other, Isaac's emotional and physical attraction to her being despite his last serious girlfriend, Raine, having only recently broke up with him, she with who he still hopes to reconcile despite the reason for breaking it off with him about which he can do nothing. However, directly or indirectly through his relationship with Fiona, Isaac experiences a major positive change in his life. Because of that change, Fiona offers him a deal, accepting what he wants which will result in something he doesn't want. The balance between Isaac and Fiona's relationship and the deal could tip if what he suspects to be the truth behind her motivations in being a wannabe is indeed the truth.
A wheelchair bound radio journalist, Issac (Nick Stahl), receives a lead into a secretive group whose undiagnosed condition leaves them malcontent with their functioning bodies and wanting to be disabled. One such wannabe, Fiona (Vera Farmiga), agrees to assist Issac with his story only to study him and his paralysis with equal intensity. Their relationship bolsters her determination to be like him, even through extreme measures. Conversely, a pair of wing tip shoes miraculously heals Issac, temporarily inverting their roles of abled/disabled. But as their shared past is revealed, they come to terms with their capable bodies and damaged psychologies.
