A 12 year old boy and his mother become the targets of two warring werewolf packs, each with different intentions and motives.
In accordance with the Navajos' legend, a thirteen year-old boy will finish with the curse of the powerful Skinwalkers, a.k.a. werewolves. The half-breed boy Timothy is raised by his human mother Rachel and protected by his Skinwalkers relatives since he was born. His grandmother Nana, his uncle Jonas, his cousin Katherine, her boyfriend Adam and their friend Doak have kept the secret about his bloodline and neither Timothy nor Rachel know the tragic curse. A couple of days before Timothy's thirteenth birthday, a pack of evil Skinwalkers that have tasted blood led by the evil Varek chases the boy while his family protects him.
Two packs of werewolves, divided by principles are signaled by the moon of the coming of an ancient prophecy. A small boy named Timothy approaches his 13th birthday, unaware this marks the time of his transformation. Timothy has been raised by his mother Rachel, his grandmother, his Uncle Jonas, his cousin Katherine and her boyfriend, Adam. Rachel and her son Timothy have been unaware that the rest of the family are good werewolves that have guarded Timothy since birth. They know that Timothy is a half blood, and will control the destiny of the family. But they also know that Timothy's power will put him in danger, for there are other werewolves that revel and embrace their blood-lust that are prepared to kill to preserve their way of life. These werewolves, led by Varek, Zo and Sonya, are hell bent on finding Timothy...their kin.
Creatures, bound by the blood of the wolf, that can kill with curses and move at lightening speed, watching the night sky for the rise of the blood-red crescent moon. They are SKINWALKERS. They feed on our flesh and thirst for the taste of human blood. The red moon signals each pack, divided by principles, hell bent to survive an ancient prophecy. On his 13th birthday, Timothy a half-blood, is about to reach the time of his transformation. He's been guarded since birth by those around him. They know the power he holds. He alone has the power to control the destiny of his family, and their kind, a gift that has placed his very life in danger. On the third night, at the rise of the red moon, a war will rage for control of their kind. There are two warring factions: one would like the curse to end, the other embraces bloodlust, and revels in the immortal freedom of the beast within. They will do anything to preserve their way of life. To survive, it means finding the boy. The one with the power to control their very survival. "I am not human," says Varek, "I am better than that!" Under the full red moon, the violent feud pits brother against brother, lover against lover, and good against evil.

