Devesh (Ajay Devgan) was Raj's father who was a futuristic car designer. He owned an old car, which was passed down to him from his father and he hoped to pass it on to his son, Raj. After many hours designing, he shows his design to a car company owned by four men (Pankaj Dheer, Sadashiv Amrapurkar, Shakti Kapoor and Mukesh Tiwari), little did he know that they would turn around and patent the design and take credit for it. In an attempt to get justice, Devesh reports the incident to the police and later finds out the hard way that the police officer was part of the deception. After Devesh confronts the men, they fight and Devesh is knocked out and left unconscious. The men decide to place him in his car and dump the car in the nearby lake. Devesh drowns to death leaving behind his mother and his young son. A few years pass by and Raj has grown up and enters college. Raj is a simple looking, geeky guy who is made fun of because of the way he looks. He meets Priya (Ayesha Takia) who has just returned from London and together they form a relationship. One day while passing by Raj sees his father's old car in a scrap yard. He buys the car and transforms it into "Tarzan", a futuristic looking car that he builds in memory of his father. The car has a life of its' own and soon becomes a killing machine, taking revenge on the men who killed Devesh. The suspicion falls on Raj and he becomes the prime suspect. While visiting Raj's home, Priya's father sees a photo of Devesh and Raj and realizes who Raj is. Priya's father is one of the men who killed Raj's father. He forbids Priya from seeing Raj and decides to send her back to London. The climax of the movie is where you learn that Devesh's spirit controls the car and he cannot move on to the after world unless he gets revenge and his family learns the truth about his death. After he accomplishes both tasks, his soul is free and he moves on. Raj and Priya unite and all ends well.
An automobile engineer, Deven Chaudhary is a widower who lives a middle-class life-style with his widowed mother and son Raj. Deven works hard day and night in creating various computerized car designs; members of the Four Fox company offers to buy this design but are unable to meet with his terms and conditions and thus he decides to cancel the deal with them. Out of desperation the duo decides to steal the car design from him; when Deven gets to find out he confronts them and an argument ensures leaving Deven dead. 12 years later Raj manages to locate Taarzan the car that belongs to his father, brings it home and works hard on it day and night so that he can completely transform it into a working car. But soon Raj is accused of killing some influential people when the witnesses testify that they had seen Taarzan in the vicinity of all the murder scene while Raj clearly state that he had nothing to do with the murders and even brought his witnesses to testify in favor of his innocence.
Deven Chowdhary designs a futuristic car and names it Tarzan.He meets Rakesh Kapoor and his partners Anthony Dcosta,Mahesh Saxena and Kailash Chopra who con him and register the car in their name.Deven takes the help of inspector Sanjay Sharma who also turns out to be Kapoor's man.They kill Deven by locking him in the car and push it into a river.Many years later Deven's son Raj grows up and is made fun by his college mates due to his simplicity.Raj works in garage of Kartar Singh in order to support his education and his grandmother he meets Priya and they both fall in love.Raj comes across an old car and recognizes it as Tarzan.Raj and Kartar modify the car and give it a new look but car cant start due to some engine issues,One day suddenly the car starts automatically and Raj uses it for himself.But Tarzan starts taking revenge on killers of Deven.Inspector Khurana finds Raj as the suspect as the car belongs to him.
Widower Deven Chaudhary lives a middle-class life with his mom, and only child, a son, Raj. He spends considerable time designing and perfecting the perfect car, calling it DC, and registering it's patent. He also looks after an older model car, handed over to him by his late father, and calls it "Tarzan". He meets with Rakesh Kapoor and his partners, who do applaud his design, but are unable to meet with his conditions. Shortly thereafter, Deven does meet Mukund Joshi, who is able to accept Deven's demands. Deven returns home, tells his mother the good news, leaves home the next day, meets with an accident and dies, leaving his mother to bring up him son, Raj. Years later Raj has grown up, works part-time in a garage, attends college where he meet Nisha and both are in love. Raj gets a nostalgic surprise when he comes across a car wreck that resembles "Tarzan". He then borrows money from his grandmother, buys the wreck, not only restores it, but updates it considerably to make it look shiny and new. What Raj does not know that he will soon be implicated in a number of horrendous deaths, all involving his new car, and a Police Inspector named Khurana, who is determined to place him arrest, try him in Court, and ensure that he is hanged.
Raj Chaudhary attends college and works part-time at Kartar Singh's garage to earn a living, here is where he learns different arts how to design fustic engines and cars. One day while returning home from college, Raj passes by a junk yard, saw a wrecked car and took a liking to it, brought it and bring it home. Raj spent hours and hours designing the wreck and eventually restores it to a car, with the latest technology systems, makes it look new and shiny. He decides to call this new car "Tarzan". Unknown to Raj that this new car will turn his life upside down of having the worst nightmare in being implicated for a number of innocent lives taken and put him in the bad books of the police.
Deven Chaudhary (Ajay Devgn) lives with his mother (Farida Jalal) and only son Raj (Vatsal Sheth). Deven spends considerable time designing the perfect car, calling it DC - which is very futuristic and more advanced than any other car in the market - and registering its patent. The SUV car is said to have 400BHP and 500NM of torque, as well as making it from 0-60 in 5.2 seconds. He also looks after an older model car, handed over to him by his late father, and calls it "Taarzan". He meets with Rakesh Kapoor (Pankaj Dheer) and his partners, who praise his design but decline dealing with him, as they do not want to give royalty as part of the deal.Later, Deven finds that Rakesh and his partners conned him and registered his design under their name. Deven reports this to a police officer, Inspector Sanjay Sharma (Deepak Shirke), but the latter turns out to be on Kapoor's payroll. Kapoor, along with his cronies and Sharma, attack and lock Deven in his car. The car is then pushed into the river, causing a bound and gagged Deven to die. Unaware of the truth behind Deven's death, his mother decides to bring up her grandson alone.Twelve years later, Raj studies at a college and falls in love with a rich girl named Priya (Ayesha Takia). The young Raj now works in the garage of Kartar Singh (Amrish Puri) as a mechanic. One day, Raj discovers Taarzan and recognizes it immediately. He somehow pools money and buys it at a throwaway price, which was 5000 rupees. Raj wants to update the car that reminds him of his father. Little does he know that with the car, he has also brought back his father, whose soul is trapped inside the car.Kartar is moved on learning this and aides Raj in repairing Taarzan. Taarzan is totally revamped and Raj decides to rename it DC, to honour his father's memory. Here, Deven's spirit possesses Taarzan and starts killing all the gentlemen responsible for the murder, including Inspector Sanjay Sharma. Since the car now belongs to Raj, he becomes a suspect in eyes of Inspector Khurana (Gulshan Grover), the investigating officer. Here, Kapoor returns to India after learning that all his partners have died. Kapoor is revealed to be Priya's father.On Priya's insistence, Kapoor goes to meet Raj, but after learning that Raj is Deven's son, Kapoor assumes that Raj has somehow found the truth and is using Priya as a pawn. Kapoor decides to kill Raj and take Priya back with him. Priya and Raj are both clueless, but Raj is shocked when Kapoor tells him the truth. Here, Taarzan comes alive again and in front of disbelieving eyes of Kapoor and Raj, jumps in the ocean to save Raj. Deven's spirit now becomes visible to everybody.In front of Raj, his grandmother, Priya and Inspector Khurana, a terrified Kapoor confesses the crime. Khurana arrests Kapoor, while Deven says his last goodbye to his mother and son. With Raj, his mother and Priya united, Deven's spirit becomes free and he ascends to heaven, with Raj and Priya living a happy life afterwards.
