Darcy Wagner and her ten-and-a-half-year-old daughter Pamela "Pammy" are heading to the bed and breakfast of her boyfriend Peter Campbell in the River Bend Road in Northern California. Peter has quited his career of doctor and bought an old house to have a calmer life and write a book. When Darcy stops at a gas station to ask for direction, she has an abusive treatment from the owners, the Hammond Brothers. Meanwhile Peter welcomes his first guest, the student Stephanie "Star" Roberts, while he works with his friend Bobby Boulet repairing the house. When Darcy and Pamela arrive, he explains that he had a dispute in the justice with the Hammond Brothers and asks Darcy to forget the incident. Soon Pamela befriends the girl Emma in the barn and she tells that the house belonged to the Tooth Fairy Witch that killed many children to get their milk-teeth; further, Pamela would be in danger since she still has her last milk-tooth. Pamela tells Emma's story to her mother and Peter, but they do not believe in her. But when their friends are slaughtered in the house, Darcy and Peter start to believe that something supernatural is happening in the house.
When 12-year-old Pamela goes on vacation with her family to a bed and breakfast, the girl who lives next door tells her the "true story" of the Tooth Fairy: Many years earlier, the evil Tooth Fairy slaughtered a countless number of children to take their teeth, and now she has returned to kill Pamela and anyone else who gets in her way.
A young girl named Pamela on vacation with her parents finds herself being stalked by "The Tooth Fairy", who many years earlier brutally murdered numerous children for their teeth. Worse of all, Pamela has an accident resulting in her tooth falling out - The Tooth Fairy is back and is willing to kill anyone and anything in her path to get to Pamela...
A young girl staying at a Bed &amp; Breakfast with her mother and her boyfriend, find themselves and several others fighting for their lives against "The Tooth Fairy" - an evil witch who murdered children years before who is determined to get to Pamela after an accident with her tooth, willing to kill anyone and anything in her path...

