A real-time account of the events on United Flight 93, one of the planes hijacked on September 11th, 2001 that crashed near Shanksville, Pennsylvania when passengers foiled the terrorist plot.
On September 11, 2001, two American Airlines and two United Airlines domestic U.S. flights are hijacked by terrorists. After the collision of two planes against the World Trade Center and one against the Pentagon, the passengers and crew of United Flight 93 decide to struggle against the four terrorists to take back the control of the airplane.
The events leading up to the crash of United Airlines flight 93 in a Pennsylvania field on September 11, 2001 is told. The routine of most of the people associated with the regularly scheduled Newark to San Francisco flight was not out of the ordinary, except for the four Middle Eastern men who would eventually commandeer the plane, they who said their last prayers and goodbyes to loved ones for what they hoped would be forever on Earth before boarding the plane. Except for a thirty minute delay in getting airborne, the other passengers and crew had no idea that any additional problems would be in store for them, even as outside their world first American Airlines flight 11 from Boston to Los Angeles would be hijacked and initially assumed crashed into the World Trade Center, followed in close succession by United Airlines flight 175 also Boston to Los Angeles, and then American Airlines flight 77 Washington D.C. to Los Angeles crashing into the Pentagon. Although the cockpit would receive this news, the innocent United 93 passengers would first realize that something was wrong was when the four men violently commandeered the plane. As news filtered in to the passengers of what happened at the World Trade Center and Pentagon through clandestine Airfone calls home and of both the pilot and co-pilot probably having been killed, the surviving crew and passengers changed their priority solely from staying alive to staying alive and not allowing the hijackers to complete whatever their mission at whatever cost.
Emotionally-packed and moving fact-based story about the passengers aboard doomed flight United 93 that was the fourth terrorist attack plane on September 11, 2001. The passengers on the flight, as a result of a delay on takeoff that placed them behind the planned attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, are able to learn of the attacks and discern that this is no mere high-jacking. While the real events that caused the ultimate crash of the plane can never be known, the events depicted would appear to be as might be expected. The scariest part of the film is the unpreparedness of the FAA and the military in dealing with the situation, which is also well-depicted here.
Four young Arabians prepared themselves physical and spiritually in order to hijack flight United 93, the night before the fatal 11-S-2001. Same day, other three planes were hijacked as well and reached their targets: The World Trade Center and The Pentagon. British director Paul Greengrass gives a close version about what could possible happened inside the plane, basing upon the last recordings from the pilot cabin and the telephone calls made by the passengers to their beloveds. The movie shows how the passengers tried to subdue the terrorists, one of them with a bomb tied to his waist, once they had killed both pilots and one of the passengers. Meanwhile, we see the prevailing crisis in the Air Traffic Control, trying to deal with a situation which leads to close all the country's aerial space. Despite the courage of the passengers, the United Airlines' plane, with an original route to San Francisco, crashed near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, without reaching its target, located in Washington D.C.
September 11, 2001. The nation was under attack by suicide hijackers, who hit Three famous buildings. The fourth plane United 93 was a story of 40 passengers who were strangers. Who sat through terrifying event. But found courage, rebelled and become hero's. And stood united.
The film opens early on the morning of September 11, 2001 with the hijackers praying in their hotel room, then leaving for Newark Liberty International Airport. At the airport, the passengers and crew board United Airlines Flight 93 along with the hijackers. Shortly after boarding, Flight 93 runs into rush hour traffic, and the flight is momentarily delayed. The other 3 would-be-hijacked flights take off.Eventually Flight 93 does take off and passes by Manhattan. Hijacker Ziad Jarrah catches a final glimpse of the World Trade Center before the plane gets airborne.Air traffic controllers monitoring all current flights notice that American Airlines Flight 11 has taken a southern turn toward New York City. Not long after that, Flight 11 descends into Lower Manhattan and crashes head on into the North Tower of the World Trade Center, though air traffic controllers are not aware of it. CNN then broadcasts the first international shot of the smoking WTC. While the traffic controllers, unaware that Flight 11 has crashed, try to make sense of it, United Airlines Flight 175 begins to descend and turn toward NYC as well. Air traffic controllers then realize they are dealing with a hijacking. American Airlines Flight 77 is also hijacked. The traffic controllers alert the U.S. Air Force, who decide whether or not to shoot down all suspected hijacked flights. The traffic controllers and Air Force then watch in horror as Flight 175 crashes into the South Tower of the WTC on live television.Word of the planes that hit the World Trade Center reaches Flight 93, and the hijackers then decide to begin the hijacking. One of them assembles a fake bomb out of clay and plastic, while the other 3 wrestle their way into the cockpit. In the cockpit they put a photo of the U.S. Capitol, their target, on the flight yoke mounted clipboard. By this time, Flight 77 crashes and creates a huge fireball at the Pentagon.Much to the growing consternation of Ben Sliney and his people, coordination with the Air Force is haphazard and there are simply not enough planes ready, or armed, to respond to an in-air hijacking. Sliney ultimately decides to shut down all airspace in the United States and ground every single flight.The hijackers do not prevent the people from making phone calls through the on-board GTE Airfone system. After hearing about the crashes into the WTC and the explosion at the Pentagon from loved ones, the passengers and crew understand that if they do nothing, they will also die, and eventually elect to storm the cockpit and attempt to retake the plane. The passengers make one last set of phone calls to friends and family, where they declare their intentions. The remaining crew assemble what makeshift weapons they can: cutlery, wine bottles, a fire extinguisher.Learning that one of the passengers can fly a plane (although he has not flown a commercial aircraft), the group pin their hopes on him being able to at least control the plane. They debate whether the bomb is real or fake before deciding to start their counter-attack by overpowering the terrorist with the bomb. He is overpowered and killed by the passengers with a fire extinguisher. Having seen this, the terrorist in the forward section of the planes warns the two in the cockpit and makes several attempts to hold off the advancing passengers, including using what appears to be mace. He too is soon overwhelmed and killed by one of the passengers.Ziad Jarrah shakes the plane violently to throw the passengers off balance, but nonetheless they make it into the cockpit. As the passengers wrestle for control, the plane goes into an angled nosedive towards the ground. The film ends just as Flight 93 crashes into an empty field.
