A Canadian therapist has one last chance to keep his own personal life afloat by avoiding a job transfer to Gimli and working to help three patients suffering from extreme post-traumatic stress disorder.
Thirty-two year old Winnipeger Joel Rothman's personal life falls apart after his wife, Mari, catches him cheating. Following, he can't sleep which affects the parenting of his adolescent daughter Jenny. A therapist, he dismisses the work of counseling his patients. Because of his poor work, his Health Maintenance Organization (HMO), his employer, wants to transfer him to the small town of Gimli, which he doesn't want both for his own sake and Jenny's. As such, he begins to do whatever he can for his three remaining patients - Victor Koblinsky, Chandra Mergulhao and Sophie Winters - who he counsels in group therapy. Although each of the three has a different issue with which they are dealing, each does suffer from delusional thoughts the result of post-traumatic stress syndrome. Joel is under pressure from the HMO to certify all three, despite his assurance that all three are getting better. Ultimately, Victor, Chandra and Sophie have to convince him of what is reality and what is delusion.
Joel Rothman can't sleep. And that's the least of his problems. His wife has left him, his daughter is showing signs of severe mental distress, his boss is out to get him, and every time he gets behind the wheel of his car, his life is at risk. Just when things couldn't get any worse, Joel is assigned three patients suffering extreme symptoms of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. As he begins to treat them, and learn their secrets, he starts to unravel the mystery of his own life and to discover the key to getting through to his daughter.
Joel Rothman is an insomnia-plagued psychotherapist whose life is unravelling in every direction. His wife has left him and his distressed nine-year-old daughter, he hasn't slept in weeks, and his final three patients are suffering from a dangerous case of post traumatic stress disorder. As his patients' conditions spiral out of control, Joel must unravel the mystery of their connection before he loses his daughter forever.

