A cabbie (Patekar) and businessman (Abraham) both in need of big money partake in a two-hour adventure together.
Raghav Shastri and Jai Mittal belong to two different strata of the society . Raghav is a hot-tempered , world-weary taxi driver who lies to his family about working as an insurance salesman . Jai is the heir to a sprawling business empire , your stereotypical spoiled rich man's son . After his father's demise , he leans that in his Late father's will , all the property and business has been transferred to Arjun Bajaj , his father's close friend . Jai challenges the will in court , saying that he possesses the original will safely sored away in a security vault . On the day of the hearing he hires Raghav's taxi to take him to the vault building , constantly nags him about driving too slowly which leads to speeding and accident . Jai gets away from the scene and reaches his destination , only to realize that he has dropped his vault key accidentally in Raghav's car . Raghav is arrested for the accident but not before he finds Jai's key . Jai is desperate to get the key from Raghav , but wily Raghav refuses to comply . The duo begin a dangerous cat-and-mouse game which could either destroy their respective worlds , or make them see the world in a new light.
After being fired from 23 jobs in 15 years, Andheri-resident, Raghav Shastri, takes a loan from Tiwari and operates a taxi, but tells his Chawl-residing wife, Sunita and school-going son, Rishabh, that he works with an insurance company. At night he parks his cab 2 kilometers away from his residence, dresses up in a formal shirt and tie, and walks home. Grumpy, alcoholic and cranky, one day he has a run-in with an impatient, arrogant and wealthy passenger, Jai Mittal, contesting a widely publicized last will and testament of his late father, Shyam. Jai pressurizes Raghav to speed-up, resulting in a collision and subsequent arrest of Raghav by a Havaldar from Khar Police Station. He retains a vault key belonging to Jai which he refuses to return, and is held in a cell. While being transferred to Andheri Police Station, he manages to escape, and returns home - only to find that Jai has informed Sunita about his being a lowly taxi-driver. As Sunita and Rishabh prepare to depart for Nasik, he decides to teach Jai and his sweetheart, Rupali, a lesson that will end up changing their lives forever.
Taxi No. 9 2 11 focuses on Raghav Shastri (Nana Patekar), a cab driver in Mumbai who lies to his wife about his job, pretending to be an insurance salesman. One day, he gives Jai Mittal (John Abraham), the spoiled son of a late businessman, a lift. Jai is fighting for ownership rights of his late father's estate. The cab gets into an accident with Jai escaping as he's in hurry. Jai loses the key to the vault containing his father's will in the back of Raghav's taxi.Raghav decides to hide it from Jai, who, in search for his lost item, goes to Raghav's house and tells his wife what he really does for a living. She leaves him, taking their son. Raghav decides to take revenge. Raghav and Jai vow to kill each other in their fight for their properties. When Raghav fails to kill Jai he targets Jai's girlfriend, Rupali (Sameera Reddy). As Raghav chases Rupali she is saved by Jai by hair's breadth. Jai lets Rupali escape and he attacks Raghav. They have a dirty car fight but both survive.Raghav goes to Jai's place. Jai returns to his apartment from a second court hearing regarding his father's estate in defeat, because he doesn't have his father's will. He discovers the will, torn to pieces and pasted on the wall of his apartment. Jai becomes depressed and lonely after his friends leave him. Rupali dumps him, too. Losing everything that used to be precious, Jai realizes the hard-hitting life and starts respecting his father and his work.On the other side Raghav is caught again by police and taken to police station where his wife tells him his real character and problem within himself. Soon, he realizes his mistake. Jai, having realized the value of close ones, then bails Raghav out of jail. Raghav insists they have a drink and they go to Jai's house for one. They find out that they share the same birthday. Raghav gives back his will, which he had hidden in the sofa, and says that he had never destroyed it - the torn will on the wall is a fake. Raghav then goes to the railway station to stop his wife and son from leaving him, but arrives a little too late. He goes back home where he sees a birthday cake on the table. He feels that he is hallucinating, but gets a pleasant shock when he sees his wife and son standing there, singing him a birthday song (and finds out that it was Jai who brought them back).Jai confronts Arjun Bajaj (Shivaji Satam), the friend and custodian of the property of Jai's father, whom he tells that he has realized the value of life and does not want his father's property and takes a leave.
