A biography of Chinese Martial Arts Master Huo Yuanjia, who is the founder and spiritual guru of the Jin Wu Sports Federation.
Martial arts legend Huo Yuanjia became the most famous fighter in all of China at the turn of the 20th Century. Huo faced personal tragedy but ultimately fought his way out of darkness and into history, defining the true spirit of martial arts. His self-discovery, and the choices he made, inspired his nation. The son of a great fighter who did not wish for his child to follow in his footsteps, the bullied Huo Yuanjia resolves to teach himself how to fight - and win. Years of training enable him to ace match after match in his home region of Tianjin. But as his fame as a martial arts master grows, so does his pride. After an ill-advised fight leads to another master's death, members of Huo's family are slain in revenge. Grieving and ashamed, Huo wanders the country in shock. Near death, he is rescued by women from an idyllic village, and is offered simple kindness and generosity that help him heal and regain his equilibrium over a period of several years. Huo realizes that the future of martial arts lies in sportsmanship and not brutality, and he rejoins society to apply what he has learned. Returning to Tianjin, Huo takes steps to come to terms with his past and restore his family's name. His evolving, graceful Mizong (Missing) Fist method of fighting brings Huo renewed success, and he forms the progressive Jingwu Sports Federation. Taking note, duplicitous members of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce engineer a Shanghai tournament pitting Huo against four fighters, each representing the major foreign powers in China. Huo commits to the bout and faces off against, respectively, a British boxer, a Spanish swordsman, a Belgian soldier, and a Japanese martial artist. What happened that day in 1910 has never been, and will never be, forgotten in China.
When an ill-advised fight destroys the reputation of a renowned martial arts champion and his family, his difficult path to redemption will bring him face-to-face with the most ferocious fighters in the world.
Fearless, known as Huo Yuanjia, and as Jet Li's Fearless in the United Kingdom and in the United States, is a 2006 Chinese-Hong Kong martial arts film directed by Ronny Yu and starring Jet Li. Using the events of the life of Huo Yuanjia, was a Chinese martial artist and a co-founder of the Chin Woo Athletic Association, a martial arts school in Shanghai. A practitioner of the martial art mizongyi, Huo is considered a hero in China for defeating foreign fighters in highly publicized matches at a time when Chinese sovereignty was being eroded by foreign imperialism, concessions and spheres of influence. In the final years of the Qing Dynasty, also known as the Qing Empire, officially the Great Qing, was the last imperial dynasty of China, established in 1636 and ruling China from 1644 to 1912. It was before the birth of the Republic of China, a sovereign state in East Asia. Li stated in an interview that the film was his last wushu, "Wushu" is the Chinese term for "martial arts". In contemporary times, Wushu has become an international sport through the International Wushu Federation (IWUF) martial arts epic, a point also made in the film's television promotions and other publicity.The film starts with Huo Yuanjia fighting and defeating three Westerners - British boxer, Belgian lancer and a Spanish fencer.
Wracked with guilt, Huo flees Tianjin, and wanders aimlessly for many months. He nearly drowns in a river but is saved by Granny Sun and her blind granddaughter, Yueci. They bring him back to their village. Huo, guided by their kindness, begins to learn the value of compassion and mercy.In 1907, Huo returning to Tianjin and sees the changes that have taken place. He apologizes to Qin's family and reconciles with Jinsun, who's now a businessman. He challenges the American wrestler, Hercules O'Brien. During their match, Huo saves O'Brien from being impaled on some nails and wins the gratitude of O'Brien, who names Huo the victor.Members of the foreign chamber of commerce fear that Huo's victories will create anti-foreign sentiments among the Chinese people and will disadvantage their sentiments. On September 14, 1910, Huo, after defeating the European challengers, starts with Tanaka. In the first round, they fight with their weapons of choice. Huo uses a sanjiegun (three-sectional staff, triple staff, three-part staff, sansetsukon in Japanese, or originally sanjiegun while Tanaka uses a katana that were used by the samurai of ancient and feudal Japan). In the heat of the fight, they accidentally exchange weapons. However, Huo is able to handle the katana proficiently, while Tanaka fumbles with the sanjiegun. Huo offers to exchange w weapons with Tanaka, and the first-round ends in a draw. Before the next round, Huo unknowingly drinks tea poisoned by the members of the foreign chamber of commerce. He then collapses. Tanaka, aware that he would have died had Huo used more force, declares Huo the victor as Huo dies. In the epilogue, Huo's spirit practices Wushu on a field while Yueci observes him. Huo turns to her and smiles, indicating a lovers' reconciliation. - Martin Snytsheuvel
