Obsessive manhunt to identify and capture a despicable serial killer.
A dedicated detective tries to capture Albert Fish, a serial killer who abducts, abuses, kills, and occasionally eats children, leaving no trace behind. Will the obsessive manhunt across several states succeed in apprehending the killer? Albert Fish, one of the earliest known serial killers of 20th century America, is the subject of this movie. A true cannibal. Compared to Albert Fish, Hannibal Lecter was a saint. Yet, this is definitely not your average horror movie. If you crave gratuitous violence, you 'd better look elsewhere. Rather, this is the story of the hunter versus the hunted. Albert Fish leaves clues at the crime scene that the detective must follow. Soon enough, this is getting personal, a veritable clash of personalities.The shocking true story of Albert Fish, the most monstrous yet least known serial killer in the history of true crime in America. In 1928, the angelic 10-year-old Grace Budd is abducted by a kindly old grandfather and never seen again. After scouring the country for her for six years, detectives finally arrest Albert Fish for her kidnapping but are unprepared for the horrors they are about to uncover... Aged 55 when the film opens, Hamilton Fish, aka Albert Fish, is the father of six grown children whom he has raised on his own after his wife abandoned the family to run off with their boarder. A compulsive liar and letter writer, Fish corresponds with women through "friendship" magazines, woos several under false pretenses, and even marries a few -- even though he is still technically married to his first wife -- but eventually repulsing all of them with his sexual perversions. Having always struggled with leading his life according to his religious convictions, Fish now teeters on the brink of complete surrender to his sadomasochistic tendencies. It is the kidnapping of Grace Budd that leads to his downfall. When he is finally arrested, the authorities discover a trail of murder, mutiliation and cannibalism. Fish is found guilty despite overwhelming evidence of his insanity, and promptly sentenced to die in the electric chair.
[D-Man2010]
