A group of young backpackers' vacation turns sour when a bus accident leaves them marooned in a remote Brazilian rural area that holds an ominous secret.
While traveling on vacation through the country of Northeastern of Brazil by bus, the American Alex Trubituan, his sister Bea Tribituan and their friend Amy Harrington meet the also foreigners Pru Stagler, Finn Davies and Liam Kuller after an accident with their bus. They follow a track through the woods and find a hidden paradisiacal beach. They decide to stay in the place drinking beer and dancing funk and parting with the locals and they meet the amicable Brazilian teenager Kiko. They are drugged with "Boa Noite, Cinderela" (Ruffies, literal translation: "Good Night, Cinderella" - a trick used by smalltime crooks to steal naive people) and when they wake up, they are practically naked, with all their belongings, clothes, money, jewels, passports, backpacks etc. stolen. They walk to a small village trying to find a police station, they get into trouble with the dwellers and they are helped by their acquaintance Kiko, who leads them to his uncle's isolated well-equipped cabin in the woods to wait for the next bus two days later. Along the night, Kiko's "uncle" arrives with his friends and the group discloses the sinister intentions of the newcomers.
American college student Alex, his younger teenage sister Bea along with their close friend Amy are backpacking through Brazil. They meet up with similar companions: wild and crazy British mates Finn and Liam, together with Australian traveler Pru, on a cross country bus. They barely survive after it crashes off a cliff. Further mishaps occur due to becoming stranded on a beach by so-called "friendly locals", some of whom have deprived them of all their possessions. Searching for any sympathetic police, they meet familiar face Kiko, who offers to lead them to sanctuary that being a house deep in the jungle. But upon finally reaching this supposed safe haven Amy soon vanishes, and it is only then that they discover (way too late) that their "saviors" offering them shelter are operators of a black market specializing in running human organs, who are seeking unwilling foreign donors (foreign tourist) to benefit their unfortunate countrymen. In their captors' eyes, foreigners have come into Brazil, raping their precious lands of its rubber, sugar, gold--even using its people as throwaway sexual playthings. For this exploitation of their country, our backpackers are now set to go under the surgeon's scalpel, courtesy of the captors twisted ringleader Dr. Zamora, Brazil's answer to 'Dr. Giggles'.
Three young American tourists, Alex (Josh Duhamel), his sister Bea (Olivia Wilde) and a friend, Amy (Beau Garrett) are backpacking in Brazil. They decide to go by bus and visit portions of the country instead of flying directly to the North-Eastern beaches they wish to visit. After a bus crash leaves all passengers stranded, they are joined by two English men, Finn (Desmond Askew) and Liam (Max Brown) and an Australian woman, Pru (Melissa George) who is fluent in Portuguese. The group decide to head to a local beach to kill time where they find a cabana bar and tourists partying. After swimming and spending most of the day on the beach, they are served spiked drinks and pass out.The next morning, they awaken robbed of their luggage, money and documents on the deserted beach. Looking for help in the nearby village, they encounter trouble amongst the locals as they see some of their belongings worn on the ground. Kiko (Agles Steib), a local who can speak English, offers to take them to an isolated cabin in the woods where they can wait for help. After a long trek in the wilderness, Kiko shows the group the 'secret place', a cave beneath a waterfall but after taking a bad dive into the water below, Kiko hits his head on the bottom and is rendered unconscious; bleeding profusely from the cut on his head. Proceeding to the cabin in the jungle, they find clothes, food and prescription drugs under different names along with a drawer filled with other people's passports. They manage to seal Kiko's wound and reluctantly spend the night in the cabin.They are awakened in the night by a helicopter bringing Zamora (Miguel Lunardi), a physician, and a few associates and doctors surrounded by armed henchman. A woman who arrives first tries to give them advice to flee but they are confused and try to fight them before being beaten into compliance. Zamora proceeds to a makeshift operating room where he begins removing organs from Amy, who is sedated. He explains to Finn, who is tied to the table opposite, that organ theft for transplant for Brazilians from rich 'gringos' is part of an exploitation pattern of 'Brazilian resources' and that it is 'time to give back'. Victims' usable organs are sent to a People's Hospital in Rio De Janeiro and used for the benefit of the poor. After kidneys and liver are removed, Amy dies on the table.Meanwhile, the rest of the group have broken free of the cages they were locked in and fought of one of Zamora's associates, with aid from Kiko. While Bea and Pru flee into the jungle, Alex, Liam and Kiko attempt to raid the cabin. They successfully rescue Finn who is partially unable to walk due to sedation but whilst running away, Finn is shot in the head and killed. Alex realises that they must resume their escape but Liam decides to stay behind and fight back only to be shot and taken away to be 'salvaged'.Bea and Pru are seperated in the jungle. Alex and Kiko find Bea the next morning, hiding by the river. The three head to the now-flooded cave, eluding one of Zamora's associates chasing them with a bow and arrows. For a period of time, they are able to put some distance between themselves and their pursuers. They enter a cave and find Pru hiding. Diving and swimming to the secondary cave entrance, they find Zamora waiting there, where he shoots into the water killing Kiko and injuring Alex.The survivours are forced to backtrack through the water, finding only a few spaces for air. They are split up, finding breathing spaces and hoping not to fall prey to the archer following them. Bea and the archer meet in the same breathing spot but she over-powers him, stabbing him in the neck with an arrow. Alex, Pru and Bea escape the cave only to run into Zamora again. Alex attacks Zamora, hitting him in the head repeatedly with a rock but is interrupted by one of Zamora's henchmen who's armed with a rifle. Zamora instructs him to kill the foreigners. Seeing the trio of terrified survivours and Zamora in agony, the man hesitates. Zamora calls the gunman a coward whilst Pru begs for him to spare their lives. The gunman turns on Zamora, shooting him before walking away. Soon after, the survivours are met by local villagers who take them in.Later, Alex, Bea and Pru are waiting in line to board a plane in silence while a couple of tourists argue behind them over whether to take a bus. Alex turns and advises them to take the plane. The male tourist thanks him and boards the plane. The last shot shows Alex, Pru and Bea sitting on the plane as it takes off.
