Vignettes about eight different couples at varying points in their relationships, each having conversations immediately after having sex.
After Sex is a background to examine intimacy and vulnerability. Looks at the complexity of modern day relationships told through eight separate couples. Through dialogue and compromising situations, the film takes us from the beginning of a relationship to the aftermath of one, and examines every stage in between seeing humor within the drama, heartache and confusion of it all.
This film features eight unrelated tales of various different couples (straight, gay, lesbian) who have sex and then talk afterwords of a variety of different topics.Christopher (Marc Blucas) and Leslie (Charity Shea) are a couple in their mid to late 20s who have no-strings-attached sex on a regular basis. After another get-together, they debate and argue over the meaning of their relationship and the nature of sex vs. love, with each of them claiming that the other is the only one developing feelings, before both finally say "I love you" to each other.Freddy (Tanc Sade) and Jay (Noel Fisher) are a pair of college guys who, after having sex, argue over Jay refusing to admit that he is gay until Freddy tells him about his teenage years of hiding his homosexuality out of fear of being socially shunned by his entire family and friends. Freddy tells Jay that even if he cannot be honest with others about his sexual orientation, he has to be honest with himself.Kristy (Natalie Marston) and Sam (Dave Franco) are a teenage couple both of whom have just had sex for the first time in Kristy's bedroom and after some small talk, Sam has to hide when Kristy's single mother, Janet (Jane Seymour), shows up for a talk about sex with Kristy.Nikki (Mila Kunis) and Kat (Zoe Saldana) are two college roommates who are in a casual sexual relationship where Nikki allows Kat to perform oral sex on her. After they are finished, they walk to the nearby library to study where Kat asks Nikki why she never goes down on her, and hardly ever kisses her. Nikki insists that she is not a lesbian, but she only likes the oral sex because Kat performs it better than a guy. Kat admits that she really is a lesbian, but is comfortable with hiding the fact from her strict parents, aware they will not understand or approve.Trudy (Jeanette O'Connor) and Gene (John Witherspoon) are a middle-aged, inter-racial couple who have sex in a nature park and, during the walk back, talk about how they first met at an orgy during the "sexual revolution" of the 1970s and about their children who seem not to understand their active sexual lifestyle.Neil (Timm Sharp) and Bob (James DeBello) are a 30-something closeted gay couple who have sex in Neil's apartment one evening. Afterwords, Neil drives Bob back to his house. During the ride, they discuss their roles as gay men in a relationship and who is the "butch" and the "bitch", since they both have different backgrounds and careers; Neil is revealed to be the lead singer in a hair rock band and Bob is a high school football coach.David (Keir O'Donnell) and Jordy (Emmanuelle Chriqui) are an ex-couple who have met at a cheap motel for sex. After they are finished, David defends his infidelity and womanizing as the person that he is, while Jordy is a troubled woman who cannot seem to let go of her ex-husband, despite her knowledge of his unapologetic cheating.Marco (Jose Pablo Cantillo) and Alanna (Taryn Manning) are two strangers who have sex in a back alley after meeting at a nightclub where afterwards they arrive in Marco's loft where they learn more about each other, but Marco is soon disturbed about the dull-witted Alanna's admission of being a high-priced escort and of her love for sex with strangers for money.
