A dirty bomb goes off in Los Angeles, jamming freeways and spreading a toxic cloud.
After Lexi leaves home to visit Central LA, there's a terrorist attack involving chemical bombs. After the attack, her musician husband, Brad, fails to find her and reluctantly seals himself inside his house. He will have to deal with this decision in the days to come.
In Los Angeles, Brad and his wife Lexi live in the suburb and are in love for each other. Brad is an unemployed musician and Lexi is financially supporting the family. She wakes up in the morning and heads in her convertible to the highway to work downtown. Brad listens to the news that dirty bombs have just blown up in Los Angeles in a terrorist attack and the authorities warning people seal off doors, windows and any opening and stay home. The desperate Brad does not respect the curfew and drives his car to downtown, but he does not succeed in crossing the police barriers. He returns home and the worker Alvaro of his next door neighbor requests protection to Brad. They seal themselves off in the house and listen to the radio about the danger of the unknown chemicals and the panic of the population with the hospitals overcrowded. Out of the blue, Lexi returns home covered of chemical ashes. Brad has to come up to a decision about the unexpected return: should he open or not their house?
In L.A, Brad and his wife Lexi live in the suburbs where Brad is unemployed and Lexi is the bread winner of the family. On what seem to be another normal day for Lexi and Brad will be nothing they ever imagined. After Lexi leaves the house for work, Brad hears on the radio about the dirty bombs going off around L.A. Brad goes off to find Lexi only to be told to return home for his safety, where he finds Alvaro a handyman from next door asking for help. Brad and Alvaro together seal up Brad house to protect themselves for the toxic chemicals. Brad leaves some clothes and food outside hoping his wife will return home. What will be the fate of Brad and Lexi?
What begins as just another day for everyman Brad (Rory Cochrane) quickly disintegrates into an ordeal of terror when a dirty bomb is unleashed on Los Angeles. Unable to contact his wife, Brad decides to barricade himself in his house while awaiting her return from work, facing isolation and panic during his tense vigil. With a strong script and talented cast, writer-director Chris Gorak's skillfully wrought thriller delivers high-level suspense.
