Kantilal Shah a Mumbai based businessman is killed by underworld Don Baba Sikander after he fails to pay him the extortion money,Karan adopted son of Kantilal Shah had advised him not to do so and now his daughter Anjali blames Karan for his death.Karan announces that he will find Baba Sikander where ever he is and bring him back to the country.Karan finds Baba's hideout in Italy he along with Arjun a former cop and Abhimanyu travel to the country to find him they are also followed by a journalist Priya who developed cold shoulder towards Karan after death of his father and is tracking his every move,In Italy Abhimanyu has different plans he decides to elope with his girlfriend Sonia but are held by Salim, Baba's best friend who has a score to settle with Abhimanyu,Karan and Arjun reach on time and save Abhimanyu and Sonia.Abhimanyu realizes his mistake by the time they become good friends and are waiting for a tip of Baba's hideout.
Modern day secular India is held at ransom by international extortionist, Baba Sikiander and his brothers, Aftab and Sameer. They begin by demanding money from wealthy businessmen, and when their victims refuse to pay, they are killed. One of their victim's now being threatened is Kantilal Shah, who has adopted a mere canteen boy, Bunty, gave him his family name, Karan Shah, and the responsibility of running the family business, much to the chagrin of his daughter, Anjali. Upon hearing that his father's life is endangered, Karan returns from America and convinces his dad not to give to the extortionist's demands, but instead provide that amount to the past victims' and their respective families, to which his father agrees. Then five days later, a day after his birthday, Kantilal is gunned down in the elevator along with four of his bodyguards. Anjali openly renounces Karan and asks him not to participate in her dad's funeral. A shocked and devastated Karan announces that he will apprehend and bring Baba Sikander to justice in India. However, when he finds out that the country that Baba is holed up in, Italy, does not have an extradition treaty with India, he plans to recruit some mercenaries to go with him and bring Baba back. The first man he chooses is former Police Inspector Arjun Srivastav, who located and killed his wife's assailant on his own, and now lives as a single parent with his school-going daughter. And it is Arjun who recommends that the second man be Abhimanyu, who is currently lodged in Vashi Jail, and had been a former chauffeur of Baba himself. But before Karan can recruit Abhimanyu, he must spring him out of jail. The escapade takes place dramatically, and the trio, aided by Sonia, Abhimanyu's girlfriend, and Priya, a Press Reporter from "Aaj Tak", take over the arduous task of apprehending alive a fugitive whose whereabouts could be anywhere in Italy, France, Germany, or any other European country, and all of them know that their mission is surrounded by treachery, and that none of them may come back alive to tell their story.

