A lonely doctor, who once occupied an unusual lakeside house, begins exchanging love letters with its former resident, a frustrated architect. They must try to unravel the mystery behind their extraordinary romance before it's too late.
When two people "connect" the bond between them can be so pure and simple as to stir hearts in heaven. When they connect in all the right places at all the wrong times, heaven weeps for broken hearts. To heal these broken hearts, heaven breaks time.
Kate Forster is moving out from her lake house, built all of it with glass. She is a doctor and has just begin to work in a hospital in Chicago, moving to a new flat in the center of the city. Alex Wyler is the new owner of the lake house, a young architect who's working in the construction of a new complex of houses at the city skirts. Alex and Kate are maintaining a correspondence, talking about the house matters, sending each other letters, which are put in the lake house's letter box. But a strange thing is happening, because both of them find out that the letter box is working as a kind of time communication channel, between the year 2004, where Alex's living, and 2006, the year that Kate's actually living. After sending each other many letters talking about their lives, and Kate talking to Alex about how life will be in two years, it seems like they're falling in love each other. But maybe they will never meet each other, because of the time distance. Nevertheless, Kate comes up with a memory from 2004, when she forgot a book in a train station, Jane Austen's "Persuasion", and she'll ask Alex to go to that place in that precise moment, when she lost the book. Maybe the future of Kate is about to change, when Alex decides to meet Kate's other self in the past, despite the fact that she has a boyfriend. They will learn that playing with time could be a little bit dangerous for both of them, but Alex will take everything into his hands to finally meet Kate in the future.
In Chicago, the lonely architect Alex Wyler has a troubled relationship with his father Simon Wyler. In 2004, he buys an old glass house in a lake, designed and built by his father, and he finds a message in his mailbox from the former tenant, the also lonely Dr. Kate Forster, asking to deliver her correspondence in an address downtown. Alex meets his brother Henry in Chicago and when they go to the address with Dr. Forster's correspondence, they find a building of luxury apartments under construction to be delivered eighteen months later. After some messages, Alex and Kate disclose that she is living in 2006 and Alex in 2004, they fall in love for each other and they try to find means to meet each other.
Dr. Kate Forster works in a hospital in Chicago. She has had issues with relating to people in a deeply emotional level. Alex Wyler is a social developer and architect. At different times, they both lived in the same glass house on a lake built by Alex's father. The two begin a correspondence purely on chance when Kate leaves a note in the mailbox of the lake house asking for the new tenant to forward her mail to her new address in the city. Alex gets this message, however he gets it two years prior when he himself lived in the lake house. When the two discover that they are indeed corresponding through time through the time warped mailbox, they learn more about each other. They manage to spend time together through common experiences two years apart. The more they correspond, the deeper the bond between the two. They end up falling in love. Kate has the benefit of being able to tell Alex of what happens in the future. Alex has the benefit of being able to experience things that Kate has experienced in the past. He even has a chance to meet her before she knew him. Kate devises a plan to meet in her present/Alex's future so that they can spend their life together at the same time. However much can happen to Alex between his present and Kate's present, two years in his future.
Kate Forster is a Doctor in 2006, living alone in Chicago. She has moved into an apartment after living in a house built next to a scenic lake in a secluded countryside area. She writes a letter to the next tenant asking that they forward any mail and that the paw prints and the box in the attic have always been there. The tenant Alex Wyler reads the letter, but finds no paw prints, no box and no sign of life within the last 5 years, so disregards the letter until a few days later when he is redoing the paint on the handrails and a stray dog, whom Alex takes in and names Jack although the dog is female, trots through the brown paint and leaves its paw prints all the way to the front door. He writes to Kate asking more about these incidents and leaves the letter in the mailbox.On Valentine's Day 2006, Kate visits the Lake House after having a gentleman die in her arms after being hit by a bus but finds the Mail Box Flag is up. She reads Alex's letter and states her current address, also indicating it is 2006, not 2004 from which Alex's letter arrives. Alex attends her 'current address' but finds a construction site that won't be finished for another 18 months, and they both slowly realize they are communicating from two years apart, with only the Mailbox to communicate from.As Kate and Alex continue to correspond through the mailbox, they find themselves falling in love. Because Kate is in the future, she can tell Alex specific places to look for her in 2004. On one occasion, she asks Alex to bring her back something important (a gift from her father; her favorite novel by Jane Austen called Persuasion), which she left two years ago during a train station meeting with her then-beau, Morgan. Alex goes to the station and finds the item and sees Kate with long hair. Even though he has the item, he does not place it in the mailbox to return it to her. Instead, he says that he will return it to her personally, "one way or the other." Alex sends her a personalized map of Chicago and takes her on a walking tour of his favorite places in the city one Saturday morning. He leaves her a loving message on a brick wall at the end written in 2004 that she saw in 2006. The message was, "Kate, I am here with you. Thank you for spending this Saturday together".In 2004, Mona, an attractive young assistant, is desperately flirting with Alex but he ignores her advances. Alex's dog, Jack, runs off and leads Alex to a house in which Morgan and Kate are currently living. Alex talks with Morgan and eventually is invited to the birthday party Morgan is holding for Kate that evening. During the party, Alex and Kate dance together and share a romantic kiss, which is broken up by Morgan and Mona. Later, Kate and Alex discuss that night, and Kate announces she liked him and can remember how he looks.Crisis enters Alex's life when his estranged father has a heart attack and unexpectedly dies. In the future, Kate looks at his father's medical records and discovers when he dies on his death certificate. She rushes to the mailbox and as a gift to comfort Alex, she places a book in the mailbox, a book that is not yet published in Alex's time - his father's memoirs, with a picture of Alex and his dad by the lake house.Determined to bridge the distance between them at last and unravel the mystery behind their extraordinary connection, they tempt fate by arranging to meet. Alex makes a reservation in 2004 for a date in 2006 at Il Mare, an exclusive restaurant, but only Kate appears. Alex does not show up. The next day Kate writes Alex a letter telling Alex of this fact, but he doesn't understand. "Something must have happened," he responds. Kate retreats, believing she will never have happiness. She urges Alex to move on, telling him about Valentine's Day 2006 when a man died "in her arms," and that she needs to live her own life. She asks Alex not to contact her again. Alex leaves her a growing pile of letters in the mailbox that she never retrieves. He is brokenhearted and decides to leave the lake house. He places the box in the attic that Kate referred to in her first letter.Alex appears to Morgan and hands him the keys to the lake house and exits in his truck, leaving Jack behind and having her become Kate's dog.Almost one year passes.In December 2007 Kate and Morgan are apparently living together in a Chicago apartment, and when he asks her to turn the film she is watching down, she switches it off and storms into the bedroom where a squeaky floorboard irritates her, so she rips it out and discovers her copy of Persuasion, with a pressed and faded rose marks a passage that Kate is particularly touched by. She realizes she still loves Alex but does not contact him.On Valentine's Day 2008, Kate and Morgan go to Visionary Vanguard Associates, an up-and-coming architect's office, to talk about renovations to a townhouse she wants to move into, but do not realize it is run by Alex's brother Henry. Kate notices a beautiful watercolor of the Lake House and asks who did it. Henry says it was done by Alex Wyler, his brother, but tells her he passed away two years ago to the day. Kate realizes something and sprints to her car and races to the mailbox by the Lake House, placing a letter inside. Alex was the man that died that day, two years previously, and she tells him to wait two years, not to look for her or try to find her. Kate knows that Alex can't change her reality what has happened in Kate's reality has happened. For Kate's and Alex's reality to merge, Alex must meet Kate at the Lake House on February 14th, 2008.In 2006, Alex watched as Kate has lunch with her mother, and makes to step off the curb, then watches as the bus that was going to hit him passes by instead. He smiles to himself and, instead of crossing the street, walks away from Kate.In 2008, the Mail Box Flag squeakily drops and Kate, who has been sobbing on her knees by the mailbox, stares at it with growing hope. Moments later, she hears a truck pull up to the house. Out steps a smiling Alex. They share their second passionate embrace and after several minutes walk arm in arm into the Lake House. Alex hands to her, what appears to be, a Valentine's Day card.
