A TV anchor keeps on blaming God for his unsuccessful life. God appears and he is given the God's Power for 10 days just to see how he manages to keep everyone happy.
Arun Prajapati has been trying to be a successful TV anchor but success has always eluded him. He only blames God for this. Arun is head over heels in love with Alia, who is a TV anchor and a well-known star working in the same channel but he has never been able to express his love for her. Destiny plays a cruel game with him when Rocky is appointed as an anchor for the channel. Arun starts believing that Rocky will win over Alia. Circumstances go out of hand for Arun and he gets thrown out of the channel. He has nobody to blame but God Himself. And very soon he has an encounter with the Almighty. An argument ensues between the two. God then decides to give Arun the power to run earth for ten days as Arun claims that he can do a better job. After Arun becomes God, he becomes successful. He puts Rocky into an uneasy spot and wins Alia's heart. Also, he grants everybody's wish. But much to his dismay this becomes the biggest problem of his life.
Arun Prajapati lives a middle-classed lifestyle in a Chawl along with his dad, a retired Municipal employee; mom, and a rather plain-looking sister, Madhu. He is employed with Channel One and is in love with fellow-employee, Alia Kapoor. Arun faces a series of incidents which lead to not only public humiliation but he also ends up losing Alia to a new employee, Rakesh Sharma, and gets fired, much to his father's displeasure. Arun questions God and one morning is granted an interview with Him. A disbelieving Arun meets God and after a short discussion agrees to take over all of His responsibilities for a period of 10 days. During the first 9 days he straightens out his and his family's lives and on the last day he sets about to fulfill the wishes of every human on Earth - and ends up with nothing but disastrous and hilarious results.
At the end of the worst day in his life, Arun Prajapati (Salman Khan) angrily rages against God for making his life miserable. To his astonishment, God (Amitabh Bachchan) appears before him in human form and endowing Arun with all of his divine powers, challenges Arun to take on the big job and see if he can do it any better.Arun responds to his newfound powers with childlike zeal and sets off making one hysterical yet disastrous decision one after another. The love of his life Alia (Priyanka Chopra) is astonished at the 'new' decisive and confident Arun. He thinks he can make the world a happy place by granting everybody their wishes. But to his horror, this results in unprecedented mayhem. Ultimately, Arun realises that he is only human, and being God is tougher than he thought!
