A bunch of misfits and gangsters embarks on a journey to find a lost and stolen diamond.
Raja lives in Dubai, U.A.E. and is a career-criminal, partnered by his girlfriend, Tina, and her maternal uncle, Chobey. Raja also makes additional money by masquerading as Rahul, the son of Lajwanti, who was killed in an accident. Since Chobey owes money to a gangster named Moscow Chikna, Raja decides to help him out by arranging the abduction of Rocky, a jewel thief, who has a priceless diamond in his possession. If Raja and his gang do not bring this diamond to Moscow Chikna, he has sworn to cut off their arms. When another gangster, JD, finds out about the diamond, he asks them to bring the diamond to him or else he will cut off their legs. The trio abduct Rocky - only to be threatened by a London-based gangster, Chokshi, who has recruited Gunmaster G9, who has threatened to cut off their respective necks if the diamond is not surrendered to Chokshi. Chaos prevails as the hapless trio, their lives complicated by the bumbling Kuttu Pilot, hustle to save their lives - in vain attempts to try and pacify the three gangsters.
After owing huge amount of cash to various loan entities; Chobey, his niece Tina and her boyfriend Raja are forced to rob and con people so that they can gather a lump sum to pay back. In this way they get themselves trapped with some gangsters who want to get hold of a priceless diamond stolen by Rocky. The suspense mounts when they get hold as hostages and must comply with the wishes of all the gangsters at the same time.
Three gangsters namely: Moscow Chikna, JD and Chokshi terrorize a trio in grabbing a priceless diamond for them. Chaos prevail in society when JD summon Lucky a car dealer to recruit Munna, an international boxer who always wins against all his opponents in boxing matches, but JD assembles that Munna should loose against one of his men and he shall return peace to society but that does not happen and society continues to live in fear of JD and his gang. But twists turn in society when Raja, Tina, Chobey, Munna and a taxi driver named Kuttu Pilot decides to install justice and fair play within society thus making life miserable for the three gangsters.
When Laywanti's son, Rahul meets with an accident and looses his life. Munna recruits Raja, a small-time thief, pays him huge sums of money and asks him to masquerade as Rahul. This he does amidst chaos, with his own people, goons, gangsters and thieves.
A slick diamond robbery takes place in India. The robber is none other than Rocky (Chunky Pandey) who's the nephew of Chowksi (Gulshan Grover), a Don based in London. Chowksi tells Rocky to sell the diamond to his brother Lalwani (Asrani) in Dubai. Lalwani is a dealer of smuggled gems and jewellery. But he warns Rocky to stay away from guns and gambling, which is his weakness, to ensure nothing goes wrong.On the other hand, the local mafia in Dubai, Moscow Chikna (Arbaaz Khan) is torturing Choubey (Paresh Rawal) because he was unable to return the money he had loaned from Moscow Chikna. Choubey owns a junk shop and was facing major loses. He gets information about the diamond robbery from one of his informants. He is also made aware of the involvement of the International mafia Chowksi. To keep a low profile, Moscow Chikna asks Choubey to get the diamond for him, only after which he will leave him. Choubey gets along with Raja (Shahid Kapoor), a fast robber, and Tina (Ayesha Takia) who's his niece to plan the robbery of the precious diamond.Luckee (Viveik Oberoi) and Bob (Suresh Menon) own a small video and game parlour in Dubai. To earn a little extra money they also promote new fighters who want to take part in illegal boxing matches in Dubai.J.D (Zakir Hussain) is a big underworld Don, who controls all of Dubai's illegal gambling and fights. J.D's men also get girls from India to Dubai promising them jobs. But once in Dubai, the girls are forced to work in dance clubs. One of them is Payal (Sameera Reddy). But Payal manages to escape from there. J.D is very upset as he really likes her. He orders his men to find her.J.D's men are looking for Payal in the market place. Right there are Bhabhi (Sharmila Tagore) and Bhaiya (Om Puri) who are quiet shaken when they see Payal being taken away by the men. They call Munna (Sunny Deol), who is Bhaiya's brother, to save her. Munna enters in a heroic manner and knocks them out. They all then take Payal home. Payal eventually falls in love with Munna.Munna owns a garage and is known for his strength and power. He is strong and very impulsive. He can knock out anyone and just about anyone in one blow! He doesn't think before getting into a fight because he is aware of his potency. Because of this, he is also approached by Luckee to wrestle with some of the strongest men around.Bhabhi's son dies in an accident two years back, which completely shakes her. Munna then finds Raja, who is a look alike of her dead son. Munna hires Raja to play her son for a handsome amount. Raja is anyway a crook and does anything for money. He agrees to do so. Along with this, Raja is now planning the robbery with Choubey and Tina. They hire Pattu (Johnny Lever), who's famous for his driving skills, to help them flee after the robbery.When Rocky lands in Dubai, he cannot resist the urge of guns and gets in touch with Moscow Chikna to buy guns. Moscow China is well aware who Rocky is and that he has the diamond. He asks Rocky not to pay for the guns instead but bet on his behalf at J.D's illegal bookies. Moscow then instructs Choubey, Raja and Tina to kidnap Rocky outside the bookies. They go to J.D's den to kidnap Rocky but mistakenly kidnap another man and make him unconscious. On realising the mistake and due to the fear of Moscow China they decide to go inside J.D's bookie and rob it. But once they break inside the bookies they realise that all the money has just been taken away by J.D's men. So they come out disappointed and see Rocky. They kidnap Rocky and take him to Choubeys antique shop. Moscow Chikna shoots Rocky and takes the diamond away leaving them with the body.Meanwhile J.D learns that Choubey and his group had attempted to rob his bookies an. Agitated he comes to Choubey's junk shop and finds out that Rocky was the one who was carrying the precious diamond. He tells Choubey and gang that he will spare them only if they get him the diamond.Chowksi who comes down from London realizes that Rocky is missing. To find him he hires G9 (Jackie Shroff). Now here all the stories intercross each other.Starcast:- Sunny Deol, Shahid Kapoor, Vivek Oberoi, Arbaaz Khan, Ayesha Takia, Sameera Reddy, Paresh Rawal, Johney Lever, Sharmila Tagore, Chunkey Pandey, Om Puri
