The life of 20-year-old Nico from upper class Zurich is all party, sex and drugs when she meets Carlos, the front man of a hip hop band. With naivete and infinite self-confidence, she tries to adopt his lifestyle - with harsh consequences.
Nico spends most of her time in the local club with her best friend Wanda (Zoé Miku). She is able to afford her extravagant life-style by maintaining an affair with the clubs' owner, Boris (Stefan Gubser). Wanda on the other hand couldn't be more different to Nico, stemming as she does, from a lower working class background. Wanda is determined to take advantage of her good looks to make as much money as possible. Nico is intelligent enough to see through her own superficial lifestyle, but too indecisive and unsure as to how to change it. One evening in Boris' club, she meets the front man of the Hip-Hop band «Menace Evasion». Paco (Carlos Leal) is critical towards his success, aware that his songs are being played in supermarkets but that no one cares to listen to his lyrics. Fascinated by Paco's provocative style Nico decides to confront him backstage and the two slowly fall in love with each other. Nico is impressed by Paco. A «rebel» who uses words like «message» without irony. She arduously tries to incorporate some of Paco's rebellious approach to life into her own world, with self-destructive consequences.
20 year-old Nico (Julie Fournier) lives to party. She comes from an affluent neighbourhood on Zurich's Gold coast and since finishing high school she's been living life day by day and focussing, above all else, on herself. Her relationship towards her parents is practically non-existent. Her father strives to make a name for himself as a banker and is thus hardly ever at home. Her mother lives alone, unable to get to grips with her life.
The life of 20-year-old Nico from upper class Zurich is all party, sex and drugs when she meets Paco, the front man of a rap band. She finds herself drawn to his independent, creative and profound way of life, so different from her own. With naiveté and infinite self-confidence, she tries to adopt his lifestyle - without anticipating the consequences.

