Four college friends starts an underground fight club in order to earn quick money, nevertheless they become suspects of a murder of a man, who turns out to be the mob boss' brother.
Four friends Vicky, Karan, Somil and Diku is a constant endeavor to help each other, get entangled in a web of incidents, some romantic, many funny and all that test the extremes of their friendship. These four friends who could be mistaken for brothers; offer an example of wonderful camaraderie, all throughout a journey with numerous highs, twists and dark turns. An exciting journey is accelerated when Vicky stumbles upon the design of a Fight Club. A club which gives people a platform to score with their enemies in a atmosphere of fun, action and excitement. Amidst the on-going fun, team fight club get entangled in affairs of the heart and mind with Anu and Shonali which thicken their bonds tighter and make them travel to Delhi to look after a nightclub, 'Crossroads', which is in the eye of a storm created by Delhi's most dangerous gang lords. Gang lords who kill to survive! In the ongoing ever-increasing drama, the ex-king pin Anna's brother Mohit , gets killed. This fills Anna with vengeance, the situations take an ugly turn, time calls for a clash, Dinesh a merciless soul, masterminds the plan of a killing. His brother Sandy gives him strong company as always. Team Fight Club calls on their ace, Sameer, a power packed bouncer to tilt the balance in their favor. In the puffed up atmosphere of fists and fights Sameer finds love in the name of Komal. Now, in a strange new city, these five boys from Mumbai experience love, passion and also the worst enemies in the form of gang lords that one can even imagine.
Four friends Vicky, Karan, Somil and Diku is a constant endeavor to help each other, get entangled in a web of incidents, some romantic, many funny and all that test the extremes of their friendship. These four friends who could be mistaken for brothers; offer an example of wonderful camaraderie, all throughout a journey with numerous highs, twists and dark turns. An exciting journey is accelerated when Vicky stumbles upon the design of a Fight Club. A club which gives people a platform to score with their enemies in a atmosphere of fun, action and excitement. Amidst the on-going fun, team fight club get entangled in affairs of the heart and mind with Anu and Shonali which thicken their bonds tighter and make them travel to Delhi to look after a nightclub, 'Crossroads', which is in the eye of a storm created by Delhi's most dangerous gang lords. Gang lords who kill to survive. In the ongoing ever-increasing drama, the ex-king pin Anna's brother Mohit , gets killed. This fills Anna with vengeance, the situations take an ugly turn, time calls for a clash, Dinesh a merciless soul, masterminds the plan of a killing. His brother Sandy gives him strong company as always. Team Fight Club calls on their ace, Sameer, a power packed bouncer to tilt the balance in their favor. In the puffed up atmosphere of fists and fights Sameer finds love in the name of Komal. Now, in a strange new city, these five boys from Mumbai experience love, passion and also the worst enemies in the form of gang lords that one can even imagine.
Vicky Khanna lives a comfortable lifestyle with his widowed businessman dad in Bombay, who is always busy and has no time to spend with him. He generally hangs out with some of college friends, Karan Chopra, Somil, and Dhiku, who have just been fired from their respective jobs. While at a night club, he comes across several college students who want to settle scores physically. Vicky gets the idea to open up a fight club, a place where antagonists would settle scores with each other for a fee. The four friends find out that there are approximately 67 students who want to beat each other up, and thus the fight club is formed - with venues that are picked randomly in the wee hours all over Bombay. Vicky will find out that this new venture of his is going to get him some money, but is also going to rake up the past when a fellow school student, Sameer, that he used to pick on because of his being overweight is now an athletic with one mission - to get back at Vicky at any and all costs. Additionally, Somil's uncle get killed in Delhi as goons want to take over his club called "Crossroads". The four friends re-locate to Delhi and this is where they will come face to face with their deadly foes, Sandy, Dinesh, and Mohit, who is the younger brother of dreaded Don, Anna Shetty. Additionally the police will soon be hauling them and holding them in a cell - for murder!!

