Sequal to Dorm Daze has most of the original group of college students on a cruise ship in the Pacific, putting on a school play which takes a turn involving the theft of a priceless diamond.
The gang from Dorm Daze is back, but this time they're on a cruise ship on a tropical voyage through the high seas. The captain and crew of the Surveyor, a floating classroom for Billingsley University's Sea program, is about to make a voyage they'll never forget. The cruise makes an educational stop at the island of San Paradiso, where the students are supposed to explore an important archaeological site. Things go from normal to crazy as their visit coincides with every other college's spring break. The moment the boat docks, classes are over! For these Billingsley students, their Semester at Sea will be an adventure no one will ever forget.
The raunchy group from Billingson University hits the high seas for a cruise on a ship down the Mexican cost where the action revolves during one weekend during a school play involving a stolen diamond called the Pharohs Heart, stolen by the university anthropologist Professor Cavendish who wants to sell on the black market. But Cavendish is murdered by an unknown killer before he can do so and the diamond goes missing. Rejoining the group is Booker McFee who is trying to forget about his girlfriend Rachel who is also on the ship. Meanwhile, geekish Newmar wants to go all the way with his latest girlfriend Violet who wants to take things slow. Stoners Pete and Wang are trying to score some good dope and instead hook up with a mischievous kleptomaniac monkey named Choo Choo, while Pete is competing with Rachel for a college grant for a research project. Dim-witted gossip queens Lynn and Marla are also stirring up more trouble while Pete's friend Cliff, now a fugitive, works as the ship's pirate bartender while Gerri is around as well as stage director Foosball. Secondary characters include the University Dean Dryer and the ship's captain who's wife is sought after by every guy on board.

