During the reign of the Vikings, Kainan, a man from a far-off world, crash lands on Earth, bringing with him an alien predator known as the Moorwen. Though both man and monster are seeking revenge for violence committed against them, Kainan leads the alliance to kill the Moorwen by fusing his advanced technology with the Viking's Iron Age weaponry.
In 709 A.D., in the Iron Age, a spacecraft crashes in the Viking kingdom of Herot, Norway, and the pilot Kainan (Jim Caviezel) survives. He turns the beacon on; learns the language and culture of the planet using a machine; and finds that the predator, Moorwen, that he was transporting, had escaped. While chasing the alien monster, he finds a village completely destroyed and is arrested by the warrior Wulfric (Jack Huston), believing that he killed the locals. Kainan is brought to Herot as a prisoner.
Outlander begins with a spacecraft streaking across the sky. The ship lands in a lake situated around the local fjords of ancient Norway during the time of the Vikings 709AD. From its wreckage emerge two bitter enemies: One) a soldier from another world that speaks Icelandic and states that he came from an Island to the North Kainan and two) a bloodthirsty creature known as the Moorwen. Man and creature both seek revenge for violence committed against them. Before he has a chance to track down the alien, Kainan the Outlander is captured by a Viking warrior, and is held prisoner in the local village led by King Rothgar. As the Moorwen ravages the Viking lands, killing everything in its path, Kainan forms an alliance with the primitive but fierce warriors. Whilst trying to hunt for the Moorwen, war brews among the Vikings, which culminated with both sides taking immense losses. As the enemy Vikings retreat into the forests, the Moorwen strikes, leaving the vikings no choice but to run for help to their once close enemies. Together, the two sides attempt to destroy the Moorwen as a single band of Vikings. The Vikings thus construct a pit filled with oil to lure the Moorwen inside and plan to ignite the fuel, burning the Moorwen, with the help of Kainan. The plan to incinerate the Moorwen fails, leaving the village to take massive casualties, and with the surprise that the Moorwen had given birth to a new, younger Moorwen, which surprises the Vikings from behind and kills the Viking Leader in the process. This leaves the villages in fear and its warriors demoralised, most of the vikings leave the village in search of a new home and safety. Kainan and the remaining loyal warriors stand together to destroy the Moorwen. Kainan realizes from the last battle, that the Moorwen is almost impenetrable with the current metals used, and assists the Vikings by salvaging pieces of his crashed spacecraft and forging weapons capable of harming the creature. After a harrowing journey, the Vikings and Kainan confront the Moorwen in caves under the village where it is finally defeated. Kainan then destroys a homing beacon he set at the start of the film, deciding to remain on Earth as King of the tribe rather than return to his homeland.
