After a 20 year absence, drifter, George Walker, returns home to settle his grandmother's estate. As if awakening from a long dream, he finds his childhood home condemned and littered with the remnants of squatters. In the midst of trying to save his past, George falls and strikes his head, triggering an onslaught of vivid nightmares and waking visions. As the horror intrudes on George's reality, his conviction grows that someone or something is trying to kill him.
As the plot says George Walker returns to claim his grandmothers home after a 20 year absence. This was a place he spent his summers as a boy and was nicknamed summer-boy by the local kids. He intends to return the house to its glory and sell it. Upon his return he immediately feels the house is haunted and begins to have halucinations. We follow him thru confrontations with his neighbors a former bully and the city building inspector who condemns the house to demolition. After George going thru the horrors of the haunted house and believing someone is killing him his memory slowly returns. The movie wraps up with the realization that the person in his dreams is in fact him. Twenty years ago George had hooked up with a girl named susie at a party in a motel and ended up sleeping in a tree house with her. She was vomiting over the edge from drinking too much and accidentally fell out of the treehouse. She first was hanged by her scarf but then fell to her death. George - rather than report the accident and have to explain it- hid her in a sleeping bag and disposed of the body in a lake. While driving from the lake he had an automobile accident causing his head trauma and memory loss. Once he makes this realilzation he gives up on the house and packs to leave to a new life signified by his cleaning himself and shaving. George then goes to the police station probably to confess to hiding the body some twenty years prior. Like most horror movies it has a few strange unanswered questions like why did the scarf save him from drowning in the basement and what is the significance of the creepy drawings by his friendly neighbor.
