After the death of his uncle, the 14-year-old schoolboy Alex Rider is forced by the Special Operations Division of the UK's secret intelligence service, MI6, into a mission which will save millions of lives.
Alex Rider thinks he is a normal school boy, until his uncle is killed. He discovers that his uncle was actually then redirected up a mountain in his coffin for burial. Alex is recruited by Alan Blunt to continue the mission. He is sent to Cornwall to investigate a new computer system, which Darrius Sayle has created. He plans to give the new computer systems to every school in the country, but Mr. Blunt has other ideas and Alex must find out what it is.
An outwardly ordinary orphaned teenager student Alex Rider who lives with his uncle, a boring bank manager, or so it seems until his uncle, Ian Rider, disappears under mysterious circumstances. He finds himself suddenly thrust into extraordinary circumstances upon discovering that his entire youth was part of an elaborate plan to create the perfect super spy. Recruited by Mr. Blunt and Mrs. Jones, and armed with special gadgets, he embarks on his first mission. Billionaire Darrius Sayle is donating a free Stormbreaker mega-computer to every school in Britain. But is there more to his generosity than meets the eye? Going undercover, he infiltrates Sayle's compound. He meets the tycoon's sinister sidekicks, vixen publicist Nadia Vole and the disfigured mute Mr. Grin, and tests out the impressive and secretive Stormbreaker computer. While exploring a restricted area, Alex begins to figure out the mysterious Stormbreakers--he knows he's onto something big. Suddenly, Sayle and his evil henchmen capture Alex. Using his cunning and his MI6 gadgets, Alex manages to escape. He hitches a ride to London to stop Sayle from activating the Stormbreakers and releasing their secret weapon throughout Britain. But time is running out. With the help of his housekeeper Jack Starbright and his friend Sabina Pleasure, Alex takes Sayle head-on in a dangerous race against time to stop the evil plan. Within days he's gone from schoolboy to super spy, but will his first assignment be his last?
Orphaned when he was an infant, fourteen year old Alex Rider has since lived in the London home of his uncle, Ian Rider, a security specialist with a bank. As Ian is often away on business, a fact that bothers Alex since he loves his uncle and wishes he could spend more time with him, Alex has been largely brought up by his housekeeper of nine years, an American expatriate named Jack. After Ian is killed in a car accident, Alex eventually learns that his uncle was not the mild mannered white collar worker he purported to be, but rather an agent in a special ops division of MI6, and that Ian had actually been grooming Alex to follow in his footsteps by providing him with special skills, such as scuba diving, self defense/martial arts, and language training. Ian's handlers, Alan Blunt and Mrs. Jones, co-opt Alex to take over the case on which Ian was working and for which he was killed, namely following the exploits of an American businessman named Darrius Sayle, who wants to provide his new state-of-the-art computer system, Stormbreaker, to every British child. If Alex is able to uncover Darrius' plot, he will find that the lives of millions of Britons are in danger, and that if killed will be done at the hands of Darrius' old friend, the British Prime Minister. Through it all, there is another battle brewing between Blunt/Mrs. Jones and Jack, the latter who will do whatever needed to protect the life of her charge, who she loves like a son.
When his guardian, Ian Rider, dies in suspicious circumstances, 14-year-old Alex Rider finds his world turned upside down. Within days he's gone from schoolboy to super spy. Forcibly recruited into MI6, Alex has to take part in grueling SAS training exercises, then, armed with his own special gadgets, he's off on his first mission. But when Alex soon finds himself in mortal danger, it looks as if his first assignment may well be his last.
Alex Rider is a normal school boy with a normal life, until his uncle Ian Rider dies. Alex's life changes forever, as he discovers that his uncle was not, as he thought a banker, but a super MI6 agent who was shot on the way back from his latest assignment. Alex is cleverly manipulated by MI6 to work for him; his mission is to find out what's going on with the Stormbreakers, high-tech virtual reality computers that have some kind of virus in them. The main suspect is creator of the Stormbreaker, Darrius Sayle. After a shocking discovery that nearly causes him to lose his life, Alex must return to Britan to stop Sayle and save England. Can he succeed or will his first mission become his last?

