A man who runs an alibi service for adulterous husbands gets into a jam with a new client. In trying to remedy the situation, he must rely on an alluring woman who gets his heart racing.
The crook Ray Elliott, whose former partner Jack is under a five million dollar contract, believes in statistics and runs a risk assessment and managing business; actually a front for a company that provides alibis to adulterous people that cheat their mates. He does not accept giving alibis for crimes and he has just hired the alluring Lola to be his assistant. When Wendell Hatch, the reckless son of his wealthy client Robert Hatch, accidentally kills his masochist date Heather in a kinky S&amp;M game, Ray breaks his rules to protect his own name and hire some guys to clean the bedroom and vanish the body. Sooner Ray has many problems to resolve: the police are on his tail trying to find a clue about the disappearance of Heather; her jealous Mexican-American boyfriend wishes revenge against the murderer; Wendell is upset, because Ray told his father about the crime; Robert is angry and hires the hitman "The Mormon" to kill Ray, but the killer spares him to chase Jack. When the jealous The Mormon sees his wife Adelle flirting with Ray, he decides to kill him. Without any option, Ray joins his crook friends to help him to resolve the situation.
Former con man Ray Elliott has gone straight. His company, Elliott Consulting, on the surface, does financial risk assessment and management. Only his employees and clients know that what it really does is set up elaborate alibis for cheating spouses not to get caught. Ray's theory is that cheating does not lead to divorce, but getting caught does. He is equal opportunity in that his clients are husbands, wives, straight, homosexual. Ethical Ray will not get involved in anything of a criminal nature, or in cases of revenge. Although the business is a lucrative one, he chose it as something to keep him interested in life. In fact, he gives a fee break to anybody working in a chronically underpaid profession, such as police or teachers. Ray is trying to put his old life behind him, and as such has not seen or spoken to his former con partner and boss Jack McCaddem in years, Ray who acted as the front man in the partnership. Ray learns through the grapevine that Jack is back in town, and that there is an open five million dollar contract on his head. In his current business, Ray does little field work anymore, leaving such to his employees. He does, however, still actively work on the case of wealthy Robert Hatch, his first ever client, a chronic philanderer who refuses to divorce his wife Judith, as she is the one in the family with the money. As a favor to Bob, Ray works directly on the case of Wendell Hatch, Bob's just about-to-be married son, who wants to have a weekend fling before the wedding. Heather Price, Wendell's fling, is in turn cheating on her Latino boyfriend. Beyond the chronic philandering, the apple that is Wendell does not fall far off the tree as he is as gutless and stupid as his father. It is working on this case that Ray is implicated in a missing woman's and possible murder case, he knowing what happened to the woman in question, but who was not involved. As such, Ray changes his policy just this one time to get involved in hiding a criminal activity of one of his clients, largely to protect himself in the process. In that implication, Ray is doggedly pursued by Detective Bryce of the Santa Barbara Police Department, who is the lead investigator. Concurrently, Ray is introduced through some former associates to "The Mormon", an aging Mormon hitman. Although The Mormon would like information as to Jack's whereabouts, he who believes Ray knows, he wants to hire Ray for an alibi for one of his upcoming hits. Their relationship gets even more complex as the youngest of The Mormon's three wives, Adelle, a bored, sexually aggressive woman, does whatever she can to get into Ray's pants, and as The Mormon is asked to do another hit related to the missing woman case. Through it all, Ray has to decide how much to trust his new associate Lola, a bright, ambitious, statuesque blond for whom he is falling. But behind the scenes, a mysterious balding man, who is not averse to shooting to kill in his work, will most likely factor into whether Ray is able to make it out the other side of these situations alive.
Ray Elliot helps people cheat on their spouses by arranging iron-clad alibis for a price. About the time he hires a new assistant, Lola, he learns there's a five million dollar contract out on Jack McAdam, his former partner; and, his first and longest-running client wants him to set up a weekend for his son, who's about to marry. When the son's illicit tryst goes terribly awry, Ray has more than his share of problems: police, a jealous boyfriend, angry clients, a polygamist hitman, a coroner's assistant, and various wives converge to put Ray in danger. Can Lola be trusted? What about human nature?

