Three young houseflies stow away aboard the Apollo 11 flight to the moon.
In the Kennedy days, all the States buzz about the Apollo moon program, even the bugs. Grandpa fly Amos (Christopher Lloyd) keeps "inspiring" his grandson and two mates, a nerd and a glutton, with heroic stories. New they decide to get in on the action at Cape Canaveral via an astronaut's bread box. Grandpa also gets involved. There's also an evil Soviet Russian fly with which to deal.
A preteen-aged fly named Nat and his two best friends, I.Q. and Scooter, build a fly-sized rocket in a field across from Cape Canaveral, Florida, where the Apollo 11 sits on its launch pad. From his earliest memory, Nat remembers his grandfather, Amos, telling him of his daring rescue of Amelia Earhart as she crossed the Atlantic Ocean on her historic flight. Wanting to be an adventurer like his Grandpa, Nat knows what he has to do. Defying the notion that Dreamers get swatted!, he tells his friends his plan to get aboard the Apollo 11 and go to the moon. His buddies, with some reluctance, are in. The next morning, as their families realize they are missing, the three flies make it to Space Center command. In their homemade space suits, Nat, I.Q. and Scooter stow away inside the space helmets of astronauts Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin and Michael Collins. As they blast off, our three tiny adventurers are about to make some history of their own.Back on Earth, Grandpa, Mom and the others watch TV to get news of their offsprings adventure. As the astronauts appear on camera, the heroic flies wave in the background, visible to other flies but barely seen by humans except for an attentive NASA team member, who informs Armstrong that there appear to be contaminants on board. One other problem: In far-away Russia, there are other flies watching TV - Russian flies that cannot tolerate American flies getting to the moon first. A Russian plan is hatched and operatives are enlisted to interfere with the US mission. Mother Russia puts all its hopes of success on the back of one nasty operative named Yegor. Fortunately, a pretty Russian fly named Nadia also sees the flies on board and hears Nat calling out his Grandpas name, the very name of the fly Nadia met in Paris and loved so many years ago.Back on board the space ship, as the burn cycle to enter the moon's orbit begins, the capsule starts to shake violently. Theres a short circuit in a control panel that must be fixed manually or the ship wont be able to complete its mission. Nat and I.Q. fly through a maze of wires, find the problem and repair it just in time. Unaware of the flies aid, the ship enters orbit and all is well... or so they think. Just as they congratulate each other, the little flies are sprayed with a numbing aerosol and are captives in a test tube vial contaminants indeed.The flies manage to break the vial. Nat sneaks into Armstrongs helmet just in the nick of time. The Lunar Module lands on the surface of the moon. From inside the helmet, Nat beams with every awe-inspiring historic step. I.Q. and Scooter join him on the surface inside Aldrins helmet. Back on earth, other plots are being set in motion. After more than 50 years apart, Nadia finds Grandpa, though the joy of their reunion is brief. She tells Grandpa and Nats Mom about the Russian plot to divert the mission to crash directly into Mount Rushmore. Yegor must be stopped. Nats Mom faints while Grandpa takes off with a renewed youthful vow to save his grandson. At Mission Control, the Russian operatives have infiltrated and are preparing to alter the descent codes. Unaware of the potential danger looming, the astronauts and the little flies sit back and prepare to come back home as heroes.Grandpa, Nats Mom and Nadia join forces to stop Yegor and the Russian plan as Apollo 11 hurtles closer and closer toward Earth. In a series of death-defying stunts, they crush the Russian threat. Apollo 11 splashes down safely in the Pacific Ocean, the world still totally unaware of the three little flies on board who made it all possible. Returning as heroes, the three little flies share a slogan embraced by all: Adventure forever! Dreamers get swatted? Never!At the end the real Buzz Aldrin appears on screen and briefly explains that no flies were on board during the real flight. [D-Man2010]
