Four gay high school friends make a pact to lose their virginity before they go to college.
The film revolves around four gay teenagers: curious Andy, flamboyant Nico, jock Jarod, and geeky Griff. These four boys want to have sex, but can't find anyone to do it with. It's their graduation day and their lesbian friend Muffler's having her graduation party. The next morning, the boys make the pact to have sex before the end of the summer. Andy has his eye on the math teacher Mr. Puckov, Nico searches the Internet for a man, Jarod falls for a rival baseball player, and Griff is deciding within his crush on Jarod or his exercise teacher. In the tradition of "American Pie", "Another Gay Movie" will bring you hysterics.
Gay friends Andy, Griff, Jarod and Nico are graduating from high school, technically all virgins in not having had anal sex either as a top or bottom. They make a pact that they will all lose their respective virginity by their lesbian butch friend Muffler's Labor Day party - Muffy who for some unknown reason seems to be able to get any girl she wants, lesbian or straight - after which they will all part ways for the next phase of their lives. Jarod is the typical good looking jock who outwardly could probably get any boy he wanted, but he suffers from self image problems from the size of his penis to his expected performance. Nico is the stereotypically camp one who loves old movies especially starring his favorite drama queens, and everything of a pop culture nature. Anyone with two eyes can see that he is gay, seemingly except Daisy, the blind classmate he has been dating, and his video store owning mother. Griff is the geek, who is known to be any size queen's dream, but he wants not only to be known for his ass instead, but to be noticed by one person close to him in particular who professes to be a top. And Andy is the boy next door, who doesn't want to admit to his friends that he is truly a bottom as he experiments with one thing after another up his sphincter, something his parents learn time after time as they invade the privacy of his bedroom. He has long dreamed of doing it with one of their teachers, Mr. Puckov, Andy hoping it now a possible reality since they are no longer in a teacher-student relationship. As the summer progresses, the four get into one misadventure after another in attempting to lose their virginity to the one they truly want, with it not clear if any of the four will reach their goal by the end of Muffy's party.
In the dirtiest, funniest, most scandalous gay-teen-sex-comedy-parody ever, four young gay friends make a pact to lose their virginity by the end of the summer. The boys soon face giant sex toys, naked celebrities, masochistic teachers and an uncontrollable romance with a quiche. With a dozen jokes a minute and a who's who of gay celebrities (including Graham Norton, Scott Thompson, Ant and Richard Hatch) as you've NEVER seen them before, Another Gay Movie is a candy-colored romp where getting laid is all that matters!
