On a hot summer afternoon in the sleepy town of Blackwater, Louisiana locals exiting a retro-fitted theater excitedly watch as a meteor streaks across the sky and crashes through the roof of the local Natural History Museum. No one realizes that the meteor is actually a spaceship containing a shape-shifting life form. In order to adapt to Earth's atmosphere, the life form latches on to the first organism it comes in contact with - a partially frozen Woolly Mammoth found in the historic exhibit for which the town is famous. As a series of uncanny disasters unfold, the town quickly finds itself overrun by the alien-possessed mammoth. Local authorities and Government Investigators join forces with Frank Abernathy, the Museum Curator, and his father Simon, a B-Movie enthusiast to bring down the mighty mammoth, thus saving the town (and the world) in a wild adventure that blends the 50s alien-invasion flick, and the 70s revenge-of-nature opus into a marauding monster mash!
When a meteor smashes into a Pleistocene museum, the fury of a partially frozen, 40,000 year old mammoth is unleashed on a small country town. Under orders to contain the threat that possesses the mammoth at all costs, Special Agents Powers and Whitaker are given 17 hours to kill the mammoth or the entire town will be decimated. They recruit local paleontologist, Dr. Frank Abernathy, to help them hunt the creature down before its rampage of death and destruction gets to the outside world. With the clock ticking and the body count rising, the only chance Dr. Abernathy has of saving his daughter and B-movie fanatic father is to help the agents destroy his life's work.
An alien-carrying meteorite crashes into a Pleistocene epoch museum in Blackwater, Louisiana. The crash thaws a partially frozen wooly mammoth and implants the aliens in the animal. The aliens take control of the mammoth and mayhem ensues. Thwarting the raging mammoth are federal investigators, local authorities, paleontologist/museum curator Dr. Frank Abernathy, the museum curator's daughter Jack, a teenaged boy named Squirlley, and Dr. Abernathy's father, Simon, who is ironically a B-Movie enthusiast.
