A wealthy and successful career woman gets a second chance in life when a magical wish transports her back in time eight years to when she walked away from her fiance to lead a business life in New York.
It's Christmas Eve, 2004. Eve Simon is a wealthy and successful advertising executive with Bernstein &amp; Barlow on Madison Avenue, but her personal life is less than satisfying. Beyond her assistant Mandy who has been her best friend since grammar school, her married boss and lover, Neil Barlow, is the only other significant person in her personal life. She has not been home to Eastborough, Oregon since she left eight years ago, and rarely speaks to her loving and supportive family there. When Neil tells Eve that he will be spending Christmas with his wife and kids instead of her as was originally planned leaving her alone for Christmas, Eve reflects on her life, most specifically the decision she made eight years ago not to marry her then fiancé and love, Scott Gustafson, who she has not seen or heard of since, but rather accept the internship with Bernstein &amp; Barlow that began the day after Christmas. Christmas was to be the day of her wedding. That decision not to get married was in part because she, despite loving Scott, knew that he would always feel obligated to take over the failing family business, a bookstore, in Eastborough rather than follow her to New York. Making a wish on a Christmas star before she goes to sleep, Eve awakens the next morning transported back in time and place with all the knowledge of her present life to December 19, 1996 in Eastborough, still living at home and preparing for her wedding to Scott. Her sarcastic guardian angel, Brother James, arranged this miracle for her, and is urging her to make what he considers the right decision to marry Scott this second time around. But Eve may fall into the same traps she did the first time around, despite knowing that Neil hired her more for the photograph attached to her resume than for anything else included within it. Regardless of what does happen this second time around, there is no guarantee that it will change her life in 2004.
It's beginning to look a lot like Christmas everywhere you go... That is except in the eyes of 33-year-old Eve Simon. She's spending Christmas Eve in a bar pounding back the cocktails. Outside, scenes of happy families and couples walking by arm in arm only deepen Eve's inner depression. A single, successful professional, Eve wonders what material success has brought her. The bar closes early forcing Eve to meander her way through the crowded cheerful streets back to her apartment. Rounding the final corner, Eve bumps into a homeless man, Brother James. As usual, Brother is ranting and raving, this time he's on about the lost holiday spirit. Brother pauses to look the tipsy Eve in the eye. He whispers to her, "wish upon the Christmas Star." Eve hands the man some coins and makes her way home. Alone, with no one and nowhere to go, Eve pulls out a photo album she hasn't touched in years. It's filled with pictures of her rural hometown. One photo in particular brings tears to Eve's eyes. It's her at 21 posing with her then-fiancée, Scott. Eve walked out on Christmas Eve, twelve years ago... the night before their planned Christmas Day wedding. Feeling lonely and upset, Eve seeks solace in the darkness of the winter night. She ventures out on her balcony, where she spies the lone Christmas Star hanging high in the sky. Remembering Brother James, she makes a wish and goes to bed... Will Eve get a second chance?

