A Japanese actress begins having strange visions and experiences after landing a role in a horror film about a real-life murder spree that took place over forty years ago.
Nagisa Sugiura (Yuka) is a young Japanese actress who comes face to face with a slew of ghosts. These restless spirits begin to appear when she signs on to star in a horror film which tells the true story about a crazed, local professor whose murderous rampage at a hotel left 11 guests dead, including his young son and daughter. The movie is being filmed at the very site where the killings took place.
35 years ago, a college professor named Norihasa Omori (Atsushi Haruta) visits a local hotel and films himself killing 11 of the hotel guests, employees, his own children and himself committing suicide as a part of his wish to understand reincarnation. Since then, the footage of the murders disappears.In the present day, horror movie director, Ikuo Matsumura (Kippei Shiina), decides to make a film about the massacre. As the date of the shoot draws near, Nagisa Sugiura (Yka), the actress who is set to star as Professor Omori's daughter Chisato (Mao Sasaki), is haunted by the ghosts of the victims. She begins to hallucinate as she is plagued by nightmares of the killings.Yayoi Kinoshita (Karina Nose) wakes up in the middle of a psychology class, in which the professor publicly opposes the ideas of reincarnation and "cryptomnesia". She decides to write an essay supporting cryptomnesia and meets Yuka Morita (Marika Matsumoto), who was shown auditioning at the beginning of the movie. Yuka says she remembers things in a "past life" of hers and reveals a mark that would appear to be evidence of strangling on her neck, which reveals that she has the same vision as Nagisa, but that "had been there since [she] was born."[2] Yayoi and Yuka check out the college library, but mysterious forces drag Yuka away.Meanwhile, Nagisa begins to believe that she is the reincarnation of Chisato Omori. However, during another hallucination, she discovers Yayoi Kinoshita in the cubby where the little girl was slain. Realizing that she is not the real reincarnation of Chisato, Nagisa witnesses the actors (who are appearing as their reincarnations, which they were to portray) being drawn back to the places where they died. With all the victims walking towards her, Nagisa then becomes aware of the truth: that she is the reincarnation of the homicidal professor. Pursued by the ghosts, Nagisa is forced to reenact the professor's suicide, but survives.Sometime later, in a mental ward, Nagisa - bound in a full-body wrap - is still haunted by the souls of her previous incarnation's children. Ayumi Omori (Miki Sanjo), the professor's wife, gives Nagisa her children's favourite toys (which is a ball and a doll). Nagisa screams as they are shoved into her solitary confinement cell, but calms down with a sinister smile on her face as the ghosts of the children close in on her.
