After developing a flying web-cam Alain has his boss and wife over for dinner. She turns up to be very rude, and the same night Alain finds a live rare Scandinavian lemming clogging up the kitchen sink. The night things start going wrong.
The automation engineer Alain Getty and his beloved wife Bénédicte have just moved to the suburb of Bel-Air. Alain has developed the prototype of a flying web-cam for Pollock S.A., a high-tech company. After a successful presentation of his project to their clients, Alain invites his boss Richard Pollock and his wife Alice for dinner at his home. The couple arrives late, and Alice is extremely rude, insulting her husband and the young couple, and forcing Richard to leave the house earlier. During the night, Alain finds a rare Scandinavian lemming stuck in the siphon of the sink in the kitchen. On the next night, Alice unsuccessfully tries to seduce Alain after-hours in the laboratory of the company. On the next afternoon, she visits Bénédicte to apologize her behavior and cynically tells her sexual harassment to her husband. Then she locks herself in a room and commits suicide. On the next days, Bénédicte changes her behavior and relationship with Alain, seeming to be possessed by Alice.
Bénédicte and Alain Getty are a young modern couple living in the suburbs of Toulouse. They have just settled in, and Bénédicte is still unemployed, while Alain works in a wealthy computer company as an engineer, designing a revolutionary "flying web-cam" prototype. One night, Alain and Bénédicte invite Alain's boss, Richard Pollock, and his wife Alice, over to dinner. But Alice acts weirdly from the very beginning, then violently disrupts the dinner, forcing Richard and her to leave the house in a rush. A few hours earlier, Alain had found what happened to be a half-dead lemming, stuck in the kitchen sink pipe. The next day, Alice, pretending to look for her husband, visits Alain in his office, and, after having told him she wants her husband dead on the account that he once tried to murder her, she openly seduces Alain. Alain doesn't really try to resist her... until he finally does. A few days later, Alice comes back, on her own, to the Gettys house, asking for an apology to Bénédicte about the dinner, but also telling her what almost happened with Alain. Bénédicte tries to ignore what she just heard, and offers Alice a cup of coffee, then, even though she is bedazzled by such a request, lets her have a rest in their spare bedroom. In the evening, when Alain comes back home from work, Alice is still sleeping. But when she eventually wakes up, she gets in a sudden rage, locks herself up in the room and commits suicide. From this moment on, nothing will be the same anymore for Alain, who will go through a drastic intimate journey, while Bénédicte makes an even odder trip...

