Veer-Zaara is a saga of love, separation, courage and sacrifice. A love story that is an inspiration and will remain a legend forever.
Squadron Leader Veer Pratap Singh (Shah Rukh Khan) is a rescue pilot with the Indian Air Force. In the line of duty he comes across a stranded Zaara (Preity Zinta) - a girl from Pakistan who has come to India to fulfill her surrogate mothers dying wish. Veer saves her life and his life is never the same again. Twenty two years later Saamia Siddiqui (Rani Mukerji), a Pakistani human rights lawyer on her first case, finds herself face to face with an ageing Veer Pratap Singh. He has languished in a Pakistan jail cell for 22 years and has not spoken to anyone all these years. And no one knows why. Her mission is to discover the truth about Veer and see to it that justice is served. VEER-ZAARA is a saga of love, separation, courage and sacrifice. A love that is divine, a love that is whole-hearted, a love that is completely consuming, a love that grows with separation and deepens with sacrifice. A love that is an inspiration - and will remain a legend forever.
Squadron Leader Veer Pratap Singh is a rescue pilot with the Indian Air Force, who risks his own life to save the lives of others. One day, on duty, he comes across a stranded Zaara... a girl from Pakistan. Zaara, a carefree, sprightly girl has come to India to fulfill her surrogate mother's dying wish. She meets with a bus accident leaving her stranded in a foreign land.Veer saves her life... and his life is never the same again... Twenty-two years later, Saamiya Siddiqui, a Pakistani lawyer on her first case, finds herself face-to-face with an ageing Veer Pratap Singh. He has languished in a Pakistan jail cell for 22 years and has not spoken to anyone all these years - and no one knows why.Her mission is to discover the truth about Veer and see to it that justice is served. And thus starts her journey to unveil the truth... the story of Veer and his life...Why has Veer been silent for 22 years?
Why is he in a jail in Pakistan?
Where is Zaara?
What happened to her? God has written the destinies of Veer and Zaara, such that they can never be joined together. Saamiya has come to change that... to join Veer and Zaara together... forever...Veer-Zaara is not an ordinary story - it is a Love Legend... Veer and Zaara's love legend. This is a saga of love, separation, courage and sacrifice. A love that is divine, a love that is whole-hearted, a love that is completely consuming, a love that grows with separation, deepens with sacrifice.A love that is an inspiration... and will remain a legend forever.
