Citizens of a small town, under the influence of a man in the midst of a mid-life crisis, come together to make an adult film.
Andy Sargentee is a decent guy and the town's favorite failure: an unemployable dreamer whose ex's husband's wealth intimidates Andy to such an extent he does little with his teen son. Andy's new idea is for Butterface Fields to be the first town to band together to make the first full-length feature amateur adult film. He recruits five regulars at Floyd's Bar to contribute $2000 each. They get the kid at the video store, whose camcorder is constantly on, to be the cinematographer. The pal they all call "Some Idiot" volunteers to be writer-director. Otis becomes producer. Now, can they find actors, and especially, women? Can a pornography project give Andy self-respect?
Sex sells in America and these guys know it. The Amateurs follows a small town band of loveable losers who hit upon an idea that can make their dreams and fantasies come true. Thinking they've found the road to riches and fame they decide to make the world's most innocent adult film. Everyman's fantasy turns into a hilarious misadventure when they find they're in way over their heads.
Sex sells in America and these guys know it. When Andy discovers that his ex-wife has married an extremely wealthy man who is now his son's "cool" stepfather, he becomes motivated to make a change in his life. With the help of his friends a small town group of loveable losers, they hit upon an idea to make their dreams come true. The grand plan that will lead to a life of riches and fame is to make the world's most innocent adult film. Everyman's fantasy turns into a hilarious misadventure when they find that they're way in over their heads.
A band of small-town misfits and underachievers, led by Jeff Bridges' character, decide to turn their lives around by making a porno film (something they know little about), and travel a bumpy road of unexpected surprises on their way from failure to success.
