Siddharth and Sonia are happily married to each other until Anna walks into Siddharth's life. Things takes a worst turn, when Anna gets killed and Siddharth finds himself in deep trouble.
Police Inspector Sonia Mehra is married to her subordinate Siddharth, and both are employed by the Goa Police Force. They share a fairly harmonious relationship. Then one day, a woman named Anna Verghese goes missing and is believed dead. To add to this mystery, there is also the question of a suitcase full of cash that is also missing. Sonia assumes charge of this investigation - and the deeper she probes the more sure she is that Siddharth is also somehow involved with both Anna and the missing cash. What she does not know that Siddharth was having an affair with Anna, and is also responsible for stealing the cash. Watch as events unfold that will eventually lead to the two confronting these issues, and how it will affect their marriage.
In a small town in Goa steeped in azure seas and sultry secrets, the chief of local police station, Siddharth (Emran Hashmi) finds himself caught in the eye of a storm...and about to get blown away.Siddharth, who is going through a divorce with his wife, Sonia (Shamita Shetty) whom he still loves, finds himself involved with a local married woman named Anna (Udita Goswami). Unable to cope with the pressures of his wife's success who is in the special police force, he continues his secret and dangerous relationship with Anna.Things get even more complicated when Siddharth realizes that Anna's husband, Shawn (Sameer Kochhar) is a wife beater and Anna is dying from cancer. Being a good soul, Siddharth does not have it in him to abandon this woman who seems to have given him some affection in recent times.In the heat of the moment, Siddharth takes an irrational decision to give Anna the money he recovered in a drug raid, for her medication in a final effort to save her. Things are not what they seem since Anna dies in a fire that very night. Siddharth now races to uncover a murky tail of drug money, murder and deceit, because all the evidences points to him.With his wife heading the case, Siddharth is now in a race against time to find out the real truth behind Anna's murder, recover the drug money and also win his wife's love back.After a bunch of wild goose chases, Siddharth finds out that Anna is very much alive and was actually controlling Shawn and Siddharth in the whole plot for getting the Insurance money. Siddharth finds this in just nick of time and while confronting Anna with the truth, Anna points a gun at him. In the scuffle that follows, Sonia shoots Anna and she provides the alibi for him stating that Anna's death was an accident.The movie ends with Siddharth recovering the lost drug money and his wife.
