Father and son run their own two-man furniture business but have opposing ideologies on what should guide their craftsmanship, quality or commerce.
Widowed father Jim and his twenty-seven-year-old son Caleb run a custom furniture business in the Slocan Valley area of British Columbia. Jim is the craftsman who will do whatever is necessary to produce a quality piece, regardless of cost to the company or customer wants. Caleb is the business person who tries to reign Jim in, realizing that if he cannot do so the business will fail. Into their lives returns Matthew, an old friend of Caleb's parents from back in the days when they were hippies during the Vietnam War era. Jim was an American draft dodger and Matthew was an American army deserter. While Jim has stuck to his idealistic hippie roots, Matthew is now a wealthy developer who is building a lodge in the area. In discussions solely with Caleb, Matthew commissions chairs to be made for the lodge. Seeing this contract as a way for the business to flourish, Caleb agrees but asks Matthew not to divulge to Jim that the chairs they will be making are for him, as he knows Jim will not work for corporate interests. Matthew's arrival strengthens the internal tug-of-war Caleb has been feeling between his hippie upbringing (which is still his current way of living) and leading a financially secure life regardless of the means. Added to the mix is Caleb's new girlfriend, Lee, who has recently arrived in the valley and sees her future there. A secret kept by Jim may alter Caleb's perspective.
Caleb, 27, was raised in the majestic Kootenays by his bush hippie parents. He loves his father Jim and understands his reverence for wood working, coriander and Soya products, but he just doesn't get Jim's determined effort to achieve economic disaster at every turn. His father is a relentlessly unsuccessful business man, whose fiscal self-sabotage Caleb, as the junior partner in their carpentry shop, is powerless to stop. When Matthew's old friend Jim arrives in the valley to develop a high-end fishing lodge, Caleb sees fortune looming, provided he can keep his father distracted long enough. But a small deception leads to colossal betrayal, and soon Caleb must face the fact that he's reached that treasured day when a boy becomes man enough to tell his father to get lost.

