In the midst of his crumbling relationship, a radio show host begins speaking to his biggest fan, a young boy, via the telephone. But when questions about the boy's identity come up, the host's life is thrown into chaos.
Gabriel Noone is a late night radio-host in a big city, specializing in spooky tales culled from his active imagination. When Gabriel's lover decides he needs some "space" and moves out, Gabriel descends into a funk until a publisher friend brings him a manuscript written by 14 year-old Pete Logand, a troubled young fan. Pete's story touches the vulnerable Gabriel deeply. Pete was severely abused by his parents and is now under the care of his former social worker, Donna Logand, who has adopted him. Pete is very ill and he and Donna are keeping a low profile in a small town in Wisconsin to avoid discovery by Pete's mother. Gabriel develops an unsettling long-distance telephone relationship with the boy and his guardian. Nothing is as it seems and the skepticism of friends causes Gabriel to become suspicious of Donna and her motives, so he tries to resolve the loose ends by traveling to Wisconsin to confront Donna and Pete. But this effort is largely unsuccessful and we are left wondering if Pete is real, if Donna is really blind or if Gabriel is the deranged soul of the story.
Gabriel No one (Robin Williams), a radio show host begins by telling his intriguing life stories to his night listeners. Gabriel is having personal problems when his lover moves out of his house. Gabriel is having a storyteller's block and can't perform at the radio station. A book agent gives Gabriel an unpublished book, written by a 14-year old boy, Pete Boland (Rory Culkin). Pete's book is about the abused childhood and suffering he went through at the hands of his parents and their friends. Pete now lives with an adopted mother and social worker, Donna Boland (Toni Collette). Pete is still suffering because he is dying of AIDS. Gabriel talks to Pete on the phone and begins to bond with Pete, but things are very strange when Gabriel tries to meet Pete and discovers that there is a possibility that Pete may not exist. Gabriel flies to the small town in Wisconsin to uncover the truth. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
