A successful CEO meets a Latin American rep Christmas Eve. He thus neglects girlfriend, family and employees and the day magically repeats itself until he gets it right.
Calvin Carter, a successful business executive, has it all, but neglects those closest to him. On Christmas Eve, all that changes when the sign on his office building falls on him. He awakes in a hospital bed, attended to by Angie, a nurse who soon lets him know he has 12 days (12 chances) to get his act together and achieve the "perfect" Christmas Eve. If he doesn't, there will be dire consequences.
It's Christmas Eve. Cutthroat business executive Calvin Carter is a workaholic. After taking over the reigns of the family business, The Buck $top$ Here, from his father, Calvin is able to turn it around from being in the red to becoming the number two chain of discount stores in the country within a year. In wanting to be the first American company to expand into the Latin American market, he is meeting today with Isobel Frias, who is evaluating proposals of the willing American players with who possibly to partner in that Latin American venture. On Calvin's urging, Ms. Frias has rerouted her flights for this meeting before returning home to Brazil this evening despite she missing Christmas with her family in taking this meeting. Calvin expects his head office staff to do whatever it takes to impress Ms. Frias, at the expense of what they may have planned with their family this day. Calvin himself may in the process miss a luncheon with his current live-in girlfriend, Rhianna, who made the reservation at an exclusive restaurant months in advance. He may also miss the Christmas choir concert of his adolescent son, Eric Carter, who lives with his mother, Calvin's ex-wife, Marilyn Carter, and who he rarely sees. And Calvin has no intention of visiting the flagship store partly managed by his younger brother Jesse Carter, and where their father, Hank Carter, who, despite his aged years and failing memory, still plays Santa on Christmas Eve, it which he still loves doing. Having missed all his family commitments, including the traditional extended Carter family Christmas Eve evening party at Jesse's, Calvin still believes he had almost the perfect day, the only thing not making it perfect being that Ms. Frias did not sign on the dotted line, although all indications are that she will. Suffering what he believes is a severe bump on the head at the end of the evening, Calvin wakes up the next morning with what seems to be déjà vu. What he eventually figures out is that he is experiencing that same Christmas Eve over again, he relishing the chance not to make it almost perfect, but make it perfect by taking advantage of what went wrong in his mind the first time around to get Ms. Frias definitely choosing his company for the venture. However, Calvin eventually discovers from Angie, the "nurse" who cares for him at the end of each of these Christmas Eves, that he will have twelve Christmas Eves to get the day right, he knowing that it was not right by the fact of he suffering a violent death at its end, each successive night being more violent than the previous night. He will just not wake up on day thirteen if he did not figure it out. Calvin's problem may be the divide between what he considers getting the day right into actually what it means to get the day right in the true spirit of Christmas.
Calvin Carter is pleased: he probably landed a Latin American joint venture for the retail chain The Buck Stops Here, which he saved from bankruptcy when his dad's mind went. Never mind he thus missed all family fun on Christmas Eve. Only walking home after a drink with his loyal right hand Drew, he has a fatal accident. In the hereafter he learns the day will start over up to twelve times 'til he 'does it perfectly', not what is 'perfect'. After treating this as a chance to improve business-wise, Calvin realizes it's probably a humane thing, but every attempt to be more generous fails to stop the next freak fatal accident.

