When Drake and Josh accidentally send their little sister Megan on a plane to L.A., they soon find themselves in the middle of a dangerous situation.
Josh's first assignment in his creative writing program is to write a typed report/paper about his greatest adventure. Meanwhile Drake and Josh's parents leave to go on a ten-day cruise, leaving Drake and Josh in charge. But when Drake and Josh accidentally reverse the flight number, sending her to Los Angeles International Airport (flight 647) instead of Denver. Her brothers find out the mistake and follow her on another plane. Upon arriving in Los Angeles, Megan uses her parents' credit card to order a limousine to take her to an expensive hotel and book a presidential suite. Before finding out, however, the brothers wait to see Megan's plane take off. When the brothers arrive in Los Angeles, they go out to find their sister and get her to Denver. At this moment, several criminals enter the suite and attempt to take the G-O. It's up to Drake and Josh to foil the bad guys, and get to the TRL studio in time.
Drake and Josh are brothers that are left alone while their parents go to a ten-day cruise. They have to get their sister (Megan) to Denver. While they are at the airport they order a ticket to Denver but put her in a plane to L.A. They follow her to L.A and try to find her. Megan asks a limo to drop her off at the greatest hotel in the world. Drake and Josh ask people if they saw a little girl. A man says," at the finest hotel." At the hotel Josh goes to the bathroom and sees the director of TRL. The director is troubled because he doesn't have another band to play in TRL. Josh pushes a laptop under the stall while the director was talking on the phone and the director sees Drakes band play and gives them a music gig. But the people that told Drake and Josh where Meagan was are up to something illegal and it's up to Drake and Josh to stop them. Will Drake and Josh find Megan, go to TRL and stop the bad guys in time???!
Drake and Josh are left home alone while their mom and dad leave on a ten-day cruise. But they have to take Megan to the airport in order to be 'entirely' left alone. Megan has to go to Colorado to meet her. Drake gets her a ticket to go not to Colorado, but to Los Angeles. Drake and Josh try to stop the plane, but are stopped by security guards. Then, they buy tickets to go to LA. When they're on the plane, Drake sits next to some cute girls, while Josh sits next to some very annoying people. In the middle of the flight, Josh decides to go to a different seat. Josh sits next to a man that has a G-0. He doesn't notice that the G-0 contains codes to run the money machine that he saw on the news. The annoying lady walks up to the front near Josh while there is turbulence. The lady falls on Josh, mixing up the G-0's.
Drake is upset that his band isn't going anywhere. Then, when they accidentally put their little sister Megan on the wrong flight, they have to fly to LA to find her. While in the hotel, Josh happens to meet a talent booker for MTV's TRL who was supposed to give a special remote performance from Hollywood on TRL the following day. After watching Drake's band in action, the talent booker is impressed by Drake, but tells Josh that TRL doesn't book music acts that don't have a record label. Drake and Josh get caught up in an incident which involves some criminals who've stolen a U.S. currency machine they end up getting captured. They have to get free, foil the bad guys, and get to the TRL studio in time... and hope that the audience loves Drake and his band.

