Two best friends being convinced that they are not in love search for each other's love.
While on the way to the airport, Mala, who Jignesh Patel believes is going to be his future girlfriend, must listen to the romantic overtures of a group who are obsessed with the popular number 'Jaane Tu Ya Jaane Na' from the movie 'Aa Gale Lag Jaa'. The story is about Jai Singh Rathore and Aditi Wadia, two friends who are so close that the Wadias decide to get them married. But both disagree, and decide to seek soul mates for each other. With Aditi's help, Jai meets Meghna, and both fall in love with each other. Jai is introduced to her parents, who also approve of him. Aditi's is then introduced to Sushant Modi, who instantly finds approval, even with her reclusive brother, Amit. Mala anxiously awaits the climax as the story unfolds with many twists and turns.
Meet Jai Singh Rathore - 'Rats' (Imran Khan), the most non-violent Rajput either side of the Aravallis. And meet, if you dare, the violent and passionate Aditi Mahant - 'Meow' (Genelia D'Souza). Whatever you do, do not pick a fight with her. She scratches. And abuses. If you do get into a scrap, take cover till Jai arrives, as he alone can calm our snarling wildcat.Jai thinks Aditi's parents should have rinsed her mouth with soap when she was a child. Aditi thinks that Jai is the biggest coward she has ever encountered. Heaven has mixed up its apples and oranges.Rotlu weeps secretly for Aditi. Bombs' heart explodes for Jai. Jiggy applies golden mascara to his hair. Shaleen well, she's probably the only one who doesn't seem a few notes short of a concerto.Jai and Aditi are perfect for each other (in some odd, distorted way, impossible to understand). Friends know this. Parents know this. Everybody knows this. But do Rats and Meow know?Can two people ever, truly, know the secrets of their hearts? And how do you know it's the real thing?When do you know it's love?Adding to this, a quarrelling portrait and many problems ahead...
