A man is accused of sexual harassment by his former lover and he has to prove his innocence in order to restore his dignity.
Successful businessman Raj Malhotra (Akshay Kumar) has everything going for him, including a lovely wife (Kareena Kapoor). Just when he thinks things can't get any better, Sonia (Priyanka Chopra) - his ex-girlfriend, now the boss's wife - walks back into his life - and she wants Raj. After he rejects her sexual advances, she accuses him of rape. But he soon turns the tables on Sonia and sues her for sexual harassment along with the help of his wife Priya.
Raj Malhotra works as and Engineer for a mobile company.He meets Priya and both get married s and Priya soon gives the good news of being pregnant.Ranjit Roy chairman of Raj's company arrives with his third wife much younger Sonia new chairman of company to announce promotions.Raj is expecting to get the CEO's post which goes to his friend Rakesh and surprisingly he gets the post of Board Of Directors given by Sonia.Flashback revels that many years back Raj and Sonia were having a live in relationship in Capetown and she got pregnant.Raj was ready to accept the child by getting married to her but Sonia hungry for success aborted the child following which they parted ways.Sonia's intention of giving Raj the Board Of Directors post is that he should be close to her.When Raj declines her proposal not wanting to be unfaithful to Priya ,Sonia frames him of rape charges.
Priya Saxena is a law student, and would like to work for an accomplished lawyer. She responds to an advertisement by Barrister Ram Chotrani, but ends up in the wrong house - that of Raj Malhotra; falling in love with him and getting married. Raj is awaiting a promotion as Chief Executive Officer in his cell-phone manufacturing organization, and expects his wages to increase considerably, so he takes a loan, and purchases a spacious bungalow. During the Annual General Meeting of his organization, he does not get promoted, but instead is inducted as a Director, by the wife of the Chairman, Mrs. Sonia Roy. The reason behind his promotion is quite simple: Sonia wants to rekindle her affair with Raj - at any cost - by hook or crook - an affair that had left her pregnant in South Africa years ago.
Priya Saxena is a law student who goes to work for a barrister. But she leaves the address of the house behind and lands up in Raj's house where incidentally a house maid is awaited. Raj mistakes her for a house maid and makes her work for him and eventually falls in love. They marry and soon expect a baby and Raj buys a costly bungalow to live in as he expects promotion. But his new MD Sonia calls him home to discuss a problem and attempts to harass him sexually. When Raj refuses, she puts the blame on him and reports this to her husband Roy who demands a resignation from Raj. Raj files a case against Sonia. Priya who doesn't know about this is shocked but is determined to save her husband. It is at that time when Raj tells Priya that he had been involved with Sonia in the past and how they broke up due to differences of opinion. Sonia's lawyer cleverly projects the case in Soni'a favor. The climax is about how Priya collects evidence to support her husband which will help her win the case.
Raj Malhotra (Akshay Kumar) is a product engineer for a telecommunications company, Air Voice. Priya Saxena (Kareena Kapoor), a junior lawyer goes to Raj's house for an interview, mistaking him for barrister Ram Chautrani (Annu Kapoor), a neighbor and Raj's friend. They fall in love, marry and are soon expecting a child. Raj expects to be promoted to CEO when the company's chairman (Amrish Puri) arrives with his new wife, Sonia Roy (Priyanka Chopra) to announce the promotions. Sonia Roy is named the company's new Chairperson; and after a discussion with her husband, she announces the promotions. The CEO position instead goes to Raj's friend Rakesh (Vivek Shauq), while Raj is placed on the Board of Directors. At a party, Raj, accompanied by Priya, learns about his new boss, Sonia Roy. Priya is surprised that Sonia is the wife of the much older Mr Roy. Raj and his colleagues talk about Sonia being very attractive and the age difference between her and her husband, and Raj jokes that his magnetic personality was responsible for his massive promotion. It is implied that Raj may have encountered Sonia previously.A flashback explores Raj's previous relationship with Sonia. Five years earlier, Raj and Sonia (then a model) meet at a beach in Cape Town. They fall in love and move in together; Sonia becomes pregnant with Raj's child, which makes him happy, but Sonia refuses Raj's marriage proposal and says she is going to terminate the pregnancy as her child would stand in the way of wealth, fame, power and status and their relationship ends.The next day, Rakesh tells Raj about a defect in the company's new mobile handset: a call goes to two people simultaneously-the intended recipient and another random person on the phone's contact list. Raj needs Sonia's permission to stop production, and she invites him to her house to discuss the matter. Sonia makes provocative and sexually explicit statements to Raj, who ignores her. She then aggressively tries to pursue Raj, who resists. Although he repeatedly rejects her advances, Sonia continues trying to seduce him. As he leaves, Sonia threatens to punish him for spurning her. The next day, he learns that Sonia has told her husband that he sexually harassed her. Since he has admitted finding Sonia attractive, his claim of innocence is not believed, and the company pressures him into resignation.Raj asks Chauthrani to take his case; Chauthrani tells him not to resign, and to keep going to work. This case goes to court; Sonia and Roy engage a lawyer (Paresh Rawal). Initially, the bulk of the evidence is against Raj and the case gains widespread media attention. Raj's bank manager returns from Bangkok and gives him a tape that recorded Raj's encounter at Sonia's house. After the tape is proven genuine, Chauthrani is struck by a car driven by a goon hired by Sonia and the tape is destroyed. When Priya asks Raj why he called their bank manager from Sonia's house, he replies that he had called Rakesh, and the call went through to the bank manager as well due to the defect in the company handset. Priya continues the case after Chauthrani's injury. She exposes Sonia's earlier relationship with Raj in Cape Town and finally plays Rakesh's voice mail to the court - revealing what really occurred between Raj and Sonia. It is revealed that Sonia married Roy for money, power and status, but when he could not satisfy her sexually, she tried to resume her relationship with Raj. Priya wins the case and Roy leaves Sonia. Guilt-stricken and humiliated, Sonia commits suicide by jumping from a building. The end credit scene shows Raj and Priya walking their child.
