A boy is forced meet a girl for an arranged marriage but even though he refuses the match, they secretly become friends. As things get complicated and both get engaged to different people they realize they've fallen in love with each other.
Mr. Oberoi is a wealthy industrialist, and lives a comfortable lifestyle, with this two sons. The elder son is married, and Mr Oberoi wants his second son, Viren, to marry too. He has already selected a bride for him in Aditi Malhotra. Though Viren has always lived in his father and brother's shadows, he is quite romantic at heart, and hopes to fall in love first and then marry the girl of his choice. The presence of Aditi prevents this, and he makes all attempts not to marry her. He succeeds, the wedding arrangements are all called off. Then he meets the girl of his dreams, Karen Fernandes, and proposes marriage to her. The only setback he sees that she is a Catholic, and he, a Hindu. However, that is soon overcome. Everything seems to go on smoothly between both the families, when Viren falls out of love with Karen, and wants to cancel the wedding. When questioned about his change in mind, he responds that he is in love with Aditi. But Aditi will not have anything to do with him anymore, for she is getting engaged to a childhood friend, Mahesh, and she very forthrightly tells Viren on his face that she will only marry Mahesh and no one else. How will Karen react to Viren's change of mind? Will Viren change his mind again, or will he fall in love with a third female?
Viren Oberoi is a rich wastrel, who on coming back from education in America, shows no inclination of joining the family business, but is content spending time with his girlfriend Karen. His family is unaware about Karen's presence in Viren's life, because she is Catholic, and Viren doesn't have the nerve to tell his strongly Punjabi family that he has been dating a Christian the past three years. The family finally decides that Viren must "settle down" and chooses a girl, Aditi Sahani for him. Aditi is the niece of the household, since her aunt and uncle have taken her in after her parents expired. On the arranged "girl viewing" when Viren meets Aditi, he explains to her (in private) that he is in love with his girlfriend Karen, and has no intention of marrying her (Aditi). They chat and become friends in a short meeting. When Viren conveys his rejection of the girl, there is bad blood between the two families, with insults being traded freely, thus stemming the public display of Viren and Aditi's friendship. They do continue meeting by chance however, and the friendship grows secretly. Meanwhile, Viren proposes to Karen, she accepts, and on persuasion, so does her family. Viren is thinking of ways to persuade his family (by enlisting his bhabhi's help), when suddenly Karen's parents come to meet Viren's. Viren's dad refuses the match basing his decision on the religion factor. Viren, during this time starts to doubt his feelings for Karen, and realizes he has stronger feelings for Aditi. He then sneaks into Aditi's home, and declares his love to her. She apparently loves him too. When he returns home, with plans of breaking it off with Karen, he finds Karen and family at his home amid celebrations - his parents have agreed to the match because of his bhabhi's persuasion! Is Viren able to get out of the mess he's created? And do he and Aditi find romantic bliss despite stiff opposition from both families? Watch the movie to find out.

