Drishti, a psychic tarot card reader becomes unwittingly mixed up in the disappearance and possible murder of a socialite.
A young widow named Drishti lives in a small remote village. She has the gift of reading tarot cards and seeing into the future and so she decides to run a small business telling fortunes. People who come for her help include Riya, who is abused by her husband, Sunny. But when Drishti advises Riya to leave him, Sunny begins to threaten her. Then there is Natasha. She is engaged to Rahul, who happens to be the headmaster of the school that Drishti's eight year old son attends. But one day, a shocked Drishti catches Natasha with another man during a party. A few days later, Natasha goes missing. The police are unable to find her. So Rahul turns to Drishti for help. Drishti, however, has a vision of her dead body, and a lake. She is scoffed upon by the local Assistant Commissioner of Police, Ranbir Singh, nevertheless the police do drag the lake at Natasha's dad insistence and recover Natasha's dead body. The primary suspect is "Sunny", who is arrested, tried in court, found guilty, and sentenced to life in jail. The Police, Natasha's dad, and everyone else is satisfied with this judgment - everyone except Dhristi - and it is only she who knows that the real killer is still at large. She also has to solve another problem with her friend Mohit, a crazy car mechanic who has had an unstable childhood. He is smitten by Drishti's beauty. But she takes nothing to height as he calls her "dost", and comes to her aid several times.
Young widow, Dhristi, is a psychic with the ability to foresee the future. She runs a small business telling fortunes. She has many male admirers who would like to marry her, namely: Rahul who is likely to be the new Mayor; Mohit - a garage mechanic, who calls her "dost", and comes to her aid several times; Advocate Abhigyan Gupta - who will do anything to please her. Then the present Mayor, Raja Bahadur's daughter, Natasha, who is betrothed to Rahul, goes missing, Dhristi has a vision of her dead body, and a lake. She is scoffed upon by the local Assistant Commissioner of Police, Ranbir Singh, nevertheless the police do drag the lake at Raja's insistence and recover Natasha's dead body. The primary suspect is Sunil "Sunny" Dehal, who is arrested, tried in court, found guilty, and sentenced to life in jail. The Police, Raja, and everyone else is satisfied with this judgment - everyone except Dhristi - and it is only she who knows that the real killer is still at large.
A tarot card reader Drishti, has an incredible ability to predict future with her cards and foresee certain incidents much before they actually happen. She is a widow with an 8-year-old son. Among Drishti's clients is Rhea, who is an abused wife seeking some help to find solution to her husband Sunny's violent behaviour. Drishti advises Rhea to leave her husband. Her advice only angers Rhea's husband and he threatens Drishti with dire consequences if she did not stop counselling his wife. Mohit is a car mechanic, who is emotionally inclined towards Drishti. He is a slightly eccentric man because of his troubled childhood. Rahul is the principal of a school and is engaged to a beautiful woman named Natasha. Natasha is a fast girl with a sensuous demeanour. She is committed to Rahul. But then, she is also spotted in the embrace of a young man named Abhigyan at a party. One night after a late party, Natasha goes missing. No one has any clue to where she is or what happened to her. Rahul seeks Drishti's help to find her. As the threads of many stories come together before Drishti, and as more blood is spilled, the face of the killer begins to come together gradually before her till the finale when the killer stands exposed.

