At her new job in a rundown children's hospital, a nurse desperately tries to keep her patients safe from a plague of random, mysterious attacks.
An American nurse takes a temporary position on the night shift at a closing children's hospital on the Isle of Wight. When every shift is plagued by spooky occurrances and things that go bump in the night, she begins to believe the stories of one of the child pateints, who insists the hospital is haunted by a dangerous presence emanating from the long abandoned second floor.
As the new night nurse at a soon to be abandoned children's hospital readies the last group of orphans to leave, it becomes increasingly clear that these are not normal children. Something living in the hospital, something the children call the "mechanical girl," has a terrifying hold over them and will stop at nothing to keep them in the hospital with her forever.
In Wight Island, Amy Nicholls arrives in the old Mercy Falls Children Hospital to work as night nurse as replacement of the former nurse Susan. The hospital is in a deactivation process, with the patients being transferred to Saint James Hospital; however, due to a train crash, the closing process has been postponed. Amy is introduced to eight children with lung cases by the nurse Helen Perez, and she feels a sort of attraction for the terminal girl Maggie. Maggie likes to play with some letter blocks to talk with the "mechanical girl" called Charlotte that would live upstairs, in an abandoned floor. Amy asks about Charlotte to her coworkers and they explain that she is an urban legend and the Maggie is making up her existence. But sooner they find that the children can not be transferred to Saint James since there is something evil that wants to keep them near.
The Mercy Falls Children's Hospital is about to close its doors for good. But the closing process is taking longer than expected; a railroad accident has left the local hospitals without beds.Amy, a young nurse, is sent to help out. But the children are nervous. And afraid. Because this hospital holds a secret. Something terrifying that has returned from the past.To discover it and protect the kids, Amy must face up to everything: the rest of the hospital staff who refuse to accept the obvious, her own fears, and the truth.
