Struggling to recover emotionally from a brutal assault that killed her fiancé and left her in a coma, a radio personality begins a quest for vengeance against the perpetrators that leaves a bloody trail across New York City.
David Kirmani,a medical professional, lives in an apartment with his sweetheart, Erica Bain, a radio host, and his dog. They usually take the dog out for a stroll in nearby Central Park and let him run and fetch. One day while at the park they let the dog run without a leash, and when he does not return or respond to their calls, they frantically search for him. They eventually find him being held by three men who want a reward. When David refuses, they start to molest Erica and David intervenes. Two of the men assault the couple, while the third uses a camcorder to film this incident. Erica is knocked unconscious, and regains her senses several days later in a hospital. She is told the shocking news that David was killed and the dog is missing. A traumatized Erica returns home to try and regain her life. She also visits the police station but does not get much help. Fearful of a repeat of this type of incident, she gets an unlicensed gun and carries it with her all the time. One day she witnesses some youths terrorizing subway passengers, forcing them to get off at the next station. When they approach her, she shoots them dead. She uses her gun several more times, always gunning down people committing violent crimes. One day she is summoned to the police station to identify a man who may have been responsible for David's death and the assault on herself. She does recognize him, but refuses to identify him. Subsequently she finds out his whereabouts and plans to avenge her lover's death, not realizing that Detective Mercer has her as a suspect in the recent killings and is set to apprehend her. The question remains: will Erica be able to avenge David's death and her attack before being arrested herself?
Erica Bain is a happy radio host from a city she loves and with a fiancé she adores. However, a brutal attack in New York's Central Park changes her life forever, leaving her in a coma for 3 weeks and her fiancé dead. In an attempt to feel safer after the attack, she buys a gun. However New York does not feel the same as it did anymore and Erica has several encounters where she is not afraid to use her new gun. Everyone is talking about a vigilante and Erica is forced to talk about them too on her radio show...
Jodie Foster plays Erica, who hosts a successful radio show in New York City. When she and her fiancé take their dog for a walk in the park one evening, three thugs capture the dog while it is running off-leash. The trio demand a "reward" for returning the dog. When her fiancé refuses, both lovers are viciously attacked. Erica awakens from a coma and learns her fiancé did not survive. In the weeks that follow Erica attempts to re-enter her former life, but grows paranoid with fears she will be attacked again. She buys an illegal gun for protection and is soon forced to use it in self-defense. Overwhelmed by the emotions that follow in the wake of these events, Erica begins placing herself in dangerous situations and leaves behind a series of unsolved shootings the press attribute to a vigilante killer. During this time period, the homicide detective who had originally investigated her fiancé's death befriends Erica, and we watch events unfold as the detective's pursuit of the vigilante killer continues.
One can tell that Erica Bain loves New York City - where she lives - by the poetic way she speaks on her local radio show about the walks she takes around the city. That all changes when, out for a walk with her fiancé David Kirmani and their dog one evening, they are viciously attacked and beaten, she left in a coma for three weeks and he who succumbs to his injuries. One of three perpetrators filmed the incident on his cell phone. Finding it difficult to feel safe anymore especially in the bureaucratic manner the police deal with her case, she, in need of that immediate feeling of safety, illegally purchases a 9mm handgun on the black market for protection. While she does use it for protection - she killing someone who would have killed her otherwise - she, out of that situation, begins a vigilante killing spree. In the course of doing their respective jobs, Erica meets Homicide Detective Sean Mercer, who has been assigned the lead in investigating the vigilante killings. They end up striking a friendship in which he opens up about the frustrations of his job and life, including often wanting to take justice into his own hands, especially with the crimes which are known but which convictions for one reason or another are not in the offing. Their chats embolden Erica, who still is struggling emotionally with who she felt she had to become, a woman totally foreign to the pre-attack Erica. Regardless, she may let that vigilante side of her new self take charge until she is able to bring her and David's three attackers to what she considers justice.
The day that radio essayist Erica Bain selects wedding invitations, her fiancé is murdered and she brutally assaulted while walking their dog in Central Park. Upon release from hospital, she buys an illegal handgun. When she witnesses a shooting in a convenience store and is stalked by the killer, she kills in self-defense but flees the scene. More incidents follow that she could have avoided. She walks the night streets a vigilante, a stranger to herself. A detective, Mercer, notices her and becomes her friend as he hunts for the killer. How long before he figures it out? Meanwhile, the methods of the police start to pay off in finding her fiancé's killers. What now?
Radio host Erica Bain (Jodie Foster) is working and living a wonderful life in New York City without a care in the world. One night she and her fiancé, David (Naveen Andrews), are brutally attacked by three thugs in the park while being recorded by one of them. David is killed and Erica is beaten within an inch of her life. Erica is traumatized to a point where she can not sleep and will not leave her apartment. To cope and work past this tragic event, Erica becomes someone else. She buys a gun and begins to roam the streets at night looking to take her revenge on the men who were responsible for killing her one true love. One late night, Erica is in the back of a convenience store about to purchase a soft drink when a man comes in and shoots the clerk, who is his estranged wife. He realises Erica is a witness and comes after her but she shoots him and escapes, taking the store CCTV video with her to hide her involvement. Days later, Erica is on the subway when she witnesses an attack on a youth by two men. They steal his iPod, and when an old man intervenes they threaten him and his son. The three of them hastily leave the train at the next stop and the two men approach Erica as she is the only other person in the carriage. They pull a knife on her but she shoots them both and quickly leaves. The City of New York is fascinated with the exploits of this vigilante killer, and NYPD Detective Mercer (Terrence Howard) is assigned to catch this person, who they believe is a man, before he kills again. Erica interviews Mercer as part of her radio show and they become friends, both linked by their inability to sleep at night. He tells her that he is prepared to go beyond the law to catch some criminals, but asks Erica to erase this comment from her tape. Erica continues to kill, rescuing a drugged prostitute from a car but, in killing the driver as he tries to run them over, the prostitute breaks her leg and when the police arrive, take her to hospital, though she is very close to death. Later on Erica gets a lead of where she can find the three men in the park and goes there to seek vengeance. She manages to kill all but the last one, being then saved by Detective Mercer whom she had already befriended and let her kill the last thug using the Mercer's gun so no one would link her to the killings.
