A couple's seemingly solid marriage begins to crumble when the wife discovers that her husband intends to divorce her.
Helen McCarter has everything a woman wants: a nice house and rich husband. However after her husband Charles throws her out of the house after admitting to an affair a distraught Helen turns to her mother, grandmother Madea and cousin Brian who take her in and turn back to God. Helen learns for the first time in her life to stand up on her two feet and is ready to remove herself from her relationship with Charles and move on with Orlando. But when her husband is almost killed by a vengeful client, Helen wonders if she has the heart to forgive him despite everything.
Helen and Charles McCarter had everything: fine home, beautiful clothes, and success. In public, they were the perfect match. But behind the scenes was another matter. On what should have been the end of the happiest day of their lives, Charles evicts Helen, his wife of 18 years, out of their house in the presence of his mistress. Helen then goes from meek and mild to mad, starts a diary and a new life.
Charles McCarter (Steve Harris) and his wife Helen (Kimberly Elise) are attending an awards banquet where Charles is receiving an award for the most outstanding lawyer in Atlanta. You would think that both of them would be on top of the world, but things are about to change. They are about to celebrate their 18th-wedding anniversary when Helen comes home to find her clothes packed up in a U-Haul van parked in the driveway. However, there is now a new wardrobe of designer clothes in the closet. Helen thinks this is the big surprise Charles was going to tell her. She was wrong; Charles is divorcing Helen for a younger woman. Charles has to drag Helen out his front door and closes the door on her, because this is his house. Helen moves in with her grandmother Madea (Tyler Perry), an old woman who doesn't take any lip from anyone, and if she must, she will use the gun she always carries. Madea helps Helen through these tough times by showing her what is really important in life. Helen begins to stand on her own two feet and finds a new man, Orlando (Shemar Moore). Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
