Adi Chachu faces a dilemma - and it's a big one! What if YOU were told by the God of Death himself you had only 15 minutes of life left? What would YOU do?!
There are lots of Gods in Hindu India. One of the Gods is called Yama, or the God of death. In this case Yama is asked to bring in the lifeless body of a rich Indian called Aditya. Yama does so. On the way, Aditya soul pleads with him to set him free and back to life again, as he has a lot of unfinished business to attend to. Yama refuses to do so. But when Aditya persists, Yama lets him have a second chance. He tells the dead man that he can live, resolve all his problems within a set period of time. Then after that Yama will come again and take his life. Aditya is then sent down to Earth so that he can try and resolve the problems that he had left unfinished. But Aditya finds that he cannot touch anything, and no one can really see nor hear him. So how he is going to solve his problems? Will Yama help him out?Aditya (Shahid Kapoor) is a happy man: his sister is getting married, he is in love with his sweetheart Piya (Amrita Rao) and he has recently invented a new revolutionary car model. But his happiness is short-lived when he dies in an accident and is sent to heaven. He pleads with Yamaraj 'M.A.' (Sanjay Dutt), the God-cum-Messenger of death and requests to be sent to earth for some time. Yamaraj accepts his request, albeit reluctantly, and Aditya is sent back to with a new companion: a child who had died on the same day as Aditya. When Aditya comes to know that his family house is being taken over by an unscrupulous builder he wants to fight them. But how do you fight anyone when you aren't even capable of touching them? Watch Vaah! Life Ho Toh Aisi! to see for yourself.
Aditya (Shahid Kapoor) is a happy man: his sister is getting married, he is in love with his sweetheart Piya (Amrita Rao) and he has recently invented a new revolutionary car model. But his happiness is short-lived when he dies in an accident and is sent to heaven. He pleads with Yamaraj 'M.A.' (Sanjay Dutt), the God-cum-Messenger of death and requests to be sent to earth for some time. Yamaraj accepts his request, albeit reluctantly, and Aditya is sent back to with a new companion: a child who had died on the same day as Aditya. When Aditya comes to know that his family house is being taken over by an unscrupulous builder he wants to fight them. But how do you fight anyone when you aren't even capable of touching them?
Aditya Singh, fondly called Adi Chachu or Adi Uncle (Shahid Kapoor) by the children of his brother, lives in a large mansion in Bombay. In this huge mansion he Lives with his Brother, Sister-in-law, Sister, &amp; Grandmother. He is the only one working in the family. He makes sure that they are happy - and falls in love with their teacher, Piya (Amrita Rao). When they confess their feelings for each other and start to plan the wedding, Adi gets run over by a truck and dies. In afterlife, he meets the God of Dead, Yamraj (Sanjay Dutt), some kind of kind-hearted deity, living fully in the twentyfirst century by wearing designer clothes and driving a red old car. Yamraj allows Adi to go back to Earth as a ghost to set several things right: after Fakira B.P.C.M. [Bhoot pret connecting Medium (Medium to connect with ghost)] (Arshad Warsi) another deity, gives them special power, Adi is out to stop his evil uncle (Prem Chopra) who wants to sell Adi's mansion to the equally evil industrialist Hirachand (Sharat Saxena). Adi enlists the aid of Shakti, a little boy, in order to help save his family. They succeed and later Yamraj shows himself to the Verma family. Yamraj allows Shakti and Aditya to stay alive. In the morning, Adi and Shakti pretend that nothing has happened to them.
After his brother and sister in law passes away in a vehicle accident; Aditya along with his grandma struggles to rise several of their children as well as maintaining the family's business. Their challenge minimize when Aditya hires Priya to take care of the children little knowing that further short-comings are there to deal with especially with Adi's alcoholic brother, Sunil and the major one being when Adi's foster uncle, Harish is planning to sell the family's bungalow to a builder named Hirachand along with Vikram who is scheming the losses of the business to meet his own pocket. While Aditya is busy in his romance with Priya; he tragically meets his demise by road accident and is transported to heaven by the Goddess of Yamaraj leaving his family to cope with deception, sadness, despair and betrayal.
Born on May 5th 1980, Aditya, alias Adi, is just in his twenties, when his brother and bhabhi tragically pass away, leaving several of their children in his and his grandma's care. The family lives in a bungalow named "Basera" near Lokhandwala Complex in Andheri (West). Adi hires Priya as the children's' tutor and both fall in love with each other, and hope to marry, after his sister Anjali's marriage. As considerable money is required, Adi is busy running the family business, without much help from his alcoholic brother, Sunil; business partner, Vikram; and Uncle Harish. Quite unknown to Adi, Harish is planning to sell the bungalow to a builder named Hirachand, and Vikram has been manipulating the accounts to show loses. Adi also does not know that he is fated to die on September 12, 2005, and that Yamraj, the God of Death, has already been dispatched to pick him up and take him heaven wards on his very last journey. Without Adi, will Grandma, Priya, Sunil, his wife Sunita, be able to survive, and will Anjali ever get married? Watch what happens when their world starts to fall apart before their very eyes with no living soul to help them out.

