A Journalist of Jewish descent in Berlin feels that he is a loser of the political changes in Germany after 1989. When his mother dies, he has to meet his brother to whom he has not talked for years and to meet all his other family members. But during the preparations for the funeral he plays a snooker-cup for paying his debts with the money for the victory, and many other things mixes up.
The movie opens in a hospital room with two male nurse attendants working on a man who is in a coma. There is a narrator talking about the people in the room. He says the man in the coma is Zucker (Henry Hübchen). His wife Marlene (Hannelore Elsner) is sitting in a chair wiping her tears away with a tissue then she gets up and leaves. He calls the two nurses queers. The two nurses lean over Zucker and kiss. One of them pulls away and says that he feels Zucker is watching and says that he is playing them. The narrator agrees that he is a player and says that life is a game.Zucker is shown in a bar playing pool. The narrator says that this was him on Tuesday before the coma. Zucker appears drunk while playing pool with another guy. Zucker wins, takes the money, and stumbles off. A man at the bar stops him before he leaves and says that he recognizes him from TV from the East. Zucker says he was the sports announcer Rex Gildo. The man who he was playing grabs him from behind and tells him that he was bluffing and throws him on the floor. The Narrator says that he was a born winner and he earned it fair and square. The big man wants his money back and Zucker refuses to give it to him and runs out of the bar. the big man chases him while the narrator talks about taking how his life may seem like shit, things are looking up for him. Life is about chances. Zucker says, "New game, new chances" as he hangs from a wall. The big man comes up behind him and the scene cuts to Zucker walking with a black eye. The narrator says that this was the beginning of a great week, possibly the best week of his life and regrets that it was his last.when Zucker gets home his wife says that the game is over and she wants him out. Zucker says that she cannot be serious and deserves a warning. He asks why she is kicking him out and gives several reasons and then asks for another chance, but his wife refuses and goes to her room as Zucker grabs a suitcase to start packing his clothes. He gets out a box with a photograph of a woman and a bunch of letters. He grabs a bottle and starts drinking.The doorbell rings and Zucker answers. A man states that he has an appointment with him and Zucker says that it was for tomorrow and the man replies firmly that it was for this morning. Zucker then reveals that it the man is his son. several other men have come as well to take him into custody for this debt, which he has failed to pay. They told him that his nightclub would not cover everything and they would have to arrest him. One of the men point out that he has already packed and that they can go now. Zucker convinces them that he can come up with the 44,500 euros he owes by Monday at noon. his son decides not to arrest him and gives him a chance to get the money.Marlene sees their son and several men leaving and then sees Zucker leave as well. A man comes into the dry cleaning shop where she works and gives her a letter for Jacob Zucker, a name that is not used much. She opens the letter, sits down and says "my God"Zucker goes to a man who is holding a contest. The entry fee is 5000 euros, which Zucker tries to use a check to pay for, but the man does not take it. The man says that 5000 euros should not keep him from his dream. Zucker leaves without entering the contest.He goes to see his daughter Jana (Anja Franke) who he has not seen in two years by showing up at her physiotherapy practice. He tells her that her mother is divorcing him and starts talking about the pictures on the wall. He asks about his grand daughter. she tells him she is fine. Zucker brings up 10,000 marks that he loaned her to start up her practice and she says it was a gift and kicks him out.Marlene goes to the bank where her son Thomas (Steffen Groth) works and tells him that he kicked his father out last night and now she does not know where he is. She thinks her son knows where he could be. She tells him that she has to find him because she got a telegram that says that Zucker's mother has died. Marlene asks her son again where Zucker is and he says he does not know.Zucker goes to his night club where the girls working there are worried that the nightclub might close soon. The talks to to Linda (Renate Krößner) the woman in charge, who says that Zucker is 12 months behind in the payments and that they will have to close. Zucker says that they will not close, because on Monday he will have a 100,000 euro check in his pocket. This is the 1st prize money for the pool contest he needs 5000 euros to enter. He hints at asking her for the loan, but their conversation is interrupted when he sees his wife. He goes to her and she says that she wants him back because they have to stick together and hands him the telegram to read.They leave together and Marlene drags him off to see the Rabbi Zucker's brother Samuel (Udo Samel) had made arrangements with. Rabbi Ginsberg (Rolf Hoppe) says that all the arrangements have been taken care of and the only thing that Zucker has to worry about is the Shivah. The Rabbi is concerned that their home is not kosher but Marlene says that their house is normal kosher and should be fine. She says that they keep a kosher house for political reasons not religious. Zucker does not want to deal with it but the Rabbi says that all this was in the will. He says that if he does not want to comply then he can renounce the inheritance.They go to the store where Marlene is picking up everything that looks Jewish. Everything they buy comes out to over 400 euros. Zucker says that it is a bargain and pays for it. The cashier says that it is never too late to become Jewish. They start walking home with each of them carrying several heavy bags. Zucker tries to hail a cab but no one stops for them.When they get home, Marlene reads a book on being a kosher Jew to figure out how she is supposed to set up her house. She starts going through the refrigerator and throws out food. She starts putting in other Jewish touches around the house while talking to herself about Shabbat. Zucker is on the phone trying to get some money owed to him. Zucker leaves after telling his wife that he is going to see Jana, their daughter. He goes to a pay phone and tries to get into the pool competition with a late entry fee. He tells the man that he will have the cash at midnight. Zucker then goes to play poker and wins just enough to pay for the fee. He talks to his grand daughter Sara and tells her to give Jana a message from her mom and dad. Zucker, Marlene, their son Thomas and a dog are driving while Zucker complains about his brother sending a telegram instead of calling. Zucker continues to rant and gets upset at the reactions of Thomas and Marlene and tries to get them to stop the car. They almost get into an accident and Thomas stops the car and immediately Zucker gets out.The scene cuts to Zucker sitting at the bar talking to the bar tender while Thomas and Marlene share a table a ways away from him. They are waiting for Zucker's brother Samuel to arrive from Frankfurt. Zucker tells the bar tender that he was a sports announcer in the East and gives her an autographed picture of him. Marlene and Thomas are talking about their family. Marlene asks Thomas for help to make their family seem like a normal Jewish family, even though that is not what they are. She also talks about all the pretty girls Thomas is around. She hints at him being gay and wants to know why he has not come out to them. Thomas says that she has him wrong. There is an announcement made over the loud speaker about the Frankfurt flight landing at gate 8. They walk over to where they would meet them. Marlene asks if Zucker knows what Samuel looks like. Zucker says he does not know but probably looks like Osama bin Laden. She tells him to get rid of the tissue. Zucker says he has a nose bleed. Marlene sees Samuel and his family coming towards them. Zucker drops his tissue as he watches Samuel come up to them. Zucker says that Samuel did not say that he was bringing his family, but Samuel insists that he did by using "are," which is plural. Samuel says that it does not matter because they will stay at a hotel. Marlene insists that they stay with them at their house but Zucker and Samuel say that it is okay that they stay in a hotel. Golda (Golda Tencer), Samuel's wife, says that they will stay with Zucker. They leave the airport taking separate cars. Zucker goes with Samuel, Marlene goes with Golda and her son Joshua (Sebastian Blomberg), and Thomas goes with Lilly (Elena Uhlig), Samuel's daughter. They all start talking to each other as they drive. The movie cuts back and forth between all three cars.Golda tells Marlene how nervous she was on the plane and that she could not eat while her husband slept like a baby. Golda continues telling Marlene how she thought Zucker would be different because Samuel made him seem like Stalin. Golda changes the subject to talk about Thomas and says that he must be a playboy. Marlene shrugs smiling but does not respond.At the same time in a different car, Samuel gives Zucker their mother's most treasured possession, a pair of shoes and asked why Zucker never responded to any of her letters.Meanwhile, Lilly talks to Thomas. She tells him that she is a law student in her 22nd semester, but really she is a princess and her hobby is princes.They hit traffic and realize that they are not going to make it to the funeral on time. The man at the cemetery says that they can postpone the funeral until tomorrow at 2:00. Zucker claims that he is busy and Samuel asks what could be more important than saying goodbye to their mother. Zucker replies that she did not say goodbye to him. Samuel defends their mother saying that she couldn't because Zucker had gone to East Germany. Samuel says that they have to get along for a week. Zucker asks Samuel to let go of him and Samuel says that he is worse than he remembered and starts to call him names. Samuel storms off as everyone watches him.At Zucker's house they are all starting to sit down to have dinner. The Rabbi has come to read the will. He asks where Zucker's daughter is and Zucker says she could not make it. The Rabbi says he will make an exception and opens the envelope. The will says that Zucker and Samuel must both say "yes" to the inheritance to get it. Both of them agree and the Rabbi then reads the terms for the inheritance. First, they must sit shivah for 7 days. Their wives and children must join them as often as possible. They cannot be excused from the Shivah for any reason, barring sickness or death. The will says that they cannot sit in silence the whole time. They have to talk about what caused the rift between them and, finally, they have to reconcile their differences.Everyone leaves to let the brothers talk. Samuel admits to having some money problems and needs the inheritance. Zucker does not say that he has money problems too but Samuel seems to know. He tells Zucker that he owns the building that Zucker lives in. Samuel accuses Zucker of renting from the Stazi, but Zucker tells him that it was owned by the state. Zucker complains about Samuel raising the rent and Samuel said he paid communist rent before. After their argument, they toast to their mother. That night while in bed, Golda talks about Zucker's family. She says that Marlene is a goy the son is gay and the daughter is not around. She worries that their son Joshua will catch onto the scam and they will lose the inheritance. Marlene is shown worrying in bed trying to learn all the rules she needs to follow during the Shabbat. The movie goes back to Samuel and his wife. Samuel says that Golda must make sure that Marlene does not slip up and that he will find the daughter. The next day Thomas comes to Zucker's house and walks in on Joshua praying while doing pelvic thrusts. He leaves the room without saying anything. Everyone is starting to wake up now and go into the kitchen. Marlene tells Zucker to get Jana and gives him a pill. Golda says that Samuel would like to go to make sure there are no mistakes. They go to Jana's apartment. Zucker says that he is the mailman so that they will let him in. Sara answers the door and tells them that they are all still in bed. Samuel says that they could come back in an hour then introduces himself. Samuel and Zucker sit at the kitchen table talking. Both of them have a headache and Zucker gets some aspirin for them to take while they wait. Samuel asks if Zucker has a good relationship with his daughter. Zucker asks him why he wants to know. Samuel says that he has trouble with his daughter too. He does not approve of her lifestyle and says that a woman should have no more men in her life than fingers on her hand. Samuel asks if Zucker's daughter is the same way. Zucker says that she has had the same boyfriend for a while now. Jana comes out and introduces her "boyfriend," which is a woman. Jana apologizes that he found out like this. Zucker forgives her and says that she gives him joy. Jana says that he does not have a loving heart. She was his "gold metal girl" but when she got pregnant and could not run the race, he wrote her off. She says that it has been that way ever since. Samuel looks shocked and says that he feels funny. Jana asks if he is okay and Zucker says that he has a migraine. Samuel says he feels strange and says it might have been the tap water or the aspirin he took. Jana asks how many he took and says that she is going to call a doctor. Zucker says that would be too much paperwork and says that he will take him to a friend of his.When they leave Samuel stops to dance to the music some kids are listening to outside. Zucker asks what they took and Jana says that they took some ecstasy. Zucker takes them to the nightclub that he owns. A girl takes Samuel off to give him a massage. Zucker says that he has to go because the tournament starts in an hour. He tells Jana that he never wrote her off, that she turned away from him because he was an idiot. He tells her that he still loves her. Jana says that he's high. He agrees and says that the funeral is nigh and leaves.The tournament is just about to begin. A man gives a speech about how the tournament has finally come to Berlin and that he wishes everyone luck. Zucker starts playing. Jana is shown in the audience watching him. Zucker does really well and wins his game in record time. He says that he will be back at 4pm. While Zucker is at the tournament, Samuel is dancing with one of the girls in the nightclub. He starts hallucinating that his wife is there laughing at his dancing. He is then shown lying down with only his boxers and socks on while the girl massages him.The family is at the cemetery waiting for Zucker, Samuel and Jana. Zucker and Samuel come up and hug each other. Marlene asks where Jana is. Jana says she is here. Joshua sees her and moves to the far side of the group. They all enter into the cemetery. The movie shows people dropping the coffin down into the hole while a man sings a prayer. Samuel tells his mother's favorite joke, which he relates to her always believing in Zucker and him. Samuel says that she told him that everything would be all right. He continues to say that she said that when the wall fell their family would be reunited, but when it fell the wall that divided their family never fell. He lamented that she ad to die before he could stand next to his brother again. After Samuel finished speaking Zucker grabbed his side and fell into the grave. Jana says that she will take him to the hospital.In the car, Zucker says that she does not have to worry about him and to drop him off here. She says that she is taking him back to the pool tournament. She says 100,000 is worth faking a heart attack. She watches him play for a while but leaves just before he finishes. He wins the game and checks the boards to find out when he plays next. He has a game at 2pm the next day.When Zucker gets home, everyone is at the dinner table singing. It looks like everyone had already eaten. After the song is over Samuel asks how he is doing. Zucker says that he is fine. Samuel said that Jana told everyone that he was given a check-up. Zucker says that the doctors told him to take it easy and that he would have a followup check-up the next day. The next day Marlene brings him breakfast. She says that she is going to the synagogue because it's Shabbes. She tells him that he should stay in bed. She asks him before she leaves not to pull any tricks. Zucker says that he won't.Zucker is seen at the pool tournament as he wins his game that afternoon. While Zucker is at the pool tournament everyone else is at the synagogue. After his game he watches the other men play. Zucker plays and wins another game before he leaves. Marlene comes home and reads the note that Zucker left. She is worried but Joshua says that she is not allowed to call the hospital. Just before the family leaves, Zucker comes home. Samuel tells him that they are going back to the synagogue for ma'ariv. Marlene follows him to the bedroom and tells him that she knows that he was not at the hospital. Zucker says that he was sent to a specialist, but does not continue because he does not think that Marlene believes him. She tells him that he better stay for the Shivah or else. When everyone has gone to the synagogue, Zucker calls Linda and says that he has made it into the quarter finals but needs her help. Zucker walks out of his room and sees that Lilly is coming on to Thomas. She says he is scared and walks away. They leave Zucker alone to go to the synagogue. Zucker stands outside with a stretcher and paramedics while Linda looks out for his family. Once she sees them, she tells him gets on the stretcher and Linda and the paramedics wheel him into an ambulance. Two people talk about Zucker's hard luck since the wall fell as he is taken away. Marlene runs up shouting "Jacky" and gets into the ambulance as it drives away. They go to the hospital. Marlene checks Zucker in while Zucker is taken into the elevator. He gets off the stretcher and quickly leaves to go back to the tournament. He sees his wife in the Cardiology area asking to see her husband. The woman at the desk takes her to see a man who is all bandaged up so that Marlene can't see who it is. Marlene starts crying and apologizes to Zucker for not believing that he was having heart problems. Zucker sneaks out while Marlene is talking to the stranger. Marlene says that she did not believe him because he is a very cunning liar and she loves him for it. The nurse comes back to Marlene and tells her that that is not her husband and that he is not checked into the hospital. Marlene is mad and walks off. Linda finds her and tells her that Zucker might have the Spanish flu. Marlene says that she recognizes her as Zucker's old secretary. Linda admits that is who she is. Zucker is seen in the office of the man in charge of the pool tournament. Zucker was 16 minutes late to his game and the first prize was awarded to another man. He tells Zucker that he can't change the rules for him. Zucker tells him that his mother died three days ago and that his orthodox brother is visiting. Zucker says that he must have something against Jews. The man says that he can't do anything to help him. Zucker goes to see the man who won first prize and tells him that he knows he would have beat him. The man decides to play him at his club at midnight after the finals. the winner of the game will get the 100,000 euros. Zucker is taken back to his house on a stretcher and taken into the living room. He sits down and tells everyone that his heart problems are over now. Everyone has something up to their faces to protect themselves from the flu they were told he had. He tells them that he has no virus and that they can sit shivah relaxed. Zucker walks off to bed. Marlene says that they should begin the reconciliation talks tomorrow. The next day, everyone is seen in the dining room with Marlene, Golda, Jana and her daughter sitting at the table staring at Zucker and his brother who sit next to each other by the window. Joshua sits across from the people at the table. No one says anything. Lilly is with Thomas in the kitchen groping him. Marlene and Golda tell them to start talking to each other. Jana's daughter asks if they have to be there even when they are not saying anything. Joshua says that the will says that everyone should be present if possible, but the women point out that not everyone is in the room. Zucker grabs his side again like he is having another heart attack. He tries to leave but Marlene will not let him leave. They sit him back down next to Samuel and Marlene tells everyone that her family is a mess. She reveals that they live separate lives, that their children want nothing to do with him, and that she was planning on divorcing him before the telegram came. She said that she thought it was a sign from God. She thought he would change if Samuel and Zucker made up, but no. Zucker has done nothing but lie to all of them. She says that he wants the inheritance but refuses to give up his shady dealings. Zucker starts talking about his "shady dealings." He tells everyone that all he can do to make money is play pool. He says that this week his dream tournament has come to berlin. He says that he was going to pay off everything with the 100,000 euro prize money on monday to keep him out of jail. He says that he lost his chance because yesterday he was late to his game and he was forfeited. But he says he still has one more chance to win. The winner o tournament wants to have a private game with him. Marlene does not want him to do it. Zucker starts to grab his side again and Jana says that he must really be having heart problems. She says that maybe he needs to play to be well. Joshua will not allow Zucker to go play pool. He says that it violate the rules. Samuel says that this is for his health. Joshua says that he should go to the hospital then. Joshua says that he can't let this go on. Before he could claim that they did not know about Zucker but now they know and he cannot be apart of the scam. Joshua leaves to tell the Rabbi everything. Jana chases after him.Jana catches up with him on the street and they begin to talk. Jana says that he does not have to do this, that it is not him at all. Joshua is mad that they are all dancing on his grandmother's grave for her money. Jana says that it is natural that they think of the money because it is a lot of money. Jana says that she sees that Zucker is desperate and even though they have been fighting ever since he destroyed their love, she is on his side. He tells her that she was old enough to decide between her athletic career or him and she made her choice. She stops him before he leaves and says that he ran off and found God and she had their daughter. Joshua faints from the shock. Thomas goes into Zucker's room to ask him where he got the 20,000 euros. Zucker says that he did not get the money. Thomas asks if the Russian was any good and Zucker says yes. Thomas then says that they have decided that he should play to get this problem off his back. Thomas says that he will give him a loan at 11% interest provided that Jana can get Joshua back and tells Zucker to go back to sleep. Later, everyone is at Zucker's club and the game is about to begin. The film shows both of them playing and a man changing the scores every time the get a ball in. the score is very close and the Russian misses his shot and gives Zucker a chance to win. He makes the shot but then falls to the ground. Zucker narrates that this was his last week and for the last 12 hours he has been in a coma. He says that for 12 hours they have been trying to decide whether he won or lost. Zucker says in his sleep, "New game, new chances... even in death." Everyone is in the room with him waiting. The Rabbi says that he is not dead when he hears him speak. Everyone walks over to Zucker. The Rabbi apologizes that he took the shivah to heart like he did. Zucker asks what time it is and he is told it is Monday at 12:05. Zucker says that he will go to jail. The Russian comes in with Linda and says, "unlucky in play, but lucky in love." He tells Zucker that he technically lost the game because he put both hands on the table, but he does not want to win like that. He offers to to 50/50 with him. He says that he paid off his debt and gave him the remainder of the the money. He goes on to say what a great player Zucker is and how he watched him play over the last few days. The Rabbi looks more and more upset. When the Russian finished, the Rabbi said that he thinks that their mother would want them to forfeit the inheritance. He said he was upset that their mother's last wish was not granted and that the shivah was so grossly violated. He leaves the hospital room.Marlene chases after the Rabbi while Samuel collapses on the ground. Marlene tells the Rabbi that Zucker did every thing he could to observe the shivah and now he has had a real heart attack. She says that he claims to be impartial but stands to benefit from his decision. The Rabbi tells her that he broke the rules by faking his first heart attack and gambling instead of observing Shabbat and lying over and over again. Golda comes out and says that their mother wanted them to make peace with each other. The Rabbi agrees and decides to give them another chance. They hold shivah in their hospital beds. They spend the first two days in silence. Golda sings and Thomas and Lilly go off to a room together and have sex. Afterwards Thomas asks how he was and Lilly says that he was pretty amateurish. Thomas starts to cry and says that it was his first time. Lilly says that he is a little old but Thomas claims that he is a romantic. Back at Zucker's house Jana, Joshua and Sara are talking together. Joshua blurts out that he is her father and Sara says she figured as much. She wonders why Jana had never told her before. They tell her that took so long because it was difficult.The shivah is almost done. Marlene complains that they haven't budged an inch. Zucker says that they are getting along fine. Marlene insists that they start talking to each other. Jana tells him to say what he did to her when he was on drugs. He says, "I never wrote you off and that I love you." Golda claps her hands and encourages him to continue on. All of the family then gets up and leaves them along together with the Rabbi.Hours go by and it is night outside. Zucker says, "I'm sorry" to Samuel, but he does not believe it. Zucker tells him that Samuel is convinced that there is nothing to set straight on his side. Zucker says that their mother and Samuel left him in East Germany at 14 all alone. Samuel says that he had to go to Frankfurt for surgery on his leg and that Zucker wanted to stay at the sports academy while the wall went up. Samuel claimed that Zucker chose socialism over family. Zucker tells him to forget politics for a while and told him that he never once visited neither did their mother. He says that a little family support would have been nice and not just by giving him money. He asks Samuel to come over to him. Samuel asked why Zucker can't come to him. Zucker replies that he just had a heart attack and Samuel just suffered from a dizzy spell. Samuel gets out of bed and goes over to Zucker. The Rabbi continues to pretend to sleep while Zucker and Samuel awkwardly hug each other while they are connected to lots of tubes. Zucker admits to thinking about the money that he would get from his mother but not solely only partly.When they get out of the hospital and the shivah is over, the whole family goes to the Rabbi's office to find out how much Zucker and Samuel's mother's stocks are worth. Zucker see's his mother in the ceiling dressed up like a fairy with a star shaped wand saying, "New game, new chances, my dear Jankele." He laughs to himself. The Rabbi says that he is going to split the money evenly between the community and the two brothers. He says that if he had been strict they would not have gotten anything. He admits that he is curious to see how much the estate is worth as well. He makes a call and gives the account number and they all wait to hear the results. The Rabbi thanks the person on the phone and tells everyone that it is a positive balance but that it did not amount to much. They all start laughing. Zucker said he hoped that the stocks were worth something. He did not think he had a chance but took it anyway, just like they all did. He talks about how there is now a lot of back and forth between Frankfurt and Berlin now. He does not have a lot of time to play pool any more because he spends more time with his family. Monday is Jana's day, Tuesday is Thomas's day, Friday is Marlene's day, and on Sunday he talks one the phone with Samuel. On Wednesdays and Thursdays he goes to the synagogue and reads the Torah. The movie ends with Zucker winning a game of pool with a man in a bar and taking the money and leaving. The man stands there for a second before chasing after Zucker.
