A group of teenagers fear for their lives in the swamps of Louisiana, chased by Mr. Jangles, a man possessed by 13 evil souls, and now relentless in his pursuit of new victims.
SPOILER: Eric and his Yankee teenage mates travel South by motorbike to a swampy backwater town in Louisiana, where Sean's father Ray lived, the local tow truck driver, who abandoned the then baby-boy and his mother. Ray recently died, while trying to rescue a voodoo witch and at her urging her trunk, which got opened and released the poisonous serpents possessed by the souls of truly evil sinners she trapped in them. Ray was bitten and possessed as the car sunk, and shortly after it's dragged out rises as an 'undead' zombie, who murders without provocation and is immune to lethal weapons. He soon finds the teens' trace and proves his indiscriminately evil blood-thirst by charging his only offspring equally lethally. However they were warned by Eden's friend Cece, the witch's granddaughter, who explained the situation in her home and assures them when the zombie attacks it's safe thanks to a 'blessed' spell preventing evil from entering; alas the chain- and crowbar-waving undead finds a way round that: drag them out of it and make it fall apart. After the boys prove too brave and loyal for their own good, only Eden escapes alive, and the battle-site is moved to the tomb where the voodoo evil resides in a sarcophagus for their fight to the (un)death while she sort of learns enough voodoo by trial and error...
When a voodoo witch has a car accident over a bridge in Louisiana, the rejected tow trucker driver Ray rescues her from the overhang car. She begs him to get her suitcase, which she had just dug from the cemetery, from the backseat of the car. When Ray returns to get the object, many snakes are released from the suitcase, bite him and the car falls in the swamp with him. When the police retrieve the car, his body is completely bitten and deformed. In the morgue, Ray becomes an undead murdering the coroner, a police officer and two teenagers later. The teenager Eden decides to pay a visit Cece, the granddaughter of the voodoo priestess, with her friends trying to find an explanation, and they are advised to leave the place, since Ray is possessed by the souls of the most despicable villains milked by her grandmother from sinners. While Ray is trying to reap more souls, the group has only the protection of the spelled house and a charm.
After town freak Ray Sawyer is killed in a freak accident involving voodoo related material, local teens' bodies soon start piling up. A few of the teens decide to visit a friend's house in the swamps of Louisiana to find out if she knows what's going on, but soon realize that Ray is possessed by 13 evil souls and worse, Ray chases them armed with a crowbar. With only voodoo protecting them, the teens must escape his clutches or become his next victims.

