This action movie is filled with romance and adventure. As Abhisek fights for his life against the forces of crime and injustice, he meets Bhoomika, who captures his heart.
Jhanvi Choudhry wants to shape her own destiny by marrying the man of her dreams, Siddharth who wholeheartedly loves her - but her wealthy and influential family will not permit her to marry Siddharth and instead deals with this situation violently by openly threatens and attempt to kill Siddharth on numerous occasions.
Jhanvi Choudhry comes from a wealthy family, who do have some underground connections, and an uncle who is a member of parliament. The family is very conservative, and wants Jhanvi to marry a person of their choice. Jhanvi agrees to this, but changes her mind after she meets with Siddharth, alias Sidhu, who she falls in love with. When Jhanvi informs her family about her love for Sidhu, she is met with violent opposition, and the life of Sidhu is endangered, for her family will not her tarnish their conservative reputation.
This is a movie is widely under-represented or explained incompletely in almost all the online forums. This movie is not just about the love story between Siddharth (Abhishek Bachchan) and Jhanavi (Bhumika Chawla) and their valiant fight with Jhanavi's elder brother who runs a group of goons. In the midst of all the Love and Hate events, there is one incredibly vital yet most under rated character in this movie which finds almost no or very minimal mention - Ganesh (Vijay Raaz). Ganesh's character in the movie is a lesson in itself and as all the incidents narrated in the movie related to his life has an implicit moral telling behind. Siddharth and Ganesh both hail from Allahabad. Siddharth comes to New Delhi to further his study and stays with his sister (Ayesha Jhulka). Siddharth falls in love with Jhanavi who belongs to a conservative Haryanvi family. Jhanavi's elder brother (Mahesh Manjrekar) is a serious stereotypical head of the family who is very protective of his family, mainly his sister. During the movie both Siddharth and Jhanavi's keeps meeting with each other hiding and running from Jhanavi's brother and his men. Ganesh is a rebel in his home who leaves Allahabad for Delhi, with the hope of getting support from his friend Siddharth and earning a lot (in his words "Lakhon kamaenge..raja ki tarah rahenge"). Ganesh's character has been succinctly presented where his current experiences in the city of Delhi has been shown as a result of his mis-deeds in Allahabad. I feel, Ganesh's character is much above than the rest of the lot in the movie (though I am not undermining other roles in any way). Vijay Raaz is an institution in himself. Apart from the perfect dialogue delivery, Allahabadi style and accent, witty comments, Ganesh's character gives the story (which is otherwise cliched) a very different flavour in terms of comedy, funny incidents, his dreadful experiences in the city, etc. Ganesh is faced with the harsh reality of a city life and its people which actually because of his own misdeeds in the past. All his life experiences has been very craftily linked with a related event in the past which leads one to believing in the proverb "As you sow you reap". In the end Ganesh loses all - his money, his watch, his clothes, his hope to meet his friend Siddharth, his one kidney. All his experiences ends in the form of making Ganesh accidentally a "Pettycoat Baba", a saint which is believed by the people (not by Ganesh) to be living in the Himalayas for 250 years. Amidst all this, Siddharth and Jhanavi fights their way to be ONE, ending with a physical fight between Siddharth and Jhanavi's brother. Overall this movie is way beyond only the love story part that finds mention everywhere.
