Five children take shelter from the rain, inside a spooky bungalow. Encountering an old woman, they follow her upstairs where she proceeds to tell them six scary stories.
Pahwa is a film buff. He watches every new release in the night show on the first day itself. Just as he readies himself to visit a nearby theatre to catch the new release Darna Mana Hai, his mother cautions him against taking the route via the graveyard. It also happens to be Friday the 13th and Amavas ki raat (new moon). Pahwa dismisses his mother's plea since he doesn't believe in ghosts and goes through the graveyard, making fun of the dead and hitting a tree in the cemetery. The movie is boring and ends with no incident, but on the way back, for some reason he's a little more nervous than usual. He hears strange noises and someone seems to be pursuing him.
Satish a movie buff goes to watch horror film Darna Mana Hai takes the graveyard route in order to avoid being late.He manages to reach safely at the cinema hall and upon returning takes the same route where he gets spooky feelings and feels fear for himself.Six children on a forest camp reach an house where they meet an old lady who tells them horror stories and the children bet among them that who will be able to sit until the last story. 1) Professor Sunil Khanna gets hallucinations of a ghost present in his house and tries to explain it to his student Altaaf that he is exact replica of him expect his face is hallow. 2) Kunal a photographer reaches a house when his car breaks down.Varsha welcomes him and tells that she is lonely since her husband passed away and his spirit haunts the house.Next moment Kunal sees her husband Rahul who claims he is very much alive and it's Varsha's spirit haunting the house. 3) Vishwas and his family comes across a irritating salesman who claims that accident can happen anytime also leading to his death. 4) Karan Chopra a romantic film director announces a horror film and travels to Khandala to write the script on his way he gives lift to Riya who tells him that she died in an accident on the same road few days back.But Karan disbelief's her and takes her to his bungalow where real horror waits for him. 5) Ajay comes across a newly wedded bride who was killed by her husband and in laws she seeks control of Ajay's body to take her revenge. After every story one by one a kid gets up and returns back as a ghost.
Darna Zaroori Hai is about six stories and a main story that binds them. The first story is that of a film buff. The second story is of a professor and a student. The third story is of a couple and a man who comes to their house for a phone call. The fourth story is about a couple who are haunted by a weird salesman. The fifth story is about a film-maker who gives a lift to a woman. The sixth story is about a man who is jailed for murdering a man, a police inspector and the mother of the murdered man. The story that binds them is about an old woman who tells these stories to five children.

