In order to escape crime and clutches of a ruthless mafia, a Bangkok based hit man seeks the help of his lookalike, a Mumbai based goon.
Vishi is a local goon who basically likes beating up people to get his work done but is nonetheless a kind-hearted person. On the other hand Khushi is an extremely clumsy girl who keeps losing her chances with destiny and gets suddenly lucky after she accidentally meets Vishi. Amidst the building chemistry between Khushi and Vishi, local cops and an international don named Xavier are on the look-out for AJ aka Jai who is a look alike of Vishi and is in the same city. The story takes a major turn of events when both AJ and Vishi come face to face.
Jai is working for a well known restaurant is a very simpleton guy respected buy everyone.He travels to Mumbai where he calls himself Vishi and cons people with his friend Musa.Once while saving Kushi he bashes many people and his video goes viral and gangsters start to look for him.Vishi falls in love with Kushi and spend a quality time soon Vishi is beaten by some gangsters who escape before being arrested.It its then reveled that Vishi was mistaken as his lookalike Jai.After meeting Vishi ,Jai revels that he worked as a Hitman to Bangkok based underworld Don Xavier Fonseca when he saved the life of his sister Marina she fell in love with him.But he was married to Anushka.Fonseca and Marina then send his men who brutally injured Anushka leaving her in trauma.He then managed to escape to India with Anushka and started her treatment .Jai then asks Vishi to go to Bangkok in his place and pretend as him in front of Fonseca and Marina so that he could treat Anushka in India.
Vishi (Ajay Devgn) is a small-time crook who would do anything for money. He falls in love with Khushi (Sonakshi Sinha), a simple HR executive, who then begins a relationship with him. One day, Vishi, who frequently gets involved in fights, publicly beats up a street gangster, who later seeks a revenge attack with his gang. The gangster and his gang brutally beat up Vishi, and easily escape the scene. It is then revealed that the person they had beaten is actually Vishi's lookalike, Jai. The goons escape when they hear the siren, and Vishi is found alive on bike, then the same goons gets beaten brutally by Vishi. Khushi tries to explain to Vishi that she loves him, he understands and they both start falling in love. On another occasion, a police inspector arrests Jai and hands him over to a group of gangsters led by Pedro (Ketan Karande). Jai single-handedly kills them all and is revealed to be a professional assassin and previous right-hand man of underworld criminal Xavier Fonseca (Anandaraj), nicknamed AJ. After AJ single-handedly rescued Xavier's sister Marina (Manasvi Mamgai) from a bunch of kidnappers, Marina falls for Jai but he rejects her as he is been married to Anusha (Yami Gautam).Angered, Xavier tries to kill Anusha twice to get AJ married to Marina, which leaves her brutally injured. Jai then escaped to India and is in the process of getting her treated. When Vishi spots Jai, he reveals his identity and story to Vishi. Jai then requests Vishi to go to Bangkok disguised as AJ to fool Xavier and his sister; meanwhile, AJ makes time to get his wife operated on, as she is expecting a baby. Vishi agrees to help and goes to Bangkok along with his friend Musa (Kunaal Roy Kapur). Meanwhile, Insp. Shirke finds AJ's lookalike and tries to inform Xavier but ended up murdered. The style of murder triggers suspicion to Xavier. Marina tortures Musa to know the truth. He reveals that Vishi is the one who masqueraded as AJ. Xavier hatches a plan to bring AJ to Bangkok by kidnapping his wife, baby and lookalike and threatens to kill all three of them. It is revealed up that Vishi is actually in Mumbai and AJ and himself switched their places in the airport at time after the job is done. AJ reaches the spot and kills all Xavier's henchmen, Xavier, Marina while AJ and Anusha escape with their kid. Later it was revealed to be safe who was rescued by one of a man (Razzak Khan) of Xavier. The film ends with AJ and Vishi meeting at airport and Anusha requests Vishi to marry Khushi soon
