When a giant blood-thirsty anthropoid goes on a killing in a sprawling suburban park area, it's up to a couple of rangers, a reporter and a mystical Native-American Warrior to try and stop it.
As citizens of a small Pennsylvania town begin turning up dead and mutilated, two local police officers, John Rush and Steve Parker, set out to try and discover who or what is to blame. Officer Parker decides to enlists the help of Rick Harlan, a down on his luck reporter, against the orders of Officer Rush, to help investigate and shed some light on the killings.Meanwhile, the emergence of the mysterious creature does not go unseen by some local Native Americans. An elder named Sicheii decides to send Talla, a young female member of the tribe, out on a quest to rid the town of the beast. Armed with a bow, magical emerald inlaid arrows, some hatchets, and a pair of eyes in the sky thanks to an eagle, she sets out on her quest.It is soon discovered that the source of all the killings is none other than a savage and nearly unstoppable Suburban Sasquatch. While the body count continues to rise, others in town begin to mysteriously disappear as the Sasquatch starts taking select victims back to his hidden cave in the woods. It becomes apparent that the great beast has mystical powers to appear and disappear at will. He also demonstrates great feats of strength by lifting and throwing cars and other large objects.After many failed attempts to stop the Sasquatch by gunfire, it becomes apparent that they will need to try something else to defeat the monster. Talla is able to hit Sasquatch with several magical arrows, which appear to damage the monster, but she is unable to land an accurate shot to stop it before it vanishes.A skeptical Rick teams up with Talla to try and ascertain the truth. Officer Rush, after acting strangely for many days, decides to come clean to Officer Parker and reveals that he has been keeping secret. He explains that before he moved to Pennsylvania, he was attacked and his wife had been kidnapped by the very same Sasquatch and she was never seen again.In the end, Talla is finally able to strike true and bring an end to the monster who has killed so many of the townsfolk and pets. She tells Rick that she will be moving on. After wrestling with the decision, Rick decides to join with her on her journey.
