A sweet blind girl Zooni meets a flirty Rehan. She ignores her friends' warnings. It's her time to discover life. Is she making the right love choice?
Choices - to choose between right or wrong is simple, but what defines one's life is the decision between the greater of two goods or the lesser of two evils. This is the advice that Zooni Ali Beg (Kajol) receives from her father just as she is about to venture out into the world of her own for the very first time. Little does she know that these very words will shape her life. Zooni, a blind Kashmiri girl, meets Rehan Qadri (Aamir Khan), a local Delhi tour guide and an incorrigible flirt. Her friends warn her against this good-for-nothing roadside Romeo, but she chooses to ignore them. It is now her time to discover life and love. Is this really the right choice? Rehan is fascinated by Zooni and wants her to see life as it should be seen, in its many colours. He promises her that the time spent with him will be the most precious in all her life. Zooni sees Delhi, life and love like she never has before, because of Rehan. What Zooni doesn't know is that Rehan has another side of his life that he has kept from her - something that can not only change her life, but can also destroy it.
Zooni a blind Kashmiri girl goes to perform in Delhi during Republic day event.She meets a local guide Rehan Qadri who tries to flirt with her.A day before Zooni is about to leave Rehan and she spends night together and get physical.While Zooni is boarding the train Rehan comes and takes along with her they also visits doctors who promise to get her vision back.Zulfikar Ali Beg and Nafisa Beg,Zooni's parents arrive in the city to marry them.But a blast takes place in the city and Rehan is assumed dead.Malini Tyagi an intelligence officer finds that Rehan is not dead but was actual the bomb planter working for a terrorist group.After 7 years Rehan is on another mission gets severely injured and lands up in a house where he sees Zooni and his son Rehan.Zooni doesn't recognize him as she had never seen his face.Rehan to does not disclose about him and claims to be from Indian Army.

