28th century soldier Mitch Hunter leads a fight against an army of underworld Mutants.
At the end of the Ice Age, The Machine came from outer space with the purpose to change men into mutants. However, a hero defeated the device and a great seal was laid over The Machine. In 2707, the depleted world is ruled by four Corporations: Mishima, Bauhaus, Capitol and Imperial that are in a constant state of war. During a battle between Capitol and Bauhaus, the great seal is broken and The Machine works again transforming soldiers and civilians into hordes of mutants. A small part of the population escapes to Mars, leaving millions of people behind. The man of faith and leader of an ancient brotherhood, Brother Samuel, is a believer in God and the Chronicles, a bible about the mutants from ancient times. With the city besieged by the mutants, he visits the Corporations' leader Constantine, asking for an aircraft and twenty men for a suicide mission to destroy The Machine, planting a bomb and a detonator following the knowledge of the Chronicles. He recruits the tough Major 'Mitch' Hunter; the Bauhaus Lieutenant Maximillian von Steiner; the keeper of the Chronicles Severian that is under a vow of silence; the gorgeous and lethal Corporal Valerie Duval; Corporal Juba Kim Wu; Captain John McGuire; and Corporal Jesus 'El Jesus' de Barrera. Together they become the last hope of Earth against the evil mutants.
It's the year 2707. Earth's natural resources have been exhausted by mankind. Battle rages between the soldiers of four leading Corporations: the Capitol, Bauhaus, Mishima and Imperial.Mitch Hunter (Thomas Jane) and Nathan Rooker (Sean Pertwee), battle hardened Capitol soldiers, fight a desperate battle against a Bauhaus advance. When an errant shell destroys an ancient stone seal, they find themselves facing a new enemy: hideous necromutants, with boneblades that grow from their arms. Mitch barely manages to escape. Nathan does not.The mutants multiply by millions and they destroy all before them. The Corporations' leader, Constantine (John Malkovich), is about to abandon the planet and leave countless innocents to their desperate fate, when he is approached by Brother Samuel (Ron Perlman), leader of the Brotherhood, an ancient monastic order.Samuel is the keeper of the Chronicles, a book that prophesies both the rise of the Mutants, and of the 'Deliverer' that will destroy them. Samuel believes he is that Deliverer destined to journey deep into the earth and destroy the source of the mutant scourge. He manages to recruit Mitch, along with a handful of like-minded soldiers: Maximillian von Steiner (Benno Fürmann), honor bound Bauhaus officer; sword wielding Severian (Anna Walton); street fighter Cpl. Jesus 'El Jesus' de Barrera (Luis Echegaray); fearless beauty Valerie Duval (Devon Aoki); and stoic warrior Cpl. Juba Kim Wu (Tom Wu)
.
"Mutant Chronicle" follows Mitch and Samuel's mission to venture into the very heart of the darkness in an attempt to save the planet from marauding hordes of deathless mutants.They all will be dying as they plundge themselves into the "Hidden City", now crammed with mutants. Mitch Hunter will be the final hero: he will succeed in closing the seal forever more, but not without getting himself infected and having to use Brother Samuel's mutant-transformed body as a kind of tool. Everything colapses Mitch Hunter, who lets himself die there.
