Two misunderstood suburban kids challenge society and run from the police while documenting all of their deeds with a digital camera.
In the Kentucky suburbs of Cincinnati, social misfit Jimmy Wright always has his video camera - at his psychiatrist's, spying on his parents in their bedroom, and watching high-school senior, Judy Oaks-Kellen. He rescues Judy from a teacher and students who tease and torment her, and showing her his video tape of revenge kick-starts their friendship, which is soon in an overdrive of romance, sex, and pleasure. Jimmy is in and out of mental institutions, and before long, he and Judy are on the run. Cocaine, guns, and a commune of other misfits figure in their flight. How far can their love take them? It's all on video.
Jimmy and Judy is the latest cross country crime spree film to appear on the silver screen,
and on dvd. The film follows the youth angst genre of crime films that was first started
by The Doom Generation, and Natural Born Killers.Edward Furlong (Terminator 2) stars as Jimmy, and Rachael Bella costars as Judy. James Eckhouse (Beverly Hills 90210) plays Jimmy's Dad, and William Sadler portrays
Uncle Rodney.The film uses a lot of hand held cameras, much like Blair Witch Project, and Cloverfield.
Jimmy records most of the sex scenes, and shooting sprees, with help from Judy.At the start of the film Jimmy spies on his Dad cross dressing, and having sex with
his mother (Gay Storm) getting into a bondage orgy.Jimmy and Judy then run over a street person, and get pulled over by the cops. Jimmy
shoots the officer, and we later find out the cop car had video camera running.There is another scene where Jimmy shoots down a speed freak, who is raping a female
druggie. Jimmy makes Judy hold the gun with him during the shooting.The fugitives then make their way to a ranch owned by Uncle Rodney. Uncle Rodney forces Judy to have sex with him, so that the couple can stay on the ranch. Jimmy
shoots Uncle Rodney, and rescues Judy from her.The outlaws get stopped by the cops at a roadblock, and are gunned down after Judy
refuses to stop the vehicle.Jimmy and Judy has a lot of gratuitous violence, and provides a kind of social commentary about a couple of doomed misfits. Uncle Rodney provides an interesting
observation about how the counter culture is dead, and how his group of bohemian
dropouts are garbage, that are going to burn down corporate capitalist society.Edward Furlong, and Rachel Bella provide strong performances. William Sadler also
does great acting as Uncle Rodney.The film is well directed, and written by Randall Rubin, and Jon Schroder.Jimmy and Judy does provide a compelling story of a Kentucky crime spree, but falls short of other films like Natural Born Killers. Jimmy and Judy will probably obtain a cult following much like the The Doom Generation has.
