Three sets of area residents band together after a terrorist attack against L.A.'s water supply.
In Los Angeles, the authorities find that the tap water is contaminated due to a terrorist attack after the death of eight dwellers. The military Ritter leaves his wife Jasmine (Lindsay Price) and his daughter at home to patrol the dam with the bigoted and stressed soldier Carlton. The Sikh matriarch Heera Bhatti, who has a convenience store, increases the price of bottled water and limits the sell to two units per person. Her son Vikram Bhatti that works with her is not comfortable with her decision. When his Caucasian girlfriend Lillian "Lilly" visits him at the store, his mother gives a cold reception to her. Meanwhile the local Zach decides to visit his father with his cousin Bodi, who is a reckless and unbalanced person. However his father does not accept the Zach brings Bodi and they go to the trailer of Bodi's friend Donovan. Along the three next days, their lives are entwined with tragic consequences in a environment of violence and despair.
Heera Bhatti, an American-Sikh, runs a corner store in Los Angeles with the help of her son, Vikram, and Gulu. She does not approve of Vikram's Caucasian girlfriend, Lillian, and would prefer that Vikram marry a Punjabi girl, but Vikram has made up his mind. Then the lives of all Californians are turned upside down when one morning eight people are dead after drinking contaminated tap water. The State goes on alert, with troopers and the police stepping up to ensure that the culprits (Al Qaeda?) are caught. But then the locals have to content with the instructions: Not to be in contact with tap water for 72 hours. That means no one can wash their face, hands, feet, shower, shave nor drink water - the life saving ingredient that has been taken so much for granted. Watch as Heera, Vikram and Lillian comes to term with this emergency, how Heera jacks the price of bottled water, and the impact this emergency has on the community.

