A drama about a young widow who finds a guardian angel in the form of a hobo who comes to her rural community looking for work.
Eliza Wyatt, a widowed Californian farmer with two children, struggles against the odds of the Great Depression to bring in the orange crop and save the only home she's ever known. When a drifter offers to help, she feels he's the answer to her prayers. But his polite and well-spoken manner raises questions as well.
During the Great Depression, orange grower Frank White dies of cardiac arrest. His war-killed son's widow Eliza and grandchildren already had to help out constantly, so the kids got schooled only from his in-living sister Batty. Now it looks like the bank will foreclose on the hefty mortgage, especially if they fail to bring in the harvest. Then a World War I veteran arrives as a hobo. The sheriff gets him a job, first with the shop-keeper, who alas can't afford permanent staff, then at the White farm. Shy, gentle, helpful, bright Gabe proves a model worker and the father-figure young Luke desperately needed. Liza hesitates to fall in love with Gabe after sneakily reading his diary while he has a medical episode.
It's the Great Depression in citrus orchard country of California. Already struggling following the death of her husband five years ago, Eliza Wyatt is having even more trouble maintaining the Wyatt family orange orchard when her brusque father-in-law, Frank Wyatt, has a heart attack and also passes. On Frank's request, Eliza had already pulled her two adolescent children, Becky and Luke, from school for the harvest season, their only other support being Frank's sister, Aunt Batty, who recently moved back to the homestead. Now out of his hands, Mr. Wakefield, the local banker who truly likes the Wyatts, has no other option but to give thirty days notice to call in the mortgage, which includes Frank's debt, before beginning foreclosure procedures, it not enough time for the four of them alone to complete the harvest and sell this year's crop to pay off what they owe. Into their midst comes a drifter, Gabe Harper, who, based on the fact of Sheriff Doggins' seeing that he is a decent man beyond the known of he being a war veteran, comes to work on the farm, negotiated by Aunt Batty, solely for room and board. Despite Gabe's soiled clothes, they can all see that beyond being a hard worker, he is polite, well-mannered, and well-read, atypical for a drifter. Eliza is the one who has troubles warming up to him solely in the fact of he being a stranger, one who seems reluctant to divulge much about himself in looking like he is running away from something. As Gabe does become ensconced in most facets of the Wyatts' lives, that past will have a role in what happens between him and the family, especially Eliza, as they struggle to meet the thirty day deadline.
When Eliza's father-in-law dies suddenly during the Depression, she is left with two young children, an unharvested orange crop on a heavily mortgaged farm, and no money. Bible-quoting Aunt Batty urges her to have faith. Gabe Harper, a wandering veteran with wonderful manners and an air of mystery, is willing to help with the harvest, but the mortgage payment is due in less than 30 days. As the family fights to complete the harvest in time to make the mortgage payment, Eliza and Aunt Batty discover that Gabe is a writer, and Gabe and Eliza fall in love.
A young widow, Eliza Wyatt (Sydney Penny), is worried about finances. She decides to keep her children out of school to help with the Wyatt Orange Orchard. Her young daughter, Becky (Carlie Westerman), is upset, saying that other families are only keeping their boys at home and letting their girls go to school. Her mother says that the other families have enough sons to take care of things at home, but that she will need both Becky and her younger brother, Luke (Logan Arens), at home to help with the orchard. As a compromise, she tells her daughter that they will work together evenings to make a Sunday dress, as promised. Becky is pleased. Aunt Batty (Shirley Jones) agrees to help the children with their schooling so that they will not get behind.A drifter, Gabriel "Gabe" Harper (Jason Gedrick), comes to town, hoping for work. The sheriff (Barry Corbin) tells him that the local people cannot afford hired help. He learns that Gabe is a veteran of the War and offers to take him to town for a meal. Gabe agrees. Meanwhile, the Wyatt children and their grandfather, Frank (John Diehl), are working in the orchard when Frank collapses and dies. Gabe is at the diner finishing a meal as the sheriff comes to announce that Frank Wyatt has died. He gets Gabe to go to the Wyatt's place to dig Frank's grave. After the funeral, Gabe covers the grave as neighbors gather at the Wyatt's home. Young Becky worries that her grandfather will not get into heaven because of his bad temper. Her mother reassures her.The local banker, Mr. Wakefield (Tom Bosley), speaks to Aunt Batty after the funeral, saying regretfully that Eliza will have to come to the bank to talk things over. The implication is that Frank Wyatt had been behind on mortgage payments.The children's eccentric aunt "Batty" wants to make up a room for Gabe, but Eliza says that she can't let a stranger stay in the house. She lets him sleep in the barn, but insists that he come for breakfast the next morning. Later that night, alone, Eliza breaks down crying, worried about how she will make ends meet. Aunt Batty comforts her. Eliza commiserates with Aunt Batty for the way that she was treated by Frank, who had been a stern, overbearing man.Aunt Batty speaks to Gabe about staying to help. When Eliza learns that Gabe has agreed to stay, she is worried. She cannot afford to pay anything. Gabe explains that Aunt Batty had offered him room and board, nothing more. When the sheriff learns of the deal, he comes and speaks plainly to Gabe, saying that he must not take advantage of the offered room and board unless he intends to stay through the harvest. Gabe promises. Soon, Gabe falls ill. Aunt Batty and Eliza bring him into the house to nurse him. While Gabe is lying ill in bed, Eliza finds his journal. It contains writings about a fictitious hobo named Jack. She reads some of it and feels that it is autobiographical.The sheriff gives Mr. Wakefield a ride to the Wyatt orchard. Mr. Wakefield explains that Frank had no will, and that his grandchildren are to inherit the farm--which means Eliza must pay off the mortgage. She has only 30 days to do so. Wakefield says that his local bank is over-extended, that the bank in San Francisco might foreclose on the Wyatt farm. He offers to help Eliza find a buyer for the orchard, maybe a neighbor. He implies that Frank was not well liked, but that local families would "bend over backward" to help Eliza. She knows her neighbors are struggling. She wants Wakefield to wait for harvest, but he won't do it, intimating that the San Francisco bank will not wait that long. Eliza reluctantly agrees to let Wakefield help find a buyer.Gabe learns of the financial situation and offers to help in any way he can. Eliza returns the kindness by giving him some clothes. Gabe encourages her to fight for the orchard. He says they should work doubly hard to bring in the harvest. Eliza agrees. They go to work with renewed hope. In the evenings, Gabe tells the children stories about the War. He is good with the children, and helps Luke with his reading during work breaks. Eliza, still curious about Gabe's past, continues to sneak in and read his journal. Gabe, meanwhile, offers little information about his life and his family, though he does intimate that his own father was a stern, distrustful man, as Frank Wyatt had been.Eliza, curious to learn more, reads in the journal that the brother of the fictitious hobo, "Jack," had died during the War, and that his parents wished "Jack" dead in his place. She asks Gabe about it, but he is not happy to find that she has read his journal. She opens up to him about her own past as a runaway who had joined a circus, but he does not reciprocate. Aunt Batty senses tension between the two and counsels both of them. Eliza apologizes to Gabe for having intruded. Gabe takes Batty's advice and thanks Eliza for having opened up to him. Their conversation is interrupted by a radio announcement that foretells of freezing weather. Their thoughts immediately turn to the harvest. They light fires to warm the trees.Working together brings them much closer to each other. The oranges are saved. Eliza calls a wholesaler, who promises to come in four days--but the oranges must be picked and crated by then. Eliza fears there will not be enough time. The pressure mounts. Gabe finally opens up to Eliza about having left his brother in a grave in France, only to come home to unforgiving parents. By now, he and Eliza have fallen in love.The harvest is nearly finished when Mr. Kornhaus (Time Winters), the San Francisco banker, arrives in town. The sheriff grudgingly agrees to escort the banker out to the orchard. Wakefield lets Eliza know that he has found a buyer with a "fair offer," but it is a minimal amount, from a land-holding corporation. Eliza must accept the offer or expect foreclosure within 48 hours. She refuses, knowing that the wholesaler is to arrive the next day. After a sleepless night, she awakes and goes to Gabe's room. He is gone. Eliza feels betrayed and cries. At breakfast, the children are full of questions about Gabe, which Eliza can't answer. The sheriff arrives and starts picking oranges, but Eliza is bitter. Gabe is gone. She and the family work hard to finish the harvest, but she knows they will fail. That night, she prepares to pack their belongings, expecting the banker to arrive the next morning.Early the next morning, Luke hears voices in the orchard. Eliza goes outside and finds dozens of men picking fruit. She is scared and puzzled. Gabe steps forward from the crowd. He tells her that he has brought the men (apparently hobos) to help with the harvest. Aunt Batty gratefully offers to cook them a big breakfast. Eliza and Gabe kiss. Kornhaus, the banker, arrives to serve the foreclosure notice. The wholesaler, Mr. Jennings (James Keane), is present and offers to make out a check for the harvest, payable to Mr. Kornhaus. The banker agrees. The future seems promising as Eliza and Gabe are married.
