A man and woman from feuding families each pretend to fall in love, as part of a revenge plot. Chaos ensues when their fake romance becomes a reality.
Angar Chand lives a wealthy lifestyle in a small town in India along with his wife, Parvati, and four sons, Balram, Kishan, Shakti and Jai. Since Balram is of marriageable age, he arranges his marriage with the daughter of Laxmi Devi, who decides to oppose this marriage. During the wedding ceremony, Laxmi Devi and her sons, Surajbhan, and Pratap forcibly remove their sister and accidentally kill Parvati. They subsequently get their sister married to Kashinath. An enraged Angar hacks Laxmi's husband to death, is arrested and sentenced to 14 years in prison. When he returns he makes it clear that women will not be permitted in his house and forbids his sons to ever marry. Then Jai, who is studying in Lala Lajpatrai Law College meets with Anjali, Laxmi's grand-daughter, who openly admits that she is attracted to him. Jai, at first rejects her, then decides to teach and her family a lesson. Both feign their love for each other, but subsequently admit the truth, and even Anjali admits that she wanted to come close to Jai to extract vengeance. Both go their separate ways, but subsequently find that they are indeed in love with each other. In order to get wed, Jai must first convince his elder brothers to get married albeit in vain as none of them even want to consider this option. Then Lucky, Jai's friend, finds out that Kishan. a seemingly celibate Bhagwan Hanuman's devotee, is leading a dual life as Murari, who has been married to a woman, Gopi, from Gangapur, for 7 years and has two children, a son and a daughter. When Angar finds out he kicks Kishan and Jai out of his house. Watch what happens when Anjali's marriage is finalized with Laxmi's advocate's son, while Pratap and Surajbhan approach Angar to help them stop Jai from disrupting this marriage on one hand, while Laxmi tells Jai to marry Anjali - setting off a deadly confrontations between the estranged sons and father.
Angaar Chand and Lakshmidevi's families hate each other. No women are allowed in Angaarchand's house and family. When Angaarchand disrupts Lakshmidevi's grand-daughter's marriage, Anjali decides to take revenge by pretending to be in love with Jai, Angaarchand's son. But soon they really fall in love and all hell breaks lose. Jai's brother, Kishen, who had secretly married seven years earlier, and Anjali's uncle, Veer, help to bring them together.
Twenty years prior, Angar Chand (Amrish Puri) lived a wealthy lifestyle in a small town in India, along with his wife, Parvati, and four sons - Balram (Jackie Shroff), Kishan (Paresh Rawal), Shakti (Arbaaz Khan) and baby Jai (Akshaye Khanna). Balram was of marriageable age and in love with the daughter of Laxmi Devi (Laxmi), who reciprocated his feelings. Angar proceeded to arrange the marriage, however Laxmi Devi opposed this relationship. During the wedding ceremony, Laxmi ordered her sons, Surajbhan and Pratap to forcibly remove their sister. In anger, Laxmi's husband shot his firearm at Balram, but instead Parvati was hit and killed. Laxmi subsequently married her daughter to Kashinath (Shakti Kapoor). An enraged Angar hacked Laxmi's husband to death in the middle of the road and was arrested and sentenced to 14 years in prison. When he returned home, he declared that women will not be permitted in his property, posting a sign on the front gate, and forbidding his sons to ever marry.In the present, Anjali (Kareena Kapoor), Laxmi's granddaughter, is in college with Jai. Angar and his family are informed that Anjali is to be married off to the Home Minister of the state. Still bearing a grudge, Angar tries to break off the engagement and subsequently succeeds by putting political pressure on the minister. Jai further humiliates Anjali when she returns to college after her failed engagement. Laxmi convinces Anjali to trick Jai into falling in love with her to cause a rift in the family. Jai meets with Anjali who openly admits that she is attracted to him. Jai, at first rejects her, then decides to teach her and her family a lesson. Both feign their love for each other, but subsequently Anjali and Jai admit their agendas. Both go their separate ways, but find that they are indeed in love with each other. In order to marry, Jai must first convince his elder brothers to get married, albeit in vain as none of them even want to consider this option.Lucky (Arshad Warsi), Jai's friend, finds out that Kishan, a seemingly celibate devotee of Lord Hanuman, is leading a dual life - he has been married to a woman, Gopi (Farha Naaz), for 7 years and has two children, a son and a daughter. When Angar finds out he kicks Kishan and Jai out of his house because Jai supports Kishan's marriage.Laxmi arranges for Anjali to marry her lawyer's son (Sharad Kelkar). After Jai and Anjali acknowledge their love for each other to her family, Anjali's uncles Pratap and Surajbhan approach Angar, asking him to help them stop Jai from disrupting her upcoming arranged marriage. Jai, Kishan, Gopi, and Lucky sneak into the wedding venue with the help of Anjali's uncle Veeru (Sunil Shetty). Jai dresses as the bridegroom and goes through the marriage rituals. However, at the end of the ceremony, Jai reveals himself and tells his father he won't go through with the final steps of the wedding without his approval.Balram, who previously had supported his father's mentality the most, finally tells Jai to place the wedding necklace around Anjali's neck, completing the wedding. Jai is initially prevented from doing so, but eventually he and Anjali are married. Anjali asks her grandmother to end the feud and Jai asks his father for forgiveness. Angar leaves the wedding and contemplates all his sons' actions on the way home. All brothers and the two wives arrive at the gate. Angar looks at his sons and takes the sign off the gate and finally welcomes women back into his family.
