A sleazy writer has a chance to redeem himself when he goes to stay with his grandmother and befriends the neighbors.
L.A. soft-porn writer Carter Webb is frustrated enough, after his actress girlfriend dumps him, to need a serious break. He decides to spend it with his grandmother, who can't really take care of herself and her Detroit suburb house anyway. Helpful Carter soon overcomes mishaps to bond with the foxy neighbor across the street and her daughters. Helping them actually helps him regain perspective and self-confidence.
After being dumped by his famous actress/model girlfriend Sofia Buñuel with who he was deeply in love, twenty-six year old Carter Webb, a Los Angeles based soft-core porn screenwriter, decides he needs an extended change of scenery. Instead of his mother going, what Carter decides will be that scenery is to live with who may be his ailing yet eccentric maternal grandmother, Phyllis, in her home in Michigan. Regardless of if Phyllis is truly ill or is only a hypochondriac, Carter figures she could benefit from some long term and constant care. He can still do his work sending scripts to his boss electronically and talking to him about filming issues over the telephone, while he would have a new perspective to start working on a non-porn project he's wanted to write since and about high school. Upon his arrival in Michigan, Carter quickly meets Phyllis' neighbors from across the street, the Hardwickes: husband and wife Nelson and Sarah, and their two children, late-teen Lucy and preteen Paige. Carter ends up making an impression on each of the Hardwicke women. Precocious Paige develops a case of puppy love on her witty older neighbor. Lucy is facing boyfriend issues while trying to deal with negative feelings toward her parents, especially her mother. And Sarah needs a compassionate ear and shoulder on which to lean most specifically about two issues in her life, one in particular about which she cannot talk to any of her family. In turn, his time with the women may give Carter a clearer perspective of his life and his relationship to Sofia.
Carter Webb, a young soft-core porn writer living in California, has just broken up with by his actress girlfriend. He decides to take a time out and visit his grandmother in Detroit, but the women across the street have a different idea. He meets the Hardwickes who live next door, the mother, the teenager, and the little girl, and they change each others lives forever.
Devastated over his breakup with his girlfriend, Carter Webb leaves L.A. to stay with his wacky Grandma in her suburban Detroit home, across the street from the Hardwicke family. As Carter struggles to reconcile his own inner conflicts, he is drawn into the pains and loves of the Hardwicke women -- all of whom, in their way, fall in love with Carter, and all of whom, in their way, help him find his way back.

