The film deals with a newly married couple caught on camera at a hotel during their honeymoon. The video is released on the Internet and the bride ultimately commits suicide. The husband, in pursuit of revenge, delves into the world of underground pornography, eventually traveling to Amsterdam and Switzerland to seek out the criminals of the underground pornography industry that profited from the film.
18 years ago, the Darr family, consisting of Pushkaran (Yatin Karyekar) and his son, Kunal (Kunal Khemu), were forced to leave Kashmir by terrorists, who had forced thousands of other Kashmiri Pandits to be mere refugees in their very own country. Pushkaran and Kunal re-locate to Bombay, where they live in a small room. This is where Kunal grows up, and gets a job at a gym. Then one day, the police knock on his door, informing him that his father had lost his hold from a crowded local train, fallen, and instantly killed. A devastated Kunal arranges his father's funeral, and before he could reconcile to living alone, his relatives contact him from Jammu, informing him that his father had promised to look after a young woman named Renuka (Smiley Suri). Kunal agrees to fulfill his father's promise.When Renuka arrives, she finds out about the untimely death, and wants to return, but ticket reservation forces her to stay with Kunal for a week. It is this week that changes their lives, for they fall in love and get married. During their first intimate night together, porn-website creator Simi Roy (Amrita Singh) and her partner Johnny (Ashutosh Rana) record them and turn them into porn-stars. Renuka can't take the embarrassment and commits suicide. Kunal is then arrested by police for illegal porn online. Kunal proves himself innocent and decides to track down Simi Roy and her team and get revenge. He comes across Ali (Emraan Hashmi) a modern-day punk, who runs an adults only shop. In his shop, Kunal sees a magazine featuring a porn star Kunal had seen on the same website where his and Renuka's video was. He uses Ali's help to track down the girl. Kunal and Ali track the girl down in a bar where she is a singer, suddenly Kunal finds a young girl being held hostage and beats up the bodyguards but he gets hit by Simi Roy's car. The next day, Kunal overhears Simi fighting with her abusive daughter Tanya about being drunk and doing sexual activities with her girlfriend Jessica. Kunal then asks Simi about the blue film porn website but Simi lies to him and explains that she has nothing to do with it. The girl is revealed to be Annie (Deepal Shaw) and reveals to Kunal that in her hometown Johnny and his friend Vick had killed everyone and forced her to run away. Kunal and Ali track down Johnny and his goons and start a furious fight and Kunal kills Johnny but Ali dies after being killed by Johnny, before dying Ali reveals that Simi Roy is the main mastermind behind the pornography website and also runs the red light district. Kunal asks Tanya for help and in return he would help her ruin Simi's life, Simi who is watching the TV seeing her own daughter on her porn website and is approached by Kunal and Tanya where Tanya shoots her mother several times. Kunal is free of charges and starts a new life with Annie.
