A girl from bourgeoisie discovers the pleasures of banditism, following her lover in his lifestyle.
A school girl falls for a charming young man. After news about a botched bank robbery in which a guard is killed, she learns that her boyfriend was one of the robbers. She decides to hide him and his friends and then they all sneak out of the country. After hiding out and spending all the money, tempers rise and the group splits up. This forces the girl to work her own way back home and deal with her actions and her separation from her boyfriend.
À Tout de Suite begins with a voice-over by Lili (Isild Le Besco). She explains that it is 1975, just before spring, and she is 19 years old. The first visual is of two pairs of feet exposed under rumpled bedsheets. The camera pans up to reveal two girls waking up in bed. Lili hides her friend from her sister when she enters the room to question her about going to school. Lili explains that she plans on going to class, but has missed the first hour. After attending art class the girls go out to a cafe, where Lili has a discrepancy with a young man. The girls leave the cafe and enter a pub. A strange man approaches them with two glasses of champagne and they all flirt together. At their request he orders them ham sandwiches. Then, his Arabic friend arrives. The friend says nothing and is dark and mysterious. The strange man says that he must go, because his friend is there. First, he tells the girls that his name is Gérard and invites them to meet at a club called Smoking that evening. The girls attend art class again and the teacher places a painting of a landscape on an easel. He explains that the assignment is to draw a silhouette of the image with no face. Lili draws the Arab man's face on her paper, instead of a silhouette of the painted image. Lili eats dinner with her family and then sneaks dinner and wine into her room for her friend. Then they go out to Smoking and meet Gérard and Bada (Ouassini Embarek). Lili dances with Gérard and then Bada. Bada returns to Lili's home with the girls and sees the portrait of himself on her wall. They all sleep in bed, but Lili doesn't rise for class in the morning. She stays with Bada while her friend goes to school. Then, Bada buys an expensive bracelet for her with cash. In a taxi, Lili asks Bada where he gets so much cash and he replies that it is from his real estate job.
That evening, Lili recieves a phone call from Bada. He wants to say goodbye and explains that he is involved in a bank robbery gone wrong. He tells her that Gérard and a bank teller were killed. Upset, Lili makes her way through the crowd around the bank. Another spectator explains that the bandits are leaving with the hostages. They get into two cars and drive away. Lili returns home and tunes her radio to a news story that explains that the robbers set the hostages free unharmed and then escaped.
Bada calls Lili again and asks to come to her house. She agrees and Bada shows up with his accomplice Alain (Nicolas Duvauchelle). When Alain and Bada are asleep Lili unzips their bag to reveal bundles of 500 franc notes. Lili wakes to find Alain standing over her. He orders her to make a phone call and hands her a number. She makes the call and gives her address and floor number.
Bada announces that they are leaving and asks if she will come. Lili agrees to come. The doorbell rings and Lili answers it to find a girl her age, Joelle (Laurence Cordier) standing outside. Lili kisses her cheeks like she is an old friend and leads her back to her room.
The four of them leave in a car with Bada and Alain hidden under blankets in the back seat. They pass the Champs-Elysée.
Then, they enter a ramshackle hideout. Here bada repents to Lili about the deaths and she consoles him saying that he didn't kill them. Bada opens up to her about his childhood in the poor area of Belleville. He describes he and his friends as Robin Hoods giving away stolen color TVs and Dupont lighters to the neighbors. He explains that his parents own a hair salon, adore one another, and him.
Lili draws sporadically, anything that catches her interest. Bada and Lili go out to get identification photos at a photo booth, then they have dinner and see a movie. Bada didn't want to leave the apartment, but Lili was adamant. During the movie, Bada excuses himself and runs to the loo to throw up. They return to the apartment where Alain confronts Bada about exposure and then breaks a chair. Lili wakes in the night and wanders up the stairs of the apartment building. She finds a framed picture of Bada on a dresser. As she descends the stairs a brunette woman, who we later learn is named Laurence (Emmanuelle Bercot) enters and proclaims that it is her place. The woman leaves after asking Lili a few questions. Afterwards, Lili draws a portrait of Laurence. Fake passports are obtained and the group leaves that evening. On a train they cleverly hide the bag of money from a customs official when he comes through to check their passports. Then they clear Spanish customs and stay in a fancy hotel.
In the morning, Joelle wakes Lili and informs her that the boys have gone shopping, but they left them some cash so that they could go out and buy stockings for all of them. Over breakfast the girls discuss how they are both bourgeois and state their feelings about their new positions as girlfriends of criminals. Instead of meeting the trio for lunch, Lili goes to a bull fight on her own.
That evening Lili asks Bada what will happen if they are ever separated and he replies that he will come and find her. He tells her that they are going to his homeland Morocco.
They smoke cigarettes on a train. Then they stuff francs into their stockings and pants. They are on board a boat. After a plainclothesman questions Bada he forces Lili to take the rest of the money and hide it in her jacket and bag. Customs in Morocco let Lili though after she smiles sweetly at the inspector. They rent rooms at a luxurious hotel in Tangiers. Then they rent cars and drive from town to town. They begin to have problems converting the stolen money and they suspect that the bills are marked. They have to pay a higher percentage for every exchange. Then comes the headline in the newspaper, "Ils sont les tueurs" with photos of both Bada and Alain. Lili comforts Bada by passionately kissing his mouth.
They rent an apartment in Casablanca, Casa. When Lili gets out of the shower in a towel, Alain freaks out and then throws a knife at her head, but it misses and lands in the door. That night Lili brings up the idea of separating from the other two. When she asks Bada where he would want to go he says that he would go to an island. The next morning, Bada takes the bracelet that he bought Lili in the beginning. They fly to Greece where Lili is detained by customs. After she is released she goes outside and finds the trio in a car. Alain shakes his head at her and Bada gives her a look as if to say that he can to nothing about it. The car pulls away without her. A Lebanese man named Georges approaches a forelorn Lili and offers to help her out. He gets her a room in a hotel and brings her food. At this point, Lili is nearly unresponsive, and she enagages in destructive activities like banging her head into a wall, refusing to eat, and barely sleeping. Georges brings Lili toiletries and then explains that he has a friend who wants to hire a live-in babysitter. He leaves the man's number and then leaves to catch a flight. Lili meets the man about the job. The details are different than Georges described, and so after accepting his offer she looks for a way to escape. A woman on the street introduces herself and offers to help her get a job in a gift shop and let her move in with her. Lili moves in with her and spends time on the beach and going out to bars. After a three-way with two young men, Lili calls her family and they arrive to retrieve her. Back in France, Lili learns that Bada is sentenced to death and she is sentenced to two years in prison. However, she never serves her time due to a Presidential Pardon. Instead, she is on probation for five years. Lili moves in with her sister and goes through depression and several suicide attempts. She and her sister become close. Lili finally visits Laurence, but she has no answers for her. Laurence directs Lili to Bada's parents hair salon near Belleville. Lili stops by the salon and the father recognizes her almost instantly. He brings her back to his house where he and his wife have lunch with her. However, he does not appear receptive to her. Soon he leaves abruptly, and his wife shows compassion for Lili by bringing her into Bada's old room. There is a stack of color TVs and posters line the walls. Lili rides in a car with her sister driving. A radio news broadcast comes on and explains that Bada has been shot through the heart as he tried to escape an officer. Lili screams for her sister to stop the car and she runs down the street.
After a phone call with Laurence she takes a job working in a hotel on an island. Fin! :)
