A conman Roy, gets dumped by his girl-friend. Then he finds out he has a fatal disease. On the verge of death, he resolves to do some good, by helping his apprentice Dittu hoodwink the mobster who hurt his (Dittu's) family.
Roy is leading a dual life . His girlfriend Simi believes he is an honest person while the reality is quite different. Roy is actually a professional conman who dupes innocent people as easily as he swats flies. When Simi comes to know of the reality, she is heartbroken and ditches Roy for ever. Roy repents but it seems like it's too late now. One day Roy bumps into Aditya "Dittu" Shrivastav who is an amateur conman. Dittu implores Roy to teach him the tricks of his trade, but Roy disagrees. One night, Roy collapses while crossing a road and visits Dr. Bhalerao for a medical checkup. It is revealed that Roy has a brain tumour and has very little time. He bumps into Dittu again and this time he agrees to take Dittu under his wing and teach him the basics of the art of conning. Together they zero in on a big "fish" - a shady hotel owner named Chandru and proceed to lure him into their master plan.
Believing himself to be the best bluff-master, Roy Kapoor woos Simran Ahuja and trains a con-man, Aditya Srivastav. Things spiral out of control after he is told that he has a brain tumor, is not likely to live very long; Simran ditches him after she finds out that he has multiple identities; and he gets in the bad books of a ruthless gangster, Chandrakant Parekh - who is determined to teach him a lesson and then kill him before he dies a natural death.
Roy Kapoor (Abhishek Bachchan) cons everybody, even his girlfriend Simi (Priyanka Chopra). On the day of their engagement, however, Roy's true face is exposed and Roy loses Simi. As if that were not enough, Roy finds out that he is going to die in less than 3 months. Besides this, an amateur conman named Dittu (Ritesh Deshmukh) enters his life. He learns from Dittu that a man named Chandrakant Parekh aka Chandru (Nana Patekar) had duped Dittu's father and countless other of their life savings. Chandru is a whimsical, irate and ruthless man, who will not hesitate in resorting to violence even on slightest pretext. Roy decides to do one good deed for Dittu. Roy is now between the devil and the deep sea.
A professional con-man, Roy decides to use his nefarious skills in seducing wealthy Simi - but in vain as she finds out about his motives and refuses to have to do anything with him. Roy continues on his ways, and is approached by Aditya, who wants to make him his Guru and learn all the tricks of his trade, but Roy refuses to train him. Then Roy becomes ill and is not expected to live very long. He has a change of heart and decides to train Aditya. The duo, together with another con-man named Chandru, decide to make a heist - a heist that may well be the last to be undertaken by Roy.
Con-man Roy (Bachhan), pretends to be legit. in front of his paramour Simmi (Priyanka Chopra). But, as it happens Simmi finds out the nasty truth, and that's the end of that. Roy, in another twist of fate is diagnosed with a fatal sickness, which promises to sink him in 3 months. Roy bereft of lady-love resolves to do one good thing before leaving this world, and that good thing is helping his apprentice Dittu (Ritesh) hoodwink the mobster (Patekar) who hurt his family. Who gets conned and who doesn't is the rest of the story . . .

