Gilles, a 12-year-old boy from the Brussels region, is a football (soccer) player. His dream is to become a member of the Belgian National Squad, the so called "Red Devils".
Flemish greater Brussels grocer Bert transferred his true passion, aiming for the national football (soccer) team, missed due to a knee injury, to his eager son Gilles (12), whom he coaches tirelessly. Excessive anger at the referee during the match when a scout may select Gilles for the provincial team, a crucial step, proves fatal for Bert's heart. Gilles is frustrated that both the grocery shop and his mother gradually are taken over by football-ignorant accountant Joris and imagines still being coached by father. His own foot injury will either delay his ambition at a crucial or may end it altogether if not treated properly.
This thoughtful and inspirational coming of age drama from Belgium is perfect for the entire family. It chronicles 12 year old "Gilles" played wonderfully by Ilya Van Malderghem whose dream (as well as his father's) as a young football player (soccer for the Yanks) is to become a member of the Belgium National under 15 team "The Red Devils". Not unlike other sports oriented children his walls are covered with posters and pictures all the football greats. Dad, his most enthusiastic supporter, is a greengrocer who is more concerned with his son's ambition than running the store properly. One day Gilles' right ankle is injured fairly seriously at one of their games. Unfortunately that is the only foot Gilles uses for kicking when playing. At practice, one day, after what he perceives as a bad call against Gilles, his dad, "Bert" Filip Peeters, throws a massive fit having a fatal heart attack in the process.Gilles is absolutely devastated on the death of his father avowing to quit playing football. One day after practice he goes to his best friend's, Désiré's, house where he sees Désiré's grandmother practicing their native curious custom of "Orun ReRe" where the true believer brings a picture of a deceased loved one in order to be able to see them again. Soon Gilles brings Bert's picture to Désiré's grandmother to perform the ritual.One frustrating night as Gilles is trying to fall asleep after being scolded by "Anne" Joke Devynck, his mom, again, he is awoken by the sound of broken glass. Looking around he discovers that it is the glass on his dad's picture that has shattered. Since he can't sleep he takes his football out to kick around when out of nowhere Bert appears to Gilles providing support, guidance, the constant coaching, and most importantly he provides the motivation for Gilles to play again like when he was still alive.As the injury on Gille's right foot worsens he relents and sees an orthopedist whose outlook on the injury is to quit football at least for several months or risk permanent injury. This does not sit well with Gilles whose dream is to become a member of the Belgian National under 15 team. With the help of the girl who has fallen for Gilles, "Lies" Ninke Gryp provides him with cortisone from her mothers pharmacy for several months. During this time Gilles keeps practicing with his father. His mom, Anne, soon discovers about the Orun ReRe and the visits from dad and becomes very concerned, not only about his foot, but also about the state of Gilles' mental health, although even Anne senses Bert's presence at one of the games. Soon Gilles and Désiré get tryout letters for the national team.All while this transpires, after Bert's death, the store accountant, "Joris" Peter Bulckaen, and Anne get the store's finances back in order, remodel the store for a higher end clientèle, and in the process fall in love. One day Gilles sees Joris and Anne in the shower and starts resenting Joris even more. Things soon come to a head when Anne finds out that Gilles has hidden the letter from the orthopedist for two weeks and reads him the riot act demanding he quit football. This angers Gilles so much he disappears and has another visit with dad. This visit is much longer and causes Anne and Joris to call in the police to find the missing boy. Dad has something up his sleeve to brighten Gilles up and soon every football hero of dad and son appear to play a game with Gilles. During that game Bert and Gilles have a serious argument about not using his left foot. This argument is so serious that Bert asks Gilles if it is best that he stop seeing Gilles. Tearfully, Gilles agrees that it is time the visits end and he leaves his dad for the last time.The next morning the police take Anne to where they've found Gilles asleep upon where he is immediately grounded. Unfortunately for Gilles the next day is the game day for the national team tryout. Gilles turns off Anne's alarm clock and goes to the tryout game anyway. Anne soon awakens and realizes what Gilles has done. She immediately proceeds to the stadium and confronts Gilles on the field before the game demanding he not play. Gilles reveals to her that he is no longer seeing his father and pleads with her to at least let him have the glory of trying out upon which she relents. During the game Gilles scores a brilliant goal where immediately after another boy fouls him and fractures his right ankle. Oddly enough the fact that Gilles can't play any longer affects his mother more that it does Gilles who has since come to grips with the fact he can no longer play. In fact, upon returning home Gilles removes every poster and picture of the all of his and dad's favorite football greats and replaces them all with one solitary picture. The picture is the one of his dad where the glass is still shattered.His friend Désiré is even saddened to tell Gilles the exciting news that he had made the national team but Gilles surprises him by telling him how happy he is that Désiré always deserved to make the team. This scene shows the bonds and caring the boys, from different backgrounds, have for one another and how strong their friendship and loyalty are.The show ends on a slightly sad high note. Gilles goes to the first game of the Belgian National under 15 Red Devil's match to watch Désiré play. Désiré wins the match and on the closing scene you see the loyalty and camaraderie these two boys always shared. Gilles has also, by this time, come to accept and approve of the relationship between his mother and Joris and is glad that his mother is finally happy again.This movie is perfect family fare and is great enough to make an American child willing to read the subtitles. This movie is HIGHLY recommended by nottyboi (who is American)!Regarding PAL and non region 0 or 1 movies:Now, if you live in the US or Canada, and don't want to miss out on TONS of great foregin movies only available in PAL and region 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, &amp; 8 you will need to buy an all region machine that ALSO plays PAL &amp; NTSC. If you are unwilling to spend a few more dollars on a machine like that I feel sad for you because there are so many other great foreign movies that are simply NOT available in NTSC and region 1 at all! If you know where to get one they aren't very expensive. Most portables can play PAL but not all regions and all computers with the right software can play PAL, NTSC, and any region.
