Teoh is dumped by his live-in girlfriend who takes all her possessions, including the washing machine. He buys a second-hand machine, which is when things go wrong.
Teoh's second hand washing machine has a life of her own: she washes when she wants to and stops when she feels like it. When Teoh discovers the secret soul of this temperamental slave, he exploits her for all his other household chores. And then he pimps her out to strangers. When middle-aged widower Mr. Wong takes her in, his prodigal son immediately tries to seduce her, while his petulant daughter becomes more and more suspicious. In this off-kilter dark comedy, the effects of alienation and desperation in the increasingly commodified city of Kuala Lumpur will spiral before you like a dry spin in slow motion.
Teoh (Loh Bok Lai) is a broken-hearted bachelor whose depression at his job causes him to be reprimanded by his superior. It seems his girlfriend has left him and he momentarily salves his misery by shopping for a washing machine. The one he purchases begins to malfunction driving him to wash his clothes by hand. When he calls the manufacturer about repairs he is told that the machine is out of production and there are no serviceable parts for him. He calls in an independent repairman who finds the machine in good working order but when he leaves the machine again breaks down. Teoh's relationship with the demanding machine reaches an interesting level, and at one point he can be seen dragging the machine into his bedroom to rest next to him as he watches television. One night he is awakened by the presence of a Woman (Amy Lin) in his kitchen sitting next to the washing machine. The woman moves in permanently and washes, cooks and cleans. Teoh buys her a dress and at one point pimps her out to a Short Thug (Yuhang Ho) from whom she leaves after he is knocked unconscious. When a group of thugs attacks Teoh, the Woman runs and jumps into the car of Mr. Wong (Teoh Kah Yong) an older widower who happens to own a broken washer just like Teoh's. Mr. Wong allows The Woman to wash, and clean and cook continuously in his house but when his daughter Yuen (Chin Lee Ling) discovers the Woman she tries to drive her out. One peculiar trait is that The Woman never speaks, not even when asked a direct question. This is very disconcerting to those who come in contact with her eventually motivating everyone to resort to giving the woman orders or attempting to seduce her. Yuen is the long-time girlfriend of Yap (Yap Kok Chong), an office associate of Teoh's and Yuen's father Mr. Wong would like her to marry Yap, the man with whom she has been living with for many years. Yap at one point forces himself on The Woman and Mr. Wong sees Yap rape the Woman but does nothing. Later when Yuen confronts the Woman she leaves, creating a vacuum in the lives of those she has touched.
