A young girl inhabits an isolated island with her scientist father and communicates with a reclusive author of the novel she's reading.
Nim Rusoe is a girl who joins her father, a scientist, when he does research on marine life on an island. It's just the two of them but she spends her time making friends with all the animals she encounters, chatting on the computer and reading the adventure books of Alex Rover. When her father goes to do some research but when a storm strikes the island he doesn't come back, she gets worried and frightened. She then e-mails Alex Rover hoping that he will come but what she doesn't know is that Alex Rover is a woman who is agoraphobic and germaphobic. But her creation comes to life and eggs her to go. Unfortunately she has never gone anywhere before and is denied her necessities like her sanitary gel by the customs officer at the airport. In the meantime, Nim tries to be strong while waiting for Alex to arrive.
11 year old Nim lost her mother as an infant. Since then she has lived alone with her father, marine biologist Jack Rusoe, on an isolated island in the South Pacific. There are no other human beings on the island, but Nim has developed a close relationship to the sea lion Selkie, the lizard Fred, and the pelican Galileo - and to fictitious characters in her favorite novels. When Jack goes out in his boat to find new nanoplanktons, Nim stays alone on the island. A devastating storm is coming, Jack loses his cell phone, and after a couple of days Nim fears that something terrible has happened. Via email she begs the fictitious hero Alex Rover to come and help her. What Nim doesn't know is that the real person she contacts is the female author Alexandra Rover. She is a borderline agoraphobic, who hasn't left her house in San Francisco for 16 weeks. Trigged by her fictitious character Alex Rover, Alexandra at last starts the long journey by airplane, boat and helicopter to reach Nim. In the meantime tourists from a luxury cruiser invades Nim's island. Nim uses all possible means to fight them, and succeeds to drive them away before Alexandra finally arrives to the island. Together they wait for news about what has happened to Jack .
Anything can happen on Nim's Island, a magical place ruled by a young girl's imagination. It is an existence that mirrors that of her favorite literary character, Alex Rover - the world's greatest adventurer. But Alexandra, the author of the Rover books, leads a reclusive life in the big city. When Nim's father goes missing from their island, a twist of fate brings her together with Alexandra. Now they must draw courage from their fictional hero, Alex Rover, and find strength in one another to conquer Nim's Island.
Nim's Island tells the story of a young girl named Nim (Abigail Breslin). She lives on a beautiful uncharted island with her father Jack Rusoe (Gerard Butler), a research scientist studying microscopic marine organisms. She spends her days having wild adventures in the woods along with her animal friends, Fred the lizard, Galileo the pelican, and Selki the seal, and her wild imagination. Nim has a huge passion for books, especially the Alex Rover books. Jack is about to take Nim on a two day research trip looking for protozoa, but Nim begs to be left behind so she can help the hatching baby sea turtles. Jack reluctantly leaves Nim behind and sails out to sea. While he is away, Alexandra Rover (Jodie Foster) the author of the Rover books emails Jack to get his knowledge about volcanoes for her next book. Nim replies thinking he is the great adventurer Alex Rover. Everything goes well until a huge storm hits the island and Jack becomes lost at sea. Nim sends a letter to her literary hero pleading for help. Little does Nim know, that Alex Rover is a woman (Jodie Foster). Alexandra is agoraphobic and never leaves the house. She rarely even opens her front door. Alex also has a wild immagination, whereas her fictional character Alex Rover (also Gerard Butler) talks to her, mocks her, and gives her pep talks. When they find Nim's Letter, fictional Alex badgers Alexandra until he finally convinces her to leave the confines of her townhouse to go and help Nim. After a long and terrifying journey, both of the Alex's make it to Nim's Island and try to help. Will they find Nim's father? Find out by going to see Nim's Island.Written by Joy Pearson
