Samir is in love with Sonia but has unfortunately lied to her that he was already married.When she wants to meet her wife,Samir approaches his dutiful nurse Naina to play 'wife'a drama that turns out into a comedy of errors.
Samir is a very successful doctor: He not only looks after his patient's various maladies, but also looks after his female patients' hearts. Most women fall for him and his irresistible charms. The only person who has not fallen for him is his dutiful nurse Naina. Whenever a girl gets too close to Samir and starts talking about marriage, he sends her off by telling her he is already married. However, one day, he meets Sonia, a beautiful young woman and Samir is smitten. When she learns of his 'wife', she wants to meet her -- and Samir introduces Naina, as well as her niece and nephew, as his wife and children. Samir then arranges a fake divorce from a fake wife with the help of his best friend, lawyer Vicky who, despite having a steady girlfriend, frequently flirts with Naina. To complicate things further, Samir's mother suddenly appears and doesn't want her son get divorced from Naina (when he isn't married to her in the first place). And then, there is Sonia's neighbor Pyare, who does not want Sonia to marry Samir: he wants Sonia for his own and she seems to like him, too. The web of lies around everyone grows thicker and thicker, but finally, Samir is able to marry Sonia. Will this marriage takes place? Or will Sonia learns the truth about Samir and cancels the wedding?
Suicide-prone Sonia believes her boyfriend, Dr. Samir Malhotra, is married to Naina, who he is about to divorce, and she wants to meet her. Samir arranges a meeting, but neglects to inform an annoyed Sonia that he is also the father of two children. Samir attempts to patch things up with visits to Mumbai's Juhu and Dubai's Jumeirah beaches; deals with Sonia's nosy neighbor, Pyare Mohan, while coming to terms with Naina's boyfriends. Things get even more complicated with the entry of Samir's feisty Hoshiarpur-based mom - who is determined to stop the divorce proceedings by hook or by crook.
An Indian flirt named Samir, who is a doctor, has affairs with many girls. But these affairs do not last long as he gets bored of them and dumps them. He has a variety of excuses to dump them, chief amongst them being that he is already married and cannot divorce his wife. He carries on in this way and breaks many a heart. Then he meets with an attractive young woman whose name is Sonia, and falls head over heels in love with her. He is now in a fix, for he has already told her that he is married. So how is he going to get out of this hot soup that he has created for himself? Simple, he asks a nurse in his clinic to pose as his wife, who he will eventually divorce and then get married to Sonia. Will the wily flirt get away with this, or is he just looking for more trouble and problems?

