Novelist Catherine Tramell is once again in trouble with the law, and Scotland Yard appoints psychiatrist Dr. Michael Glass to evaluate her. Though, like Detective Nick Curran before him, Glass is entranced by Tramell and lured into a seductive game.
Crime novelist Catherine Tramell is living in London, and becomes the center of police investigation (yet again) when her football player boyfriend drowns in a car accident and it is revealed that he was already dead because of a drug overdose before Tramell drove the car into water. Police psychoanalyst Dr. Michael Glass is called for examining Tramell, and is intrigued by the seductive and manipulative woman. On the other hand , his friend Det. Roy Washburn is sure Tramell is guilty. Tramell asks Glass to treat her for her 'risk addiction' problem, and with each therapy session , Glass gets more and more suspicious about her intentions. As more and more murders are committed, including that of Glass's ex-wife, Glass becomes obsessed with proving Tramell's guilt even though the evidence is contradictory .
The decadent life of novelist Catherine Trammell continues in this sequel that finds her in the opening sequence speeding through the streets of London using the hand of her obviously under-the-influence soccer star boy friend to masturbate herself. After the car goes out of control, she manages to escape but he drowns leading to an investigation of whether she had in fact murdered him with an implication that he was already dead before the car even entered the water. Officials bring in a police psychologist to determine her mental state. Obsession sets in and the psychiatrist is drawn into her manipulations and dangerous world. As deaths occur around the pair involving acquaintances of both parties, including the psychiatrist's ex-wife, the story twists (and doesn't answer) to make you wonder who is committing the crimes.
In London, while using drugs and having sex in a speeding car with a famous soccer player, the blond writer Catherine Tramell drives off the road, falls in the river and the athlete drowns. Dr. Michael Glass is assigned for a forensic evaluation, and in spite of being against bail, Catherine is released. Later Catherine goes to Dr. Michael's office and initiates therapy with him, and he sees that she is an omnipotent manipulative woman. However, as far as Dr. Michael knows her deeper and deeper, he becomes obsessed for her, while people of their relationship are killed.
Set in London, 15 years after the first 'Basic Instinct' movie, the film opens with American best-selling author Catherine Tramell (Sharon Stone) in a speeding car with her companion, Kevin Franks (Stan Collymore), a famous English football star. Tramell takes the man's hand and begins masturbating with it, all the while increasing her vehicle's speed. At the point of orgasm, Tramell veers off the road and crashes into the West India Docks in Canary Wharf. She attempts to save her partner but, as she says while being questioned by the police, "When it came down to it, I guess my life was more important to me than his".Tramell is interrogated by Scotland Yard Detective Supt. Roy Washburn (David Thewlis), who notes that D-Tubocurarine, a neuromuscular blocking agent used to relax muscles during general anesthesia, was found in her car and in her companion's body, and the companion wasn't breathing at the time of the crash, and that a man named "Dicky Pep" said that he sold Tramell "15 milliliters of DTC last Thursday". Tramell counters by saying that this Dicky Pep must be lying because "you've got him on some other charge and he's trying to deal his way out, if he even exists".Tramell begins therapy sessions with Dr. Michael Glass (David Morrissey), who has conducted a court-ordered psychiatric exam and given testimony in her case. Glass strongly suspects that Tramell is a narcissist sociopath incapable of telling the difference between right and wrong. Tramell begins to play mind games with Glass, who becomes increasingly frustrated with, yet intrigued by, this mysterious woman. Soon, Glass's own life begins a spiral of destruction.One night, Glass goes on a date with Michelle Broadwin, and has rough, violent sex with her after dealings with Tramell. Glass receives a phone call from his ex-wife, Denise, in a state of distress. Her partner, Adam Towers, a journalist writing a negative story about Dr. Glass, has been found strangled to death. Glass suspects that Tramell committed the murder and is attempting to frame him for it. More murders begin to surface around Glass as his obsession with Tramell grows and his career and life are threatened - he finds his ex-wife in a bathroom with her throat slit after they have an altercation in a bar. Later, Dicky Pep is killed - eventually, he himself can no longer tell right from wrong, and the police begin to suspect Glass of involvement in the crimes. He confronts Tramell at her apartment where they engage in passionate sex.The situation comes to a head during a confrontation between Glass and Tramell at her apartment where, after a struggle, Glass attempts to kill Tramell. Tramell gives Glass a copy of the draft of her next novel, titled The Analyst. After reading it, he realizes that Tramell has novelize most of the recent events with herself and other people related to Glass, even himself, as characters. Then it turns out that the character based on herself is going to kill a therapist based on Glass's colleague, Dr. Milena Gardosh.Glass runs to Gardosh's apartment to warn her, finding Tramell there to his dismay. Gardosh tells him that he is no longer in charge of Tramell's therapy and that he's going to have his license revoked, due to bad practice regarding Tramell's treatment. There is a struggle between Glass and Gardosh, in which the latter is knocked out. Tramell then threatens Glass with a gun she carries, but Glass takes it away from her. When Washburn arrives at the scene, Glass shoots him because Tramell told him he had killed the girlfriend of one of Glass's patients just to "nail him".In the final scene, Tramell pays a visit to Glass at a local mental hospital where he has been institutionalized, and he learns from her that the subject of her latest best-selling novel was a man very much like him. Tramell claims that she manipulated Glass into committing all those murders for her own amusement, and flashbacks are shown of Glass indeed committing the murders... due to Catheren Tramll's manipulation of being her pawn in her latest game. Tramell leaves with a wicked smirk on her face, while Glass continues to sit silently in his wheelchair, stymied by frustration and rage over her yet again getting away with everything.
