An inept tae kwon do instructor struggles with marital troubles and an unhealthy obsession with fellow tae kwon do enthusiast Chuck "The Truck" Wallace.
Small town Tae Kwon Do instructor Fred Simmons relishes the power that comes from being the king of a small kingdom. A former champion, Mr. Simmons fancies himself one in the same as his hero, Chuck "The Truck" Wallace, a B-movie Martial Arts film star. Mr. Simmons openly boasts about his self-proclaimed status as "king of the demo" [Tae Kwon Do demonstration], even though he can't nail one to save his life. His only vulnerability lies in his adoration of his wife Suzie - a weakness that comes bubbling to the surface when Mr. Simmons discovers Suzie has cheated on him with her new boss. When Suzie leaves him, Mr. Simmons finds himself slipping into a crushing downward spiral. He struggles to keep "the power" by abusing anyone who challenges him. After losing students and making a fool out of himself, he finds allies in Julio Chavez, his nine-year-old apprentice, and Henry Harrison, one of his students with an "obvious confidence problem." When his bizarre best friend Mike McAllister comes to visit, the four make a pilgrimage to meet the greatest Martial Artist of all time, "The Truck," at a Tae Kwon Do convention. What starts as a crazy man's expedition to escape turns into a trip of discovery, as Mr. Simmons and his crew party with "The Truck" and Mr. Simmons convinces him to perform a demo at his Tae Kwon Do school during the upcoming belt-qualifying testing. Inspired with renewed strength, Fred returns from the convention clear-headed and at the top of his game, until he is shocked by an unexpected turn of events when Suzie returns home, and the "The Truck" flies in from Hollywood to appear at his Tae Kwon Do school. In the end, Mr. Simmons faces the greatest test of his power and finds the strength he outwardly projects within his own spirit.
Small town Tae Kwon Do instructor Fred Simmons relishes the power that comes from being the king of a small kingdom. A former champion, Mr. Simmons fancies himself one in the same as his hero, Chuck "The Truck" Wallace, a B-movie Martial Arts film star. Mr. Simmons openly boasts about his self-proclaimed status as "king of the demo" [Tae Kwon Do demonstration], even though he can't nail one to save his life. His only vulnerability lies in his adoration of his wife Suzie - a weakness that comes bubbling to the surface when Mr. Simmons discovers Suzie has cheated on him with her new boss. When Suzie leaves him, Mr. Simmons finds himself slipping into a crushing downward spiral. He struggles to keep "the power" by abusing anyone who challenges him. After losing students and making a fool out of himself, he finds allies in Julio Chavez, his nine-year-old apprentice, and Henry Harrison, one of his students with an "obvious confidence problem." When his bizarre best friend Mike McAllister comes to visit, the four make a pilgrimage to meet the greatest Martial Artist of all time, "The Truck," at a Tae Kwon Do convention. What starts as a crazy man's expedition to escape turns into a trip of discovery, as Mr. Simmons and his crew party with "The Truck" and Mr. Simmons convinces him to perform a demo at his Tae Kwon Do school during the upcoming belt-qualifying testing. Inspired with renewed strength, Fred returns from the convention clear-headed and at the top of his game, until he is shocked by an unexpected turn of events when Suzie returns home, and the "The Truck" flies in from Hollywood to appear at his Tae Kwon Do school. In the end, Mr. Simmons faces the greatest test of his power and finds the strength he outwardly projects within his own spirit.[Since the discussion page is broken and I feel that an explanation is needed, I'll make it here. For some reason, what should have been the Synopsis was posted in the Summary, and visa-versa. Because of that, I copied-and-pasted the contents of the Summary page here, and submitted what was here (in the Synopsis) as a correction for the Summary. I don't claim to be the author of either piece of text.]
