Aeon Flux is a mysterious assassin working for the Monicans, a group of rebels trying to overthrow the government. When she is sent on a mission to kill the Chairman, a whole new mystery is found.
400 years in the future, set in the year 2415, Aeon Flux is a mysterious assassin. Four centuries after a virus nearly annihilated the human race, leaving only five million survivors in a utopian city called Bregna. Aeon is struggling to destroy the Goodchild regime led by its namesake, Trevor Goodchild, the ruler of Bregna and a descendant of the man who found a cure for the deadly virus. As instructed by the Handler, Aeon is assigned to assassinate Goodchild, but there are deeper secrets to be discovered, and conspiracies to be foiled.
400 years in the future, when disease has wiped out the majority of the earth's population except for one walled, protected city-state: Bregna, ruled by a congress of scientists. The story centers on Aeon Flux, the top operative in the underground Monican rebellion, led by the Handler. When Aeon is sent on a mission to kill a government leader, she uncovers a world of secrets....
In the Century XXV, a virus exterminated most of the population of Earth, and the last city is Bregna, which is ruled by Trevor Goodchild (Marton Csokas) and protected by wall from the outside world. A resistance group entitled Monicans and led by The Handler (Frances McDormand), assigns the assassin Aeon Flux (Charlize Theron) to kill Trevor and overthrow the government. However, Aeon Flux discloses a scheme plotted by Oren Goodchild (Jonny Lee Miller) against his brother Trevor and she resolves to protect Trevor instead of killing him.
The year is 2415. 400 years after a virus wiped out half of the world's population, the people that survived the virus now live in Bregna, a fortified city that is surrounded by a wall isolating the people from the virus infested rest of the world. Living in Bregna City, Aeon Flux, a mysterious female assassin who works for a underground group of rebels led by Handler. Aeon's latest assignment is to assassinate Trevor Goodchild, a member of the council that controls Bregna City. When Aeon's younger sister Una is killed by government agents, Aeon disobeys orders and decides to protect Trevor, and suspects Trevor's brother Oren and the council members are plotting against Trevor. And when Handler learns Aeon failed the mission, Handler orders Aeon to be eliminated, and Aeon must risk everything as she not only protects Trevor, but also uncovers secrets and answers about her mysterious past and the government and all life in Bregna City itself.
Set against the 2011 virus that kills 99% of the world's populace, and in the last city on Earth, Bregna, the survivors, some four hundred years later, in the year 2415, are continuing to live in the Goodchild dynasty, the name of the scientist who developed its cure. All is not well in this utopia and it is not what lies beyond its high walls that protects its citizens from the never ending jungle but what unspoken, unwritten taboo that holds and binds these unfortunates' together that lies within these walls of paranoia, conformity and unquestionable obedience. Filmed in and around Berlin, ironically, this is a story set against a totalitarian state, a walled city, where its peoples are no longer capable of reproducing, and its sinister and most secret plot of how it sustains life. Æon Flux is the assassin that has been assigned by the underground rebels to change the course of Mankind, forever. This is the story of her fight for justice, freedom and revenge.

