A cybercrime investigator tracks a man suspected of force-feeding women to death.
An Interpol cop from Sydney, who has his own demons, pursues a man in the United States who liberates women from the cultural norms of thinness by feeding them to gross weights. He also shows their photographs to Internet subscribers. But what else is he up to? The Aussie suspects murder or worse. The cop, Phillip Jackson, and his mark, Michael Metszencalmpf, are in a game of cat and mouse - but which is the cat?
In Sidney, the Interpol agent Phillip Jackson investigates crimes in Internet with his partner Nigel. After a mission in Hamburg, Phillip has troubles in the relationship with his liberal girlfriend Abbey that tags him "chauvinist pig". While researching the web, Phillip finds a bizarre site where a man shows obese women being fed by him. He finds the origin of the site in Ohio, and without authorization, he travels to USA pursuing the pervert Michael Metszencalmpf, a.k.a. Michael Carter. When Phil meets Michael, he surprisingly knows who Phil is; further, Michael tells that what he is doing is not wrong since he is releasing fat women from the standards of thinness imposed by the society. However, Phil discovers the true motives of Michael, beginning a personal war against the deranged criminal.
Interpol Investigator Phillip Jackson (Patrick Thompson) makes his living hunting some of the world's most disturbing cyber criminals. In the course of his duties, Jackson encounters a Feeder/Gainer website run by an American named Michael Carter (Alex O'Loughlin). Carter, an intelligent, (and sociopathic) suburban husband, spends his free-time streaming live footage of women being fed to the point they become immobile and eventually die. Jackson rushes to America to save Carter's latest volunteer/victim, Deidre (Gabby Millgate), who is now close to 600 lbs, before she meets the same fate as Carter's previous Gainers. However, Jackson receives little to no support from Interpol, due to the fact Deidre is a consenting adult and no proof exists that Carter has committed actual murder. As he attempts to locate where Carter is holding Deidre and prove Carter is a murderer, Jackson enters a form of psychologival cat-and-mouse game which he may not be prepared to face.
