A young woman tries to find her injured boyfriend in a bizzare and dangerous hospital.
In Louisiana, while driving on the State Route 53, Emily has a car accident. Her boyfriend Bobby and their friends Clare, Dmitriy and Jude find that she had hit a stranger. When they see an ambulance on the road, they ask for help and the attendants bring them to Mercy Hospital. The nurse, Marian, asks Bobby to go to the exam room. When Emily tries to get information about her boyfriend, she meets Dr. David Benway who tells her Bobby is all right. But soon Emily unravels a dark secret about Dr. Benway and his team.
A group of recent college grads are taking a final vacation together when an accident leaves them hurt and stranded on a lonely Louisiana road. An ambulance arrives and takes them to Mercy Hospital, an eerie, half-empty place that harbors a chilling secret: a doctor conducting inhuman experiments on its helpless victims.
After five friends suffered a car crash on a desert road, they are taken to a supposedly abandoned hospital, where they are subjected to bizarre human experiments, led by a sadistic doctor and his staff, who use the victims' organs to try to save his dying wife.
It's the middle of the night. You're driving on a lonely road. Suddenly, out of nowhere, another car hits you. When you wake up there's shattered glass all over the pavement, your friends are injured, and the other car is gone. You're disoriented, hurting--but when you see the ambulance's flashing red and blue lights, you know help has arrived.Emily Johnson, her boyfriend Bobby and their friends Clare and Jude are recent college grads driving cross-country, taking a last vacation together before they face the "real" world. An accident leaves them hurt and stranded on a lonely Louisiana road. When the ambulance arrives, it whisks them to Mercy Hospital. With a minimal staff and many of its floors empty, the hospital is an eerie place--but that's only the beginning.The staff is conducting inhuman experiments on helpless patients under the instruction of Dr. Benway, a direct descendant of the infamous New Orleans family that committed atrocities in the 19th century.
