A deadly infection breaks out in Manhattan, causing humans to devolve into blood-thirsty rat creatures. Six recently evicted tenants must survive the night and protect their downtown apartment building as the city quickly spirals out of control.
A mysterious virus, carried by mutant rats, creates pandemonium in New York City in which rat-bite victims turn into homicidal rat-mutants. This movie centers on six tenants of a tumbledown tenement on Mulberry Street who grouse about the heat; Clutch is a former boxer waiting the arrival of his daughter Casey, a physically and emotionally scared Iraq War veteran; Coco is the resident drag queen, while Kay is a local waitress at odds with her teenage son Otto, whom Clutch acts as a father figure to; Frank is a cancer-stricken World War II veteran hold up in his apartment at odds with the building superintendent Charlie. But as night falls, they find themselves battling a horde of mutants turning powerless New Yorkers into a bloodthirsty new rat/cannibal zombie-like species. Clutch must lead the tenants as they fight to survive the night against the both the rats and the rapidly multiplying cannibal mutants.
In Manhattan, in a dilapidated building on Mulberry Street, the super Ross has trouble to repair the decayed systems to improve the lives of the tenants. The former boxer Clutch is a leader in the building and is anxiously waiting for the return of his beloved daughter Casey from a hospital for veterans after serving overseas. He prepares a surprising homecoming party for Casey with his gay neighbor Coco. Clutch feels an attraction for his neighbor, the single mother and waitress Kay, and her teenage son Otto respects him like a father. Clutch is also close to Frank, who is very sick, and his friend Charlie. Meanwhile there is a rat attack in a subway station, followed by two others in different stations, forcing the Major to shut down the public transport system. Soon the victims bitten by rats turn into flesh eating mutants, attacking the other human beings, and there is an outbreak that puts Manhattan in quarantine. The inhabitants have to fight to survive the attack of the ratlike creatures and Clutch gives his best effort trying to protect Casey and his friends.

