About a tragic love triangle story involving young painter Hye-young, Interpol detective Jeong Woo, and professional hitman Park Yi.
Set in Amsterdam, DAISY tells the story of a love triangle between a young girl and the two men in her life. Hye-young (Jeon Ji-hyun) is a painter in Amsterdam who looks after her grandfather's antique shop during the week and earns extra money as a street painter on weekends. It's through her painting that she meets Jeong-woo (Lee Sung-jae), an Interpol cop who is chasing a criminal, but keeps Hye-young in the dark about his real work.
"Daisy" is a story about the inevitable showdown between a detective and a killer who fall in love with the same woman. In the story, Jeon plays a street artist who dreams of opening her own exhibition someday, while Jeong portrays a killer who loves her but cannot confess his love to her because of his profession.
Artist Hyeyeong (Jeon, Ji-hyun) who is preparing for her private drawing exhibition in the Amsterdam plaza, is able to live on only because of the memories of her first love. She presents this first love, which she has never seen but was strongly moved by, with a picture of a daisy. In response to this picture, a daisy pottery is delivered to her everyday.Meanwhile, she notices a man who comes to draw portraits everyday at the same hour, and she begins to develop strange feelings from him. It turns out that he is an international cop, working undercover, intentionally trying to approach Hye-yeong. But, as time goes by he is captured by her innocent, bright personality.He knows he is not the person she has been waiting for, but he is afraid to tell her the truth for fear of losing her.Park Eui, the person Hye-yeong is actually waiting for witnesses with heart wrenching pain a loving feeling developing between Hye-yeong and Jeong-woo. He is a professional hit man who stays away from Hye-yeong because he has no choice. Though he can only watch Hye-yeong and Jeong-woo, his loving feelings for her do not disappear so easily.Two mens fate cross over each other through one woman, but the hardest decision is yet to be made when Park Eui receives a picture of Jeong-woo who is his next hit.
