After being mistaken for terrorists and thrown into Guantánamo Bay, stoners Harold and Kumar escape and return to the U.S., where they proceed to flee across the country with federal agents in hot pursuit.
The morning they return from their White Castle road trip, Harold and Kumar decide to go to Amsterdam because Harold doesn't want to wait ten days to see Maria again. On the plane, Kumar lights up his new bong, the air marshals think it's a bomb, and Harold and Kumar are arrested as terrorists and sent to Guantanamo Bay. Ordered to fellate a guard, they manage to escape, make their way to Florida, and head for Texas to find Kumar's ex-girlfriend's fiancé, the well-connected Colton, and get him to intercede with Washington on their behalf. Kumar still has a thing for Vanessa, the feds are in hot pursuit, and the legal weed of Amsterdam seems a long way away.
Right after coming home from their trip to White Castle, stoner friends Harold Lee and Kumar Patel decide to go to Amsterdam for both the legal weed and to find Maria, Harold's love interest. However, on the flight there, the duo are mistaken for terrorists after Kumar is caught smoking from a bong. Harold and Kumar are sent to Guantanamo Bay, but are able to escape. Upon returning to America, the duo realize that the only way for them to get out of trouble is to head to Texas, where their college friend Colton lives. Colton's family's political connections could get the duo out of trouble, but on their way to Texas, Harold and Kumar must avoid the Feds who are out to get them.
New Jersey-based Harold Cho and Kumar Patel decide to travel to Amsterdam so that Harold can be near his sweetheart, Maria. At the airport, the duo meet with Kumar's ex-girlfriend, Vanessa, in the company of her fiancé, the highly connected, Colton. After an encounter with security personnel, both board the plane, and are soon apprehended by two of the three air marshals as Kumar was smoking pot using a home-made contraption. The plane is forced to return back and both are taken into custody by the Homeland Security. Here they are found mistakenly guilty of being terrorists and transported to Guantanamo Bay in Cuba. Barely an hour later both manage to escape, join hands with Cuban refugees and land back in the U.S.. They attend party hosted by their friend, Raza Syed who lends them his convertible. They decide to travel to Texas, meet with Colton, who will use his connections to set matters right. After an eventful journey they finally manage to reach Colton's place, and he, in turn, promises to take care of them.
Discovering that Maria is now off to Amsterdam, Kumar Patel convinces buddy Harold Lee to fly out to find her down. Being mistaken for terrorists, Harold and Kumar are thrown into Guantanamo Bay. Escaping from their imprisonment, Harold and Kumar continues on their journey, with the Government following.
Following the events of Harold &amp; Kumar Go to White Castle, Harold Lee (John Cho) and Kumar Patel (Kal Penn) set off on a flight to Amsterdam so that Harold can pursue a budding romance with his neighbor, Maria (Paula Garcés).
Before they board their plane, they run into a friend from college, Colton Graham (Eric Winter), and Kumar's ex-girlfriend, Vanessa Fanning (Danneel Harris), who are getting married in Texas. During the flight, an old woman sees Kumar lighting his new invention, a smokeless bong, and, thinking the bong is a bomb, she screams "terrorist!". Air marshals detain the duo and the plane diverts to Washington D.C.Thinking Harold and Kumar are agents of a joint Al-Qaeda and North Korean conspiracy, Ron Fox (Rob Corddry), an obsessive and racist Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security, sends them to Guantanamo Bay detention camp in Cuba. He does this against the advice of NSA Vice-Chairman Dr. John Beecher (Roger Bart).With the inadvertent assistance of two other prisoners, Harold and Kumar escape and board a Cuban refugee boat to Miami, Florida. They meet up with their college friend, Raza Syed (Amir Talai), who loans them a car so they can travel to Texas to find Colton, hoping he will be able to help them through his father, who is connected with several high political officials.During the car ride, Kumar remembers first meeting Vanessa at the library and experiencing smoking a joint. Fox interrogates Harold and Kumar's parents, utilizing an incompetent interpreter, despite their English fluency. Harold and Kumar end up lost in Birmingham, Alabama. They mistake a group of African Americans for gang members, and after crashing their car, they flee on foot from the approaching group, who were actually planning to repair the car. They meet a friendly hunter and stay with him and his wife at their well-kept trailer home, even sharing some weed. When someone knocks at the door, Harold and Kumar hide in the basement and discover the couple's inbred cycloptic son. At night, while Kumar dreams of a threesome with Vanessa and a large bag of weed, Harold is shocked to find the son in his bed, and they promptly leave. In the woods, Harold and Kumar encounter a Ku Klux Klan rally. They hide until some members approach with a beer keg. After knocking out the two members and putting on their robes, they mingle until the other two return, declaring them to be "Mexicans".The Klansmen chase Harold and Kumar until their leader accidentally sets himself on fire. The two run into Neil Patrick Harris (as himself), who offers them a ride. Fox continues demonstrating his racial ignorance as he interrogates the African Americans Harold and Kumar encountered in Birmingham, as well as Harold and Kumar's friends, Rosenberg and Goldstein. Harris, under the influence of psychedelic mushrooms, smuggles them past Fox's security checkpoint. They stop at a brothel, but while Harris leaves with a big-breasted prostitute, Harold and Kumar separate and talk about their friendship issues with their girls. Harris causes a situation by branding his woman. As they flee, Harris is shot in the back. While grieving, Harold and Kumar look through Harris' possessions, finding Chris Fehn's mask, a jar of human hair, and a dozen mace cans. Harold and Kumar arrive in Texas, where Colton promises to help them out of their situation, but when he sees Kumar reconnecting with Vanessa, he turns them over to Fox. On the flight back to Guantanamo Bay, Kumar apologizes to Harold and they forgive each other.Harold uses Harris' mace to incapacitate two guards, but Fox catches them. As he prepares to shoot them, an infuriated Beecher knocks down Fox and calls him out on his incompetence, saying that it is people like him who make Americans look stupid. He tries to tie Fox up but slips and knocks the plane door open, sucking out everyone inside and falls to his death. Kumar hangs on to Harold, who has deployed a parachute, as Fox tries to shoot them, but falls to his death, and they crash through the roof of President George W. Bush's (James Adomian) Texas house, where the President is hiding from Dick Cheney. Bush brings them to his recreation room, and they bond by smoking weed. The President pardons the pair and sends the Secret Service to help them. Escorted by the Secret Service, Harold and Kumar arrive at the wedding just in time to stop it, revealing Colton's true nature. Enraged, Colton attacks Kumar, but Harold levels him. Vanessa is angry at Kumar for embarrassing her at the wedding, but forgives him when he recites the poem that he had been writing on the day they met, but was too embarrassed to share with her until now. The three leave the wedding, heading to Amsterdam, where Harold finds Maria. The movie ends with everyone enjoying the city and its offerings.In a post-credits scene, Harris is shown to have survived his wounds.
