A good ol' boy (McKinnon) gets into trouble with some mobsters, and then must seek assistance from his estranged, identical twin gay brother.
Randy Pearson (Ray McKinnon) is a wheeler-dealer good ole Southern boy running several businesses at the same time in a small Georgia town. Times are hard and Randy lands in hot water and must turn to some low rent loan sharks to keep his businesses from going under. Unfortunately for Randy, all his businesses are still making very little money. Franco (Paul Ben-Victor), a loan shark for the mob, wants to collect the mob's money, but Randy can't deliver, and Randy is now in deep trouble. His only hope of saving his skin (and his truck) is turning to his family which includes his chronically depressed, carpal tunnel syndromed, baton twirling instructor wife, and his gay, identical twin, antique store owner brother. However, the mob has other plans to use Randy's business to move some of their goods. Franco sends the mob enforcer, Tino (Walton Goggins), to run the operations. Tino begins to make all the businesses very profitable. There is only one problem; Franco must drive down to the small Georgia town to collect the mob's money from Tino. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy) From Academy Award winning director Ray McKinnon, comes "Randy and the Mob," a feel-good, slice of Southern life comedy. It's the story of good ol' boy Randy Pearson (McKinnon), who can't seem to help getting in over his head. His latest scheme to keep his businesses afloat goes awry when a long-standing debt becomes due to a couple of low level Italian mobsters. Randy's forced to swing into action, but his only hope is a helping hand from his carpal-tunneled, baton-teaching wife (Golden Globe Nominee Lisa Blount); his estranged, gay twin brother (also played by McKinnon), and "Tino Armani" ("The Shield's" Walton Goggins), a mysterious modern day prophet with a knack for high fashion, Italian cooking and clogging. [D-Man2010]Winner of the Audience Choice Award at the 2007 Nashville Film Festival and shot on location in and around Atlanta by all Southern filmmakers, "Randy and the Mob" is a powerful reminder of the strength of Southern roots, where love and family can usually be counted on to trump all adversities. A good ol' boy, Randy Pearson, can't seem to help getting in over his head. His latest scheme to keep his businesses afloat goes awry when a long-standing debt becomes due to a couple of low level Italian mobsters. Randy's forced to swing into action, but his only hope is a helping hand from his carpal-tunneled, baton-teaching wife; his estranged, gay twin brother, and "Tino Armani," a mysterious modern day prophet with a knack for high fashion, Italian cooking and clogging. [D-Man2010]
