The real story of a dance teacher who believed in the talent of a group of problem kids.
In New York, the polite dance instructor Pierre Dulaine sees a black teenager vandalizing the car of the director of a public school and on the next day he volunteers to teach dance to students to give respect, dignity, self-confidence, trust and teamwork. The reluctant director Augustine James offers the troublemakers that are in detention expecting Pierre to give-up of his intentions. Pierre struggles against the prejudice and ignorance of the students, parents and other teachers, but wins his battle when the group accepts to compete in a ballroom dance contest.
A former professional dancer (Banderas) volunteers to teach dance in the New York public school system. While his background first clashes with his students' tastes, together they create a completely new style of dance. Based on the story of ballroom dancer Pierre Dulane.
Based on a true story, the movie tells of the struggle of a dance teacher, Pierre Dulain (Antonio Banderas), to give to a group of problem kids a second chance by exploring their dance skills. One night Dulain is astonished to see a boy, Rock (Rob Brown) destroying his school director's car. The following day Dulaine goes to the school to ask for a job as a dance teacher. The director has little confidence in Dulaine's idea of helping kids (including Rock) in detention to reform through ballroom dance classes. Even the kids, who prefer hip-hop or rap, think it isn't a great idea. Despite criticism from students in his formal dance academy as well as from parents and fellow teachers who believe that the kids need more math and less dance, Dulain catches the students' attention with a tango session. After their initial indifference, they eventually compete in a dance contest; the important thing isn't winning, but making a difference.
Pierre Dulaine (Antonio Banderas) is a renowned professional ballroom dancer, who teaches ballroom dancing at his Manhattan dance studio. After seeing a car being vandalized by a student outside an inner-city high school, Pierre Dulaine walks into the school to talk to the Principal (Alfre Woodard). She has no time for him and to get rid of him she throws him a challenge, that he could make a difference by working with her worst students. Pierre Dulaine accepts the challenge and volunteers to teach ballroom dancing to a variety of students that have been sent to detention. The students are very skeptical of Pierre Dulaine, especially, when they find out that he wants to teach them ballroom dancing. All they know is hip-hop dancing. Dulaine's commitment and ability to change and adapt dance moves, eventually bring the student to his side. Together, they create a new style of dance and enter a major ballroom dance competition in New York City. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy)
