The First World War is over. Martins, after many years spent in war abroad, returns to his bride Elza in Latvia. He does not realize that the decisive battle for the heart of Elza and for the newly founded Latvian state is yet to come.
The film dramatizes November 11, 1919- a crucial date in the battle for Latvian independence. A year after the end of the official hostilities of WWI, a renegade German general and troops remain outside the Latvian capital. Latvian riflemen, most of them inexperienced volunteers, somehow managed to defeat a larger, better-armed force of German and Russian mercenaries.
It's the summer of 1915 and Martins and his loved Elza are about to get married. But war deals them another cards. The Czar has given the order to form volunteer Latvian rifleman regiments to defend the Russian empire and consequently Latvia as a part of it from German forces. It's the first time in 700 years when Latvians have their own military forces with their own commanders, they are eager to defend their homes against Teutonic invaders so many Latvians join the forces, Martins and few of his close friends too, leaving Elza with a promise to return soon and marry her.Few years later, the summer of 1919, Martins returns to Riga from serving in the Russian empire's well known Latvian riflemen forces fighting in WWI and later fighting for communist regime, where he proved himself to be a highly skilled and brave soldier. The war has ended with an Allied victory and the newly formed Republic of Latvia declared independence just the previous year so Martins understands that his wars are over and he doesn't want to be a part of the fight for communism any more.Tired from the war, Martins wants only to be home and finally settle down. He returns to Riga and wants to finally see Elza again and marry her, he meets some of his wartime friends along the way. But Elza is tired of waiting for him, she is not ready to marry him, she has doubts whether she still loves him. His friends arrange a party at local club for them and organize their wedding for the next day. Elza dances with Martins and regains her love for him.In the meantime, German General von der Golz, incensed over his armys defeat, has been secretly making plans to mobilize the impoverished German troops remaining on Latvian soil by luring them into attacking the Latvians with the promise of land and war spoils. He plans to use to his advantage the fact that the Iron Division of the German army was temporarily allowed to remain in Latvia, so long as they were useful to the Allies as a buffer against Communist aggression. Golzs intention is to take over Latvia and Estonia and create a new state- Balterland under his rule.In order to succeed with his plan, he conspires together with Russian Colonel Bermont, whose help he needs in masking the true identity of his army in front of the Allies. The Allies believe that Bermont actually plans to attack the Bolshevik strongholds in Russia.Golz orders Bermont and his troops to attack Riga. They enter Pardaugava where Martins, Elza and their friends live and are preparing for the wedding. They manage to escape occupied Pardaugava.Martins and Elza do make it across, but now fully realizing the dire predicament his city faces, Martins makes a decision to join the fighting and Elza sees that their wedding in postponed again because of war. Elza plans to leave Martins, but then recognizes that he is risking everything and could ultimately sacrifice his life to save their home, and that he needs her support now more than ever.Fiercely determined to defend his city, Martins uses his old army skills, expertise and ability to motivate full force. They decide to make a stand in the centre of the city and dig out trenches there. Golz takes full command of his forces back from helpless Bermont and orders to drop bombs and use artilery on Riga. There are many casualties and Bermont request Riga to surrender to his forces.Martins and his army buddies mobilize a heroically daring plan to defend Riga. Their plan succeds.The Latvian army fighting alongside with thousands of non-military volunteers determined to defend their city from the aggressors, manage to defeat the Germans forcing them to turn back and retreat. This miraculous victory ensures the continuation of the Republic of Latvia as an independent state. Martins and Elza are finally able to safely return home and turn to the future.
