When a regular guy dumps a superhero for her neediness, she uses her powers to make his life a living hell.
In New York, when the shy and lonely project manager of a design firm Matt Saunders meets Jenny Johnson in the subway, he invites her to date and have dinner with him. Jenny immediately falls in love for him, they have sex and she discloses her true identity to him, telling that she is the powerful superhero G-Girl. After meeting his co-worker and friend Hannah Lewis, the needy Jenny becomes jealous, controlling and manipulative, and Matt follows the advice of his best friend Vaughn Haige and dumps her, breaking her heart. Jenny turns Matt's life into hell, while he has a romance with Hannah. However, the archenemy of G-Girl and former high school sweetheart of Jenny, Professor Bedlam, proposes Matt to lure Jenny to strip her superpowers.
When a regular New York building designer guy Matt Saunders dumps Jenny Johnson, a smart, sexy, and reluctant superhero known as G-Girl because of her neediness, she uses her powers to make his life a living hell! Then, while Matt has a romance with his beautiful work partner Hannah, Professor Bedlam, the archenemy of G-Girl and former high school sweetheart of Jenny, makes a proposal to Matt to lure Jenny to strip her of her superpowers.
A chivalrous act of courage in New York's busy subway will pave the way for an unforeseen romance, when the meek Everyman and unlucky bachelor, Matt Saunders, meets the intriguingly bashful mugging victim, Jenny Johnson. However, is Matt truly Jenny's saviour? As there is a lot more to Jenny than meets the eye, the bustling metropolis' local super-heroine--the all-powerful and ever-present, G-Girl--is smitten with love to a mere mortal. Indeed, there is no greater force than love itself--and as an unexpected relationship forms between Matt and Jenny, and, sadly, passion turns to indifference--meticulously hidden secrets press to come to light. Could Jenny have an extraordinary and out-of-this-world alter ego? If so, who would have the guts to say no to a wonder-woman?
When Matt Saunders meets Jenny Johnson, he thinks he's found the perfect girl. However, he decides to break things off with her when she becomes too needy, controlling, and jealous. Jenny doesn't take it well and decides to get back at him by using her superpowers, as it turns out Jenny is a superhero named G-Girl. Meanwhile, Matt and his co-worker, Hannah start to have a romance with each other which sends Jenny over the edge.
Our boyfriend is coerced into asking a seemingly harmless, pretty young lady out on a first date. Little does he know that she is a vengeful, spiteful, rather overbearing woman masquerading as a normal citizen. Break her heart and she'll break your neck.

