Against the anxieties and fears of post-9/11 America, an Arab cab driver picks up a troubled professional woman with unexpected results.
With a PhD in Chemistry, devout and bearded, Syria-born Ashade Mouhana (Abdellatif Kechiche) drives a cab in New York, and must accept financial assistance from friends who attend the Islamic Council of America so that he can pay a lawyer to get his Canadian brother, who is being detained as a '2nd tier suspect', released. He also has to look after his toddler nephew and French-speaking Caucasian sister-in-law, Eloise (Elodie Bouchez), and is fearful that his brother may be tortured in Syria. One night he befriends a passenger, who identifies herself as Phyllis (Robin Wright Penn), claims she is Head of Programming of Q-Dog Television, sympathizes and offers to assist him get his brother released. He gets a shock when she asks him to carry out an act of terrorism as retribution against America. He walks away, and subsequently finds out that she has stolen his money. Shortly thereafter, his cab is confiscated by secret agents, and Eloise is held for questioning. Vengeful, he shaves off his beard, assumes the name of Habib and attends the offices of Q-Dog Television in order to confront Phyllis - not realizing the shock and trauma that await him when he finds out who Phyllis really is.
Ashade is a Syrian chemist who drives a cab in New York City and looks after his French-speaking sister-in-law and her child while they seek the release of Ashade's brother, a Canadian citizen grabbed at JFK by US intelligence and rendered to Syria. One night, Ashade takes a fare to New Jersey and back, a high-strung woman who says her name is Philly and that she's a producer of reality TV including "Sorry, Haters," an envy-stoking show about the wealth of the stars. Philly pushes into Ashade's life and promises help from a lawyer, but then simply takes Ashade's savings. His discovering who she really is and his attempts to get his life back take the rest of the film.

