Pod is a man without a dream. He's a country bumpkin who comes to work at a tinned sardine factory in Bangkok. One day, Pod chops off his finger and packs it in the can, prompting him to go around looking for his lost finger at various supermarkets. The incident convinces him to change his job, and Pod becomes a security guard at a large company. There he meets Jin, a lanky maid who carries a mysterious white book around even though she cannot read a single word written in it. The aimless Pod has a crush on Jin, a dreamy girl who dreams that one day she'll be able to decipher the meaning of the white book. In this bright, colour-splashed world of director Wisit Sasanatieng, Bangkokians can grow tails and a dead grandmother can come back as a chatty gecko to deliver a few life lessons to her grandson. It's a world where innocence is so precious and yet impossible to preserve. The unusual love story between Pod and Jin is set against the playfully ironic portrait of Bangkok, the city that offers false dreams and real disillusionment
Follow the life of Pod as he moves to Bangkok from the country. Pod's new life starts with getting a job, loosing a finger and dreaming about a girl. A movie were nothing is impossible, and just because you get killed by raining red helmets doesnt mean you have to stop driving motorcycle taxi. In the middle of all this crasy stuff Pod has to watch out so he doesnt grow a tail like his grandma warned him from. Jin, the girl that Pod loves, on the other hand is in love with a guy she calls Petter since thats the only foregin name she knows and dreams about one day understand the book she founded that is written in a diffrent language.
A strange, colorful romantic comedy by the director of Tears of the Black Tiger is the story of a country boy named Pod. He heads to the city to look for work, heedless of his grandmother who warns he'll grow a tale as soon as he finds a job. He takes a job first in a sardine cannery and loses a finger, only to find it again. He then becomes a security guard in an office and meets a maid, an introverted girl named Jin who obsessively cleans and reads a mysterious white book that she can't understand. Pod, a man with no dreams, is drawn to Jin. He changes jobs again, to a taxi driver, to help her out. However, Pod will have to take a backseat to Jin's other obsessive natures.

