Six couples in love must face different problems caused by love itself. Do they resolve their issues and face life anew, or do they succumb under pressure ?
Born in Dehra Dun, temperamental and ambitious Kamna changes her name to Kamini, hires Babu as her Manager and becomes one of the most sought-after heroines in Bollywood. As a publicity stunt and to get the attention of film-maker Karan Johar, she recruits Rahul to pose as her childhood sweetheart and future husband - which result in nothing but insecurities for both - as Rahul reveals his true character and starts to blackmail her; Gia Bakshi lives with her dad, Col. Bakshi and is in love with Shiven Dungarpur, both are to get married shortly, but Shiven starts to get cold feet and decides to disappear from her life, leaving Col. Bakshi no alternative but to arrange Gia's marriage with Rohit Chhada; Gia's sister, Seema, lives in Britain, has been married to Vinay Malhotra for 15 years, &amp; they have two children. While preparing to travel to India for Gia's marriage, Seema finds out that Vinay is having an affair with a gorgeous woman named Anjali - leaving her with nothing but heartbreak; Ashutosh Raina is a Hindu, but falls in love and gets married to Tehzeeb Hussain, who is Muslim, much to the chagrin of his dad who will not have anything to do with him. Tehzeeb is a TV news-reporter, and while traveling on an inaugural train route, the train derails, Tehzeeb survives but loses her memory, and is unable to recall who Ashutosh is - and may end up leaving him and returning to her parents' home; Raju is a taxi-driver, who comes to the assistance of a Caucasian female, Stefanie, who is frantically trying to hunt down her lover, Rohit Chhada. Raju drives her around Northern India and finally to the venue where Rohit is getting ready to get married to Gia - Stefanie will get her true love back?; Ramdayal weds attractive Phoolwati and would like to spend some intimate moments with her but comical circumstances prevent him from doing so. Watch what happens as fate takes these couples to their varying destinations.
Six young couples in different situations, face different quandaries. All their problems are apparently caused by love, too much, too little, love for the wrong people, love for people who don't want it, unrequited love, amnesia-afflicted love and what have you. Each of the 6 stories is moderately developed, the most believable being the Hindu-Muslim couple - the Ashutosh-Tehzeeb story. Then there is the starlet hungry to make it big, hatching up a publicity stunt which backfires - the Kkamini-Rahul deal. The third pair is that of Stephanie-Raju pair, she searching for her faithless Indian boyfriend and he the Indian taxi-driver who ferries her around the country. And then there is the Shiven-Gia yuppie marriage fiasco, with the groom with the cold-feet. The fifth story is of the stable married couple - Vinay-Seema, whose 15 year marriage is threatened when the husband wants more than just boring, suburban life. The sixth couple's story is of Isha-Sohail as a rural couple unable to give vent to their passion. The film runs through these six stories almost in parallel, taking us to their respective conclusions.

