When a Las Vegas performer-turned-snitch named Buddy Israel decides to turn state's evidence and testify against the mob, it seems that a whole lot of people would like to make sure he's no longer breathing.
Mob boss Primo Sparazza has taken out a hefty contract on Buddy "Aces" Israel, a sleazy magician who has agreed to turn state's evidence against the Vegas mob. The FBI, sensing a chance to use this small-time con to bring down big-target Sparazza, places Aces into protective custody-under the supervision of two agents dispatched to Aces' Lake Tahoe hideout. When the word of the price on Aces' head spreads into the community of ex-cons and cons-to-be, it entices bounty hunters, thugs-for-hire, deadly vixens and double-crossing mobsters to join in the hunt. With all eyes on Tahoe, this rogues' gallery collides in a comic race to hit the jackpot and rub out Aces.
Over the years, the FBI has largely been able to dismantle La Cosa Nostra, better known as the Mafia. One of the only remaining high profile Mafia bosses is Primo Sparazza. The FBI is working on getting a peripheral insider, Las Vegas headliner Buddy "Aces" Israel - so nicknamed because he largely performs card tricks in his magic act - to provide evidence against Sparazza in turn for witness protection. In conducting surveillance on Sparazza, FBI agents Richard Messner and Donald Carruthers overhear that Sparazza has taken a $1 million contract out on Aces, the person given the assignment an unknown Swede whose task also includes providing a piece of Aces' heart. Sparazza, who is in ill health, probably wants Aces dead as one last act of vengeance for what he may be doing. With $1 million on the line, the FBI know that other assassins, known and unknown to them, will also be trying to get to Aces first. However, Aces, who jumped bail, is on the lam hiding out in the penthouse suite of a Tahoe hotel, and is thus also being pursued by some bail bondsmen. With Aces having his weakness - women - it is not difficult for all of these players to track him down. The question becomes who will get to Luka first, and if that person's end goal is to kill him or take him alive. Some revelations may change the color of the proceedings.
A dying mob boss takes out a $1 million contract on the life of his former protégé, a Vegas magician turned gangster who has agreed to testify against the mob. The FBI attempts to protect their key witness as an array of hit men and women descend on Lake Tahoe in a race to take the magician out.
In these interlocking tales of high stakes and low lifes, Mob boss Primo Sparazza has taken out a hefty contract on Buddy "Aces" Israel - a sleazy magician who has agreed to turn state's evidence against the Vegas mob. The FBI, sensing a chance to use this small-time con to bring down big-target Sparazza, places Aces into protective custody-under the supervision of two agents dispatched to Aces' Lake Tahoe hideout. When word of the price on Aces' head spreads into the community of ex-cons and cons-to-be, it entices bounty hunters, thugs-for-hire, smokin' hot vixens and double-crossing mobsters to join in the hunt. With all eyes on Tahoe, this rogues' gallery collides in a comic race to hit the jackpot and rub out Aces.
Buddy "Aces" Israel, (Jeremy Piven), is a self-indulgent headliner magician at the MGM's main ballroom who grew up inside the Las Vegas mob, headed by mob boss, Primo Sparazza (Joseph Ruskin). "Aces" is a wannabe gangster who believes he has the brains to start his own gang and become his own mob boss. This move doesn't sit well with the real mob boss, who places a $1,000,000 contract on "Aces". When the contract hits the street, it brings out all sorts of psychopathic killers from around the world. "Aces" needs protection, so he is willing to turn state's evidence against the mob in return for witness protection and not going to prison. While he awaits the negotiations between his lawyer and the FBI, he is holed up in the penthouse suite of the Nomad Casino in Lake Tahoe, Nevada with his homies and some hookers. "Ace's" location must be an open secret, because all the hit men ascend to Lake Tahoe and converge on the penthouse to cash in on a big payday. Now the spoilers...Ace is illegitimate son of Sparazza, who is really a rogue FBI agent who took his identity years earlier. Sparazza wants him killed so he can have his heart transplanted, as his is failing. The FBI want to make this happen so they can get info on mob activities from Sparazza. FBI agent Messner (Ryan Reynolds), who lost his partner in the shootouts, is disgusted by the new information, and pulls the plug on the life support systems for both father and son.
