Based on the rise and fall of socialite Edie Sedgwick, concentrating on her relationships with Andy Warhol and a folk singer.
A beautiful, wealthy young party girl drops out of Radcliffe in 1965 and heads to New York to become Holly Golightly. When she meets a hungry young artist named Andy Warhol, he promises to make her the star she always wanted to be. And like a super nova she explodes on the New York scene only to find herself slowly lose grip on reality...
Believing it the place to start her art career, twenty-something socialite Edie Sedgwick moves from Cambridge to New York City in the mid 1960's. She is happy to get away from her parents, with who she has a dysfunctional but still dependent relationship. Early on after her move, the art goes by the wayside when she meets underground artist and filmmaker Andy Warhol. Warhol is infatuated with Edie, who in turn loves the attention he lavishes on her. She soon becomes the star of many of his movies, which often consist of her doing daily mundane activities, or answering questions from off-screen questioners. However, as a result of these movies and her association with Warhol, she becomes a media darling. Her relationship with Warhol begins to deteriorate when she meets iconic folk singer Tommy Quinn, who she characterizes as the antithesis of Warhol. The two men, who love Edie in their own way, make gestures to appear superior in front of Edie. Throughout this period, Edie's life was one of excess. The struggle between Warhol and Quinn in part led to the downfall for Edie, who ultimately had no one to turn to in her times of trouble.
This is a bio pic about Edie Sedgwick, (played magnificently by Sienna Miller) a waif-like rich girl who found favor with the celebrity media (hmmm, who does that sound like in todays culture?) in the 1960s through her association with pop artist, Andy Warhol (another great performance, this time by Guy Pearce). The pair of them form the core of a bunch of self-indulgent, unfettered sixties socialites that cling to Warhol, as he holds court at his studio (known as the factory, hence the title) as they live lives of excess and denial. Sedgwicks family is shown in a horrible light and Warhol is portrayed as an immature, narcissistic leech, constantly looking for rich people to exploit. Christensen plays folk singer, Billy Quinn, a fictional character rumored to be taking the place of Bob Dylan, who apparently had a relationship with Sedgwick.
(this first appeared on realmoviereview.com)
