The story of six young Indians who assist an English woman to film a documentary on the freedom fighters from their past, and the events that lead them to relive the long-forgotten saga of freedom.
Sue comes to India to make a film on Indian revolutionaries.She is helped by her friend Sonia who introduces her to her friends Karan,Aslam,Sukhi and their head DJ.Sonia's fiance Lt Ajay Rathod also joins the gang when in town.Their gang always gets in trouble with a political member Laxman who opposes their western culture.After many auditions Sue decides to caste DJ and his friend's in her film.She also casts Laxman in a role thus ending his feud with the gang.All things are going well until Ajay dies in plane crash but manages to save everyone on board.The state minister declares that Ajay died due to his own negligence .DJ an his friends can't take shame given to Ajay by minister and decide to fight for justice.Where things will take ugly events due to political games.
A young idealistic English filmmaker, Sue, arrives in India to make a film on Indian revolutionaries Bhagat Singh, Chandrashekhar Azad and their contemporaries and their fight for freedom from the British Raj. Owing to a lack of funds, she recruits students from Delhi University to act in her docu-drama. She finds DJ, who graduated five years ago but still wants to be a part of the University because he doesn't think there's too much out there in the real world to look forward to. Karan, the son of Industrialist Rajnath Singhania, who shares an uncomfortable relationship with his father, but continues to live off him, albeit very grudgingly. Aslam, is a middle class Muslim boy, who lives in the by-lanes near Jama Masjid, poet, philosopher and guide to his friends. Sukhi, the group's baby, innocent, vulnerable and with a weakness for only one thing - girls. Laxman Pandey, the fundamentalist in the group, the only one who still believes that politics can make the world a better place and finally Sonia - the sole girl in the group, tomboy and vivacious spirit, engaged to Ajay - the dashing air pilot. Through her film, Sue wishes to showcase to the world the efforts of these young revolutionaries and the enormity of their contribution to the freedom movement in India. What unfolds is the inspiration behind Sue's passion for bringing their story to the world. The twist in the tale is of course the fact that more than just telling the world, Sue's film makes DJ and his friends stop and stare at themselves for being the actual descendants of these great men and never recognizing and celebrating their courage and spirit.
Arriving in India, a UK graduate enlists a gang of college students to participate in a documentary about India's freedom fighters. Initially, these students scoff at the ideals and people of the past, but a sequence of events set in slow motion a merging of the past and present.
DJ or Daljeet, Sukhi, Karan, Aslam and Sonia are 5 friends who having graduated from Delhi University, hesitate to get out into the real world, and still roam the campus. Each of them is feisty and loyal. Into this group comes Sue straight from the UK, all determined to make her film on Indian freedom fighters, despite the shortage of funds. Introduced to the others by Sonia, she develops a strong bond with the rest, and especially with DJ. She persuades them to act in the film, and even woos Hindutva-vadi student party-worker Pandey to take the role of Ramprakash Bismil. Gradually the friends ponder over their roles and the lives of the selfless freedom-fighters, and in the face of a tragedy, realize that they too, like Bhagat Singh and Azad, must take action, to ensure that their now corrupt and poverty-laden country, awakens and the guilty do not go unpunished. How they do it, makes for an engrossing second-half.
Dedicated to lives of Indian Airmen who have died due to frequent MiG aircraft crashes, this is a story of five friends, Sukhi, Daljeet, Aslam Khan, Karan Singhania, &amp; Laxman Pandey who are approached by a U.K.-based Filmmaker, Sue, to participate in a documentary about India's freedom fighters like Bhagat Singh, Chandrashekhar Azad, Rajguru, Ashfaqulla Khan, and Ramprasad Bismil. She is quite disappointed as five do not appear interested and one is ready to re-locate to the United States. She does convince them to participate and makes them view their circumstances with a different light, leading Karan to confront his dad, Rajnath, and then things began to change for them, especially with the sudden death of Flight Lieutenant Ajay Rathod, and become even more complicated when the five are accused of assassinating Shastri, India's Defence Minister and hole up in a Doordarshan TV Station - with the Police hot on their tails.
RANG DE BASANTI is a story about the youth of India today. A young, London based film- maker chances upon the diaries of her grandfather, who served in the British police force in India during the freedom struggle. Excited about these memoirs, she makes plans to shoot a film on the Indian revolutionaries mentioned in the diaries. She comes down to Delhi, and casts a group of five friends to play the pivotal roles of these revolutionaries. However, products of modern India, the five youngsters initially refuse to be part of the project, as they don't identify with these characters from the past. Not surprising, considering that they're part of a generation of Indians that believes in consumerism. To them issues like patriotism and giving one's life for one's beliefs is the stuff stuffy text- books are made of. They would rather party than be patriots. In the film both the 1930's British India and the India Today run parallel and intersect with each other at crucial points. As the film reaches its resolution the line between past and present blur's, as they become one in spirit.
