An autistic boy discovers he has a talent for running and with the help of the mother participates in a major marathon.
(Korean with English subtitles) This hit inspirational movie follows an autistic young man, who finds solace only in running. His mother is the caring force that never gives up on him. Even though both Mother and son suffer from family and financial issues, they manage to find a former marathon champion -- now a lethargic old man - to serve as his coach for an upcoming marathon.
Cho-Won is a 20-years-old young man with autism. He lives with his highly protective mother and younger brother, who sometimes resents the attention his older brother receives from his mother. Through special schooling and taking part in physical activities, he has adjusted relatively well into society and also seems to have a knack for running. After placing third in a race, his mother decides to hire a proper coach to train her son. Cho-Won then decides to take part in a marathon to break the marathon's fastest record.
The movie follows the story of a young man with autism, named Cho-Won, who finds release only in running. As a child, Cho-Won regularly threw tantrums, bit himself, and refused to communicate with others -- finding solace only in zebras and the Korean snack, Chocopie. His mother never gave up on him and was determined to prove to the world that her child can be normal. As Cho-Won gets older, he begins to find a passion for running and his mother is there to encourage and support him. Even though both Mother and Cho-Won suffer from family and financial issues, they find a former marathon champion -- now a lethargic old man with alcohol problems.The old man, who is serving community service hours as a physical education teacher for a DUI, grudgingly accepts the offer to train Cho-Won in marathon running, but eventually becomes lazy with him. The teacher often takes Cho-Won's snack, and takes Cho-Won to a Steam House to relax. Even though the old marathoner slacks off most of the time, Cho-Won's determination for running is firm (he accidentally runs 100 laps around a soccer field when the teacher told him to without literally meaning it).He takes third place in a 10km running race, which causes his mother to set another goal for her son: to run a full marathon under three hours. This is not an easy task, however, as Cho-Won wants to win but doesnt know how to pace himself. Therefore, his mother finds a former marathon runner, who must perform 200 hours of community service for a DUI, as Cho-Wons coach. The movie shows the emotional struggles of a Mother who is not sure if she is forcing her son to run or if it truly is his passion. The movie further explores and shows the deep love and genuine purity through Cho-Won.
