A family moves to a small town in California where they plan on starting a new life while running a long-abandoned funeral home. The locals fear the place, which is suspected to be on haunted ground.
The widow Leslie Doyle has just lost her husband and moves with her teenage son Jonathan and her young daughter Jamie to a mortuary in a small town in California that she has bought with the intention of starting a new business, practicing her knowledge as mortician. When they arrive, Leslie realizes that she was lured by the former owner, Elliot, and that the decrepit Fowler Brothers Funeral Home was completely abandoned and with problem with the septic sewer. While Leslie tries to improve and clean the place and start embalming corpses, Jonathan is informed about the legend of Bobby Fowler, the deformed son of the Fowlers. Meanwhile a weird substance attacks people, transforming them in zombies.
In the small town of Santa Loraina, California, the decrepit, long-abandoned Fowler Funeral Home has become a local legend. As the story has it, Zeb Fowler bought the land to start up a ranching business, but something killed off all the cattle. To make ends meet, Zeb became the town mortician, and the Fowler house was turned into a funeral home-complete with a cemetery for a yard. But the strangest part of the story is the Fowler's son Bobby, whose face was so hideously disfigured it was hidden beneath a burial shroud. At age eight, Bobby mysteriously vanished, and ten years later his parents were found murdered-their faces smashed in. Locals believe that Bobby is still alive. Today, the Fowler Funeral Home is the stuff nightmares are made of-backed-up sewage pooling in the yard, a house of filth, decay, coffins, embalming equipment, and a strange black fungus growing on everything-and now the Doyle family is moving in. Having recently lost her husband, Leslie Doyle is relocating her two children, Jonathan and Jamie, to Santa Loraina so she can become the town's new mortician. But the Doyles have no idea of the horror that they're in for. Soon they'll uncover what happened to the Fowlers-what evil inhabits the grounds of their estate and what happens to anyone who steps foot there...
The Doyle family moves to rural California to start a new life; perhaps a strange choice because their new life takes on the form of running the long abandoned Fowler Brothers Funeral Home. The locals fear the place, and there are whispers around town that the land the home lies on is haunted. The Doyle family will soon discover that something lurks beneath the soil-something that raises rotten corpses from their long forgotten graves and feeds on death itself.
A single mum and her two children move to an old mortuary after the death of their, father, husband. And it is not what it seems.
