Sanjay Ramaswamy, who is suffering from short-term memory loss, sets out on a quest to find the people who were responsible for his ladylove Kalpana's murder.
Spunky and compassionate Kalpana rents an apartment and works as an ad-model. Her life changes when she invents a love affair between herself and wealthy Sanjay Ramaswamy. When Sanjay finds out, he decides to confront her to end this facade, but ends up falling in love with her. He pretends to be poor, proposes to her, and she subsequently accepts. Before they could get married, she gets killed, Sanjay gets assaulted, resulting in memory loss, and he is unable to remember anything beyond 15 minutes. During those 15 minutes, Sanjay manages to put together bit by bit through tattoos, Polaroid photos, notes, and maps on the wall of his apartment whatever he is able to recollect, as he sets out to avenge Kalpana's death. Sanjay does not know that the elusive killer knows about his agenda, and has already made plans to finish him off once and for all.
Sanjay Ramasamy is a rich tycoon suffering from short term memory loss due to being hit by a metal pole when trying to intervene on his girlfriend's murder. Because of the severe injury on his head, his memory can only last for fifteen minutes and he doesn't remember events or incidents that have happened before in his life. He can now only live a comprehendable life by tattooing notes on himself and taking pictures of things with a Polaroid camera to remind himself of the incidents that have happened. His story in unraveled by a police officer who is hunting him due to several murders he has committed while trying to find his girlfriend's murderer through his diary. His story has also piqued the interest of a medical college student, Chitra who is searching for a patient with an "interesting" record for her college project. Chitra comes to know about Sanjay's love with Kalpana a model cum activist. When her activist work for children comes in the way of child racketeers, she is killed by Lakshman when she intervened with his plan of kidnapping 25 young girls to Calcutta. So, with the help of Chitra, Sanjay sets out on a revenge spree, searching for the murderer of the one love of his life.

