After Cheburashka fails to meet him at the airport, Gena realizes that Cheburashka does not know how to read and decides to register Cheburashka for school.
On August 31, Crocodile Gena returns home by plane, but at the airport, contrary to expectations, Cheburashka did not meet him. Gena gets home himself, but on the way Shapoklyak plays him with a sign on the elevator, and on the door of his apartment with the inscription "Repair". It turns out that Cheburashka, having received a telegram about arrival, could not read it, since he cannot read. Gena announces to Cheburashka that he was very lucky, because tomorrow is just the beginning of the school year - September 1 - and is happy to send him to school.
Gena the Crocodile is at the airport, and he wonders why Cheburashka hasn't showed up. When he arrives home, Shapoklyak pulls a few tricks on him by placing a repair sign on the elevator and the door. When he comes in, Gena asks Cheburashka why he didn't meet him at the airport. Cheburashka explains that he did receive Gena's telegram - yet he was waiting on Gena to come home and read the telegram. Gena then realizes that Cheburashka doesn't know how to read and, since tomorrow is the first of September, Gena has the idea to register Cheburashka to school. Madame Shapoklyak overhears the two and decides that she will also register for school.Cheburashka and Gena walk around, and Cheburashka tells Gena that when he graduates, he will go to the zoo and become Gena's substitute. Gena puts his foot down to that idea, as he thinks the animals would eat Cheburashka alive. Gena and Cheburashka go to a clothing store to buy a school uniform, only to find out that there are no uniforms in Cheburashka's size. The two leave, and Madame Shapoklyak shows up, also requesting a uniform. The store clerk questions why she would want one, as she "looks like a grandmother." Requests turn into demands as Madame Shapoklyak demands the store clerk to give her a uniform.Cheburashka and Gena go to the school, and request to speak to the principal. The principal says that they cannot accept students right now as the school is in need of repair. Madame Shapoklyak arrives shortly after, and she makes the repairmen get to work. The principal then states that the school is short of a Labor teacher and a Nature Study teacher. Gena says that he can volunteer as a Nature Study teacher while Madame Shapoklyak states that she can be a Labor teacher. She says she will teach the kids how to make slingshots and use all kinds of transportation (including an airplane, if she can get a hold of one). The film ends.
