Sworn enemies find themselves in each other's bodies, and use this to ruin each other's lives.
The next door neighbors Nell Bedworth and Woody Deane have opposite behaviors and hate each other: the virgin geek Nell is polite, sensitive and well-prepared to go to Yale, while Woody is rude and his greatest expectation is to join a mediocre university due to his abilities playing football. When Nell and Woody are assigned to visit a museum together, they argue in front of a statue of an Aztec god. During the night, their souls swap bodies, bringing difficult situations to them. They first try to damage each other's reputation in high school, but soon they discover that their dream of joining college can only happen with mutual respect and support.
Westdale high-school Beavers star Woody Deane always enjoyed life as a cheerful jock, looking down upon his nerdy neighbor girl Nell Bedworth, who lives to get a Yale diploma promising a brighter future. Then an Aztec pagan idol curse body-swaps them. At first they sabotage each-other's life, then learn to look at it more sympathetically and try to help out mutually to save their dreams, in the process growing closely together.
Woody and Nell are two teens who go to the same school and are neighbors who don't like each other. Woody is a jock who thinks his ability to play football is his way to a scholarship so that he doesn't have to work with his father. And Nell is shy and intellectual who likes poetry, and also hopes to get into a college that has a good program for poets. They can't help run into each other and put each other down. When they go to a museum for school, they come across a statue and when they read the inscription, they switch bodies. So they're both worried that they'll lose their chance at going to the college they want and if they'll go back to their own bodies.
In "It's a Boy Girl Thing" two rival teenagers, Nerdy yet cute girl Nell Bedworth and Mavric Jock Woody Deane bump heads continuously. With Woody's crude sexual jokes and continous mockery of Nell and Nell correcting Woody and being the "pencil neck" she is. But after a visit to an incan exibit they are cursed by an incan god. Forced to work together to achieve their dreams of college, Nell and Woody mentor each other and at the same time fall in love. The polar opposites hurry as homecoming is right around the corner and overcome teenage angst, puberty, family disapproval, and nasty highschoolers. Together they manage to have a happy ending and be a couple.
'It's a Boy Girl Thing' uses the high school comedy structure as a basis to explore teenage insecurities, hopes and fears. Nell (the smart, cute girl) and Woody (the big dumb jock) are two teenage rivals who find themselves in each others bodies after arguing in front of an Aztec statue in a museum, which then transfers their souls as they sleep, causing them to awake in each other bodies. After trying to work things out but coming to no conclusion, both Nell and Woody, inside each others bodies, begin ruining each others lives. But after all this bickering, both of them soon discover that if they work together and help each other, a happy ending might turn out after all.
High school quarterback Woody Deane (Kevin Zegers of Transamerica) and Nell Bedworth (Samaira Armstrong of The O.C. and Entourage) are life long sworn enemies who wake up one day to find themselves in a very strange place: each other's bodies. Even if they can now survive their switched lives of girls' showers, boys' locker rooms, college interviews, the Homecoming football game and destroying each other's reputations, will they find that falling in love may be the ultimate out-of-body experience? Sharon Osbourne co-stars in this wild gender-bender comedy featuring a hot soundtrack of hits by Eminem, Black Eyed Peas, Elton John, James Blunt, Ozzy Osbourne, Girls Aloud, Mystikal and more! [D-Man2010]
