Two young brothers are drawn into an intergalactic adventure when their house is hurled through the depths of space by the magical board game they are playing.
An old and forgotten game develops magical powers in this fantasy for the whole family. Twelve-year-old Walter Budwing (Josh Hutcherson) and his younger brother, Danny (Jonah Bobo), figure they're going to be in for a boring time when their father (Tim Robbins), who was supposed to spend the day with them, is suddenly called away on business, and gives them strict orders not to leave the house. Walter, who doesn't have much use for Danny, is motivated by boredom more than anything else when he agrees to play a board game Danny has found in the basement during a round of hide-and-seek. However, the boys quickly discover the space-themed game Zathura has some unusual qualities -- a roll of the dice unexpectedly launches the Budwing home into outer space, and Walter and Danny are suddenly fending off menacing robots, angry aliens, and showers of interstellar debris outside the Earth's atmosphere. As the boys try to figure out a way back home, they get some unexpected help from an earthling astronaut (Dax Shepard) who has also lost his way.
Bored to death, the always bickering siblings, Walter, and his six-year-old brother, Danny, unearth a forgotten 1950s space-adventure board game in the dusty basement. Without delay, the boys start playing the game, and before they know it, a violent meteor shower wrecks the living-room, and the mysterious game uproots their entire house, turning it into an extraordinary spaceship on its way to Saturn. Now, whether they like it or not, the brothers, along with their teenage sister, Lisa, will have to figure out a way to work together; escape from the dangerous asteroid zone, and survive the onslaught of the ferocious reptilian race, the Zorgons. Can they win the challenging game, and return home in one piece.
Danny and Walter are two brothers who barely get along even while driving their parents to distraction as their older sister tries to ignore them. Despite their squabbling, the brothers manage cooperate enough to play an old mechanical board game named Zathura. However, after their first move, they find that the game has apparently flung them, their sister and their entire house into outer space. Furthermore, the brothers surmise the only way to return home is to finish the game. However with almost every move, new dangers arise as the siblings find themselves learning to cooperate in ways they never expected as they realize what they mean to each other.
its about these two boys that found a game to play and they started to play the game. they started to realize that the game was coming to life. they also found out that they had to keep on playing in order to finish the game and so all of the thing could dissapper also they uloked people from the game also there trapped in space but in the house has gravity. they try t get out but the instructions says once you play you cant stop. they wanted to play but they really didn't understand the instructions they wanted too stop playing the game but they couldn't because it was one of the rules .
they tried to finish but it was getting to late and hard even thought they really didn't know what time it really was . But they were getting sleepy and almost going to bed they had no food they yeld sos they fianally finished the game happily ever after
