While driving at night along a lonely road through the mountains, Ellen gets distracted by her radio and hits a car parked on the road. She faints and looks for help since her car does not start again. She meets Moonface pulling a woman in the woods. He's a deranged monster-like man that collects human bodies. She is abducted by Moonface, but she recalls the survival lessons of her husband Bruce as she faces and fights back against the killer.
When Ellen's car breaks down on a deserted mountain road in the middle of nowhere, she encounters a monster-like man who is intent on killing her. Ellen will not go down without a fight and the game of cat-and-mouse soon shifts as Ellen fights back.
While driving alone on a secluded mountain road Ellen (Bree Turner) loses control of her vehicle and collides with an abandoned car on the side of the road. When checking to see if the other driver is all right, she finds a trail of blood leading into the forest. Following it, she encounters a deformed, psychotic serial killer known as Moonface (John DeSantis), dragging the driver of the other vehicle. Narrowly escaping him, Ellen flees into the forest, with Moonface following her trail.Through flashbacks spread throughout, Ellen is shown receiving training from her survivalist husband Bruce (Ethan Embry), training her with both weapons and guerrilla tactics. She attempts to use these skills several times, but despite her best efforts is still captured by the killer, taken to his workshop deep in the forest on a ridge overlooking a large waterfall.After awakening in the basement, filled with the corpses of Moonface's previous victims, she encounters the delusional man Buddy (Angus Scrimm), apparently insane but seemingly unharmed by Moonface. He speaks cryptically of the killer's methods and intent. Shortly thereafter the killer comes downstairs, turning on a generator. Police sirens begin sounding as various lights around the room begin flashing. Lifting the other woman onto a large table, he uses a drill press to remove both of her eyes.After Moonface leaves, Buddy talks Ellen into picking the lock on the chains binding her with a sharp object that had been jabbed into her shoulder. Buddy, who seemed to be tied up, suddenly stands up and began shouting that Ellen is free. Moonface returns, and Ellen attacks Moonface and Buddy with a piece of wood. She runs upstairs where she is again attacked, but this time manages to overpower Moonface and knock him out a window. Looking out, she sees him dangling by a blanket several meters below, hanging above the waterfall. She watches as the fabric rips, turning away as he finally falls. Finding a gun, belt and boots, she leaves.Returning to her car, she opens her trunk to reveal the body of her dead husband Bruce. In another flashback it is revealed that Bruce had raped Ellen during a brutal fight, shortly after which she strangled him with his own belt. Taking his body to Moonface's workshop, she removes his eyes and strings him up in the front yard in the same manner as Moonface's other victims. Before leaving, she shoots and kills Buddy, mimicking Moonface's "shh" gesture. Ellen returns to her car where she starts it up and drives away.
