With a torrid past that haunts him, a movie theatre owner is hired to search for the only existing print of a film so notorious that its single screening caused the viewers to become homicidally insane.
The bankrupted owner of the movie theater 'Vogue', Kirby Sweetman, is hired by the eccentric private collector Mr. Bellinger to search and find the only existing print of the legendary horror film "La Fin Absolue du Monde" by Hans Backovic. This lost film is considered magic and cursed, and has been presented only once to an audience at the Sitges Festival, driving the people insane and causing bloodshed in the theater. The director, the crew and everybody involved in its production seemingly have died since. Kirby owes 200.000 dollars to his father-in-law, who blames Kirby for the death of his daughter Annie, and accepts the assignment to pay his debt. Bellinger shows him a souvenir from the film in his basement, a chained angel that had his wings torn off in the movie. Kirby travels to France to meet a contact and has glimpses of his beloved Annie, initiating his journey to hell.
Movie programmer Kirby Sweetman goes on a search for the holy grail of horror cinema, "La Fin Absolue du Monde" for an eccentric collector who offers a handsome paycheck. The film, which translates to 'The Absolute End of the World', transforms its viewers into insane, homicidal cannibals with a taste for brutal violence. As Kirby digs up clues and searches for the film's only known print, he ventures into the grisly world of the horrifying and the macabre.
Deeply in debt to the father of his late wife, rare films dealer Kirby Sweetman has less than a month to produce $200,000 in order keep his small theater afloat. He is hired by an old cinephile, Mr. Bellinger (Udo Kier) to find the only existing print of a rare thirty-year old movie, La Fin Absolue du Monde (French: The Absolute End of the World). The film supposedly led to a homicidal riot at its first screening at a small Catalan film festival. Following this, it was apparently destroyed. Bellinger, however, is convinced that the original cinematic print still exists.Sweetman initially suggests that the film is an urban legend. Bellinger leads Sweetman to a hidden room in his mansion, which contains an emaciated, pale man (Christopher Redman) in chains. The man has wounds on each of his shoulder blades; strange bones protrude from the wounds and appear to be the source of a pair of angelic wings suspended from Bellinger's wall that, Bellinger explains, are props from the film. The chained man explains that his existence is bound to the existence of the film. Bellinger then offers Sweetman $100,000 dollars to find the film, which Sweetman forces him to increase to $200,000.Sweetman begins his research with the riot that occurred after the film's original screening. He finds that according to contemporary records, the theater burned to the ground. Four audience members died, and the rest were driven insane. He also finds his first lead: a critic who wrote a review of the film, now living in Carthage, New York (director Carpenter's hometown). Sweetman flies there and finds the critic typing furiously at a typewriter. The man claims to be writing a second review, which he insists is "the real review." He is surrounded by tens of thousands of pages of typed paper, all part of his review. He begs to see the film again, and offers Sweetman an audio tape of an interview with the film's director.Sweetman flies to France, and listens to the tape in his hotel room. He begins to experience flashes in his vision that resemble the cue marks (the so-called "cigarette burns" of the title) on cinematic film. Sweetman has a hallucination in which he sees his late wife in the same state he had found her in upon her suicide. He then wakes up.Sweetman then goes to see an acquaintance in the rare film business. His friend reluctantly tells him that he was the projectionist at a secret screening of the film a number of years earlier. He was spared death and insanity because he turned away from the film as it played. Eventually, he tried to stop the film, but blacked out, only to wake up with his left hand horribly burned. Sweetman learns that the cinematographer and director are the only two survivors of the original screening, but the friend explains that the director is certainly dead, and the cinematographer has gone blind and will attack anyone who asks him about the film. Sweetman's friend begs him to stop searching for the film, but Sweetman dismisses his pleas.His friend eventually sends him to a warehouse, where Sweetman meets a deranged filmmaker. He is invited inside, and notices that the windows are covered in what appears to be human skin. In the room is a box marked La Fin Absolue du Monde, which holds several production stills from the film. After viewing the stills, Sweetman is seized by the filmmaker's bodyguards, injected with an anesthetic, and blacks out.Waking up, Sweetman discovers that he and the cab driver who brought him to the warehouse are tied up in chairs. The filmmaker enters the room wielding a machete. He kills the cab driver while his bodyguards film the murder. He explains to Sweetman that he believes the act of murder has become an art form, and La Fin Absolue du Monde is the apex of that art form. He says that an angel was mutilated in the film, and the evil of that horror affects all who view the film. Sweetman experiences another vision of "cigarette burns." When he comes to he finds himself holding the machete. The bodyguards are dead and the filmmaker is on the floor before him with his throat slashed. Before the man dies, Sweetman tortures him to force him to reveal the film's location. The filmmaker replies, "Katja."Sweetman flies to Vancouver, Canada to speak with Katja, the director's widow (Gwynyth Walsh). She confirms that the director is dead. When he asks about the producers of the film, she says that her husband never revealed their identity, only their interests"chaos, sorrow, suffering, and famine." The widow gives Sweetman the film, claiming it was a curse upon her home from the moment her husband brought it there. When he asks how the director died, the widow reveals that he slashed his own throat, and hers as well, though not fatally in her case.Sweetman brings the film to Bellinger and collects his payment, then returns to his own theater. Bellinger loads the print into a projector and sees upon the screen the "angel" locked in his mansion. Meanwhile, Sweetman arrives at his theater to find the doors chained. He is informed by telephone that his father-in-law locked the theater in his absence. He receives a phone call from a distraught Bellinger, and returns to the mansion. There he finds the butler standing outside the home's theater, covered in knife-wounds; the butler proceeds to gouge his own eyes out with a knife. Sweetman enters the theater to see the closing credits rolling on the screen. Inside the projection room, he finds the old man loading his own intestines into the reels of another projector, whereupon they are pulled out as the projector turns.Fleeing the projection room for the screening room, Kirby encounters his father-in-law, who pulls a gun and threatens to kill him. They struggle for the gun and as they do, another cigarette burn envelopes the screen. Sweetman awakens to find both him and his father-in-law sitting and watching the movie, both bloody.While the film is playing again, the butler goes to the room where the angel is being held and gives the creature the key to his chains. Back in the theater, La Fin Absolue du Monde is unspooling. There are flashes of violence that match the earlier production stills. One scene portrays two men restraining an angel as a man with a machete approaches and raises the blade; blood spatters in a manner suggesting amputation.A cigarette burn opens in the screen, and Sweetman's late wife steps through it, appearing as she did upon her death, naked and bathed in blood. She embraces her father and bites his neck in a vampiric fashion. Sweetman wakes up again, and sees his father-in-law struggling with the air, but unharmed. Realizing that they both see his late wife, Sweetman decides that they both have to die because neither can truly let her go as long as they're alive. Sweetman then bashes his father-in-law's head against the floor until he is dead. He then picks up the gun and resumes watching the film. The smiling projection of his dead lover soon appears. He tells the apparition that he loves her, puts the gun in his mouth and then pulls the trigger.The last scene shows the "angel" taking the two film reels, having been released from his prison by the butler. The angel walks into the theater, looks at Kirby's bloody corpse and says, "Thank you for this," indicating the film reels, before leaving.
