A story about an evil bug with the ability to change people's behavior, a commentary on the dangers of moving into a relationship too quickly.
The lonely, shy and lesbian etymologist Ida Teeter of The McNaughton Museum of Natural History is obsessed by her "pets", actually her collection of insects. She works with her colleague and friend Max, also her advisor in sexual behavior. Ida receives an anonymous package from Brazil with an unclassified insect but the weird bug breaks free from the box. Meanwhile Ida falls in love for the gorgeous Misty Falls, who is bitten and infected by the bug and moves to Ida's apartment. When Ida receives letters from her former Professor Malcolm Wolf explaining how the insect reproduces and transforms the animals he bites, Ida is apprehensive about Misty.
A cryptic package arrives on the doorstep of introvert entomologist Ida Teeter from a professor in Brazil. Inside is a mysterious beetle which gets lose and bites Ida's latest lesbian lover Misty Falls who then undergoes a slow transformation into an insect herself and sets upon to spread the contagion to Ida herself before anyone catches on.
A shy entomologist receives a package containing an evil bug with the ability to not only kill, but change a person's behavior, leading it to bite her lesbian lover and making her undergo a transformation into someone else...; a commentary on the dangers of moving into a relationship too quickly.
Ida Teeter (Angela Bettis) is a shy entomologist who has a wide variety of insects all over her home which happen to be the cause of her recent girlfriend standing her up. She is informed by her fellow entomologist Max Grubb (Jesse Hlubik) that her obsession with her job is the reason that her lady friends are constantly breaking up with her. Ida is crestfallen by this, although she is introduced to the beautiful and strange girl named Misty Falls (Erin Brown a.k.a.: Misty Mundae) who sits with her sketch pad drawing pixies in the lobby of the McNaughton Museum of Natural History where Ida and Max work. Instantly, Ida is enamored by the chance to be with her, although Max gives her the warning of babes or bugs, you cant have both.Simultaneously, a mysterious package arrives for Ida at her apartment door, which is revealed to contain a large, unidentifiable mantis-like insect. Landlady Lana Beasley (Marcia Bennett) is concerned with the pets of Ida and the effect that may be lain upon her seven-year-old granddaughter Betty (Chandra Berg), dubbed The Ladybug because of her continuous habit of wearing a ladybug costume. The Ladybug looks up to Ida as a heroine influence, much to Beasleys dismay, and Ida promises to keep the insects under check. Later that night, she examines the new insect, which she fondly names Mick, and informs Max via telephone of the creature. Mick escapes from its plastic tank shortly after Ida leaves.The next day, Ida walks over to Misty and to asks her out to dinner, which Misty accepts. The two women go out on a date that night in a Chinese restaurant, where Misty embarrassedly states that she thinks Ida is attractive. Misty then asks whether or not that the two of them can watch a movie about Texas Pixies on Ida's DVD player, which Ida accepts as their date, although she is concerned about what Misty would think of her large collection of bugs.In the meantime, Mick escapes and attacks Beasley's pet dog, dragging it into one of Ida's bedroom pillows where it consumes the animal. Later, there are posters advertising the lost dog.The Ladybug greets Ida and Misty (whom the Ladybug calls a fairy), who then makes the humorous faux pas of stating that Betty is Beasleys daughter. Misty is introduced to the apartment, though Ida keeps her away from the bedroom where all her insects hidden. They proceed to enjoying some burbon and watching the Texas Pixies movie together. The two get closer until their moment is interrupted by Max who is curious about their date.Ida returns to find Misty asleep on the couch. She proceeds to the bedroom and returns with the pillow (with the Bug Mick hidden inside) to give to Misty, who suddenly wakes up from her drunken slumber. Still too drunk to drive, Ida allows Misty to stay with her. In gratitude, Misty returns the favor by stripping off her shirt and seduces Ida with a flurry of passionate kisses. Below, Micks proboscis reaches for Misty and nips her ear, which Misty dismisses.The next morning, Ida awakens to find that Misty has discovered her secret bug stash and has a great interest in bugs. She also discovers that Misty is Ida's favorite professor Malcolm Wolf's daughter (her last name came from her hippie mother), and the two search for the escaped Mick. Later, Misty feels pain in her right ear, where she finds a small sample of foreign saliva in it, and soon becomes weak to stay up.Ida turns to Max with drawings of the creature by Misty, but Max does not take the matter seriously and even makes derisive jokes about Ida's new relationship. She comes home and finds Misty moving in. They spend more time together, although Misty (to her own consternation) begins displaying unusual tendencies, such as an appetite in straying bugs.Beasley encounters Mick as it runs past her. About to complain, she finds Ida and Misty locked in an extremely passionate kiss. She leaves, keeping this hidden from her ever-interested granddaughter. Misty later comes across the pillow with Mick in it during a laundry excursion, and she discovers that she has strange urges to lay next to it. The insect then invades her much chewed and saliva-doused ear with its proboscis.Ida receives an almost apologetic letter from a mysterious source, though she suspects that it is Malcolm Wolf, which tells her that the insect could be dangerous. At home, she is pulled into a loving kiss by Misty right in front of Beasley and Betty, who innocently asks if she can get a kiss from Ida. Disgusted, Beasley berates the two women, even suggesting that Ida is sexually attracted to her granddaughter as "fresh Meat that she wants to fuck". Beasley gives Ida and Misty two weeks to move out, which is reduced to one week when Betty asks for some skin (a handshake slap) from Ida. Ida is horrified by Mistys strange behavior and her abrupt and crude remarks, most pertaining to how Beasley despises their sapphic romance and how angered she is by Idas sadness about the things Beasley said about Betty. Enraged, Misty loses her temper and yells at Ida about how much that she has done for her until she suddenly passes out.Misty awakens and explains about a storybook-style dream where she was a fairy resting upon a lily pad and encountered a beautiful giant bug (Mick) that landed on her and forced its proboscis into her navel, drawing blood and inserting his juices into her. Max calls Ida for her to come to the lab, and as she leaves, Ida notices how Misty has placed the pillow between her legs.When she arrives, Max delivers the information from her Brazil homey about the insect which he finds humorous and impossible: The insect is known to inhabit the nests of birds and other small animals, where it behaves like a parasite, inserting its proboscis and drinking the animals blood, replacing what it takes with a unique toxin. This toxin the bug injects is a protein which, once it finds its way into the bloodstream, invades the hosts DNA and the bird is impregnated with the insects young. While Max finds this funny, Ida is horrified to learn that Misty may have been bitten by the insect. Meanwhile, the insect Mick inseminates Misty during a sexual meeting.Beasley walks into the hallway, stapling an eviction notice to Idas apartment door, and encounters Misty, who asks her why she doesnt like her. Beasley states that she doesnt like the perverse nature of her and Ida, and the "bad" influence the two may have on her granddaughter, when Misty interrupts her with a list of crude synonyms for lesbian and the possibility that her Ladybug could grow up to like other ladybugs. Beasley is revolted, calling Misty a monster; Misty thereupon morphs two insectoid eyes and multiple tendrils. The terrified Beasley falls over the stairway to her death. Smugly, Misty removes the eviction notice from the door.Ida arrives home to witness medics hauling away the corpse of Lana Beasley on a gurney and Betty crying. Misty makes light of the situation, much to Idas repulsion. Ida calls Max over to her apartment and she finds Misty in the bathtub who later reveals the location of the hidden predatory insect in the pillow. She is convinced that the insect has indeed infected Misty, who reveals her own secret: her father, Professor Malcolm Wolf, sent the insect to Ida so it would bite her and make her repulsive to Misty, who has long been in love with Ida.Misty then undergoes metamorphosis into a bug-human monster. Responding to Idas screams, Max breaks into the apartment, only to be encountered and cornered by the monstrous Misty, who kills him in a gory mess. Then Mick scurries to the terrified Ida lying on the floor and inserts its proboscis into her left ear, beginning the same insemination process with her.Some time later, both Ida and Misty are sitting in the living room couch with large pregnant abdomens, joking about their condition, as the insect Mick continues to inseminate them through left and right ears respectively.
