While parked in a remote spot lunching Chinese food with his partner, Detective Frank Spivey saves a disfigured woman called Jenifer from being sliced with a meat cleaver by a deranged homeless man. He feels sorry for Jenifer, and takes her from an insane asylum and brings her home. Frank becomes obsessed for Jenifer, feeling lust and attraction for her lascivious body. When he realizes that she is a human beast, he moves with her to an isolated old cabin in the woods, with tragic consequences.
Police officer Frank Spivey saves a disfigured young woman named Jenifer from being slaughtered by a crazy old man. He takes her into his home because she has nowhere else to go, but starts to become obsessed with her. Soon, it becomes clear that there are problems with Jenifer that turn Frank's life upside-down. He realizes that there is only one thing that will keep Jenifer from hurting anyone else and let him return to a normal life.
Police officer Frank Spivey (Steven Weber) is eating lunch in his squad car when he happens upon a crazed man with a butcher knife forcing a young woman (Carrie Fleming) onto the ground. When Spivey intervenes, the man tells Spivey that he doesn't know what she is. Spivey shoots the man before he kills her. As he begins to console her he first notices that although she has an amazingly hot body, she has a horrifically disfigured face. Despite his initial revulsion she cuddles into his arms and he finds himself affectionately drawn to her. Spivey discovers that her name is Jenifer and that she is mute and most likely severely retarded.That night he goes home and his wife Ruby (Brenda James) attempts to console him after learning of the shooting. As they begin to make love, he keeps picturing Jenifer and begins to anally rape his wife. She eventually forces him off her as he has lost himself in his fantasy of Jenifer.The next day he visits Jenifer at the mental hospital to check on her. A male orderly comments that she has been freaking out the male staff. When he enters her room she is still in the shower and runs to embrace him completely nude. Spivey takes her to his home because he can find nowhere else that will take her. That night he dreams of a non-disfigured Jenifer seducing him. When he awakens she is standing in the room and his wife and his son Pete (Harris Allen) look at her in horror.His wife issues an ultimatum that it will be her or Jenifer staying there so he again goes out to search for a place to take her. This time instead of looking, he is seduced by Jenifer in his car. When he brings her home he frightens away Spivey's wife and son, devours his cat, murders and eats his young neighbor Amy (Jasmine Chan). Spivey finally attempts to get a circus worker to kidnap her and put her in his freak show. When he arrives home, he finds Jenifer covered in blood and the circus worker dead in his refrigerator. Spivey takes Jenifer and flees to an abandoned cabin in the woods where she hopefully can't hurt anyone. Spivey gets a job at a small market and begins to slip out of Jenifer's spell.One day however, Jenifer spies him with the attractive owner of the store and follows the shop owners son to a party. There she lures him into the woods and attacks him. Spivey discovers her devouring the kid and snaps. Grabbing her by the hair he forces her into the woods to kill her. Just as he's about to strike her down a deer hunter shoots and kills Spivey. Spivey's last words are ''Jenifer'' as the deer hunter moves to comfort her just as Spivey had done.
