A hotshot White House speech writer deals with the publicity nightmare of his life when recently deceased soldiers return from beyond the grave.
During the campaign for the reelection of the President of USA, the political consultant David Murch wishes live in a television talk show that a deceased soldier could come back from his grave to vote in the election as a marketing to promote his candidate. The president uses his idea in a speech and wishes that all the deceased soldiers could return from their graves for the election. Somehow his wish is granted and the soldiers died in the last war returns with the objective of voting in the opposition to the government. When the result of the election is manipulated and the president is reelected, all the soldiers deceased in pointless wars return to exile the members of the administration of the government.
While on a TV talk show, a spin doctor for the current administration unexpectedly finds himself wishing that a caller's son could return from the dead to explain why he died in the ongoing war. Then the recently-killed soldiers do return from the dead--but why?
An unnamed US president (whose appearance is modeled after Bill Clinton and whose voice is modeled after George W. Bush) is running for reelection during a divisive war, and one of his speech writers, David Murch (Jon Tenney), goes on TV to speak with talk show host Marty Clark (Terry David Mulligan) and strident right-wing sexpot (and Ann Coulter-like) Jane Cleaver (Thea Gill). Another guest is Janet Hofstader (Beverly Breuer), the Cindy Sheehan-like mother of a dead soldier, who demands to know what her son died for. Murch gets a bit teary-eyed and explains that he lost his older brother Philip (Ryan McDonnell) in Vietnam."Believe me," he tells the grieving mom, "if I had one wish, I would wish for your son to come back, because I know he would tell us how important this struggle is." Cleaver is so impressed with Murch's handling of the situation that she takes him out for a drink later, picks his brain, and eventually seduces him. The Karl Rove-like Kurt Rand (Robert Picardo) interrupts their tryst, calling to let Murch know that the president plans to make his line part of his stump speech.Soon, the soldiers killed in Iraq do start returning from the dead, and it doesn't go the way Murch predicted. They are not back to feast on the living, but unhappily for the president and his supporters, they just want a chance to vote in the upcoming election. "We'll vote for anyone who ends this war," one explains. The spin machine goes into overdrive, but the dead are determined to make their voice heard even going as far as one soldier killing Kurt Rand by acting out the zombie stereotype (gouging his eye and slamming his head into the table) when Rand tried to force him to sign an unwanted document by threatening the soldier's mother.While voting results are being counted during the election, people within the current administration decide to skew the results so the current administration remains in power. After the election results are broadcast, more soldiers begin to return from the dead - but not just ones from Iraq: Soldiers begin to return from World War I and II, the Vietnam War, the Civil War, and etc. Eventually all of the people who died during war time to protect the United States of America have returned from the dead to seek their revenge.The progress of the movie also reveals a shadowy mistake from Murch's past. He believed that his brother Philip was murdered in the Vietnam War only to discover that it was he who unintentionally killed him long ago with a gun in a game of "friend or foe". After Cleaver attacks the soldiers with her shotgun, Murch kills her and fails to kill himself. Murch is countered by a soldier that asks him to join them, saying "We're looking for a few good men." Philip is among those returning from the grave, saying he forgives Murch for killing him, and then snaps Murch's neck.Now one of the zombies, Murch announces that he will show anyone who sends their brothers and sisters to die for a lie the true face of hell.
