France employs local secret agents in Vietnam 1922 to eliminate resistance. The rebel leader's pretty daughter gets captured. Later an agent seems to have fallen in love with her and helps her escape. He flees, too. Lots of martial arts.
In French ruled Vietnam in 1922, the French and Vietnamese officers plot to sniff out arch-rebel De Canh. But, Officer Cuong is disabused. He and De Canh's daughter, rebel Vo Thanh Thuy, are unwittingly used as bait. A bloody climax ensues.
1920s. Vietnam under colonial French ruling. Anti-French rebellions emerge all over the country to disrupt the foreign occupiers. In respond, the colonialist employed units of Vietnamese agents to track and destroy these rebels. The film follows the journey of LE VAN CUONG, a French cultured undercover elite. Although branded with a perfect track record, Cuong's inner conscience is troubled by the sea of Vietnamese blood he had spilled to uphold a French washed ideal. Following an assassination of a high ranking French, Cuong is assigned to seek and kill the notorious leader of the resistance. Cuong encounters VO THANH THUY, a relentless revolutionary fighter and the daughter of the rebel leader. Cuong's superior intends for him to use Thuy as a mean to get to her father but Cuong soon has feelings for her. Thuy's patriotism ignites conflicts between Cuong's consciousness and his cultured faith. Will Cuong discover his inner-self and find love or will he continue his mission? The journey unfolds...
Set in Colonial Vietnam circa 1920s, THE REBEL references long-festering anti-French sentiments among Vietnamese, triggering the formations of guerilla forces to rise up against the foreign colonizers. In response, the French employ elite units of Vietnamese agents to track down and destroy these rebels. THE REBEL follows the plight of an undercover agent Cuong (Johnny Tri Nguyen), a man who grows increasingly ambivalent about his identity as a treacherous mercenary because of his mounting conscience, after meeting and becoming enthralled by Thuy (Ngo Thanh Van), the daughter of an infamous rebel leader. Plagued with patriotic obligations, Cuong is unsure of where his loyalty lies when he is confronted with the dictatorial reality of French rule and his own humanity reflected in Thuys eyes.
