A mechanic falls in love with his attorney.
A mechanic (Idris Elba) enlists the help of a successful, but lonely, attorney (Gabrielle Union) while trying to win custody of his three daughters from his treacherous ex-wife and her larcenous boyfriend. Along the way, the working relationship between the blue collar dad and his uptown attorney grows into something more. This is a simple, touching story of two people trying to overcome their different backgrounds to find love, a down-on-his-luck man struggling to protect his children from abuse and neglect, and a community looking to purge itself from the criminals terrorizing their neighborhood.
Monty is a mechanic who wants to buy the garage where he works. He also has three daughters who live with their grandmother. But when she gets sick, she tells Monty he has to take them because if they end up with her mother who is now with a known drug dealer, who knows what will happen to them. But Monty doesn't have the resources to fight her. Monty gets a job driving a lady lawyer around. He gets her to help him get his daughters and at the same they get close.
It's the story of a lonely rich Lawyer meeting a blue collar single dad who's got a mysterious past. They develop a relationship while trying to get his three daughters away from their mother who's dating a known drug dealer. The relationship hits a snag when his past secret is exposed. As he continues to try and gain custody of his three girls from his bitter ex-wife, he learns what it means to take a stand. In the process the truth is revealed and love saves the day!
A mechanic (Idris Elba) is very hardworking and falls in love with his attorney (Gabrielle Union) who does everything in her power to help the man fight for custody to have his beautiful daughters away from their mother who is a local hoodlum and does drugs with her new, abusive boyfriend.
A reverse-Cinderella tale centers on a successful attorney (Union) who falls in love with a financially challenged mechanic (Elba) who is a single father of three children. The relationship hits a snag when the mechanics ex-wife comes back into his life and threatens to take away their kids.

