A gorgeous young automobile fanatic--and front to the hottest unsigned band on the West coast--finds herself caught up in illegal drag-racing competitions organized by exotic car fanatics.
"Redline" is an auto/action thriller that features an extensive exotic car collection. The movie features a Phantom Rolls Royce, Lamborghini Murcielago, Enzo Ferrari, Ferrari F430, Ferrari Scaglietti and two Mercedes SLR McLaren AMGs. A $450,000 Porsche Carrera GT is actually crashed during one sequence. Eddie Griffin accidentally crashed and destroyed the Enzo Ferrari, one of only 400 ever produced. The film follows an ace driver who becomes part of illegal drag racing.
The film begins with a $1 million bet between mob boss Michael (Angus Macfadyen) and film producer Jerry Brecken (Tim Matheson) over driving from Los Angeles, CA, to Las Vegas, NV, in under an hour and 45 minutes. Michael hands the keys to his Mercedes-Benz SLR McLaren over to his driver Jason (Jesse Johnson). Using night-vision goggles and keeping the lights off to minimize police detection at over 200 mph, Jason manages to arrive at Brecken's hotel room seconds before the time limit - only to deliver a pack of "Hiagra" (a parody of Viagra).The next day, music producer Infamous (Eddie Griffin) and his entourage arrive at a garage to pick up his Ford GT. There, he meets the beautiful Natasha Martin (Nadia Bjorlin), who happens to own the garage. She is also a professional race car driver and lead singer for an aspiring band. However, she is sometimes haunted by memories of her father's death at a NASCAR race many years ago. In appreciation of her services on his Ford GT, Infamous invites Natasha and her band aboard his private jet en route to Las Vegas.Meanwhile, on another side of town, Carlo (Nathan Phillips) has just returned from a tour of duty in Iraq. He meets up with his brother Jason while fighting a group of Asian gang members attempting to steal Jason's Ferrari F430 Spider. Carlo is not happy that Jason is living with their uncle Michael, whom Carlo always sees as nothing but trouble. Little do they know that Michael has been running an unsuccessful counterfeiting ring and owes another crime organization millions of dollars.Carlo and Natasha first meet at a party in Las Vegas, where he saves her from a group of drunk partygoers harassing her. In the midst of the ensuing fight, Carlo and Jason bail out of the party and speed off in a Lamborghini Murciélago Roadster, while the thugs chase after them in a Ferrari 612 Scaglietti. The two brothers manage to lose the thugs by speeding through the underside of a truck trailer, while the thugs fail to clear the trailer and crash on several parked cars.On the outskirts of Las Vegas, a high-stakes race event is being held, with Michael, Brecken, Infamous and Chinese businessman Marcus Cheng (Michael Hagiwara) placing their bets over who has the better car. When Infamous' driver fakes an ankle injury, Infamous gives Natasha an offer to drive his car. Natasha is reluctant at first, but agrees to drive for Infamous in exchange for $300,000 and a recording contract. Little does she know that Infamous has to place her on his wager, as Michael - who has been obsessed with her since watching her perform on stage earlier - has placed four platinum bars at stake.Natasha (driving an SLR) takes on Jason (driving a Lamborghini Diablo). As they approach the finish line, Natasha is several car lengths ahead of Jason, but Jason quickly zips past her by engaging the onboard nitrous system. Unfortunately, because of the excessive speed, the Diablo loses downforce, flies off the ground and flips in mid-air before crashing upside down at the finish line. Attempting to avoid the falling Diablo, Natasha crashes on a barrier and is knocked unconscious. Before Carlo can reach Jason to rescue him, the Diablo bursts into flames, killing Jason instantly. Michael's henchmen, dressed as paramedics, place Natasha in an ambulance and speed off.Natasha wakes up in Michael's mansion, realizing that she is now his property. Meanwhile, Carlo meets up with some old military friends and picks up some ammunition and gear before riding a Ducati 999 towards Michael's mansion. After Carlo successfully rescues Natasha, Michael has his henchmen kidnap her mother and convince her to drive for him at the next race.In the final race, Michael, Brecken, Infamous and Cheng place their bets for a combined purse of $100 million. Shortly after the race begins, Natasha receives a phone call from Carlo notifying her that he has rescued her mother. Infamous and Cheng are eliminated from the race after their cars (an SLR and a Porsche Carrera GT, respectively) are involved in separate crashes. Natasha and Brechen are still on the race. As both cars reach the finish line, Natasha (driving Michael's Enzo Ferrari) is several car lengths ahead of Brecken's Saleen S7. The good news that Carlo told her on the phone earlier prompts her to slam the brakes hard, stopping the Enzo inches away from the finish line and giving the S7 the win.With no money left, Michael is given a last ride from the crime organization he owes money to. As a way of thanking Natasha for handing his driver the victory, Brecken gives her a recording contract (which shortly lands her on the cover of Variety), an Enzo and a Koenigsegg CCX. The film ends with Natasha (in the Koenigsegg) and Carlo (in the Enzo) racing each other before being chased by the police on the freeway.
