A man takes his thoroughly-British daughter to his home country, India. There, he arranges her marriage to someone she considers a fool. The daughter attempts to outwit them, but the groom quietly and patiently hatches his own plan.
Indian-born Manmohan Malhotra decided to re-locate to London, England, established himself, returned to India, got married to Bebo, and after a period of 4 years got a visa for her so that she could live with him. Shortly thereafter she gave birth to Jasmeet. Manmohan was always embarrassed of Bebo, as she was overly healthy and not quite sophisticated, as a result he always left her at home, while he socialized. Bebo did not want Jasmeet to end up like her, so got her admitted in an English Medium school, encouraged to mingle with Caucasian friends, and as a result Jasmeet was transformed in to Jazz - a stunningly beautiful young woman, British in looks, talk, habits, and heart. Manmohan's plans to get her married to an Indian boy are all in vain. His friend, Parvez Khan, is in a similar situation with his son, Imran, openly romancing a Caucasian blonde, Susan. Manmohan decides to take his family for a tour in India, and ends up getting her married to Arjun Singh. On their return to London, Jasmeet announces that she is getting married to Charles Brown, who is well connected, even with Prince Charles, and refuses to recognize her marriage with Arjun as there is no proof of this wedding. When Jasmeet is introduced to the friends of the Brown family, she is subjected to considerable racial profiling (snake charmers, Indian rope tricks, tandoori chicken) as well as a quote from Winston Churchil to wit: 'When we leave India, the country will be in the hands of goons'. while Imran is asked by Susan's parents to fore-go Islam, become a Christian, change his name to Emmanuel or Ian, as well as provide a written undertaking that his family is not associated with any terrorists. The questions that remain unanswered are: will love prevail ! Between Imran and Susan on one hand, and Jasmeet and Charles on the other? What is the impact of this marriage on Arjun, who now has been demoted from Husband to the Best Man?
Born and brought up in London, Jasmeet leads a very British life of work, night-clubs, and boyfriends, much to the dismay of her Asian father. On the pretext of a holiday to his home village, he gets her to India to try and arrange a marriage. Indeed she does finally wed Arjun, but only to get back safely to London. Once there she makes it clear she doesn't recognize the wedding and resumes her liaison with her English boss Charlie Brown. He, however, is a serial divorcée and general cad while Arjun, who has followed her to London, genuinely wants her to become his real wife. What's a nice British Asian girl to do?
Indian-born Manmohan Malhotra (Rishi Kapoor) re-located to London, England, established himself, returned to India, got married to Bebo (Nina Wadia), and after four years got a visa for her so that she could live with him. Shortly thereafter, she gave birth to Jasmeet (Katrina Kaif). Manmohan was always embarrassed by Bebo as she was fat and could not speak English. As a result, he always left her out of important occasions, while he socialized. Bebo did not want Jasmeet to end up like her, so she got her educated in an English school, encouraged to mingle with British friends, and Jasmeet was transformed into Jazz - a beautiful young woman, Western in looks, speech, habits, and heart.Her father had set her to meet a young lad, Bobby Bedi (Ritesh Deshmukh), though the date turns out to be a disaster and Bobby rejects her. Manmohan thinks that it is impossible to get him an Indian son-in-law, although his friend, Parvez Khan (Javed Sheikh), is in a similar situation with his son, Imran (Upen Patel), who has a blonde girlfriend, Susan (Tiffany Mulheron). Manmohan takes his family for a tour in India and forces Jasmeet to marry Arjun Singh (Akshay Kumar) who is a villager and does not know how to speak English.On their return to London, Jasmeet announces that she is getting married to Charlie Brown (Clive Standen), who is well educated and has good friends and connections, even with Prince Charles. She refuses to recognize her marriage with Arjun as there is no proof of the wedding. When Jasmeet is introduced to the friends of the Brown family, she is subjected to condescension from them (references to snake charmers, Indian rope tricks, tandoori chicken and so on) as well as a quote from Winston Churchill: 'When we leave India, the country will be in the hands of goons'. Arjun then tells the gentleman about the achievements of India which includes about the derivation of English words from Sanskrit like 'Mother', 'Brother', 'Trigonometry' and 'Geometry'. During this period, Jazz becomes close with Arjun who still supports her. Charlie Brown then has a rugby match against the Indians and Arjun, which the English lose and Brown is verbally racist to the Indians. Imran is then asked by Susan's parents to leave Islam, become a Christian, change his name to Emmanuel or Ian, as well as provide written proof that his family is not associated with terrorists. The film ends on a happy note when Imran decides not to be a Christian and Susan is accepted by Imran's family; Jazz realizes her love for Arjun, runs away from her wedding to Charlie Brown, and goes with Arjun back to India where they are seen riding Arjun's motorcycle. While they are on the motorcycle Arjun reveals that all along he knew how to speak English. They all live happily ever after.
