From the depths of a plain wooden box, a skilful conjurer materializes a lively boy in a clown suit. Next, he takes a heavy battle-axe. What are his intentions?
Opens with a magician compressing something white in his hands. It transforms into a living dove. which is quickly deposited into a box sitting on a table behind the magician. In short order several other articles are tossed into the box out of which springs a young boy in clown makeup. The magician helps the boy down then places him atop another small box. He then picks up an executioners ax and appears to be going to slice the boy lengthwise. Instead, as the ax touches him the boy turns into twins! The magician then uses his mystical powers to make first one and then the other disappear. To prove they haven't gone into the box, he destroys it then causes the boy to reappear on top of one of the pieces. .Hoisting the child one more time he makes him transform into a French and an American flag which the magician waves triumphantly. But for the big finish he hops onto the table, bows his head and disappears only to reappear through a stage door for one final bow
In the background of an intricately-adorned stage, a plain, yet prominent wooden box rests on a table. Dressed as a skilful conjurer, the director George Méliès enters the scene to perform his mysterious trick, when all of a sudden, a white domestic dove materialises in his hand out of thin air. In a swift motion, the illusionist puts the peaceful bird inside the box along with two silken handkerchiefs, and as he summons his mystical power, the most incredible thing emerges from the confined container: a lively boy in a clown suit. Next, the great invoker takes a heavy battle-axe. What are his intentions?
This is one of the most surprising and clever subjects of the entire series. The conjurer causes to appear suddenly on the table a box, from which a boy emerges. He is immediately cut into two pieces at a blow from the axe of the conjurer. Instead of falling to the floor, the pieces assume the shape of two lively youngsters, who commence to fight with each other. The conjurer, not approving of such conduct, causes one suddenly to disappear. The other boy, whom he takes up in his arms, he dissolves into an English and an American flag, which are vigorously waved by the magician. A most interesting film, sharp and clear.

