BLUE STATE is a romantic comedy about a disgruntled Democrat who actually follows through on a drunken campaign promise to move to Canada if George "Dubya" Bush gets re-elected.
On the eve of John Kerry's 2004 defeat, campaign volunteer John Logue, canvasing in Ohio, says he'll move to Canada if Bush wins. His pledge gets televised, so when John returns to San Francisco - where his old job and girl-friend evaporate - his friends expect him to deliver on the promise. He gets a call from marryacanadian.ca, accepts their invitation to come to Winnipeg, interviews traveling companions, picks Chloe (she with a nose ring), and sets out. Both John and Chloe have secrets, revealed one at a time, and Winnipeg in 2004, with men and women willing to help US ex-pats gain citizenship, may not be what either needs. Echoes of the Vietnam war help them decide.
Twenty-eight year old graphic designer John Logue is a staunch San Francisco based Democrat, who not only has political ideals, but social ideals which manifests itself in the way he lives, from what he buys, to where he shops and what he eats. In the lead up to the 2004 election, John has taken time off from his job to work for the John Kerry/John Edwards ticket, although he may be doing so more out of a total hatred for their Republican opponents, George W. Bush and Dick Cheney. Just prior to the election, John, who is a semi-public figure within the party as he writes his own on-line blog called the Donkey Revolution, makes a public announcement, albeit one while in a drunken state, that he will move to Canada if Bush wins the election. Although he initially tries to renege on the promise after the election results come in, he does make the decision to stand by his convictions and make the move, with the ultimate destination being Winnipeg, where he plans to meet a woman by the name of Gloria O'Neill, who runs an organization which sets Americans up with potential Canadian spouses in order for them to get their Canadian citizenship. Advertising for a travel companion to do half the driving, he looks for a like minded person. He ultimately chooses a young woman named Chloe Hamon. Although he finds her attractive, he is interested more in her personal reasons for the trip, about which she seems somewhat vague. As they get close to the border and as they reach Winnipeg, certain issues arise concerning their individual lives which make them both reconsider what they are doing and if there is a better way to make the ultimate political statement.

