People who live in the U.S. commit suicide curiously. One day, this events start to be shown in Turkey and some facts are realized.
The movie starts with a tunnel scene and then Hande in a beach. Sema calls Tarik but he does'nt pick up. Hande goes to Tarik's house to check on him, but after a conversation finds him dead. Officer Sultan is assigned the case and he interrogates Hande. At night Hande had a nightmare about Tarik. Hande, Sema and Cem discuss what to do. Hande checks the video camera Tarik borrowed from her. Later at work, Cem shows them a mail from Tarik, which had a photo of Tarik attached. The police checks Tariks computer but finds nothin but "388@0". That night, Hande experience weird things and Cem finds a video. Then he receives a call but can't understand much. Hande then, gives the photo and video camera to police. Cem goes to Tarik's house to investigate but gets attacked by Tarik's spirit. Then he found the place where the video was filmed. There, he is attacked by a black shadow. Scared, he calls someone but actually this was the call he received a few days ago. Next day, his body is found and a mad man warns people about "Dabbe". Hande finds out the secret about "388@0". Hande and Sultan visits the mad guy at his home. The mad guy says that his wife is a jinn and she warned him about Dabbe. Suddenly he gets a seizure. At the shop Hande calls Sema but she does'nt answer as she was killed by the black spirits. Hande is attacked by spirits, She runs to the street and sees the black spirits on the streets. At his home, Sultan gets murdered by the spirits. She gets a message from Sultan about the tunnel (from the photo) and heads towards the tunnel. There she sees a few black spirits. Suddenly the spirits are all gone and she sees only one spirit, which was her but pitch black face. That spirit jumps at her. Then we see a few black spirits and Tarik. They stand in the same way as they were in the photo that was sent to Cem. Then, hundreds of black spirits are seen walking in the tunnels.
