A group of young adults discover a boarded up Camp Crystal Lake, where they soon encounter Jason Voorhees and his deadly intentions.
A group of young adults set up tent near the abandoned summer camp where a series of gruesome murders are said to have taken place back in 1980. The perpetrator was a grieving mother, driven insane by the drowning of her child, Jason, whom she believed was neglected by the camp counselors. As legend has it, the last survivor of the attacks beheaded the woman. But then Jason came back, and now he is a vengeful and inexorable killer, wielding crossbows, swords, axes and other sharp instruments. The legend proves horribly true, as these campers quickly discover. Six weeks later, the brother of one of those campers distributes posters of his missing sister. The police believe she took off with her boyfriend; but he knows better. The brother crosses paths with an uptight young rich guy who is having his girlfriend and friends over at his parents' cabin. The brother ends up at the cabin himself just before his sister's attacker sets upon them all.
A young man sets out on a desperate quest to find his missing sister while a group of college students party in a secluded cabin little do they know that a masked killer known as Jason vorhees is stalking the students to avenge his dead mother. Will they survive or will Jason get his revenge?
Wade, Ritchie, Amanda, Mike and Whitney travel to Crystal Lake to camp, but Wade and Ritchie have found a plantation of weed and intend to raise some money selling the dope. However, the group is brutally attacked by Jason Voorhees. Six weeks later, Clay is seeking out his sister Whitney in Crystal Lake, distributing a missing poster with her picture to the locals. In a gas station, he stumbles into the arrogant Trent that has invited his friends Jenna, Lawrence, Chewie, Nolan, Chelsea and Bree to spend the weekend in the cottage of his wealthy family. Jenna teams up with Clay in his quest and they discover that Jason is killing her friends.

