A financial executive who can't stop his career downspiral is invited into his daughter's imaginary world, where solutions to his problems await.
Before he found himself standing in front of his friends' house yelling for his daughter's purple security blanket in the middle of the night, Evan Danielson was just your average financial wizard - focused, successful and driven. But when his daughter introduced him to the princesses and their queen living in her imaginary world, Evan followed her on a hilarious adventure that forced him to reexamine the value of their relationship and redefine his meaning of success. Evan and his seven-year-old daughter Olivia find it impossible to connect. He's too distracted by his career demands to understand the value of quality father-daughter time and she has all but given up on her Daddy. When the promotion of a lifetime is suddenly within his reach, Evan finds himself torn between his parental responsibilities and staving off his company... [D-Man2010]A powerful financial executive whose career was sent spiraling down the drain due to sudden lack of confidence finds the answers to his inexplicable setback in an imaginary world dreamt up by his young daughter in a fantasy comedy starring Eddie Murphy and co-scripted by Ed Solomon and Chris Matheson (the writing duo behind "Bill &amp; Ted's Excellent Adventure" and "Bill &amp; Ted's Bogus Journey"). [D-Man2010]Evan Danielson is a successful financial executive who has more time for his blackberry than his seven-year-old daughter. When he has a crisis of confidence and his career starts going down the drain, however, he finds the solution to all his problems in his daughter's imaginary world. [D-Man2010]Evan Danielson is a very successful corporate businessman, who had been working at the same company for eight years as the top man, that is until Johnny Whitefeather was hired as his rival. Whitefeather seems to have the whole company under some spell as he spiels his nonsensical idioms filled with Native American mumbo jumbo. These top executives seem more content with chanting Indian style noises rather than listen to how they can make money through sound investments. When Evan finally discovers that his daughter is somehow able to tell the future within the business world by using her goo-gaa (blanket) and her invisible friends Princesses Kupida and Mopida, he discovers he has an invaluable upper hand now at the office.In order for Evan to ask these imaginary friends any question he must travel through the imaginary world, through a dense forest, past a dragon, through caves, and even walk through France. Before, Evan who is a part-time father really had no time for his daughter, now is forced to play with her and by her rules. After only a couple of days with her, he rediscovers the inner child within himself and genuinely has a lot of fun playing these imaginary games with Olivia.Johnny Whitefeather and Evan are now competing for the position of heading the western division of the company D.D.E. In order to be prepared for the most important presentation of his life, Evan must once again invoke the use of the Goo-Gaa and meet up with the princesses. The only problem is that Olivia is spending the night at her friends house, and there is no way for Evan to obtain said Goo-Gaa. Also, the presentation showdown will be held on Saturday, the day of Olivias class play. Will Evan choose business over Olivia once again? Does he have a chance to compete with Whitefeather now that he doesnt have the Goo-Gaa blanket? Find out when you watch Imagine That. (scapp70 from epinions.com)
