After a seemingly undead man is bound and buried alive, he digs himself back to the surface and seeks bloody vengeance on those who caused him his suffering.
Max Seed, a mass murderer, is scheduled for execution at the hands of Warden Wright. Before the executioner throws the switch, Wright steps in front of Seed, "Do you have any last words?" Seed, " I'll see you again." After three attempts to electrocute, complete with boiling blood that steeps from his eyes, he's still alive. The executioner, Wright &amp; the doctor collectively agree, that the breathing Seed be pronounced dead. He is bound and buried alive. After biting &amp; clawing his way to the surface, Seed, the blood soaked, enraged madman, is now bent on vengeance. The reign of violence that follows will redefine the boundaries of extreme gore, physical &amp; mental torture explored through cinema.
Max Seed (Will Sanderson) is a serial killer responsible for the deaths of 666 people over a six year period who is on the loose. The police receive videos portraying the slow death and decomposition of creatures ranging from a cockroach, a Labrador dog, a baby, and fully-grown woman in an underground chamber. They trace the videos to the residence of Seed. Detective Matt Bishop (Michael Paré) captures Seed, Max Seed's background story is revealed that , as a boy, a reclusive and antisocial Max Seed was disfigured in a school bus crash that killed everyone else involved in it. Starting In 1973, Seed began torturing and murdering people, filming some of his victims starving to death in his locked basement, and ultimately racking up a bodycount of 666. Now in this current setting (in 1979), Seed is arrested by Detective Matt Bishop (Michael Paré) in a sting operation that claims the lives of five of Bishop's fellow officers. Seed is sentenced to death by electric chair, and incarcerated on an island prison, where he is a model inmate, only acting out when he kills three guards who try to rape him.On Seed's execution date, the electric chair fails to kill him after two shocks. Not wanting Seed to be released due to a state law that says any convicted criminal who survives three jolts of 15,000 volts each for 45 seconds walks, the prison staff and Bishop declare Seed dead, and bury him alive in the prison cemetery. A few hours later, Seed digs his way out of his grave and returns to the prison, where he kills the executioner, doctor and warden before swimming back to the main land. The next day, while investigating the massacre, Bishop realizes Seed was responsible when he discovers the serial killer's empty cemetery plot.Over the course of several months Seed resumes his killing spree, and kills dozens of more people, with one long shot showing him beating a bound woman with a chisel for five straight minutes. One day, a videotape showing Bishop's house is sent to the detective's office. Knowing this means Seed is going to go after his family, Bishop races home, finding his wife, Sandy, and eight-year-old daughter, Emily, gone, and the four officers charged with guarding the house are found dismembered in the bathroom.Driving to Seed's old house, Bishop is lured into a basement room containing a television and a video camera, and locked inside. The television turns on, and depicts Seed with Sandy and Emily in the attic. Emily informs Bishop that Seed wants Bishop to shoot himself in order to save his wife and daughter. When Bishop hesitates, Seed brutally kills Sandy by shooting her in the head with a nail gun, prompting Bishop into shooting himself in the head, believing that doing so will make Seed release his daughter. Instead, Seed takes the little girl to the room containing her father's corpse, and locks her in it. As Emily sobs for her two dead parents, the film suddenly ends with Max Seed contining to kill with no end in sight to his bloody rampage.
