Yu Hong leaves her home village and starts university in Beijing, where she develops a consuming and compulsive relationship with another student. The student riots from 1989 then ensue and take a toll on their lives.
Country girl Yu Hong leaves her village, her family and her lover to study in Beijing. At university, she discovers an intense world of sexual freedom and forbidden pleasure. Enraptured, compulsive, she falls madly in love with fellow student Zhou Wei. Driven by obsessive passions they can neither understand nor control, their relationship becomes one of dangerous games - betrayals, recriminations, provocations - as all around them, their fellow students begin to demonstrate, demanding democracy and freedom. Protests collapse, and Yu and Zhou lose each other amidst the social chaos and panicked crowds. Zhou Wei is sent to a summer military camp, and on his release moves to Berlin, fleeing both his country and memories of Yu. She finds a job, a lover, but can not forget Zhou. In Germany, social unrest is mounting: calls for freedom, demonstrations for democracy. A familiar story for Zhou. Weary, still haunted by Yu, he returns to China as the Berlin Wall crashes down. He finds her at last, in a small town. From evening to dawn, their future stretches before them, two changed souls in a changed world.
Two young lovers play out their complex, erotic, love/hate relationship against a
volatile backdrop of political unrest.Beautiful country girl Yu Hong (Hao Lei) leaves her village, family and lover to study
at Beijing University, where she discovers a world of sexual freedom. When she falls
in love with fellow student Zhou Wei (Guo Xiaodong), their relationship, driven by
passions neither one can understand nor control, becomes one of dangerous games -
betrayals, recriminations, provocations - as all around them, students begin to
demonstrate, demanding freedom and democracy.As the protests collapse, Yu and Zhou lose each other amidst the social chaos and
panicked crowds. Zhou is sent to a summer military camp, and moves to Berlin upon
his release, fleeing his country and memories of Yu. In Germany, social unrest is
mounting too; as the Berlin wall crashes down, Zhou, weary and still haunted by Yu,
returns to China and finds her living in a small town. With their uncertain future
stretched out before them, they are two changed souls in a changed world. Will they
survive together or alone?
