The owner of a 1930s nightclub loses control of his life amid love triangles and too much debt.
When a naïve playboy investigates the shadowy death of his wealthy father, his charmed life as the eligible owner of the city's hottest nightclub begins to spiral out of control. A sultry noir fever dream of music, seduction and murder, "Dark Streets" features stunningly choreographed dance numbers and an original soundtrack performed by some of the most acclaimed blues, jazz and R&amp;B legends living today.
Directed by Rachel Samuels ("The Suicide Club") from a screenplay by Wallace King, the film stars Gabriel Mann ("The Bourne Supremacy"), Bijou Phillips ("Choke"), Izabella Miko ("Coyote Ugly"), Elias Koteas ("The Thin Red Line") Michael Fairman ("Thirteen Days") and Toledo Diamond ("Don's Plum"). The film is produced by Andrea Balen ("American Night"), Claus Clausen ("The Lucky Ones"), Corina Danckwerts ("American Night") and Glenn M. Stewart ("The Lucky Ones"); and executive produced by Steffen Aumueller ("The Lucky Ones"). The film's rich blues score is composed by George Acogny ("Blood Diamond"), featuring BB King."Dark Streets" features 12 original songs written by James Compton, Tim Brown and Tony DeMeur, performed by stars Bijou Phillips and Izabella Miko as well as legendary artists including Dr. John, Etta James, Natalie Cole, Aaron Neville, Solomon Burke, Chaka Khan and Richie Sambora. The film's stylish and seductive dance numbers are choreographed by Keith Young (Rent) and performed by sensational underground performer Toledo Diamond and a stage full of L.A.'s most talented dancers.Set in a visually dazzling fantasy of 1930s New York, "Dark Streets" tells the story of Chaz Davenport (Gabriel Mann), a dashing playboy who owns what promises to become the hottest new nightclub in townif only the lights would stay on. Surrounded by the sumptuous blues music he adores, and with his pick of the gorgeous women who perform their sensual dance numbers on stage every night, Chaz is the envy of every man.But with the city thrown into darkness by frequent blackouts and a menacing loan shark closing in, Chaz is in danger of losing the cluband far more. At the same time, he finds himself embroiled in a painful love triangle with the club's alluring star singer, Crystal (Bijou Phillips), and a new arrival at the clubthe mysterious and seductive chanteuse Madelaine (Izabella Miko).When people close to Chaz begin turning up dead, he doesn't know where to turn or whom to trust. And the harder he tries to uncover the truth, the further he's drawn into the darkness of lies and betrayala darkness as black as the city's streets during a power outage. Welcome to the Blues. [D-Man2010]
