A comedy that spoofs inspirational sports movies, this movie tells the story of an out-of-luck coach, Lambeau Fields, who takes a rag-tag bunch of college misfits and drives them towards the football championships. In the process, this life-long loser discovers that he is a winner after all by redeeming himself, saving his relationship with his family and friends, and finding that there is indeed, no "I" in "team".
Lambeau Fields lives a middle-class lifestyle in America along with his wife, Barb, and a gorgeous daughter, Michelle, who he has brought up as a son. Lambeau is a failure and has virtually given up on his career as a football coach. Then his friend, Freddie Wiseman, encourages him to re-enter this field, and he does so by re-locating to Plainfolk in Texas and joins the Heartland State University. It is here he will meet some of the most pathetic players, and quite disillusioned he goes about to find new-comers. He finds a kicker in Jasminder Featherfoot, provided of course, he keeps her involvement secret from the rest of her family. Then he finds Lance Truman, whose drag queen dad has brought him up more like a tom-girl. With these additions and others Lambeau sets forth to include his team in the next Super...Er...Toilet Bowl 2 series, and it is here that he will find that Lance fumbles a lot; Barb is not quite faithful as she seems; he will soon be in jail for Indecent Exposure; Michelle has a black boyfriend; and Freddie has a hidden agenda.
Coach Fields is pathetic. He has the distinction of being the worst coach in the history of sports anyone can recall. A loser of enormous proportions, the incompetent and seemingly hopeless coach is convinced by fellow coach Freddie Wiseman to return to the field for one last shot. Assuring his long suffering wife that he will not ignore his family, Coach moves them to Plainfolk, Texas where he hopes to redeem himself and his reputation. Here he begins yet another attempt to improve his abysmal record - this time as the coach of the football team at Heartland State University. But he is saddled with a team of misfits - most of whom don't know the difference between a line of scrimmage and a line at the cafeteria. Coach is in serious need of some real talent to beef up his line-up and finds his number one recruit on the university's baseball diamond. The ever-so-handsome Lance Truman brings with him a distinguished award winning career - albeit for the most dropped balls - as well as determination. Coach convinces Truman to join the team as quarterback, and the young athlete comes on board despite the objection of his father. Wearing jersey #1 is Trotter, the bling-wearing, girl magnet wide receiver who can actually catch and run with the ball, as long as his over-sized ego does not get in the way. The biggest bruiser of the team is Buddy Boy, but he turns out to be more warm and cuddly than the mean sonofabitch that Coach longs for. The rest of the team includes the upbeat and handsome, Aseel Tare, who is always ready for action despite an uncanny tendency for injury; tattooed and angry Jorge Juanson who has a chip on his shoulder, and the delusion of being from the barrio; Jizminder, a beautiful, British-Indian soccer player, who takes on the role of kicker and is the only female player on the otherwise all male squad; and lastly, is the runt of the group, Randy, who is always begging for a chance to play despite his minuscule stature, and lack of any discernible football skills...unless you count moxie. Serving as Coach's right hand man is IPod, although he is often misunderstood, the good-hearted, music listening IPod keeps the team smiling. Although the team and townsfolk are leery of the newcomer's approach, the Coach uses his unorthodox methods to whip this group of rag-tags into shape - both on and off the field. While the audience follows their winding road to the playoffs, the film pokes fun at the clichés and conventions of other sports flicks. And the team does make progress, so much so that they actually make it to the South-Southwest Conference Championship at the 2nd Annual Toilet Bowl. Facing their fiercest opponents yet and yearning to win the big game, The Comebacks face off with the Lone Star State Unbeatables. And as every great sports team has always done, The Comebacks use ingenuity and unorthodox measures in the final showdown where the best team wins.

