A pair of slackers get in way over their heads when they try to dump the body of a dead girlfriend in the basement of a drive-in movie theater where a satanic cult performs ritual sacrifices.
In Weedsville, Ontario, friends Royce (an ideas guy) and Dexter (the quiet, introspective one of the two) are slacker druggies. In Dexter owing their drug dealer Omar $1,700, Royce, with the help of his friend Mattie (who many people, including Omar, "mistakenly" believe is a hooker), has made a deal with Omar to sell some of his drugs for him in the profit amount of what Dexter owes as payment. Mattie, who is also a druggie, came up with the idea having a secondary plan in mind to pay back Omar. She is aware that wealthy Jason Taylor, who is currently in the hospital with his wife Irene standing 24-hour vigil there leaving their house empty, does not believe in banks and keeps his money in a safe in the house. As Mattie knows the safe combination, the three of them can steal the money and thus keep Omar's drugs for their own consumption. As the week progresses with the three awaiting the right time to make the heist, Mattie overdoses on the drugs and dies. As Royce believes going to the authorities to report Mattie's death is not an option, he and Dexter have to find a way to dispose of her body. In the process of getting rid of Mattie's body, Royce and Dexter witness a criminal act by a group of Satanic cultists led by Abel, who they knew casually in high school. Following, Royce and Dexter have to evade both the cultists who are after them with Abel proverbially knowing "where they live", and Omar, who Dexter cannot now pay back no longer having the drugs or the combination to the safe.
Royce and Dexter are two slackers who live in the strange little town of Weedsville. When Royce's girlfriend Matilda overdose's on their stash and dies, they decide to bury her in an abandoned Drive-In theater. Things get out of control when they discover Satanists performing a ritual sacrifice right where they were going to bury the body...
In the little town of Weedsville, Northern Ontario, Dexter (Scott Speedman) is kicking his heroin habit partly because he wants to be clean but when his buddy Royce (Wes Bentley) calls to tell him their friend Matilda (Taryn Manning) has overdosed and died things get tense. Added to that the threatening actions of drug dealer Omar (Raoul Bheneja) who demands a large amount of cash for drugs he has given to the two stoners, pushes Dex and Royce to attempt to avoid Police involvement and bury Mattie in an abandoned Drive-In Theatre. While they are digging a hole they are interrupted by a group of Satan Worshipers led by Abel (Greg Bryk) who believes Mattie has special powers particularly because she revives and starts running from the group. Abel decides that Mattie should be a human sacrifice but Dex and Royce save her as the three concoct a plan to rob a local business man of his moneyed safe to pay off Omar and save their lives. But Mattie is kidnapped by Abel, and Dex and Royce are arrested by shopping mall security guard Martin (Jordan Prentice) who believes that the two luckless slackers are being pursued by Moonies and he lets them go. Martin is kidnapped and tortured for information and left for dead by Abel. Dex and Royce have managed to get their hands on a safe they believe contains the cash they need to give to Omar and only need the combination that Mattie has learned. The two stoners muster the grit to save her from Abel but not without the help of a band of Midget Medieval-Knight warriors led by security guard Martin.
