A group of kids must protect their vacation home from invading aliens.
Stuart Pearson heads with his family to spend a summer vacation in Creek Landing, Michigan, with his brother Nathan Pearson and his sons and their mother Rose in an old lake house they had rented. When the television has trouble with the image, Stuart's son Tom and the arrogant boyfriend of his sister Ricky Dillman go to the attic and then to the roof, where Tom meets his cousin Jake and they find the antenna dish totally destroyed. Sooner they discover four alien invaders that are preparing an invasion of the Earth that use a mind control weapon that only affects adults and they lock the quartet in the attic. Now they need to a find a way to force the adults to leave the house and discover the vulnerability of the invaders to plot a defense plan to save our planet.
Loser Thomas Pearson is sent to a house in Albany with his family for the summer. During a storm, he and his cousin, jake meet 4 aliens who apparently do not come in peace and attack them. In order to get rid of them, they trust one and team up with Hannah, Bethany, and every other kid in tom's family to kill or at least get rid of the monsters and return home safely
ALIENS IN THE ATTIC, co-scripted by one of the writers of "Madagascar" and the Academy Award®-winning "Wallace and Gromit: The Curse of the Were-Rabbit," is an adventure/comedy about kids on a family vacation who must fight off an attack by knee-high alien invaders with world-destroying ambitions. At the same time, the youngsters work hard to keep their parents in the dark about the battle upstairs.It's the Pearsons versus the aliens who "came from upstairs," in an all-out battle that will decide the fate of the Earth - and kick-off the ultimate summer vacation.It all starts as a meteor shower rockets across the dark galaxy. Four glowing pods sparkle and crackle while hiding behind the meteor show. A mysterious force makes the meteor shower turn a hard right towards a bright blue ball in the distance - planet Earth.In a comfortable suburban house in Michigan, Stuart Pearson (Kevin Nealon) and his wife Nina (Gillian Vigman) head a family that includes adorable seven-year-old Hannah (Ashley Boettcher); 15-year-old Tom (Carter Jenkins), a techno-geek whose grades have gone south; and big sister Bethany (Ashley Tisdale), who's just returned from a secret outing with boyfriend Ricky Dillman (Robert Hoffman).Deciding the family needs some good old-fashioned togetherness, Stuart packs up the clan and heads to a three-story holiday house in the middle of nowhere. Joining them is Uncle Nate (Andy Richter), Nate's son Jake (Austin Butler), dear old Nana Rose (Doris Roberts), and identical 12-year-old twins Art (Henri Young) and Lee (Regan Young). An unexpected arrival is Bethany's beau Ricky, who wrangles an overnight visit with the extended family.As day turns to night, dark storm clouds start swirling around the house. Suddenly, four glowing objects shoot toward the roof. The alien crew inside the objects is made up of Skip, the tough commander; Tazer, a muscle-bound dude armed to the teeth; Razor, a lethal female alien soldier; and Sparks a geeky four-armed techie, who is the only non-threatening alien intruder.Ricky is placed under the spell of the aliens, courtesy of a high-tech mind-control device and plug implanted into the base of his skull; Ricky's mind and actions now belong to the alien crew. The alien "Zirkonians," via Ricky, lay claim to the planet. Like a puppet/robot/zombie, Ricky moves towards the boys - but Tom and Jake break free.It isn't long before all five kids see the strange new arrivals. Tom takes charge; and the kids come to realize the alien mind-control device only works on grownups, giving them a fighting chance against the invaders - and the responsibility to protect the adults by keeping the aliens' existence a secret. Left to their own devices, the kids unleash their imaginations, creating makeshift weapons, like piping ingeniously rigged as a home-made potato spud gun. They even learn to use the mind controller. First order of business: taking control of Ricky - and turning his robot/zombie/ idiot actions against himself and the aliens.The adults remain oblivious to the alien presence and figure the kids are being...kids...and insist that the youngsters partake in a fishing expedition. Meanwhile, a touching friendship is struck between Hannah and Sparks, the friendly alien with four arms and hands. Unlike his alien cohorts, Sparks has no stomach for battle; he just wants to return home to his Zirkonian family.Nana Rose comes under the spell of the alien mind control device, which gives her super-human powers. She comes to the kids' rescue -and into a battle with Ricky, who is again under alien control. Nana Rose gives Ricky a huge jolt causing the alien plug to dislodge. Sparks joins the kids fight and uses his four arms, relentlessly creating devices that eventually help the kids fight on.As the battle continues, the laughs, action and danger escalate. But the kids rise to the occasion, finding new strengths and self-sufficiency. And it becomes clear that the aliens never stood a chance.... [D-Man2010]
