The continued Westward journey of settlers Missie and Willie Lahaye. Their roots now firmly planted as they set up homestead in the far West, Missie begins to realize her passion for teaching as Willie cares for the couple's young daughter Kathy while expanding the family ranch with a little help from sons Jeff and Matthew. When the frontier railroad comes to town, the pleasure of a long-promised visit from Missie's father Clark is suddenly offset by the tragic death of young Kathy. As the untimely demise of their beloved daughter begins to drive an emotional wedge between Missie and Willie, the devastated father unexpectedly accepts an offer made by the powerful Samuel Doros to assume the role of town sheriff. Their faith shaken and their once close-knit bond suddenly torn asunder, Missie and Willie desperately attempt to bring their crumbling family back together as son Jeff faces a series of dangers while hopelessly falling for Doros' beautiful daughter Colette.
Rancher Willie LaHaye's family joy seems complete when father in law Clark Davis returns from the East Coast. But the death of baby Katie plunges Willie's wife Missie into long-lasting gloom. Willie can't stand it and ends up accepting mayor Samuel Doros's offer to become the town's sheriff. The job comes with its own frustration, as he must evict friends from their homes when unable to repay loans from Doros. Meanwhile Will's son Jeff falls for the charms of the mayor's unruly daughter Colette.
Directed by Michael Landon, Jr., this fourth installment of Janette Oke's beloved "Love Comes Softly" series is now a satisfying, hearwarming feature. Following a treacherous journey West, Missie (Erin Cottrell) and her husband (Logan Bartholomew) have set up a homestead where they've begun to raise a family. And now that a railroad line connects the states, Missie's father (Dale Midkiff), is able to visit. But when the joyful reunion is interrupted by tragedy, the faith and love of this family is once again challenged in a story you and your family will never forget.
