Two siblings begin to develop special talents after they find a mysterious box of toys. Soon the kids, their parents, and even their teacher are drawn into a strange new world and find a task ahead of them that is far more important than any of them could imagine!
The siblings Noah and Emma travel with their mother Jo from Seattle to the family cottage in Whidbey Island to spend a couple of days while their workaholic father David Wilder is working. They find a box of toys from the future in the water and bring it home, and Emma finds a stuffed rabbit called Mimzy, and stones and a weird object, but they hide their findings from their parents. Mimzy talks telepathically to Emma and the siblings develop special abilities, increasing their intelligences to the level of genius. Their father becomes very proud when Noah presents a magnificent design in the fair of science and technology, and his teacher Larry White and his mystic wife Naomi Schwartz become interested in the boy when he draws a mandala. When Noah accidentally assembles the objects and activates a powerful generator creating a blackout in the state, the FBI arrests the family trying to disclose the mystery. But Emma unravels the importance to send Mimzy back to the future.
Noah and Emma Wilder are a young brother and sister (Chris O'Neil and Rhiannon Leigh Wryn) who find a mysterious box during a family beach outing. Items in the box soon show themselves to have (and give) abilities to the youngsters, as their parents (Joely Richardson and Timothy Hutton) gradually grow concerned. They are not alone in taking note of these changes. Noahs science teacher, (Rainn Wilson) along with his Tibetan Buddhist fiancée (Kathryn Hahn) get involved, as well as government forces led by Nathaniel Broadman (Michael Clarke Duncan).Presented as a flashback, The Last Mimzy is the story of a distant future's attempt to avert a catastrophic ecological disaster that has destroyed their world. High tech devices, masquerading as toys, are sent back in time into the hands of Noah and Emma, two children who live with their parents Jo (Joely Richardson) and David (Timothy Hutton) in early 21st century Seattle. The "toys" are mostly incomprehensible to Emma and Noah, except for what appears to be a stuffed rabbit named Mimzy. Sensing the strangeness of the devices, the children initially keep their discovery a secret from their parents.Interaction with the devices causes the children to develop increased intelligence and psychic capabilities, including teleportation of objects, telepathy, levitation, telekinesis, and the ability to communicate with arthropods. Emma becomes emotionally attached to Mimzy, from which she learns how to further operate the devices. The children's unusual abilities and Emma's obsessive attachment to Mimzy soon alert their parents and schoolteachers to the devices; later, a power black-out of the entire Pacific northwest caused by the toys alerts the FBI to their activities as well. The family is held for questioning, and it is revealed that Mimzy is actually an advanced form of artificial life utilizing nanotechnology created by Intel Corporation. Mimzy has brought a message from humanity's future, which Emma explains to mean that pollution has corrupted humanity's DNA. Many rabbits like Mimzy were sent to the past, but none had successfully returned; Mimzy is the last one remaining. Mimzy explains to the children that they must use the toys as a time machine to return her to the future with uncorrupted 21st century DNA, which the people of the future can use to correct the damage to their DNA caused by the ecological problems.Despite attempts by an unbelieving FBI to hinder them, Noah and Emma use their psychic powers to escape with Mimzy and the other objects and are able to activate the time portal by which Mimzy can return to the future. Fortunately, Mimzy carries with it a tear of Emma's, thus providing the pure DNA required to prevent the disaster. In the new future, Emma is revered as the "mother" of all the present generations, and the children exhibit the same psychic gifts that Emma had developed. The world has become a more beautiful place, where it is presumed that humanity has integrated better into the natural ecosystems.
