As part of a film project, a physically fit teenager dons a fat suit to gain experience of the hardships facing overweight high school students.
Pretty, popular, and slim high-schooler Aly Schimdt had plans of earning a sports scholarship to college but a knee injury ruins her chances. She decides to enter a documentary contest in the hopes of winning money for college. She believes that overweight people, like her mom and brother, seem to make excuses about how the world perceives them. So Aly decides to attend a rival high school as a heavily overweight person for the documentary, but not change her personality. Aly intends and hopes to prove that personality will outshine physical appearance. But when she's met with ridicule, harassment, and name-calling she begins to see things differently.
High school senior Alyson travels within the popular crowd at school. A star softball player, she is obsessed with keeping fit as her mother and brother have always had weight issues, which she wants to avoid. She shows resentment toward her mother because of weight related medical issues she faced, which Alyson believes were avoidable if her mother really cared about herself. The medical bills have in turn used up her college fund. To get into college, Alyson is relying on getting a softball scholarship. That plan falls apart when she gets injured during the scout's visit. To possibly finance her college education, Alyson instead decides to enter a documentary film-making contest with her friend Jamie, the prize money, if they win, which will be sufficient. Their subject centers around treatment of overweight people. Alyson believes that overweight people use their weight as an excuse not to try, whereas her overweight brother Adam, who she considers one of the sweetest and smartest people she knows, believes that people automatically treat him and other overweight people with disdain regardless. With the help of her prosthetic make-up artist neighbor, Alyson goes undercover as a fat girl attending summer school at a neighboring high school, where no one knows who she is. She believes that people will not treat her any differently since deep down she is still "Alyson", a nice girl. As Alyson proceeds with this project, it becomes much bigger than she ever imagined, as she ultimately sees weight from many more perspectives than just her own. It brings to the surface fears that she has, especially concerning her family history. These fears also include typical teenager self-image issues as a fellow jock named Michael begins to show interest in dating her.
Teenager jock Alyson's change for a softball scholarship is ruined by an injury during the scout's crucial visit. She now teams up with a haughty girl for a national documentary competition. Subject is obesity, like her smarter kid brother Adam and their mother, due to an eating disorder. Alyson masquerades in a secret camera-equipped fat suit at summer school, thus befriending two nice, on 'aesthetic' ground rather unpopular nerds. Meanwhile her charming fellow jock, Michael, slowly grows impatient, being neglected.

