A meditation on love and its various incarnations, set within a community of friends in Oregon. and is described as an exploration of the magical, mysterious and sometimes painful incarnations of love.
A group of friends living in suburban Oregon come into contact with a sensual free spirit of Chloe, who changes their outlook on life in the most unexpected of ways. As college professor and writer Harry sits quietly in the coffee shop of his tight-knit Oregon community, the local residents all around him all become swept up in the magical mischief of love. Coffee shop owner Bradley has a bad habit of looking for love in all the wrong places, and his relationship with wife Kathryn is a prime example of that penchant. Meanwhile, frazzled real estate agent Diana becomes ensnared in a taboo affair with a married man David, lovely newcomer Chloe attempts the formidable task of romancing troubled soul Oscar, and Harry's own wife, Esther, affectionately tries to get through to her husband as he wrestles with the pain of losing a loved one.
In a coffee shop in a tight-knit Oregon community, local professor Harry Stevenson witnesses love and attraction whipping up mischief among the town's residents. From the unlucky in love, die-hard romantic coffee shop owner Bradley, who has a serial habit of looking for love in all the wrong places, including with his current wife Kathryn; to the edge real estate agent Diana, who is caught up in an affair with a married man with whom she shares an ineffable connection; to the beautiful newcomer Chloe, who defies fate in romancing the troubled Oscar; to Harry himself, whose adoring wife is looking to break through his wall of grief after the wrenching loss of a beloved ... they intertwine into one story in which no one escapes being bent, broken, befuddled, delighted and and ultimately redeemed by love.
Portland, over an 18-month period. Eight couples, four uncouplings, two weddings, two graves, an angry father, a grieving couple, love, sex, heartache, and a dog. Penniless kids Oscar and Chloe meet at Bradley's coffee shop, fall in love, and share their dreams. Bradley's wife falls for another woman when he's not paying attention. He tries again with his realtor, who's having an affair with a married man. Watching all and providing counsel is Harry, a professor on leave, married to the patient Esther and paralyzed by grief. What is love's nature: blindness in the service of procreation? heartbreak? or everything? Can Chloe, Harry, and Bradley discover the answer?
The movie deals with love and its various incarnations, set within a community of friends in Portland, Oregon. Harry Stevenson provides narration about how love can affect one's life.Bradley Smith (Greg Kinnear) runs a small cafe in Portland. He has been married to his wife Kathryn (Selma Blair) for six years. However, their marriage becomes strained. Soon enough Kathryn begins a lesbian relationship with a woman, named Jenny (Stana Katic), whom she meets playing softball, and leaves Bradley.Meanwhile, Oscar Gamlen (Toby Hemingway) is a young man working at Bradley's cafe who soon meets and falls in love with a girl named Chloe (Alexa Davalos). However, Oscar is revealed to be living with his alcoholic and abusive father, Bat (Fred Ward). When Chloe visits a fortune-teller, she is told that Oscar will die. Chloe, though upset at first, straightens her resolve about her love for Oscar and their future together. Coming home, she urges Oscar to get married to her immediately.Bradley's divorce from Kathryn greatly, but he soon finds love again in Diana Croce (Radha Mitchell), who also has a past with a married man named David Watson (Billy Burke).Diana is a successful realtor and has been carrying on an affair with the married David. Though she asks him numerous times to leave his wife of 11 years, Karen, he cannot bring himself to do it. Their relationship becomes even more volatile when Diana begins dating Bradley and falls in love with him. David insists he loves Diana, but is unable to leave his wife.Also, Harry (Morgan Freeman) and his wife Esther (Jane Alexander) are an interacial couple who have been married a long time. Harry is a regular patron at Bradley's cafe and often provides the younger generation with advice on love. However, it is revealed that Harry and Esther are masking their own grief after the death of their adult son, Aaron some years ago.Diana marries Bradley and ends her affair with David. However, their love is later rekindled when Karen discovers her husband was cheating, leaving him. Free at last, David and Diana have an emotional confrontation in the park that ends with a kiss that Bradley sees, fueling their divorce.Now twice divorced, Bradley suffers a mini-breakdown and stabs himself in the hand. As he is getting stitched up in the hospital he falls for his doctor, Margit (Erika Marozsán).At Chloe and Oscar's wedding, she reveals to Harry that she is pregnant, and plans to have another baby right after due to Harry's advice of having "two."Everybody gathers for an afternoon in the park. While playing football, Oscar collapses; despite an attempt to get him to a hospital, congested traffic interferes, and he dies of a heart defect. Bat attempts to avenge his son's death by harming Chloe but Harry scares him off, and then asks Chloe if he and his wife Esther can 'adopt' her as their own.In the film's conclusion Diana and David are shown as a public and functionally happy couple.Bradley asks Margit for her hand in marriage and she accepts.Harry reveals the nature of his son's death to Chloe, whom he and Esther grow very close to. Harry has also been struggling with the decision of going back to work as a professor at a university.In the film's conclusion, after Oscar's death, Harry and Esther offer to adopt a now widowed and pregnant Chloe, who tearfully accepts their offer.
