A romantic comedy centered on the daily lives of five Lebanese women living in Beirut.
Six women in Beirut seek love, marriage, and companionship and find duty, friendship, and possibility. Four work at a salon: Nisrine, engaged to Bassam, with a secret she shares with her co-workers; Jamale, a divorced mother of teens, a part-time model, fearing the encroachment of time; Rima, always in pants, attracted to Siham, a client who smiles back; Layale, in love with a married man, willing to drop everything at a honk of his horn. There's also Rose, a middle-aged seamstress, who cares for Lili, old and facing dementia. Rose has a suitor; Layale has an admirer on the police force. Is delight a possibility? Is caramel a sweet or an instrument of pain?
Caramel mainly centers on the daily lives of five Lebanese women living in Beirut. Layale (Nadine Labaki) works in a beauty salon in Beirut along with three other women.Each woman has their own issues. Layale has a relationship with a married man. Nisrine (Yasmine Al Massri) is engaged to be married but we soon learn she is not a virgin anymore and worries that her husband will find out on their wedding night. Rima (Joanna Moukarzel) is attracted to a beautiful client who started to frequent the salon.
Jamal (Gisèle Aouad) is an aspiring actress and worried about growing old and will go to elaborate means to appear younger.And then there was Rose (Sihame Haddad), a tailor with a shop next to the salon. Rose had to take care of her older sister who had dementia. Her life seemed to be at a dead end until one day she started to feel some kind of attraction to a middle-aged customer .Layale was troubled over her relationship with a married man. She either had to accept to see him in her car parked in a desolate place or talking on the phone in the bathroom (she still lived with her parents &amp; her little brother). She made plan to meet him at a hotel for a romantic rendezvous but he did not show up . This left Layale in tears, leaning on her friends for consolation. In the mean time there was a young policeman who felt very attracted to Layale. In order to know more about her lover's wife, Layale called her up and offered her a special price for services at the salon. The wife showed up to take up on her offer. She turned out to be nice, good looking and obviously care very much about her husband.Rose felt exhausted by all the capriciousness and shenanigans of her sister. The customer finally asked her out so Rose went to the salon to have her hair done. It was when she came home, started to put make-up on that her sister started to bang on the door again. Rose became fed up, wiped away the lipstick, the eyeshadow and wept. She knew that even if she had a chance, she could never escape her sort - stuck with her elder sister.Nisrine's wedding finally took place. Everybody seemed to have a good time at the wedding reception, including the young policeman.
