Bhagwan Shri Kishan had predicted that the Kalyug (Dark Age - where evil will triumph over good) will start after the battle of the Kurkshetra - the epic war between Kauravas and their cousins the Pandavas. Sage Vyas had verbally dictated the Bhagwad Geeta, while Bhagwan Shri Ganesh wrote it, which included a little-known chapter - about Surya Dev's son, Karan, who though sired by Pandavas mother, Kunti herself, had fought on the side of the Kauravas. He adorned a body armor that no arrow or spear could pierce rendering himself virtually immortal. This itself could have changed the course of history and resulted in the annihilation of the Pandavas - until Bhagwan Shri Indra himself intervened and got Karan to donate this armor, which was then safely buried in the Uttaranchal mountains in India. With the body armor out of the way, the Pandavas were able to slay Karan and defeat the Kaurava hordes. Years later, Kapil Malhotra came across a map to this armor, which he wanted to be kept secret, but Baali, his assistant, wanted it for himself, so that he could rule the world. Rather than surrender the map to Baali, Kapil kills himself by jumping off a cliff, leaving behind a divorced wife and son, Veer; and his present wife with a son named Vicky. 20 years later, Vicky, while he attempts to sell their ancestral property near Kishanganj, comes across a copy of the real map - leading to a chain of events that would re-unite the Malhotra brothers, with Baali eventually getting his hands on the much coveted armor - becoming the most powerful human on Earth, unstoppable - with no one capable of killing him.
The story begins with the search of an archaeologist named Kapil Malhotra to who has an ancient map, which leads to the Armour of Karna taken by Indra in the epic story Mahabharata. Years later after Acharya's death, his son Vicky, aided by a copy of the same map that he comes across by chance, leaves on a journey to discover what it was that his father dedicated his life in searching. The re-emergence of this quest attracts the evil forces, as Vicky is abducted. Help comes in the guise of Vicky's elder step-brother Veer, who is sent there by Vicky's mother to get Vicky back. Vicky is grateful to be rescued but not pleased about his brother's mission to take him back. Now starts a hilarious tug of war between the two brothers. Along this journey through the dense forests, high mountains and deep ravines, they encounter one more ally,a girl named Ria. Pursued by the forces of darkness, this trio sets off on the journey to unravel the mystery behind the map and here unfolds an adventure. As they got through this difficult adventure where at last there quest was being fulfilled and also re-awake there father's soul for years to come.
After the death of an archaeologist, Kapil Malhotra. 20 years later his younger son, Vicky attempts to uncover his father's mission with the help of an ancient map. However Vicky does not seem to have any clue to carry this obligation, but to prove this he is forced to delay deep into the jungles of India where he meets his step, elder brother, Veer and together they will have to join hands to destroy an enemy in the guise of Baali who wants to uncover a chain-mail and prove that he is the only god in the universe that no one could destroy.

