Kornel - an ornithologist who became the most popular Polish scientist, has married a famous pop singer. However, the bride runs from the church, on the way kissing one of the guests. The man is overpowered and dragged into a car by Stavros - father of the groom and his two random helpers. They take him to the yet empty wedding venue. The bizzare situation slowly morphs into a drinking session and a series of conversations about sex and women. It turns out that men are connected in more ways than they suspect and have more in common than they think.
The wedding of Kornel (Piotr Adamczyk), a young, well known TV scientist, to the famous singer, Alicja (Magda Boczarska), is to be the social event of the year. In the suburban reception hall, the final preperations are being made. The waiter, Tytus (Borys Szyc), who is somewhat touchy having just found out he is to become a father, lays out the cutlery on the tables.Suddenly a silver Rolls-Royce arrives in the yard with a screech. Three men drag a badly beaten boy out of the car and lock themselves into one of the rooms. Who are they? Terrorists? Gangsters? Policemen with an unusual approach to the law?The situation gets even more complicated when the groom, his head bandaged, appears at the doorway with his brother, Janis (Cezary Kosinski). Tytus already knows that this wedding will be different than others. What he doesn't realise is that the next few hours will change his life forever...It soon transpires that it was the groom's father, Stavros (Krzysztof Stelmarczyck), who arranged the kidnapping. His helpers are Fistach (Tomasz Karolak), the guitarist from Alicja's band, and Robal (Tomasz Kot), the groom's best friend and his best man. And the kidnapped man is Sebastian Tretyn (Maciej Stuhr), an employee at an advertising agency. But what was the reason for the kidnapping?From overheard snippets of conversation, it turns out (to everyone's amusement) that the bride had said "No" and had confessed to loving someone else, pointing at Sebastian Tretyn. She had then approached him and started kissing him passionately.Tretyn, however, swears that this is the first time he has ever seen the bride and that he does not know her. But Stavros does not believe him and tries to find out who is mocking his son, and why. The truth will turn out to be very amusing...This film was a massive hit in Poland in early 2007. It's a bawdy comedy and is billed as the "Polish American Pie". The film (with English subs) is touring around the UK and Ireland from July 15th 2007.
