An average Joe meets the perfect woman, but his lack of confidence and the influence of his friends and family begin to pick away at the relationship.
Kirk is an average Joe who works as a TSA agent at the Pittsburgh airport with his friends. The status quo of his fairly monotonous life ends when he meets Molly, a smart, kind and gorgeous blonde. Because she's way out of his league (she's a hard 10 and he is but a 5), Kirk knows there's no way on earth she's ever going to fall for him. Or is there...?
Kirk is a nice guy, who finishes last. He's an airport security guard in Pittsburgh, his ex-girlfriend hangs out at his parents' house with her new guy, he's out of shape and uncoordinated, and his car's a junker. At the airport, he finds the phone of a stunning, successful blonde, Mollie, and when he returns it, she offers dinner as thanks. She enjoys his company - he's unassuming and safe - and he's dazzled. His three friends warn him that she's out of his league and offer bad advice; he knows it will end soon and stumbles through a series of embarrassing moments. His ex has gotten jealous and invites him back: should he return to where he belongs? All roads lead to the airport.
In Pittsburgh, the clumsy and average Kirk works as a TSA security agent at the airport. Kirk is out of shape, uncoordinated, not college graduate, has never been in Europe and drives a shitbox Neon. His friends are a bunch of losers that also work at the airport and use to rank themselves and women. His family does not support him and his father used his college money to build a large swimming pool in the backyard of their house. Kirk dreams on becoming an airplane pilot, but he is insecure and without self-esteem. He also misses his former girlfriend Marnie, who is a bitch that humiliate him all the time. One day, the gorgeous Molly McCleish is helped by him in the check-in to a flight to New York, but she forgets her iphone and Kirks hold it for her. On the next day, Molly invites Kirk to go to a party at the Andy Warhol Museum and he delivers her iphone to her. Sooner they date and he learns that she is a successful promoter of events that lives in a fancy apartment and drives a nice car. However, the lack of confidence of Kirk does not let him see that Molly loves him since she is totally out of his league.
Kirk Kettner (Jay Baruchel) is a native of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in his mid-20s who has low self-esteem and, by his own admission, has not accomplished very much in life. He works at the Pittsburgh International Airport as a Transportation Security Administration officer, and hopes of becoming a pilot one day. He tries to get back together with his self-centered ex-girlfriend, Marnie (Lindsay Sloane). Marnie ended her relationship with Kirk two years ago and is highly dismissive of his continued romantic interests after his latest pursuit. However, she has remained close with Kirk's parents (Debra Jo Rupp and Adam LeFevre) and overbearing brother Dylan (Kyle Bornheimer), continues to participate in family activities along with her new boyfriend Ron, and even lives with Kirk's parents. He has three close male friends who also work at the airport: Stainer (T. J. Miller), Devon (Nate Torrence), and Jack (Mike Vogel).Then at work one morning, a beautiful woman, Molly McCleish (Alice Eve), arrives at the passenger terminal for a flight to New York. While proceeding through security, her striking looks attract unwanted attention and harassment from several male employees. Kirk is the only employee to treat her courteously. She and Kirk exchange a few innocuous words, and she then proceeds to her flight, accidentally leaving her phone in the airport security area. Upon realizing she has misplaced it, Molly calls her phone and Kirk, back at the security checkpoint, answers. The two arrange for a time to meet the following evening so that he may return the phone to her.The following night, Kirk arrives at the Andy Warhol Museum where Molly, a professional event planner, is running a party. Devon accompanies Kirk to the Museum where Kirk returns Molly her phone. After returning the phone, both stayed and met Katie, Molly's sister. Katie then on purpose causes Kirk to spill his drink on the museum director and is asked to leave the museum for being uninvited for the party. Molly offers tickets to Kirk to the Pittsburgh Penguins hockey game at the Mellon Arena as an apology. Molly then subsequently gets herself invited to Kirk's family lunch. This incurs jealousy in Marnie, who feels upstaged by Molly's looks and takes a sudden interest in Kirk again. Stainer, ranking-obsessed, tells Kirk that on a scale from 1 to 10 with 10 meaning the most attractive and successful, he's a 5, and Molly a 10, and that a relationship does not work if the difference is more than 2. Molly's friend and business partner Patty (Krysten Ritter) is also surprised: she phoned Molly while on a date with Kirk to allow her an opportunity to make up an excuse to leave, but that was not needed.In Molly's house, while the two are making out, Kirk ejaculates in his pants, just before her parents arrive. While avoiding to show that he had ejaculated, he avoids standing up and quickly leaves to avoid Molly and her parents noticing what happened. This cools down the relationship, but when Kirk later explains during an airshow what happened, things are fine again. Molly's former boyfriend Cam tells Kirk that Molly has a defect and to avoid saying that she is perfect.During a date, Kirk suggests to Molly to throw a birthday party for her sister, Katie. After the party, both of them go to Molly's place. Molly shows Kirk her webbed toes, which Kirk considers so minor that he decides that she is too perfect for him, and he breaks off the relationship. Kirk and Marnie resume their relationship and go on a family trip to Branson.Stainer and Patty realize their mistake in telling Kirk and Molly it wouldn't work out; the friends convince Kirk that he is "a 10" too. They pull Kirk off his plane as he tries to leave with his family and Marnie, while Patty brings Molly to the airport. Kirk rejects Marnie and reunites with Molly. Later, as a surprise, he takes Molly on a trip in a small plane, with himself being the pilot; he has taken flying lessons.
