When people begin exploding from stress, George Washington Winsterhammerman tries to ignore the epidemic and live his usual life, but then he suffers his first symptom.
The Jeffers Corporation is a world success, endorsed by the U.S. President, pitching productivity and happy talk. George is a third level employee, supervising three or four others. Around the world, people are exploding as the stress of denying feelings takes its toll. The Jeffers' response: mind control. George and his wife are miserable: he's impotent with occasional fits of infantile pique. She's reading a book on happiness, trying everything. His brother, released from prison, starts of freedom-of-expression movement in George's backyard. Plus there's Charisma, a woman from Level Four who sends him paperwork - with smiley faces. Can George connect?
George Washington Winsterhammerman lives an ordinary life. He has a wife, a kid, a house and a boat. Every day George gets in his minivan and goes to work as a Level Three Tunt at the Jeffers Corporation, the largest and most profitable corporation in the history of humankind. Though he lives an utterly comfortable life, George is growing nervous. People around him have begun explodingliterally. Fearing he might be next, George visits his doctor and learns that his recurring dreams are a symptom of impending explosion. Unfortunately, George cant stop dreaming, and as the explosion epidemic worsens, he is forced to question the life hes been living. This quirky and distinctive story, utterly original in every way, features inspired casting, particularly with acclaimed actor and comedian Zach Galifianakis as George. He is joined by the delightful Judy Greer and terrific indie mainstay James LeGros. VISIONEERS, the debut film from the sibling filmmaking team of Brandon and Jared Drake, offers a darkly comic view of a world so skewed it can't help but remind us of our own. [D-Man2010]First time feature filmmaker Jared Drake makes his directorial debut with this quirky black comedy set in the near future, and concerning a curious spike in cases of spontaneous human combustion. The Jeffers Corporation is the largest business in the history of mankind, and they got that way thanks to their strict philosophy of happiness through mindless productivity. But when people begin literally exploding due to unhappiness, Jeffers Corporation Level Three TUNT George Washington Winsterhammerman (Zach Galifianakis) begins to fear that his time will come sooner rather than later. [D-Man2010]George lives a comfortable yet completely uneventful life, and when he starts having dreams in which hes the first President of the United States, his doctor informs him that they could be signs of impending explosion. Later, as the dreams become more frequent and his co-workers continue to detonate, George is prompted to reevaluate his mundane existence. Judy Greer, Missi Pyle, and James LeGros co-star in an existential black comedy featuring music by Tim DeLaughter of the Polyphonic Spree. [D-Man2010]
