A successful, single businesswoman who dreams of having a baby discovers she is infertile and hires a working class woman to be her unlikely surrogate.
Successful and single businesswoman Kate Holbrook has long put her career ahead of a personal life. Now 37, she's finally determined to have a kid on her own. But her plan is thrown a curve ball after she discovers she has only a million-to-one chance of getting pregnant. Undaunted, the driven Kate allows South Philly working girl Angie Ostrowiski to become her unlikely surrogate. Simple enough ... After learning from the steely head of their surrogacy center that Angie is pregnant, Kate goes into precision nesting mode: reading childcare books, baby-proofing the apartment and researching top pre-schools. But the executive's well-organized strategy is turned upside down when her Baby Mama shows up at her doorstep with no place to live. An unstoppable force meets an immovable object as structured Kate tries to turn vibrant Angie into the perfect expectant mom. In a battle of wills, they will struggle their way through preparation for the baby's arrival. And in the middle of this tug-of-war, they'll discover two kinds of family: the one you're born to and the one you make.
Thirty-seven year old Kate Holbrook, a Vice-President for Philadelphia based health food retailer Round Earth, has placed career over a personal life. She has suddenly realized however that she wants to have a baby. This decision coincides with working on what is arguably the biggest assignment of her career, to oversee the development of the company's flagship store in West Philadelphia, which will be no easy task. With no man in her life and no current prospects, becoming pregnant by natural means does not seem in the cards. She learns that adoption for a single woman takes years, and that her chances of conceiving by any means are one in a million due to her T-shaped uterus, which rules out IVF. As such, she turns to surrogacy. The woman her surrogacy agent matches her up with is Angie Ostrowiski. The implantation does result in Angie becoming pregnant. As much as controlling Kate wants to oversee every aspect of Angie's pregnancy, she and Angie become unexpectedly closer geographically after Angie dumps her no good husband, Carl, and lands on Kate's doorstep. From Kate's perspective, they are a clash of personalities, as Kate views Angie as uncouth, immature South Philly trailer trash. Angie, however sees Kate as her new BFF, that status which is complicated by a secret she is keeping about the pregnancy. One other issue for Kate of having Angie in her life is her burgeoning romantic relationship with a juice bar owner and former corporate lawyer named Rob Ackerman, only the second romantic relationship in her life. She believes Rob may not only see a baby but surrogacy by trailer trash as a deal breaker in their relationship.
Successful and single businesswoman Kate Holbrook has long put her career ahead of a personal life. Now 37, she's finally determined to have a kid on her own. But her plan is thrown a curve ball after she discovers she has only a million-to-one chance of getting pregnant, due to her "T-shaped uterus." Undaunted, the driven Kate allows South Philly working girl Angie Ostrowiski to become her unlikely surrogate. Simple enough ... After learning from the steely head of their surrogacy center that Angie is pregnant, Kate goes into precision nesting mode: reading childcare books, baby-proofing the apartment and researching top pre-schools. But the executive's well-organized strategy is turned upside down when her Baby Mama shows up at her doorstep with no place to live. An unstoppable force meets an immovable object as structured Kate tries to turn vibrant Angie into the perfect expectant mom. However, Angie's husband shows up while Kate is not there and thrreatens with the truth: the baby is from his sperm, not from one of Kate's eggs. Soon Angie's husband reveals the truth. The two women go to court over the case. Meanwhile, Kate has been seeing a man and sleeping with him, but she has no problem--she has a T-shaped uterus, right? The results of the paternity test reveal in court that the baby is Angie's, not Kate's. Angie and Kate refuse to speak to each other, until Angie's baby arrives. On that day, Kate dicovers that she, too, is pregnant. Angie and Kate have two happy lives after that, and Kate's child is always nine months younger than Angie's.
