Royal Navy captain Wentworth was haughtily turned down eight years ago as suitor of pompous baronet Sir Walter Elliot's daughter Anne, despite true love. Now he visits their former seaside country estate, rented by his brother-in-law, admiral Croft, so the financially stressed baronet can afford a fashionable, cheaper residence in trendy Bath. First the former lovers meet again on the estate, where they feel vibes again, but neither dares admit them until it seems too late. Yet the truth becomes clear, both have moved, but meet again in Bath.
Before the events depicted in the film, Anne Elliott (Sally Hawkins) fell deeply in love with handsome young naval officer Frederick Wentworth (Rupert Penry-Jones) at the age of nineteen. But with neither fortune nor rank to recommend him, Anne's godmother, Lady Russell (Alice Krige), and family were against the match and persuaded her to break off the engagement. Eight years later, Anne's family is in financial difficulty and has been forced to rent their home, Kellynch Hall. Their tenants, Admiral Croft (Peter Wight) and Mrs Croft (Marion Bailey), are brother-in-law and sister to Captain Wentworth. While Anne's father, older sister Elizabeth (Julia Davis) and her companion Mrs Clay (Mary Stockley) travel to Bath to take a luxurious apartment, Anne is sent to stay with her younger sister, Mary (Amanda Hale) - a woman who perpetually fancies herself as ill and is as conscious of rank as her father and eldest sister.During her stay at Uppercross, Anne again comes into contact with Captain Wentworth, but although her feelings for him remain the same, he seems determined to avoid contact with her. Anne is devastated to watch his apparent courtship of Louisa Musgrove (Jennifer Higham). During a trip to Lime to visit some fellow naval officers, Louisa Musgrove falls and seriously injures herself. It is Anne who takes control and Wentworth realises that, although he has been angry and resentful, he has never stopped loving her.Unfortunately, many people believe that Louisa and Wentworth have formed an attachment and an engagement is expected. Wentworth is no longer free to pursue his interest in Anne. In an effort to extricate him from the situation, Wentworth goes to visit his brother, hoping that Louisa's feelings and the family's expectations will diminish during the time he is away.Anne travels to Bath to stay with her father and Elizabeth. When she arrives, Anne learns that Mr Elliot (her cousin, and her father's heir) has reconciled with the family. He is spending a lot of time at Camden Place. Mr Elliot shows a great deal of interest in Anne, much to Elizabeth's disgust. Lady Russell, however, is delighted; she envisions Anne taking her mother's place at Kellynch Hall as Lady Elliot. While Anne is in Bath, a letter comes from Uppercross informing Anne that there is soon to be a wedding; she grieves, assuming the match is between Louisa and Wentworth. A visit from Admiral and Mrs Croft soon informs her of the mistake. Louisa is to marry Captain Benwick, one of Wentworth's friends.Wentworth comes to Bath to stay with Admiral and Mrs Croft. It seems like Anne and Wentworth will finally sort their relationship out, but then Wentworth hears about the anticipated engagement between Anne and Mr Elliot and gets jealous. Mr Elliot does, indeed, propose to Anne, but she does not answer. Things come to a head when Wentworth is charged by Admiral and Mrs Croft to tell Anne that she may live in Kellynch Hall on the event of her marriage to Mr Elliot. Anne is able to tell Wentworth that he is mistaken about the engagment, but they are interrupted before they can speak their true feelings Wentworth leaves.Anne chases him, but is stopped by her old school friend, Mrs Smith, who reveals Mr Elliot's true character to Anne. She says that he planned to marry Anne and set Mrs Clay up as his mistress in town in order to prevent Sir Elliot from marrying Mrs Clay and producing a new heir. Anne thanks her friend for the news and resumes her chase.When Anne arrives at the Croft's house, she receives a letter from Wentworth declaring his love for her. She runs through Bath until she find him. They kiss.For her wedding present, Wentworth presents her with Kellynch Hall.
