Interwoven stories of people in India and US as they face dilemmas of life time in the months leading to the biggest Industrial disaster in human history that claimed 10,000 innocent lives within a few hours. Inspired by real events.
The story follows a young rickshaw-puller in Bhopal who gets a menial job at a chemical plant, but in December of 1984 a chemical spill in India takes the lives of almost 15,000 people and injuring more than 100,000. The film follows how the industrial disaster in the city changes his life and those of others.
Dilip, a rickshaw driver in Bhopal, India, lands himself a job at the Union Carbide plant. It is a chance to prove his worth to his family and pull them out of poverty. The job is tough with long hours; everyone is desperate to hold on to their pay cheque and so Dilip keeps quiet when he notices managers at the plant ignoring safety standards. Dilip's long time friend, Motwani, a tabloid journalist knows that Bhopal residents complain of the constant stench in the air and wake up at night choking from the gas. He is on a mission to expose what he believes is a deadly time bomb ticking away in his home town. He feels as if no one will listen but when he meets feisty American journalist, Eva, he sees a ray of hope and persuades her to confront Carbide executive Warren Anderson. As Eva and Motwani endeavour to delve deeper into Carbide's activities, Dilip is using every resource necessary to pay and plan for his sister's wedding. When the wedding night arrives the family are full of joy and celebration as two families join together as one. But as the music plays an invisible catastrophe is working its way throughout the town and wedding party. One by one the guests start to feel unwell the largest tower at the Carbide plant spews poisonous gas into the night air; one by one they collapse; and one by one they unknowingly become a statistic in the world's largest chemical disaster to date. Nearly thirty years later as the plant stands as a ghost-like constant reminder, the water in Bhopal is still contaminated and one person a day dies as a direct result of the tragedy, Eva visits the now retired Anderson. Will he finally bow down and apologize? Or will he continue to deny that Carbide had any part to play...?
A rickshaw pullers life changes when he gets a menial job i Union Carbide plant in Bhopal, Central India. The film is based on true events leading up to the December 3rd 1984 when pesticide leak killed more thank 10000 people in few hours in Bhopal, Central India.
The film follows multiple characters' lives and dilemmas in the months leading to the biggest industrial disaster in human history that killed 10, 000 in a few hours on the night of December 3rd 1984.
We know the date, 2 december 1984, we know something called 'bhopal gas tragedy/ disaster' happened in the capital of Madhya Pradesh. now 30 years have passed and yet there are few who knows the full History even the narrative story, its a shame that how union carbide' an u.s.a based company betrayed us, how 'an american dream turned into an Indian nightmare with a terrifying legacy', and the result was disastrous known as Bhopal Disaster, considered one of the world's worst industrial disaster, over half a million people were exposed to methyl isocyanate (mic) gas and other chemicals, estimated 4,000 - 10,000/ people died almost within a course of 24 hours and 3,900 severely and permanently disabling injuries approximately by official statement of the corrupted MP govt, the UCIL though stated their story/theory/conspiracy of 'sabotage'. but history defies it by evidence based on fact that of pure corporate Negligence, a highly criminal offence in every country.
