When talk radio host Emma Lloyd advises one of her listeners to break up with her boyfriend, the jilted ex sets about getting his revenge.
Emma Lloyd has made a career out of her sensible, mature and responsible approach to relationships. She has a hit radio talk show, an impending book deal, and a loving relationship with her fiancé, Richard, a conventional sort-which is precisely what Emma is drawn to. Then Emma finds out that she is already married to a man she's never met before, a result of a misguided prank that leaves her bewildered and very confused. Worse than that, her plans for the future are now threatened. With her wedding just around the corner, Emma must find the mystery man and obtain an annulment. Emma tracks down her "accidental husband" - Patrick, a charming and handsome neighborhood fireman, with a big secret...that he was behind the "accidental" marriage. Unable to fess up, Patrick goes along with the ruse pretending to be just as baffled as Emma. While at first their opposite approaches to life create much tension and chaos, Emma soon starts to admire his carefree passion for life and doubt her own conservative, button-down views on life and love. As Emma's wedding draws near, she is faced with the choice between her safe life with Richard or the chance to live in the passionate and spontaneous world that Patrick inhabits.
In New York, Emma Lloyd gives sentimental advices in her radio talk show "Real Love". She is in the top of her successful career with many listeners; she is releasing her first book about things of love; and she is going to marry her editor Richard Bratton in a couple of weeks. When Emma advises her fan Sofia to call off her wedding with the fireman Patrick Sullivan, the broken-hearted man loathes her. His next-door teenage neighbor hacks Emma's documents and plays a prank with her, marrying Emma with Patrick. Emma seeks out her husband to annul their marriage and after meeting Patrick, she feels attracted by his free spirit. Emma sees herself in a crossroad and having to choose between the safety of a life with Richard or the crush for Patrick.
Dr. Emma Lloyd is a successful New York City relationship therapist of her own radio call-in show called "Real Love", she who espouses practical love, what she believes is real, as opposed to what most woman are searching for, namely passionate love, which she feels is unrealistic and non-sustaining for a long term relationship. She practices what she preaches, as she is engaged to Richard Braxton, her stable, straight-laced publisher. So when Sophia Chachagua of Astoria, Queens calls in asking for advice about whether she should go through with the imminent marriage to her firefighter boyfriend, Patrick Sullivan, Emma, with what little information she has on hand, implies that there is no way their marriage will work. As such, Sophia calls off the wedding, Patrick knowing the reason as he was one of the show's listeners when Sophia called in. When Patrick's computer hacker neighbor Ajay tells Patrick that he knows how to get back at Emma, Patrick eventually agrees to the plan. As it is public knowledge that Emma is soon to be married, Ajay, through hacking into the state records, can arrange for Emma already to be married, namely to Patrick. When Emma has to deal with Patrick on this issue, he plans to be as cooperative as possible while thwarting her every move to get "unmarried" to him. Complications ensue when, instead, he starts to fall for her. And as Emma, out of circumstance, has to spend more time with Patrick, which includes Patrick needing to pose as Richard for the sake of Richard's business, Emma starts to fall for Patrick, but in that passionate love sense in which she does not believe. Emma has to decide whether to go against her own long held beliefs and take a chance on Patrick, while Patrick has to decide whether to tell Emma about he being the source of the computer glitch which got them married in the first place. Richard, as the practical, methodical one, may have some say in the matter in what happens between Emma and Patrick.
New York firefighter Patrick Sullivan (Jeffrey Dean Morgan) had no idea his seemingly idyllic life was about to go up in smoke especially as the unwitting, second-hand recipient of advice from famed love expert and radio host Dr. Emma Lloyd (Uma Thurman). One day he is a happy-go-lucky guy looking forward to a life with his soon-to-be-bride. The next thing you know, his fiancée Sophia (Justina Machado) is seeking couples counseling on the radio from Dr. Lloyd. The no-nonsense, ever practical Dr. Lloyd questions Sophia's concept of romantic love and advises her to break their engagement, which she swiftly does. But when Patrick and his computer-savvy neighbor decide to give Dr. Lloyd a taste of her own medicine and accidentally join them in holy matrimony something that doesn't go over too well with her fiancé (Colin Firth) -- it isn't long before they learn that sometimes even an expert in love needs a second opinion
