A divorced mother of two boys reaching adulthood decides to sell their house, find love and get on with her life away from her husband and sons; a decision that will lead to an escalating fraternal dispute.
Since Luc granted a divorce to Pascale ten years ago, he paid generous alimony and left a fine country house as long as their twin sons remain at home. Pascale always acted as if she was the provider and head of the household, even now the inseparable brothers are twenty. But she started a secret affair with Flemish neighbor, cook Jan, whose ambition is to start a restaurant and B&amp;B with her. As the boys learn she wants to cancel her job and sell the house for the project, college-man Thierry, who has a steady girl Anne, naturally refuses to let her spend dad's money meant for them. Gentler François, content to remain a handyman, would consider letting her and maybe working in the 'family business'. This causes trouble, even after Pascale moves out to Gerda's indefinitely, leading to tragedy.
Many years have passed since Pascale's divorce with her irresponsible estranged husband Luc, nevertheless, each time the two meet, they end up in bitter quarrels which mainly revolve around their indifferent twin sons who reach adulthood, Thierry and François. But Pascale who knows that, in fact, she is rejected by both her sons, and of course, her ex-husband, suppresses her feelings regardless of her dreams of having a new life free and loved by her secret lover, the Flemish neighbour Jan. Inevitably, the beautiful facade of a functional family will soon collapse when Pascale finally plucks up the courage to announce her intention to get on with her life and sell their house, longing for autonomy. Maybe this decision is for the best, however, as the tension keeps simmering, the fragile balance of things is meant to be disrupted.
Pascale lives with her twin sons - François and Thierry - in an old renovated farmhouse somewhere in Belgium. Although divorced for some time, there is still a high tension between Pascale and her former husband Luc who keeps a good relationship to his sons. The twins are young adults who are unable to support themselves, they cannot imagine even to fly the nest, so that their mother can lead her own life. Out of her mind and by the influence of her new friend Jan, as well as an urge to survive, Pascale first decides to sell the farmhouse and make a new start. After the heavy protests of her sons, she gives up this idea but rather leaves her family without leaving a trace of herself. The consequence is dramatic: The close-knit relationship between François and Thierry turns into a fraternal war as both are unable to handle the life without support of their mother. In the end a fateful development leaves only bits and pieces from a former family.
