A detective helps a friend investigate the mysterious death of his father-in-law.
When veteran detective Hei finds out that his father-in-law, the billionaire benefactor Kim, is gruesomely murdered in his palatial mansion, he enlists the assistance of his former partner turned private detective, Bong. On the surface, the murder smacks of a vendetta that has taken a lifetime to fulfill. But no sooner has Bong agreed to crack the case with Hei than he realizes nothing is what it appears to be. Undoubtedly, they are after a monster in a perfect crime: every detail was meticulously orchestrated, every motive conveniently justifiable, and every culprit and potential witness mysteriously eliminated. But Bong has his own demon to fight over the suicide of his pregnant girlfriend. As he digs deeper and deeper into the case, he starts grappling with the suspicion that the man they hunt is someone very close to them, someone on the verge of a total breakdown.
It is Christmas eve and the police department is at a bar celebrating. Chief Hei (Tony Leung) approaches one of his officers, Detective Bong (Takeshi Kaneshire) who is sitting alone. When asked why he isn't drink, Bong explains that he never drinks but he orders one anyone to not stand out. They head outside to the balcony where Bong confides that he has been with his girlfriend Rachel for 5 years, but does not believe that they are right for each other. As they are talking, Chief Hei gets a phone call and everybody leaves. Bong gets into a car, and the other officers do so as well. They follow a suspect and his date who had been kissing in the bar.There is a sequence of driving on the highways, which alternates scenes of the different characters in their respective cars. They get to an apartment complex. A man tells the detectives that he gets nervous. That same man then goes to knock on the door, where the suspect lives. As he's distracted by the neighbor, the police break down his door and restrain him. Detective Bong goes into the suspect's bedroom and sees a woman who is tied up, crying, and has blood on her. The suspect tells Chief Hei that it was just for fun. The police officers shut the front door, and then Hei takes a household item and beats the suspect over the head with it as the officers look on.Detective Bong goes home. He goes into his bedroom, where Rachel is laying. He leans over to kiss her, but as he does so he feels something on his hands. It is blood. He immediately pulls the sheets up, and there is a pool of blood around Rachel's abdomen and wrists, as well as a knife beside her hands. The next scene is of Bong sitting outside the hospital building. Chief walks up to him and tells him and he bursts out crying. There is a voice over where Chief explains to the audience that Rachel had an abortion and killed herself. Bong did not know she was pregnant.There is a time jump. Bong is now an alcoholic and Chief is married to Susan Chow. The two men still remain friends are in contact. Chief Hei's father-in-law is murdered in his mansion. The case is quickly closed. Two men with past criminal activities are blamed. They were found dead by their landlord. It was deducted that they fought over the money and their deaths were a result of a murder-suicide. The knife that Mr Chow (Hei's father-in-law) was found at the suspects' home.Susan asks Bong to investigate it further. She finds it odd that Mann (her father's butler) would open the door to strangers. She believes that whoever killed her father was someone he trusted enough to let inside the house. Bong agrees to investigate. He lets Chief Hei know what Susan has asked. Throughout the movie, he reports his findings to both Hei and Susan.There are flashbacks of the crime taking place. The scenes reveal that Chief Hei killed his father-in-law with the help of others. As Bong gets close to the truth, Hei drugs Susan daily to make her lethargic. He insists that it is to calm her nerves. He tells Bong how she has turned paranoid after her father's death.Bong drinks heavily throughout the movie. He often goes to a bar that Rachel was said to have been on the night before she killed herself. At that bar, he meets a waitress who he often goes to bed with. The waitress accompanies him as he does research and surveillance for the case.Chief Hei and Susan move into the mansion. One evening he drugs her, and places her in the kitchen. He turns on the gas oven. He seals the door on the outside. He's brought the body of someone that he has killed and positions that body outside the door as if that guy was the one who put Susan in the kitchen. Hei has rigged it so that there's an explosion and a fire breaks out, but that occurs after he has joined the rest of the police force for dinner at a restaurant.Susan is badly hurt and in a coma. Bong informs Hei that during his investigation he's found out that Susan is not Mr. Chow's daughter. Hei realizes that he's hurt an innocent woman, and at this point he realizes that he actually loves her.Bong researches some more and learns that Hei killed Mr. Chow.
