A local scientist is often regarded as a failure until he invents a machine that can make food fall from the sky. But little does he know, that things are about to take a turn for the worst.
Flint Lockwood thinks he's a genius. But none of the things he invented are things that make sense or are useful. However, he has the support of his mother but when she dies, he's left alone with his father who thinks he should give it up. When the community that he lives in is in an economic crisis because their primary source of income, a sardine cannery, was shut down, Flint decides to try his latest invention, a machine that can turn water into food. But something goes wrong and the machine ends up in the atmosphere. Later it starts raining food. The shifty mayor tries to use this as a way to help their community, but when Flint senses something wrong with the machine, the mayor convinces him to ignore it. However, as Flint predicts, chaos ensues.
A wannabe-scientist accidentally launches his newly-invented machine that converts water into food into the atmosphere, which causes his island to start raining food. But things run out of control and it's up to the young inventor, beside a small-time N.Y. weather girl to save the world from a dangerous mutant-food threat.
Flint Lockwood has always wanted to make the world a better place. But all of his inventions are not useful. Until he creates a machine that can turn water into food. And when he tests it in front of his hometown, Swallow Falls, he accidentally launches it into the sky. And makes food rain from the sky. But when Flint thinks he's helped his town, disasters start occurring when people ask for more food.
A local scientist, (Bill Hader), has always been a failure, but when his town is stuck eating gross sardines, Flint wants to help the town so that they don't have to eat sardines anymore. So he invents a machine called The FLDSMDFR, (Flint Lockwood Diatomic Super Mutating Dynamic Food Replicator), a machine that can turn water into food. And he sends it up into the atmosphere and makes food rain from the sky. But suddenly, things get out of hand when The FLDSMDFR creates dangerous food storms. It's up to Flint to stop The FLDSMDFR before it turns the world into a monstrous Foodtopia.
An inventor named Flint Lockwood, who is often regarded as a failure, suddenly invents a machine that can turn water into food. When he accidentally shoots it into the sky, it rains food everywhere in Swallow Falls. But when the machine has a mind of its own and creates a food hurricane, Flint finds he may have bitten off more than he can chew.
The Story is about a Professor Making an Incredible Food Weather.
