Four lazy slacker conmen buddies who are jobless, homeless and broke learn about the secret of a hidden treasure from a dying thief and later embark on a race against time to find the mobster's buried treasure and claim it while being pursued by a determined police inspector who is hellbent to get the treasure all by himself.
Four slackers and con-men namely: Boman Contractor, who lives a wealthy lifestyle with his eccentric dad, Nari, who loves his antique car more than his son, and asks his son to leave when he damages the car; hot-headed Aditya and dim-witted Manav, orphaned brothers; and Deshbandhu Roy, a trickster who wears a magnetized belt; share a room with a lenient landlady, who eventually gives up on them and kicks them out. After a number of con tricks, the group are arrested by the Police, but released in the countryside. At this point they witness a car plummet down a cliff, with it's sole occupant, Bose, an underworld don, who, before dying, tells them that he has hidden 10 Crore Rupees in cash in the St. Sebastian's Garden, Goa, and if they find it, it is their's to keep. The group race toward Goa in Contractor's stolen car, little knowing that their plans will soon be foiled, albeit hilariously, by Police Inspector Kabir Nayak, who is angered at this Department for not appreciating his honesty, and is instead penalizing him by transferring him to Yavatmal; a bus hijacker-cum-bandit named Baabubhai, who holds Deshbandhu hostage, and Nari Contractor, who wants the money to repair his now completely damaged car. All want an equal part of the bounty, and each and everyone of them will do anything, even break-up their friendship, rules, laws, and regulations in order to try and keep the cash for themselves, and eventually end up in a race, using a wide assortment of vehicles, and even an airplane, with the winner(s) keeping the entire amount for themselves.
Four fit for nothing friends Roy,Adi,Manav and Boman are thrown out of their house by their landlord for not paying their rent.In order to earn money they try to sell a painting to Diwedi's son on his funeral day not realizing that Diwedi was murdered.Inspector Kulkarni suspects the four and gets them arrested but when he finds them innocent he leaves them on the highway.The four see a car meeting with accident on highway where the only passenger in the car is Bose a Criminal Don dies after telling them a secret that he has hidden 10 Crore in Goa's St Sebastian garden under a big W and they should keep the money for themselves.Inspector Kabir Natyak reaches the spot who was chasing Bose for last 10 years and asks the four about the secret.Roy ,Adi,Manav and Boman hide the secret from Kabir and decide to travel to Goa to recover the money followed by Kabir leading to a cat and mouse game.
Dhamaal, as the name suggests, is a fun filled caper about four friends - Deshbandhu Roy aka Roy (Riteish Deshmukh), who believes that he was born to be the best detective in the world; Manav Shrivastav (Javed Jafferey), who actually happens to be the biggest idiot in the world, but is blissfully unaware about it and his elder brother, Aditya Shrivastav aka adi (Arshad Warsi), whose encyclopedic half knowledge about everything only adds to the great expertise of this group; the final component of which is Mr. Scared of everything, Boman Contractor (Aashish Chowdhury), whose greatest fear is his father, Nari Contractor (Asrani). These four lovable idiots live and work together. Their idea of work? Doing small time con jobs! The thought of earning an honest living has never even crossed their minds. So one day while trying to save a dying man, Bose (Prem Chopra), they get their big break. He tells them about hidden millions as he takes his last breath. They are ecstatic! Easy Money! Their life is MADE! Here begins their misfortunes! Police Inspector, Kabir Nayak (Sanjay Dutt) has been chasing Bose for the last ten years. He finally finds him. Only dead! Desperate for his promotion, he questions the suspicious looking foursome he finds next to the body. When they manage to give him the slip, begins the Chase... One misadventure follows after another. All five are thrown into hilarious life threatening situations that has the audience in side splitting laughter and guessing - Is there really any hidden money? Who will get it first? Its sheer masti and DHAMAAL.
