A doctor obsessed with new technology and science, decides to clone himself when he comes in contact with a sponsor.
Siddharth Sardesai, a young scientist from Indian Medical Research center who wants to create another human being, not in a mother's womb but in a science lab. If he is successful it could be a boon for humanity else it could be a doom for mankind. Siddharth has been experimenting with cloning for the past two years and has been unsuccessful. But today he is confident of succeeding. He needs permission from the Indian Medical Research Center and his Guru Dr. Krishnan. There are few people who don't approve of his experiment. Amongst them is Inspector Rathod. So Siddharth is shattered when Dr. Krishnan informs him that the permission to go ahead is not granted. Siddharth is shattered and his love, Aditi comforts him. She also suggests him that she would speak to her father Mr. Chopra who is a big industrialist and could finance him for his project to help him go ahead with his dream of creating a human clone. After much thought and hesitation Siddharth agrees to take Aditi's help. He builds his own lab in an old burnt mill and starts with his experiment. He first clones a mouse. Time is running out as Inspector Rathod closes on to Siddharth's heels and ultimately Siddharth has to take a plunge and he begins to clone himself. He succeeds but his clone goes missing and all hell breaks loose when suddenly Siddharth is put behind bars for assaulting a girl at a Night Club. Siddharth realizes that it is his clone that is doing all this. But he is helpless, as no one believes him that he has cloned himself, not even Dr. Krishnan. The clone has other ideas. He wants to take over Siddharth's life and starts playing games. He flirts with Dr. Krishnan's daughter Suchitra and even impregnates her. For Siddharth's project report, the clone kills Dr. Krishnan and the blame comes on Siddharth. Inspector Rathod gets furious and promises Siddharth that he will not let him go out alive from jail. Siddharth is in a major dilemma to prove his innocence of the crime that his clone has committed. But was Siddharth justified to go ahead and press the button to create the first human clone' Siddharth has to fight his own battle all-alone with his own creation, and the law is not on his side.
Siddharth Sardesai lives a wealthy lifestyle in India, works for the Indian Research Centre, and is to get married to his sweetheart, Aditi Chopra. His co-worker is Sanjay, Aditi's brother, and both are working on cloning, initially on lab mice and then on themselves. Sanjay decides that he must be cloned first, but the experiment fails, resulting in his death. Two years later, Siddharth attempts to resurrect this method - albeit in vain, as he is prevented by his superior Prof. Dr. Krishnan, as well as Special Investigations Office Rathore. Disillusioned, he is approached by Aditi's dad and necessary funds as well as an empty warehouse are placed at his disposal. Since this experiment is illegal, Siddharth takes time off and clones himself. Siddharth does not realize that in so doing he has unleashed a monster with superhuman powers, and soon Siddharth will be arrested by the Police, initially for assaulting a young woman named Maria, and then for the brutal murder of Prof. Krishnan. When Siddharth attempts to seek the truth and destroy his clone he will come face to face with reality - which will not only shake his very roots, but also put his life in jeopardy.
A man defies his mentor by seeking funding for clone research elsewhere, when the board of directors as the hospital he works for denies his work proposals and put down his work ethics. Things go very awry when upon receiving adequate funding for the research from his girlfriend's wealthy father, he successfully clones himself and the clone disappears from the lab.

