Two woman --different backgrounds, miles apart, and strangers to each other-- are linked by tragedy. Their new-found friendship is tested as one holds the fate of the other's husband in her hands.
Shankar Singh and his wife, Meera, live in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India along with widowed paternal grandmother, Laxmibai, his mom, Gowri, and dad, Randhir. The family feel that they are blessed after Meera's entry in this family. Shankar must go and abroad in Saudi Arabia and bids farewell to Meera, promising to keep in touch, which he does, and also sends them a large portion of his earnings, which is used to pay off the family's debts. Then when no word is received from him, a worried Meera phones, and is devastated to learn that Shankar has been killed by being thrown off a 10th floor balcony. Her status quickly changes, her jewelery, ornaments, fancy clothes are taken off, and she is told to remain indoors. wear dark clothes, and is only allowed to pray at a Mandir. Things brighten up for Meera when she befriends an Islamic woman, Zeenat, who has come all the way from Himachal Pradesh to look for her husband, Amir Khan. Shortly thereafter, Meera's world is turned upside down when she finds out that her father-in-law plans to make her the mistress of a wealthy building contractor, Chopra, for a sum of Five Lakh Rupees; she endures further trauma when she finds out that Zeenat is the wife of the man who has been accused of killing her husband, is merely here to persuade her to sign a Mafi-Naama, which would ensure the release of her husband from the Saudi jails, and prevent his death. Hurt, humiliated and confused Meera refuses to sign this document, and is confined to a locked room by Randhir. It looks like Zeenat may lose her husband after all, and Meera may end up being Chopra's temporary mistress.
Zeenat, an independent Muslim woman living in Himachal Pradesh, accepts the proposal of Amir. Meanwhile, Meera, a traditional Hindu woman, lives with her husband Shankar and his extended family in Rajasthan. Although miles apart, the women's lives are linked when both their husbands seek employment in Saudi Arabia and the news arrives that Amir has been accused of murdering Shankar. Not knowing the exact address, but determined to help her husband; Zeenat sets out on a cross-country journey to ask Shankar's family for the pardon that will spare Amir's life. Along the way she is joined by mischievous Behroopiya. What will happen when the women meet face to face?
The film open with the story of Zeenat (Gul Kirat Panag) and Amir (Rushad Rana). They are inhabitants of Himachal Pradesh, a hilly state in India and are in love with each other. Amir proposes Zeenat as he is going away for a long time to do a job. Zeenat agrees. They get married.
The Parallel story that we see is of Meera Singh (Ayesha Takia) and her husband Shankar Singh (Anirudh Jaykar). They are newly married and live in Rajasthan, a state in India which is on a desert. They are happily married. Meera's in laws - Randhir Singh (Girish Karnad) and Gowri (Prateeksha Lonkar) are very strict and do not allow them to enjoy their freedom and happiness much. But they do find the time to play their Fav Hindi movie song and dance to it.
Shankar tells Meera that he is leaving for a diff place the next day on a job so that he can buy back his ancestral house from the clutches of the Contractor Chopra (Nagesh Kukunoor).
Next day both Amir and Shankar leaves in separate incidents. Amir, while leaving, tells his parents that its either their acceptance or rejection of Zeenat. In any case she is his wife now. Amir's parents decides to accept Zeenat.
After a few days Zeenat recieves a call and comes to know that her husband has been convicted of the murder of his Collegue in Saudi Arabia, where he went to work.
Meera, in the meantime, makes a call to her husband as usual and someone informs her that her husband has been killed.
Zeenat is told that the only way her husband can be pardoned is if the widow of the dead man signs a petiton of pardon. Zeenat sets out to find the woman, not knowing what her name is or where she lives.
She meets Behroopiya (Shreyas Talpade) in Rajasthan who promises to help her find Meera, the window.
They find Meera. But when Zeenat meets her in-laws she is hooted out. She, with the help of Behroopiya, finds that the only place Meera goes to is a temple. She goes there and meets her and does not tell her of her intentions and starts befriending her. They become good friends. In the meantime Behroopiya tells Zeenat that he has fallen in love with her. Zeenat understands. Behroopiya leaves the next day.
Later, Behroopiya comes back to tell Zeenat that her husband would be executed very soon and she must hurry to get the pardon signed by Meera. Zeenat meets Meera and tells her the truth. Meera does not sign the document and instead insults and slaps her. Zeenat, now completely broken, leaves for the railway station.
In the meantime, Meera's Father-in-law plans to sell her to contractor Chopra. Meera comes to know of it and has a change of heart. She rushes after Zeenat after insulting her Father-in-law.
Just when the Train is about to leave she reaches the station and finds Zeenat. She gives her the letter she wanted.
While the train leaves the station Zeenat holds out her hand for Meera to come with her and she accepts it and gets on the train...
