A murder opens up a bleak trail of long buried secrets and small town corruption for a worn out police detective and his squad.
Örn's daughter is dead because of a rare genetic disease. By this time Erlendur has to find Holdeberg's killer. He has to find out what happened 30 years ago and to connect it with his case and he has another problem...His relationships with his daughter.
Several stories unfold at different times: 30 years earlier, a little girl named Audur, daughter of the single mother Kolbrun, is buried; in the present, another little girl, loved by both her parents, dies, and her 31-year-old father, Orm, tries to find out how this genetic disease got into his family; two children find the dead body of a neighbor, old Holberg, attacked in his filthy apartment (filth on the computer and a filthy smell) with an ashtray; and the detective who will put all the pieces together, Erlendur, tries to find a way to save his own pregnant, drug-addicted daughter Eva.
The movie depicts the story of two persons in a very unique way by using flashback and normal progress of events simultaneously from the point of a murder in a small coastal town of France. One person is father of a recently deceased little girl whose marriage is in chaos and other is homicide detective who is also facing the problem of raising a recently pregnant adult girl of his own who is a part time junkie and alcoholic mixed with smoking and sexually keep migrating from one men to other though indicated but not shown. The storyline progresses as the father of the recently deceased girl tries to find contentment by looking into the cause of his daughter from a genetic disease which his legal parents didn't had in the family history and after further investigation on his own he finds a similar incident of death of a young girl dated back from 1974. Then movie shows how both the persons start digging about the 30 years old death and suicide of this baby girl and her mother in question which is related to this dead man and maybe to his deceased daughter. Meanwhile the police detective starts uncovering the mystery behind the death of this so called ex felon and his old secrets and ultimately leading to the confrontation with the killer in a heart pumping climax.
