Based on the bestselling autobiography from Mötley Crüe, the film is an unflinching tale of success and excess as four misfits rise from the streets of Hollywood to the heights of international fame.
Based on Mötley Crüe's 2001 best-selling autobiography, THE DIRT is an unflinching story about sex, drugs, rock 'n roll, fame, and the high price of excess. Director Jeff Tremaine shows us just how Nikki Sixx (Douglas Booth), Mick Mars (Iwan Rheon), Tommy Lee (Colson Baker), and Vince Neil (Daniel Webber) took Mötley Crüe from the Sunset Strip to the world stage, and what it meant to become the world's most notorious rock band.
Franklin Carlton Ferrana, Jr has had enough of his mother and her constant, never ending stream of partners. It's been this way ever since his dad left. The only thing he unfortunately got stuck with was his name. In order to stage his revenge, Frank becomes tired of the abuse from his latest stepfather and decides to do something drastic that ends with the police being called. He does so. 10 years later, we see that Frank Jr. had moved to Los Angeles. He is waiting in line at the county court's office to pick up his new ID. As he sets fire to his old one we learn that he had legally changed his name to: Nikki Sixx. As he leaves the court house, he sets fire to his old ID and his old life.Meanwhile, at the Bass house, Tommy Lee is leading a seemingly normal life with his parents and his sister. With whom he was having an argument with about his questionable fashion choices for his latest show. After the show, Tommy had heard about Nikki through the various musician circles that he belonged to. A nervous Tommy goes to recruit Nikki at a nearby diner, and after several shots of Jack, Nikki agrees to join Tommy.They decide that they need a bass guitar player and a singer to fill the rest of the band. Tommy puts a personal ad in the LA Weekly tabloid newspaper looking for a bass guitarist. A musician by the name of Robert Deal, who goes by the stage name "Mick Mars" answers the ad and now they've got something. However, Mick could be a liability to the band because he suffers from a rare degenerative bone disease. The band is almost complete. Except for a singer. Tommy remembers this guy that he went to high school with that would be perfect.Tommy, Mick, and Nikki go to a mid size party in LA where Vince Neil is playing with a band that he formed. Tommy and Vince instantly reunite and Tommy asks Vince to join his band that he's been forming. Vince is reluctant to at first join because he's already got a gig. But when his band decides to switch genres and Vince is no longer a good fit, Vince decides to leave his current gig and join Tommy and the guys. After a few rounds of rehearsals and song writing, the guys decide that they're ready to take this show on the road.Sitting around and having a few beers, the guys decide to come up with a name for their new band. Several failed attempts from Tommy and Nikki produce nothing. Then Mick has an idea that he's been saving for a long time. They call their new band "Motley Crew". But after a couple of changes, Mötley Crüe was born. Their first show was nearly an utter disaster when Tommy's drum kit falls apart on stage and they have some hecklers in the audience. But after kicking the heckler's asses and getting them thrown out, their near-miss turns into a huge hit.Night after night, the audiences start pouring in. The Crüe starts playing every venue on the Sunset Strip to packed houses and long lines, and the money starts pouring in. Which means better drugs and bigger parties. They start partying with Sunset Strip royalty including David Lee Roth and Eddie Van Halen. In fact the story where they met their long time bodyguard, who was protecting David Lee Roth at a hotel party was told, but it wasn't exactly true.They played their first Forum gig to a sold out crowd and got rave reviews. That earned them a spot on a tour with the legendary Ozzy Osbourne. Their recklessness and their habit of destroying hotels earns them notoriety and their fan base grows. Ozzy gives them some advice about not partying too heartily or it could have serious consequences. Of course that's not before Ozzy publicly embarrasses and humiliates himself at the pool of the hotel where he and the Crue were staying.Unfortunately for the Crue, Ozzy's advice proved to be true. The tour for their third album, "Theater Of Pain" would prove to be both dangerous and deadly. Vince was already questioning the creative flow of the band as he thought their cover of "Smokin' In The Boys Room" would never work and wasn't keen on producing it, while the venues the band was being booked into weren't exactly the rowdy clubs or huge stadiums that they were used to playing. Meanwhile Tommy had met a woman named Roxy who he had engaged to wed, but on the ride home, a fight with Tommy's soon-to-be-wife led to an altercation. Meanwhile, Nikki's mother comes to visit him on the set and he's not exactly enamored with the situation.At the end of the tour, In 1984, Vince had purchased a huge mansion in Redondo Beach and was throwing a housewarming party. There, Tommy met the woman who he would later go on to marry - TV's Heather Locklear. However, while out on a booze run, Vince was with Nicholas Dingley, the drummer of the band who was opening for them, Hanoi Rocks, and was in a serious car accident on the way back that killed Dingley. Vince got 30 days in jail for vehicular manslaughter.Nikki tells the audience what living on the road was like. It was they would get on a red eye and drink all night, eventually landing at their next destination where they would immediately head to the nearest strip club. Then from the strip club they're led to the show where they play for approximately 2.5 hours, then head back to the hotel where they'd booze, party and have sex with hookers until they eventually pass out and then they're off to their next destination.Fast forward to Tommy's wedding to Heather. Tommy had asked Nikki to be his best man. Unfortunately Nikki was too whacked out on his new drug of choice - heroin, and could hardly function, and nearly ruined the wedding. The preceding fight with Tommy only made things worse for their relationship. That causes Nikki to go off the rails and he nearly dies of an overdose - only to be saved by a paramedic who was a huge Crue fan that administered two shots of adrenaline to his heart.Nikki decides that he has indeed hit rock bottom and decides to get clean, but needs the help of his band mates. They all decide to do so and go to rehab together. They switch out their hard drugs and hard partying lifestyles for institution coffee and meetings where they talk about their feelings. Living the sober life proves to work for a while. They released their fourth album "Dr. Feelgood" about their experiences. That proves to be their first #1. But living sober on the road proved to take a serious toll on their relationship. Vince ultimately tells Tommy that he hasn't been exactly honest about his sobriety, while Tommy acknowledges the same. This leads to a rift in the band and Vince quits and heads back home to spend time with his family.The guys continue on without Vince, but their new singer John Corabi proved to be an utter disaster. The Crue's latest tour was a flop and they played to worse audiences than ever before, and all of them demanded Vince. But Vince was at home, where he learned that his daughter Skyler was suffering from a devastating illness. Vince remains at her side the entirety of the time she is at the hospital. Unfortunately Skyler succumbs to her illness and passes away.The guys reunite at a bar and find a broken down Vince struggling to cope with his grief. He decides to rejoin the band as a way to feel alive and to honor his late daughter's memory. They do so and play to packed houses around the world for another 25 years. The final shot of the movie is the band walking on stage for their final tour, with footage from their final show on 12/31/2015.
