A young man's life is turned around with the help of a genie inside a lamp.
When Haseem arrives at Aladdin's home pretending to be his lost uncle, he brings the boy to a magical place which hides the entrance to a dangerous underground cave. There, Haseem asks of Aladdin to find but one simple oil lamp which contains a genie. As stubborn as he is, Aladdin refuses to come outside of the cave with the lamp and eventually discovers its secret. A genie inside the lamp then helps his life change and marry his true love.
The story begins when a young boy named Aladdin is wandering the streets of his city in search of some sort of employment. Aladdin walks up to a seemingly noble man offering to be his servant for one day for the price of three eggs, however, the man rejects the offer even when Aladdin offers to work for the price of two or even just one egg. In another part of the Arabic city, a mysterious traveler by the name of Haseem seeks the advice and guidance of the city's medicine woman, Fatima. She tells him that the man he is looking for, the one who will help him obtain the treasure he seeks, is a humble young boy by the name of Aladdin. Haseem goes in search of the boy and finds him returning home to his mother bringing her cabbages and watches as he alone defeats three boys that had come to bother and humiliate him. Haseem congratulates Aladdin for his victory, telling him that he fights just as good as his father; for he had known him, Haseem said, for he was his brother and therefore, Aladdin's uncle. That night, the stranger Haseem is welcomed at Aladdin's home by his mother and together, the three of them enjoy a big feast given to them by their new relative. Haseem promises that from now on, neither Aladdin nor his mother shall be hungry ever again and both are delighted. The next morning, Aladdin and his uncle walk a long way to a place where Haseem said he and his brother had played when they were young. Haseem spots the right place when he finds three palm trees that grow as one and a camel made of stone. Then, to Aladdin's surprise, Haseem begins to make magic that makes the very earth shake. Aladdin then realizes that Haseem is not who he says to be and that he is not his uncle. As the earth under his feet begins to crack, revealing a large block of stone that seems to cover an entrance of some sort, Aladdin is frightened and attempts to run away, only to be detained by Haseem, who threatens to cut off his legs if he dares to run away again. Haseem orders Aladdin to help him lift the great block of stone and after a lot of struggling and several tries, they manage to remove the block, which is tossed into the sky and thrown aside by magic coming from within a hidden underground cave. Haseem explains to Aladdin that he is the one chosen to enter the cave and collect its greatest treasure, he gives him a magic ring which will allow the boy to wander through three underground halls unharmed and warns him not to touch anything, for if he disturbs the tiniest spec of dust in one of these halls, he will die. Haseem tells Aladdin that at the end of the three halls, he'll find a magnificent garden where the treasure is located: a small oil lamp. When Aladdin is told that he'll be given half of the treasure, he accepts and goes down into the cave, not without one clumsy fall, and walks through the three halls where he encounters all sorts of dangers: rocks covered in sharp spikes, cobra snakes and human skulls. Just like Haseem had said, Aladdin finds a beautiful garden at the end of the third hall where all sorts of animals live happily. Below the waters of a small waterfall, Aladdin spots the sparkling oil lamp, he grabs it and takes it away. Just then, Aladdin is marveled by the sight of a tree blossoming with beautiful flowers, thinking of his mother, he decides to take a few to take back to her, but then, right before his eyes, the beautiful flowers turn into even more beautiful, shiny jewels. Taking hold of a small sack, Aladdin fills it with jewels of all colors, sure that his mother will be happy with the riches. Shortly after, Aladdin makes his way back to the foot of the stairs that lead out of the cave, Haseem is waiting for him just at the top of the stairs. When Haseems asks him to hurry up bringing him the oil lamp, Aladdin tells him that it's too much for him to bring the lamp as well as the sack of jewels. Haseem tells Aladdin to leave the jewels behind but the boy refuses. Angry, Haseem swears that if he shall not have the lamp, no one else shall and then uses magic to move the block of stone over the cave once again shutting the entrance for all eternity. Discouraged, Aladdin sits at the foot of the stairs trying to figure out a way out of the cave, scolding himself for his big mouth. Suddenly, the oil lamp begins to glow and bright bolts of burning light shoot out from its interior. Scared, Aladdin throws himself on the ground and takes cover. Aladdin hears a deep voice coming from within the lamp and shortly after, he is frightened by the sight of a large genie. The genie, saddened by Aladdin's frightened reaction, begins to cry uncontrollably, almost drowning Aladdin and flooding the entire cave. Knowing that the genie can grant just about any of his biggest desires, Aladdin wishes to leave the cave and be returned home to his mother. The genie does just as his new master commands and in a matter of seconds, Aladdin and genie find themselves at the front door of Aladdin's home. The boy thanks his new friend for his service and kindly asks him to return to his oil lamp, for he will need time to explain to his mother about the lamp and the genie inside of it. Aladdin's mother, who had also learned that Haseem was an impostor, believes that magic is very dangerous and when he hears of the lamp and the genie, she tells Aladdin to take it to his room and forbids him from using it. The genie is upset with the decision of Aladdin's mother, but the boy asks him to wait patiently, for she is sure to change her mind.The next morning, Aladdin is returning from a walk around his city when he is harshly pushed indoors by his mother as he approached their house. His mother explains to him that today the sultan is taking his daughter, the Princess Leila, to the royal bath house and the sultan had ordered all of the male citizens to remain indoors and to shut all of their windows, for no man is allowed to look upon the sultan's daughter, if they did, they would be crushed beneath the hoofs of stampeding camels. Aladdin is curious about the order, he wonders whether the princess is so ugly that the sultan is ashamed of her or perhaps she is so beautiful that he wants to keep her all to his own. As his mother sleeps, Aladdin grabs a rope and leaves the house determined to get an answer. At the royal bath house, Aladdin climbs on top of the building's roof and makes his way into the bathrooms with the use of the rope he had carried with him. Inside, he is startled by the coming of three beautiful girls, one of which is the Princess Leila herself. Upon first sight, Aladdin is marveled by the princess' charming beauty and instantly falls in love with her. Aladdin is content with the answer to his question, but he is seen by the bath house owner as he is making his way out and several guards are sent in his way, determined to stop him from escaping. With the help of a horse, Aladdin is able to outsmart the sultan's guards and returns safely home. His mother hears the tale of her son falling in love with the princess, daughter of the sultan, and of his longing to marry the girl. The woman, seeing the humor in Aladdin's desire, can only laugh, for it would be impossible for the son of a peasant woman to be able to marry none other than the princess. Offended by her laughter, Aladdin decides that now is the perfect time to show his mother a treasure he had kept away in his room and brings down the sack full of jewels. Aladdin's mother asks if she has brought up a thief, but Aladdin explains that the jewels are rightfully his and that perhaps he may use them to convince the sultan to allow him to marry his daughter. The next day, the sultan is receiving many visitors from the city, nobles and peasants. At the palace, the vizier and his son are also present, the son is also longing to marry the Princess Leila, but his father cannot convince the sultan to allow his son to do so. Aladdin's mother asks to see the sultan and she is brought to him, the sultan asks him to make it fast for he is tired after such a long day of visits and requests. Aladdin's mother then tells the sultan of his son's longing to marry the princess and thinking her request nothing but a joke, everyone present bursts out in laughter. The sultan thanks the woman for making him laugh so hard and sends her on her way. Aladdin's mother explains that she does not joke and that they are willing to offer the sultan the sack with the jewels in exchange for his daughter's hand. The sultan examines the jewels and is about to consider the possibility when he is interrupted by the vizier, who tells him that his daughter is worthy of much more than a sack of jewels. The sultan then declares that only if the woman could bring him eighty men each carrying a chest full of jewels, would he allow Princess Leila to marry the peasant boy. Aladdin's mother returns home empty handed, for the sultan had held on to the sack of jewels, and explains to Aladdin of the sultan's impossible request. Aladdin then tells her not to worry, for he shall have the Princess Leila and his mother will have the proper house she had always deserved. Aladdin brings down the oil lamp and shows it to his mother, she tells him that there is a time for everything and that perhaps now is the time for magic. Aladdin explains his new need to the genie and shortly afterwards, at the palace, the sultan, the vizier, his son and even Princess Leila are surprised by the music of eighty men marching down the streets of the city, each carrying a chest full of jewels. When Princess Leila asks her father who the man riding with them is, the sultan explains that he is to be his future husband. Soon, the Princess Leila and Aladdin are married with the sultan's blessing, Aladdin's mother is given a luxurious house to live in and the genie creates for Aladdin a palace even more magnificent than that of the sultan himself. All of Aladdin's new servants are thrilled with their new lord, for they all agree that Aladdin is the most charming young man they could ever ask for and the love between he and his new wife grew deeper each day.In a land far away, Haseem discovers Aladdin's escape from the cave and seeks revenge. At Aladdin's palace, the Princess Leila is watching a group of knights practicing a performance which will be given to celebrate Aladdin's return from a hunting trip, when a stranger appears calling out that he will trade old oil lamps for new ones. Leila's friends laugh at such ridiculous offer, but Princess Leila figures that she would impress Aladdin with her shrewdness if she were to replace his old lamp with a new one. She asks one of her friends to fetch Aladdin's old lamp and to obtain a newer one in exchange of it. The trader, who is in reality Haseem in disguise, recognizes the lamp and quickly makes the trade. As soon as the girl disappears, Haseem holds the lamp and orders the genie to come out. When the genie does come out, he is shocked to find a new owner of the lamp. Haseem requests for Aladdin's palace to be taken far away with both him and Princess Leila inside of it. The genie sees no other option but to fulfill his new master's wishes and does as he asks. Shortly afterwards, Aladdin returns home from his trip and is chained by the sultan, angry that his precious daughter has been taken away and that her life might be in danger. The sultan is thinking of a punishment horrible enough for the one responsible for his daughter's disappearance when Fatima, the old medicine woman, appears with the information that a certain Haseem is the one to blame for having taken Princess Leila away. Aladdin asks the sultan to free him until the next full moon and before that time, he promises to be back with the sultan's daughter and his wife, he leaves his mother behind to ensure that he shall return. The sultan accepts and Aladdin soon sets off in his long way to the land where Haseem lives. Aladdin arrives in the middle of the night and finds the princess asleep. Aladdin kindly wakes her up and she is glad to see her husband again, she explains to him that Haseem keeps the oil lamp close by him at all times, even when he sleeps. Aladdin manages to steal the lamp back from Haseem as he sleeps and slowly makes his way outside where he calls for the genie. Rudely, the genie asks for his master's new request, but his tone changes as he discovers that the lamp is once again in the hands of the noble Aladdin. The boy asks the genie to return the palace to its proper place in the city close to where Princess Leila's father lives and the genie does as he commands. Haseem awakens to find the lamp missing and quickly runs to one of the balconies to see what is going on. The genie appears and tells him that the lamp is again in the hands of Aladdin and that the palace has been returned to its proper place. Haseem is angered and the next morning he goes to Fatima, for the last time, for this time, he kills her and steals her robes in order to disguise himself as her and be welcomed inside Aladdin's palace. The sultan, delighted to see her daughter safe again and even more delighted to find that she is bechilded, welcomes Aladdin back as his son-in-law. Haseem, disguised as the old medicine woman pays a visit to Princess Leila and tells her that her child will be guaranteed health if she were to obtain the egg of a Roc for the egg has special powers. Princess Leila tells "Fatima" that she will be rewarded when Aladdin gets the egg and quickly runs to tell her husband about it so he can find it. Aladdin promises to get the egg if it's what the princess desires and goes to the genie for his help. However, the genie is horrified by Aladdin's new request, he explains that all things have an ultimate master and that the Roc bird is his own, therefore, stealing his egg would mean death for them all. Aladdin then wonders why Fatima would ask for something that would endanger their lives and the genie then sees himself free to tell Aladdin that Fatima is not Fatima, but their old enemy Haseem. Aladdin quickly thinks of a plan to avenge the old villain and pretends to be ill. One of Leila's friends announces his illness and that Aladdin wishes Fatima to come and see him. Without any hesitation, Haseem enters the room in which Aladdin appears to be asleep and raising a sword attempts to kill him, but is stopped when Aladdin gets up. The two of them fight one-on-one until Haseem trips on his own robes and falls, stabbing himself on the stomach and killing himself. The dead body of Haseem vanishes and Aladdin says one final farewell to his enemy. Aladdin, Princess Leila and the rest go on to live good, happy lives, passing the story of the brave Aladdin down to their children and grandchildren for all time.
