A yuppie couple lost in a thick, brush-filled marsh seek refuge at an isolated farmhouse only to discover they've jumped out of the frying pan into the fire.
On a weekend boating excursion, husband and wife, Rob and Pia become lost and end up in the most unlikely place, a thick brush filled marsh, on an island in the middle of nowhere. With their boat in disarray, darkness coming on, and a heavy thunderstorm starting up, their only solution is to look for help or seek shelter of some kind. They finally come across a decrepit house and barn with no one home. However, there are definite signs of the house being inhabited, and the enormous crop of marijuana in the barn suggests the homeowners may not welcome their presence. Even worse, there is no telephone or means of communication to the outside world. But when the deranged, redneck owners, Brett, Jimmy and their even more sadistic father Poppy return, Rob and Pia realize a fear far beyond anything they have ever known. Furious with the unwanted intrusion of the affluent, snooping intruders, the monstrously sadistic farmers imprison and torture the couple, who fearing for their lives, submit to appalling degradation and humiliation. When Rob and Pia learn their kidnappers have no intention of ever letting them go alive, they finally understand they must do whatever it takes just to survive, and whatever it takes means going to a limit they could never have imagined...
The lawyer Rob and his French wife Pia rent a small motor boat to spend the day fishing at the sea. In the end of the day, Rob decides to steer the boat through marsh islands but they become lost and stranded while a storm is coming. Rob decides to walk with Pia to find a shelter and they reach a dilapidated house with no one home. Rob also finds a decrepit greenhouse with a plantation of marijuana. Out of the blue, three rednecks arrive in the place and the abusive and deranged brothers Jimmy and Brett point shotguns to them and torture Rob and Pia while their father "Poppy" goes to his room to rest. The couple soon realizes that Pia will be raped by the sadistic and they will be killed after and they decide to fight back.

