Three bachelors who are compulsive womanizers find their lives turned upside down when a baby is left at their doorstep. The trio suspect each other of being the father.
Arush Mehra lives a fairly wealthy lifestyle in Sydney, Australia along with two room-mates, Tanmay Joglekar, and Ali Hyder. He works for a food chain, while Tanmay entertains children as 'Eddy Teddy', and Ali takes care of their apartment. All three are womanizers and usually end up sleeping with around 30 different women every year. Arush travels to Delhi to attend Arjun's wedding, and this is where he meets with Isha Sahni, who also resides in Australia, he impresses and wins her over, both get intimate, and shortly thereafter Isha catches him sleeping with Devika, and both split up. Arush returns to Sydney and forgets about this incident. Then one day they find a baby right outside their door with a note to take care of her. The trio suspect each other of being the father, then attempt to get rid of the child, but change their mind, look after her, name her Angel, adore her, and start a frantic and hilarious search for her mother. A few months later Isha shows up, takes Angel in her possession and returns home. The trio now mend their ways, and Arush attempts in vain to win back Isha, and ends up challenging her to marry someone else in 7 days. With Isha's attractive looks and wealthy background it will not be long before she finds someone to wed her, and by the look of things Arush may end up never seeing Angel ever again.
Three friends Aarush ,Ali and Tanmay are doing well in Australia.The trio have had countless women in their lives without even carrying for their feelings.One morning they find an abandoned baby outside their house with a letter mentioned take care of your daughter .The trio have no option but to take care of the baby which gives a hard time doing her daily cores with no sleep they decide to locate the child's mother and make a list of women they all dated and eventually get beaten up.Aarush and Ali loose their job when they aren't bale to concentrate on it due to lack of sleep while Ali looses a lot of money in a cricket match beating.On the eve of Christmas night they leave the baby outside the Church in heavy rain soon they realize their mistake and go take her back a drowned baby is taken to hospital where the doctor tells she has less chances of survival.They all pray for her life and finally she is back to normal.Trio ask her for forgiveness and start taking care of her as their father 's and give her the name Angel.Everything is going well until Angel's mother Isha arrives and takes her back leaving them depressed.
Three handsome Sydney bachelors Aroush,Tanmay and Al - are having the time of their lives in Sydney. They flirt around, and have numerous conquests to their credit. They suddenly find their dating and mating rituals destroyed when a dimpled little roommate lands up on their doorstep. When it comes to babies, they're total zeroes and this bundle of joy is anything but joyous. But then Angel works her charm and before long, the three lecherous bachelors have been transformed into loving, caring fathers.
