There once was a pirate known as the Great Gold Pirate Woonan, who obtained almost 1/3 of the world's gold. Over the course of a few years, the pirate's existence faded, and a legend grew that he disappeared with his gold to a remote island, an island pirates continue to search for. Aboard the Going Merry, Luffy and his crew, starved and reckless, are robbed of their treasure. In an attempt to get it back, they wreck the getaway ship, guided by a young boy named Tabio, who's a captured part of El Drago's pirate crew. El Drago's love for gold has driven him to look for Woonan's island, and thanks to Woonan's treasure map, he finds it. During this time, Luffy's crew have been split up, and despite their own circumstances, they must find a way to stop El Drago from obtaining Woonan's gold.
Long ago, there was a pirate name Captain Woonan. He was obsess with gold so much, he eventually obtained 1/3 of the world's gold supply. And was nicknamed Great Gold Pirate Woonan because of that. Over the years the gold loving pirate soon co-existed in the world. Rumor has it that Woonan disappeared with his gold on a remote island. And to this day, other pirates are in search of that island. On the "Going Merry", Luffy and Zoro are starved to death. Usopp tries to get a meal by fishing, but no bites at all. While Nami is complaining about the ship's lack of food supply. Then a group of thieve came to steal their treasure supplies. Luffy and Zoro wrecked their getaway boat, which has a kid who was the hostage of the thieves. His name is Tobio and he lives with his grandfather, Gonzo. Gonzo owns a floating Oden stand. And has dedicated his life to making Oden. Luffy and Zoro enjoyed the Oden a lot. But Tobio, who's not at all an expert in Oden, says there's nothing to special about it. He wants to become a pirate like Woonan instead of an Oden seller like his grandfather. When Luffy and Zoro were about to leave, Gonzo told them that it'll cost them for all the Oden they ate. And they so happen to not have any money on them at all. So their stuck with the bill.The thieves(who kidnapped Tobio) worked for a pirate crew lead by a large,ferocious,Aztec Indian like man named El Drago. El Drago is so obsess with gold, that he's determined to find Woonan's loot. And he has in possession, the treasure map which has the coordinates of where Woonan's remote island is. Eventually our friends the "Straw Hat Pirate Crew" get to Woonan's island. Luffy and Zoro are chained together, Tobio wants to find Woonan's treasure, Usopp lies to El Drago's crew that he knows what the treasure is, and Nami is also interested in the treasure as well. Despite all these circumstances, our heroes must prevent El Drago from stealing the gold.

