A travel guide rediscovers her romantic side on a trip around Greece.
Georgia is an American academic who's lost her teaching job in Athens. She's taken a job as a tour guide, but she hates it and it shows: the tourists, mostly American, are bored with history and facts; they want to shop. Every group has a goofy couple, a frat boy, a sullen teen, a feuding couple, divorcées looking for a mate, and a funny guy. This group is no exception, plus there's no air conditioning and a bearded silent driver. Thanks to an unlikely friendship, plus daisies, an ice-cream cone, the history of syrup, and the Oracle at Delphi, Georgia may have a shot at finding her kefi during this four-day tour.
Georgia is so fascinated with Greek history and culture that she would study it and become a teacher in Greece. But when she loses her job, and waits to see if she gets another teaching position, she gets a job as a tour guide. But she wants to teach the tourists about Greek history and culture which bores them when they only want to have fun. And they give bad reviews. So her boss always saddles her with the difficult tourists. She considers quitting which her boss wants. But one of the members of her group, tries to get her to loosen up.
My Life In Ruins starring Nia Vardalos (from My Big Fat Greek Wedding) as Georgia, a college professor of Classical Greek studies who has lost her job at the university &amp; has had to take the job as a tour guide to the most annoying of tourists. Feeling this job is beneath her &amp; having a deep love for Greek history, she tends to bore most of her tour companions which tend to leave her less than stellar evaluations. Uptight &amp; disillusioned Georgia has lost her "kefi," that joie de vivre, that spirit that Greeks seem to have. Will this group of stereo-typical tourists help her find her light or will she finally say "chairo" to Greece forever? -kris_teaGeorgia (Nia Vardalos) came to Greece to teach Classical Greek studies at university. Budget cutbacks result in her being laid off. The only job she can get is as a tour guide; she's hit rock bottom. But Georgia is bored, and has lost her "kefi" (Greek for mojo) to boot. When taciturn sasquatch Poupi (Alexis Georgoulis) replaces the regular driver at the last minute, the frazzled tour guide thinks that her luck has just hit rock bottom. Thankfully, Georgia's latest batch of tourists is a more lively bunch than she's anticipated, and in between bouts with rival tour guide Nico (Alistair McGowan), she manages to form a genuine connection with wisecracking widower Irv (Richard Dreyfuss), a solo vacationer who maintains a jovial facade despite the fact that he misses his late wife dearly. With a little help from Irv, Georgia comes to realize that true love may be closer than she thinks -- if she could just recapture her kefi and open her eyes. [D-Man2010]A Greek tour guide named Georgia attempts to recapture her kefi (Greek for mojo) by guiding a ragtag group of tourists around Greece and showing them the beauty of her native land. Along the way, she manages to open their eyes to the wonders of an exotic foreign land while beginning to see the world through a new set of eyes in the process. [D-Man2010]
