Two weeks shy of his wedding, a socially awkward guy enters into a charade by hiring the owner of a company that provides best men for grooms in need.
Doug Harris (Josh Gad) is a lovable but socially awkward groom-to-be with a problem: he has no best man. With less than two weeks to go until he marries the girl of his dreams (Kaley Cuoco-Sweeting), Doug is referred to Jimmy Callahan (Kevin Hart), owner and CEO of Best Man, Inc., a company that provides flattering best men for socially challenged guys in need. What ensues is a hilarious wedding charade as they try to pull off the big con, and an unexpected budding bromance between Doug and his fake best man Jimmy.
Elated to finally have found a bride in bossy Gretchen Palmer, goofy nerd Doug Harris, who never had a proper adult social life, got caught in his own lies about suitable friends as best man and seven groomsmen with unfortunately detailed characteristics. Doug's gay Mexican wedding planner, who fears a no-show in a few weeks, discretely refers him to Best Man, Inc., the private agency of slick bachelor Jimmy Callahan, who helps men trough daunting weddings for a living, yet considers this case an unprecedented-daunting 'golden tuxedo'. Still, paranymphs are recruited and like the groom trained intensively for their parts. Doug and Jimmy, whose character is army chaplain Bic, meet the Palmer future in-laws, and are dares to an American football match which proves less then friendly, in fact as painful as masked-abducted Doug's wild bachelor party, yet some bromance also blossoms. Still, hearing the unromantic truth from the bride's mouth on wedding day proves the crucial obstacle.
Doug Harris (Josh Gad) is a nice guy with a high-powered job and a gorgeous fiancee, but with only one week to go before his big wedding to his dream girl Gretchen (Kaley Cuoco-Sweeting), he has yet to find his best man. Cue Jimmy Callahan (Hart) the owner of Best Man Inc., which provides a rather unique service for men who need to juice up their weddings: For a fee, Jimmy will be your best man -- and not just any best man, but one whom your guests will be talking about for years to come..
Jimmy Callahan (Kevin Hart) provides best man services for guys who don't have the friends necessary for a wedding. As Doug Harris (Josh Gad), a successful tax attorney, and his fiancee Gretchen Palmer (Kaley Cuoco-Sweeting) are planning for their wedding day, Doug becomes frantic searching for a best man. He faints and is referred to Jimmy's company, The Best Man Inc., by his party planner, Edmundo (Ignacio Serricchio).Doug is sent to The Best Man Inc., by Otis (Corey Holcomb), which is located under an amusement park. Doug meets Jimmy and asks him to pull off a "Golden Tux" (seven groomsmen) to match with Gretchen's bridesmaids, which has never been done before. Jimmy refuses, claiming he is complacent and doesn't need the pressure. After hearing Doug's plea, Jimmy agrees to be his best man along with a payment of $50,000 and all expenses paid. When going over the formalities for the wedding, Doug tells Jimmy his name is Bic Mitchum.Jimmy recruits some former friends. Fitzgibbons (Colin Kane), a criminal who escaped from a federal prison, agrees to be a groomsman because there will be seven bridesmaids to hit on. Next, he recruits Lurch (Jorge Garcia), a plumber, who agrees to get away from his nagging wife. Lastly, he recruits Reggie (Affion Crockett), an airline security agent, who agrees because there will be good food. Jimmy, his secretary Doris (Jenifer Lewis), Fitzgibbons, Lurch, and Reggie interview people willing to fill the four remaining spots based on their "party trick distractions." They choose Kip (Alan Ritchson), a sexy man with a stutter, Endo (Aaron Takahashi), who has three testicles, Bronstein (Dan Gill), who can dislocate and relocate his shoulder, and Otis, who can say every sentence backwards.Doug, excited, tells Gretchen that "Bic" flew in from El Salvador, and he will be at the wedding. He also presents to her two honeymoon tickets to Tahiti. Gretchen insists that Bic comes to the family brunch. Doug meets Jimmy and they memorize their identities. Doug also tells Jimmy that he must act as a military priest from North Dakota.At the brunch Gretchen's father Ed (Ken Howard) asks Jimmy what part of North Dakota he's from. Doug becomes nervous and almost blows his own cover until Jimmy accidentally sets Grandma (Cloris Leachman) on fire. They take her to the emergency room, and Jimmy makes up a lie to Ed that Doug used to play football. Ed challenges Jimmy and Doug to a football game with some of his old college teammates who will be at the wedding.Doug meets his groomsmen, who he is initially not fond of. Doris gives all of them fake identities, all of which share the last names of famous Los Angeles sports figures (Plunkett, Rambis, Garvey, Alzado, Drysdale, Carew, and Dickerson) which they have to memorize. Jimmy takes the groomsmen on fake photo shoots of skydiving, scuba-diving, bowling, running a marathon, and climbing mountains. As Jimmy realizes Doug is beginning to doubt him, he is taken to Edmundo's house. Doug learns Edmundo's flamboyant personality is just a ruse for better business. Edmundo tells him that the only key is to please Gretchen and her mother Lois (Mimi Rogers) and nothing else matters. To prove to Doug how good he is at being a best man, Jimmy takes Doug to a wedding where the best man (Josh Peck) makes a terrible speech. After, they have drinks and show off their dance moves. The two drink after the wedding and talk. Jimmy said he made an excellent best man speech for a minor friend which led to his career as a wedding ringer. Doug said that his father was an international tax attorney and moved frequently as a child, so he never got to make friends. He also tells Jimmy he's never been on a "guy trip" and just wants a friend to "sit down and have a beer with." When his parents died, Doug took over the business, and work consumed him, leaving him without a best man. Jimmy drives Doug home, and reiterates that they are in a business relationship, and Doug, although hurt, agrees.Jimmy, thinking about what Doug said, is reminded by Doris why he started his business in the first place. She tells Jimmy he needs a real friend for himself, and he is motivated to pull off the rest of the wedding.The next day, Doug is captured by Reggie and Fitzgibbons and taken to his outrageous bachelor party. He is introduced to Nadia (Nicky Whelan), who tries to seduce him. Doug instead befriends her and she later puts peanut butter on his genitals. Doug, who is blindfolded, is unaware that Jimmy and Nadia have a basset hound to lick off the peanut butter. When the prank goes awry, the groomsmen and Nadia race to the hospital and evade a cop chase. When Doug wakes up the next day, Nadia kisses him goodbye, and hints she would like to know him better. Later, the groomsmen play football with Ed and his college football friends, including Joe Namath, John Riggins, and Ed "Too Tall" Jones. A mud bowl ensues and Ed blows out his knee on the last play.At the rehearsal dinner that night, Gretchen's bridesmaids sing a song, while Doug's groomsmen create a slideshow of the fake pictures they previously took, winning Gretchen over. That night, Gretchen, speaking to Doug, notices Bic razors and Mitchum deodarant in their cabinets. She recognizes the familiarity in the last names of the groomsmen and deduces the scheme. She asks Doug about it but he brushes it off, saying Gretchen is paranoid, to which she reluctantly agrees.On the day of the wedding, the family priest cancels and is replaced by Jimmy's old Catholic school principal. Doug hatches an idea where Reggie and Fitzgibbons kidnap the priest and Jimmy officiates the wedding as Bic Mitchum. The wedding reception is initially successful. Jimmy passes Gretchen and congratulates her on the wedding. Gretchen exclaims that the wedding is a disaster because her grandmother has third degree burns, her dad's knee is blown out, the food is bad, the bridesmaids are not attracted to the groomsmen, the zipper on her dress is broken, and she isn't marrying the man she loves. Gretchen confesses to Jimmy she only married Doug because she was tired of having bad relationships and he can easily provide the lavish lifestyle she wants. Doug overhears this in the bathroom and tells Jimmy that he can't go through with the rest of the wedding. Jimmy dismisses Doug's ideas and makes the best man speech. Before Jimmy wraps up his best man speech, Doug stops it and reveals he and Gretchen aren't married since "Bic" is not a real priest. He also tells everyone that his groomsmen are fake. Jimmy, Doug, and the groomsmen try to escape. Before doing so, Jimmy asks Gretchen's sister, Allison (Olivia Thirlby) on a date, which she accepts. Doug pays Jimmy his $50,000 like he promised and they accept each other's friendship. As they leave, Jimmy has an idea.They use Doug's first class honeymoon tickets to Tahiti, taking him on a guy trip where the groomsmen, Edmundo, Doris, and Nadia, who begins her romance with Doug, party in the plane, while Lurch says that he "has a bad feeling about this flight."In a scene at the end of the credits, Jimmy and Doug are seen playing a painful game of tennis.
