Harry hates being a TV producer and dreams of leaving his job to travel the world. He loves Alex, an aspiring actor who is struggling to create an identity for himself as a performer. Rugby player William's nine-year-old daughter is intent on sabotaging his relationships with new boyfriends, and he's finding it difficult to let Lawrence, the soap star, into his life. Lars is a handsome sometime-model kept by Tom, a successful artist, who will excuse his every betrayal so long as Lars doesn't leave him.
A group of primarily gay friends living in London try to live happily while in their quest for Mr. Right. Tom, an artist, is in a relationship with the exceedingly handsome Lars, who knows he's exceedingly handsome. Lars lives off of Tom, which to Tom's friends seems like he's being used, but which Tom himself sees no different than Lars being the equivalent of a househusband. Single father and antiques buff William has just started dating Lawrence, a B-list actor (he has a recurring role as a nurse on a daytime serial). They each believe the other may be their Mr. Right, but William has avoided gay stereotypical sex-only relationships if only to have a more stable environment for his daughter Georgie's sake, and as such wants to make sure Lawrence is worth having in their lives before ingratiating Lawrence to Georgie. This task may be more difficult than William or Lawrence realizes. The core of the group are reality television producer Harry and aspiring actor Alex. Their relationship is one where Harry is the caregiver to the insecure Alex, who has to work as a caterer's assistant to eke out whatever meager living he is able. His insecurities are strengthened with minor celebrity and professional rival Lawrence added to their social circle. And Louise, the fag hag, has just started dating Paul, who she met through a dating service. Although she feels he could be her Mr. Right, she suspects he also could be looking for a Mr. Right despite his macho bravado. When accusations of infidelity between two within this grouping are raised, all the relationships are tested.

