In the UK suburbs, an underground tournament is set to challenge twelve fighters from different backgrounds to compete for the price of £500,000. They have been handpicked for a no-holds barred competition that will push each fighter to their limit. Each fighter has their own reason for competing, and each will give everything they've got to take the prize...but there can be only one winner.
(NOTE: For the sake of uniformity and proper synopsis formatting, some events, like the introduction and backgrounds of the fighters and the investors backing the tournament, will be listed all near the beginning of the synopsis, rather than at the points whey they occur in the movie.)
The movie opens with a series of still photos and shots of newspaper clippings on the rise in illegal underground fighting, interspersed with scenes of such combat and a series of title cards.Cameras focus on a building somewhere in England, and into a conference room where six people in business attire are gathered together with a shady man named Fidel, who is overseeing the tournament. Twelve fighters have been assembled to compete in a no-holds-barred elimination tournament lasting six weeks. Each of the six executives is to sponsor two of the fighters, investing 100,000 English pounds in each of them, for a total pot of 1.2 million. Further, the sponsors choose which fighter is to fight against which. Fidel promises an action-packed entertainment experience for all the sponsors. When one fighter is named champion, that fighter will receive half a million pounds worth of the total pot. The sponsor who backed that fighter will receive another half million, and the remaining 200,000 pounds is kept by Fidel's company as 'handling fees and other expenses.' Each fight will take place in secluded, run down areas of England before a select audience, and will be filmed and streamed over the web.Fidel then addresses the twelve fighters in a seedy-looking building with a well-kept interior, where the fighters will live and train during the tournament. He warns them that only one will win, and they all know the stakes.--++--In the corporate conference room, the sponsors place their bets:Lamont Gaines, a self-made, independently wealthy man who doesn't need the money. Still, he's a risk-taker and competitor by nature, who needs to win for the sake of winning. He chooses to back:--Corporal Smith, The Soldier, an actual soldier in the British army. Recently went AWOL, and is a loose cannon and live wire who punched out a sergeant. Overall, a very dangerous man; fighting in the tournament seemingly just for the sake of fighting.--Nathan, The Ex-Convict, a former club doorman who got into an altercation with a drunk patron and smashed his skull. In prison he found God, and is now married with a young daughter. He's turned to the tournament to get the money that will put his life back together and help him focus on his new family.--++--Kari Meadows, the bored socialite wife of a multi-millionaire. She's sexy and manipulative, using her assets to her advantage. She's become a backer in the tournament merely for the excitement and the rush of seeing the combat. She chooses to back:--Joey, The Model, a conceited man who makes a living with his face and body. Although making his living wearing fancy clothes, he's a deadly opponent in a fight and wants to prove he's the best. Vain and arrogant, he's a callous chauvinist who sees women as his playthings to tempt and then scorn.--Leon, The Triad, an actual member of the Chinese Triad organized crime families. Feared as a brutal enforcer with many contacts. He misappropriated a large sum of money from his uncle, a high-up in their family. The uncle, needing to explain this to his own superiors, is demanding that his nephew provide recompense. The Triad has entered the tournament to raise it.--++--Murray Burnett, an ex-boxer with a gambling problem. Though a successful businessman, he's starting to get into financial trouble, and he has a young daughter on the way. He needs to win as badly as some of the fighters. He chooses to back:--William, The Instructor, a martial arts sensei and a devoted family man with a young child. He's looking to provide his family with the means for a better life.--Zara, The Teacher, the only woman to enter the tournament. Lean and wiry, she has a stare that can frighten off any who see her as an easy mark, and those who aren't scared off, she can beat them down. She teaches youthful offenders at a juvenile detention facility, but she's having financial difficulties and, despite the odds seemingly being against her, is looking to fight in the tournament in hopes of getting herself out of debt.--++--Carson Lau, a Chinese restaurant mogul who runs a chain of them across England. A natural supporter of the underdog in any struggle, he's in the tournament to give potential fighters a chance to compete. He chooses to back:--Scott, The Kid, so nicknamed because he's the youngest fighter in the tournament. Nonetheless, he is very athletic and skilled, out to prove he's the best.--Liang, The Foreigner, who immigrated from China and busts his back at odd manual labor jobs hoping to help support his family. The promise of a large prize has lured him to the tournament in the hopes that he can provide for them. Although a quiet and reserved man, he's extremely skilled in martial arts.--++--Brandon Glover, a hot-shot stockbroker who made a fortune in the stock market. Driven by his ego, he is out to prove he's a better person than the others. He chooses to back:--Beau, The Delinquent, a young martial arts expert who's fast and slick, given to small petty crimes. He has no family, but he's in love with a beautiful young girlfriend. His brash nature makes him want to prove himself, but he also secretly longs to raise enough money to start a fresh, straight life with his girlfriend.--The Police Officer, whose mother is dying from cancer. While he's trying to care for her and make whatever time she has left, comfortable, he's also a brutal law enforcer with some anger management issues.--++--and Terry Page, a conscientious businessman whose only son was killed in an illegal street fight while others watched. He's never been the same since. His motives in sponsoring fighters for the tournament are unclear, but seem to revolve around giving participants a fighting chance and avoiding the same fate as his son. He chooses to back:--Mark, The Homeless, who is recently out of prison for domestic battery against his now ex-wife, after he caught her with another man. The money will help him get back on his feet and help the one thing most precious to him: his seven-year-old daughter.--Father Glenn Salvage, the priest, a former street fighter who needed to get out of the cycle of violence and turned to religion. He runs a small church and wants to help with the building of a homeless shelter. Although trying to live a peaceful life in service to his fellow man, he is still a tough man who can look out for himself.--++--Terry and Carson choose to pit The Kid and The Homeless against each other for the first battle. They meet in a dilapidated, run down building, surrounded by a small circle of cheering spectators. The Kid is faster, more athetic, with several gymnastic tricks up his sleeve, but The Homeless is tougher, more aggressive. He seizes early advantage, tearing into The Kid with hard punches. He flips The Kid down to the ground and stomps on his chest. The Kid's momentum is broken apart by The Homeless' aggressive attacks. When he closes in again, The Homeless grabs him by the neck, maneuvers him back to back, and flips The Kid over his head, leaving him dazed and injured. The Kid's next attacks are noticeably uncoordinated and clumsier, and two vicious left hooks by The Homeless lay him out.Winner: The HomelessIn the boardroom, Terry is giving Carson a consolation congratulations, saying that the Kid was a great fighter, and the Homeless simply won by virtue of superior strength.A brief montage is shown in the living/training facility of the fighters training.--++--The next fight is decided: The Triad, will fight the Soldier.A brief scene is shown in the training facility; the Triad hitting a heavy bag while the Soldier lifts heavy weights.The Triad and the Soldier meet in the warehouse chosen for their battle. The soldier is dressed in combat fatigues, and a number of his army buddies show up to watch and cheer him on. The Triad appears to grandstand a moment, smoking a cigarette. He distracts the Soldier by flicking the cigarette and seizes initiative with powerful kicks. Bulling forward, the Soldier closes to grapple and pounds the Triad's kidneys, then flings him into some crates. The Soldier takes the Triad to the floor, grappling with a choke hold and clawing at his face. Getting free, the Triad delivers a brutal spear hand to the Soldier's throat, battering him with more kicks and finally jumping off another stack of crates for an ax-hand blow to the back of the Soldier's neck.Winner: The TriadIn the immediate aftermath, the Triad is victorious but hurting. As he regains his feet, the defeated Soldier grabs a bottle in a rage, and breaks it over the Triad's head from behind, sparking another melee, between his supporters in the crowd, and those of the Triad.--++--In the conference room, Kari gloats, thanking Lamont for an 'invigorating' experience. The Triad is later seen cutting off his long ponytail and looking at the laceration dealt him by the bottle that the Soldier broke over his head. The fighters are again seen training in their facility.In the conference room, Brandon challenges Murray to put the Instructor up against the Delinquent. Both sponsors are cocky about the upcoming bout. In the training/living facility, the fighters continue to work out. The Delinquent is starting to make friends with the Foreigner as they spar together, while the Police Officer looks at them with scorn. As the day of their fight approaches, the Delinquent and the Instructor watch each other train, sizing each other up.The fighters square off inside a small circle of cheering spectators in a small warehouse among huge oil tanks. The Instructor lunches in with hard punches which the Delinquent easily dodges, putting him into position to retaliate with gymnastic kicks, along with a hard headbutt, knocking the Instructor down. He lands several more kicks; The Instructor forced to charge blindly ahead to shove the Delinquent off of him. He blasts the younger tough with a right cross, knocking him down with a bloody nose, and pulls him up for a punishing knee lift and several brutal left hooks. The Delinquent slowly pulls himself to his feet and wades back into the battle. Several short elbows and back elbows, and scoop kicks, turn the tables. Throwing himself into a hard spin, he uncorks a spinning wheel kick that lays the Instructor out.Winner: The DelinquentShowering back in the facility, the Instructor, broken, cries at the lost opportunity. Brandon gloats to Murray in the conference room.--++--The next battle will pit the Ex-Convict against the Priest. Ironically, or fittingly, their fight takes place in a church. The Priest takes initiative with a long side kick and a reverse crescent kick, knocking the Ex-Convict down. The Ex-Convict lunges in, and is taken down again by the Priest's counterattack. Climbing to his feet, the Ex-Convict finally strikes back with a vicious right cross and a back kick. The two clash again, and the Ex-Convict traps the Priest's left arm in a cruel armbar that breaks his elbow. Another back kick sends the Priest down, out of the fight.Winner: The Ex-ConvictIn the conference room, still riding the high of the Delinquent's win, Brandon offers up the Police Officer, asking who'll accept the challenge. Only Kari's Model, Murray's Teacher, and Carson's Foreigner haven't yet fought. Carson decides to pit the Foreigner against the Police Officer. The fight takes place in the basement of a security building. Looking to vent his aggression, the Police Officer lunges in, kicking the Foreigner against a wall, catching him on the rebound and hurling him away. The Foreigner catches the Police Officer's arm, twisting it behind him and countering with an open hand. Lunging in, the Police Officer lands several left hooks, grabbing the Foreigner around the neck and kneeing him in the face. The Foreigner twists open the choke hold and escapes the grapple, but the burly lawman catches his lunge and throws him down again, following up with stomps and soccer-ball kicks. Pulling himself to his feet, the Foreigner again rushes in and seizes initiative with spinning kicks and a throw. His anger rising, the Police Officer bulls forward and kicks his opponent into several metal fixtures. The Foreigner ducks and weaves, waiting for an opening, then finds a second wind, battering the Police Officer with increasingly vicious punches. Two spinning kicks hurl the Police Officer back to collide with the fixtures, where he collapses in a heap.Winner: The ForeignerAlone in the corridors of the basement, the Police Officer broods in disbelief over his defeat. Later in the training facility, the Delinquent congratulates the Foreigner. In the corporate conference room, Brandon is dealt a stinging loss, while Carson, one of whose fighters has already been eliminated, is relieved and satisfied.--++--The only two fighters who have yet to fight, are placed against each other by default, although it seems as if it was meant to be: The Model against The Teacher. Having found he's fighting a woman, the Model starts sitting near the Teacher while she trains, flashing a leering, cocky smile in a continuous attempt to psyche her out.Meeting for their fight, The Teacher shows by her look that she's not intimidated by her opponent's significant advantage in size and strength. The Model, meanwhile, flashes a smug grin, showing he doesn't take her seriously. He easily dodges her opening kicks and knocks her down with one of his own. Gritting her teeth, the Teacher charges back into the fray, taking the Model off balance with several punches that make an opening for her back kick, which takes the Model down to the floor. The two clash again, and the Teacher steps up off her opponent's thigh to plow into the Model's face with a frightening left cross that leaves him with a bloody nose and mouth. Outraged at one of his most prized assets being treated in such a way, he closes in on the Teacher and crams an uppercut into her stomach, and unloads a back kickflip that sends the Teacher sprawling. Wiping blood from her mouth, the Teacher gets up and plasters the Model with several swinging kicks, until he catches a side thrust kick and slams a crushing hammer fist down onto the Teacher's knee, breaking her leg. The Teacher lays on the ground, screaming in agony. The Model stomps on her face and bends over her, yanking her head up. The Teacher lets out a stifled cry of pain, her face looking suddenly fearful as The Model cocks a fist in front of her; before she spits in the Model's face in a final act of defiance. The Model crashes the cocked fist into her face, putting her out. And yet, as he looks down at her bloodied face and notes how he'd brutalized her, the Model's face contorts with a look of disgust with himself.Winner: The Model--++--In the conference room, Kari is again gloating, while Murray protests that the beating the Teacher took went too far. Fidel reminds him that the underground nature of the tournament presents real risk that all the fighters and backers accept. The bitterest part of the fight is that, with both of his sponsored fighters having been defeated and eliminated, Murray is now likewise out of the tournament.First backer eliminated: Murray Burnett.Kari is feeling especially full of herself, having delivered the double whammy of having scored 'first blood' among the sponsors, and being the only backer whose two fighters have both advanced to the second round.In the intermission between the first and second rounds, the Model has become down; feeling real remorse. Despite his opinion of women, how badly he'd beaten the Teacher has crossed a line even he hates having crossed. He brings a bouquet of flowers to the Teacher's hospital room, and sits by her bed, breaking down and crying. Weakly the Teacher opens her eyes, completely forgiving of the beating she took. She tells the Model that it's all okay, as she knew this could happen.In the conference room, the backers reflect on their remaining fighters, preparing for the second round.Fidel takes the remaining six fighters to a strip club for drinks. One of the dancers smiles flirtatiously at the Foreigner, much to the Delinquent's amusement. He gets the girl's name and number for the Foreigner so he can start seeing her; knowing the Foreigner is too shy to ask her, himself.--++--The backers gather in the conference room to begin the second round. Brandon challenges Kari to put the Triad up against the Delinquent, seeing the culture clash as an exciting fight. But Lamont tells Kari and Brandon that such a pairing is too predictable and suggests a curve ball. As the Delinquent has struck up a friendship with the Foreigner, Lamont suggests that they be placed against each other as opponents.Neither fighter is fond of this. The Delinquent's girlfriend tries to comfort him, pleading for him to be strong. The Foreigner has started seeing the dancer from the club, and they start to grow close. She knows something is troubling him, but he can't bring himself to explain it to her.The fight between the Foreigner and the Delinquent is slated to take place in a storage yard for eighteen-wheel trucks. Both of their respected girlfriends are there, watching anxiously. The fighters meet and press forearms against each other like crossed swords in a display of respect. The initial clash goes back and forth, both fighters angling for an opening before the Foreigner knocks the Delinquent down with several spinning kicks. The Delinquent vaults back to his feet and lands a kick of his own before spinning the Foreigner around and driving uppercuts into his lower back. A haymaker lays the Foreigner out on the ground, and the Delinquent's girlfriend runs forward to hug him. Slowly the Foreigner pulls himself to his feet. The Delinquent reluctantly crosses wrists with him again and the fight resumes. Both fighters exchange fierce blows; the Foreigner slowly starting to gain an advantage. Jumping off the side of one of the trucks, he lands a spinning kick that knocks the Delinquent out.Winner: The ForeignerIn the aftermath, the girlfriends of both fighters comfort and console them. The mood in the conference room is little better: with both of his fighters now defeated, Brandon is out of the tournament. As he stands, he hands the remaining backers a scowl and says, "Fuck the lot of you."Second backer eliminated: Brandon Glover--++--Lamont then challenges Kari; the Model against the Ex-Convict. Kari seethes at Lamont's taunts, telling him that he's on.The two fighters meet in a used car junkyard. The Model lands the first attacks, staggering the Ex-Convict with round kicks. Regaining his bearings, the Ex-Convict strikes back, knocking the Model down with a short barrage, locking one of the Model's arms, passing a reverse hook over his head and then reversing into a forward round kick to the jaw. The Model spins into a punishing back kick, but the Ex-Convict shows he has some gymnastic ability too, doing a jumping spin into a fierce U-punch. They clash again, each scoring a powerful kick, before the Model throws a forward kickflip, and the Ex-Convict dodges and delivers a wheel kick that puts the Model down.Winner: The Ex-ConvictKari is left humiliated; Lamont gloating over her. In the junkyard, the Model looks off into the sky.The two remaining fighters are the Triad and the Homeless. The stakes are increasing as fighters continue to be eliminated. Whichever fighter loses this bout, their corresponding sponsor will also be eliminated.The stakes are also very high for the Triad. His uncle comes to wish him good luck, and offer some advice on the fight, but also warns him that if he loses, he will face consequences that are beyond the uncle's control.The Homeless goes to his former house and discreetly watches his daughter playing, but hides when he sees his ex-wife come out to check on the girl.--++--The fight takes place in a garage; several parked luxury cars in a ring around the audience. The Triad closes for a waist grapple, almost pushing the Homeless off balance before he hammers on the Triad's back and kicks him away. The Homeless parries several attacks before countering with a haymaker. They clash again, and this time it's the Triad blocking and countering. Continuing the back-and-forth, the Homeless drives in with combination punches and a thrusting kick. Another clash shows counter and counter-counter, before the Homeless strikes with a headbutt and flings the Triad across the floor. He meets the Triad's charge with a spinning wheel kick across the face. The Homeless jumps off a car hood with a spinning kick, which the Triad ducks, and they grapple before the Homeless slams an uppercut into the stomach and hurls the Triad onto the roof of a car. The Triad avoids an ax kick, slamming the Homeless onto the hood and peppering him with punches before the Homeless strikes him off. Pulling a car door open, the Triad slams it into the Homeless. The Triad throws the Homeless into the car and climbs in after him, the Homeless in the left-side passenger's seat and the Triad in the driver's seat. They clash again, trying to drive each other's heads into the dashboard. The Homeless grabs the driver's side seat belt and tangles the Triad's neck up in it, choking him while pounding him with his free hand. The Homeless climbs out of the car and crosses around to the driver's side, waiting for the Triad to start to lean out, and then slamming the door shut against the Triad's head.Winner: The HomelessAfter the fight, Terry goes to congratulate the Homeless, introducing himself and giving the Homeless a business card. The Triad must now face his uncle, knowing that he's in very serious trouble.Kari is boiling mad; her anger only exacerbated by the smug looks that Lamont hands her. She refuses to leave now, with the fighting just getting interesting, but Fidel says that if she doesn't leave, he can call his security agents to remove her.Third backer eliminated: Kari Meadows--++--Amid recap scenes of the second-round fights, Fidel tells the remaining backers that the three remaining fighters are in for their toughest challenge yet.In the training facility, Fidel addresses the three remaining fighters, applauding their strength and desire, and then telling them, that they will need more than skill and wits for the third round: they'll also need weapons.In the intermission, the three fighters have much time to reflect. The Foreigner is with his girlfriend in her apartment; the dancer trying to give him comfort, but he still can't open up completely with her, as he thinks about his father asking him to look after the family. The Homeless looks at a picture of himself with his young daughter, The Ex-Convict goes to a church to pray; then says prayers along with his young daughter at his home, as his wife watches anxiously. The Foreigner has finally opened up to his girlfriend, and she cries fearfully at the thought of losing him.For the third round, each fighter will face off against two of Fidel's own men in an armed combat duel. The two fighters which defeat Fidel's men in the shortest amount of time will advance to the final round to determine the tournament champion. Each fighter's battle will be in the same shed, at different times.--++--The Homeless is armed with a sword, with Fidel's men also armed with swords. The Foreigner is also given a sword, while Fidel's men are armed with long staffs. The Ex-Convict wields two escrima sticks, while Fidel's men wield the same. Montages of the three battles are shown mixed among each other; each fighter struggling to defend and counter against two opponents working in tandem.The Homeless, though receiving several sword-slashes, kicks one enemy away and pulls a swing short from the back of the other opponent's neck; then kicks the other opponent's leg and pulls a sword strike at his throat. He is acknowledged the winner of the contest in two minutes, ten seconds.The Ex-Convict grapples both enemies, disarming them while dropping his own escrima sticks. Fighting hand to hand now, he savagely knocks both opponents out. Fidel gives his time as two minutes, twenty-five seconds. A good time, but if the Foreigner beats it, the Ex-Convict will be eliminated.The Foreigner finds a second wind, disrupting the tandem of his two enemies and starting to drive them both into defense. But then one enemy uses his staff to grab the Foreigner from behind in a choke. The second opponent starts working the Foreigner's stomach and chest over with punches, and then recovers his staff, pasting him across the face and head. Backing as far away as the closed quarters allow, he leaps high into the air, cracking his staff across the side of the Foreigner's head. The Foreigner collapses to the ground, completely out.But in the aftermath, it's shown that the two men fighting against the Foreigner were a little too savage in their final assault; The Foreigner wasn't just beaten, he wasn't just knocked out... he was killed. All of the fighters from the tournament, and the Foreigner's heartbroken girlfriend, attend his funeral.In the conference room, Fidel addresses Lamont, Terry and Carson. He acknowledges that accidents will happen, and casualties are very real, even if rare, occurences. The tournament is designed to provide the highest degree of excitement and entertainment to its viewers and sponsors. Lamont in particular, is satisifed at how the tournament has progressed, but Carson is extremely upset, now seeing the whole thing as wrong in light of the Foreigner's death. But Lamont is completely unsympathetic, saying it only seems that way to Carson, now that both of his fighters are eliminated.Fourth backer eliminated: Carson Lau--++--In the training facility, Fidel addresses the Homeless and the Ex-Convict, saying he's very pleased with them both. The final fight between the two to determine the tournament champion will be in one week. Both finalists look none too happy with Fidel or some of the other events of the tournament, but both are too heavily invested in it now to walk away.The Homeless looks through some fan letters that have been brought to him. He calls Terry, his backer, and meets him in a small cafe. Showing a picture of his daughter to Terry, the Homeless admits his deep worry at what could happen to him in the final bout, and asks if there's anything Terry can do on the little girl's behalf. Terry gives the Homeless a compassionate look and puts a hand on his shoulder.Both fighters train their hardest in the facility, reflecting on their first and second round fights, and thinking about their families.Terry helps the Homeless arrange to take his daughter out for ice-cream sodas.Fidel tells Terry and Lamont that they couldn't have asked for two more motivated fighters to meet in the final battle.In a voiceover, Fidel announces that the final fight will take place in a regulation MMA octagon cage. All the fighters in the tournament are in attendance to watch. Fidel holds up a briefcase with 500,000 English pounds to be presented to the tournament champion.The Ex-Convict and The Homeless enter the octagon. They briefly touch knuckles before flying into battle. The final fight is grueling and brutal, going back and forth many times, ferocious punches, kicks and throws going back and forth, and both fighters going down several times; thoughts of their respective children keeping them going.But there can only be one winner, and finally it is the Ex-Convict who slams the Homeless down onto the octagon floor, beating him with vicious hooks and haymakers. A crushing left blow finishes the fight; the Ex-Convict hardly able to stand, but the Homeless out of it.Underground Tournament winner: The Ex-Convict--++--Fidel comes into the octagon, announcing the Ex-Convict as the tournament's champion, and handing him the briefcase with his prize money: half a million English pounds. Fidel leads the whole crowd in a round of thundering applause for the Underground's winner.The Homeless is disappointed in himself, and it seems that Terry is disappointed in him too, going to see him and saying that he lost a lot of money on him. But in fact, Terry is very proud of how much heart the Homeless showed in the tournament. He tells the Homeless that he's getting a second lease on life, and he needs to make the most of it. Terry gives the Homeless a generous consolation prize out of his own funds, pointing out that in his old age, he's not going to need it much longer. It's not quite half a million pounds, but it will let the Homeless put his life back together, and see to his daughter's happiness.In the conference room, Lamont, the winning backer, lights up a celebratory cigar, and offers a consolation handshake to Terry.Fidel talks about how all the eliminated fighters will go back to their families and their lives in a closing voiceover, and says that they'll all be ready for another opportunity to come around. The final scene shows a burly man running past the oil tank storage yard and seeing a poster looking for fighters, with a 1 million pound prize offered; and the would-be fighter grabs it off the fence.A very brief stop-motion sequence after the credits shows the Homeless going to his former home to visit his daughter. As he leaves, he isn't holding the briefcase anymore, suggesting that he gave the money to his family.
