After cleaning up his town, the retired Sheriff, Nick Prescott, tries to make a fresh start in Dallas, as key witnesses against a drug kingpin start dying. Now, he is one man against all. Can he protect his family and make it in one piece?
In Dallas, when the two prime witnesses against the drug-lord Octavio Perez are murdered by his gangsters in a safe-house, the testimony of the FBI agent Kate Jensen and three other agents become the only chance to keep the criminal in prison. They are lodged in another safe-house to wait for the trial, but the place is invaded by the criminals and the agents are executed. However, Kate is only wounded and her boyfriend Nick believes there is a traitor in the agency and decides to bring her to his ranch in the country to protect her life with his reliable local friends.
Almost twelve months after cleaning up his corrupt hometown, the retired Sheriff, Nick Prescott, decides to make a fresh start in Dallas with his FBI fiancée, Kate Jensen, and her twelve-year-old daughter, Samantha. However, when key witnesses against the murderous drug trafficker Octavio Perez start dying, once more, Nick must take matters into his own hands, as a dangerous traitor walks among them. This time, it is personal, and Nick has to do anything in his power to protect his family. He is one man against all. Can he make it in one piece?
Kevin Sorbo stars in this action-packed sequel to the hit film, Walking Tall: The Payback. After cleaning up his hometown, Nick (Kevin Sorbo) retires as county sheriff and heads to Dallas where he hopes to start a new life with an FBI Agent and her twelve-year old daughter. Just being "the boyfriend" is tough enough for Nick. When a ruthless drug lord targets several key witnesses to a Federal case, Nick finds himself in the middle of a war with nobody to trust. This time Nick is on their turf and he is pitted against a ferocious army of gang bangers. Nick's brand of country justice just doesn't seem to cut it on the rough city streets but he will stop at nothing to protect his own.
