Based upon the life of actress Parveen Babi, this film describes the life of a schizophrenic actress Sana Azim, and the love of her life - Aditya Garewal.
Woh Lamhe tells the story of Sana Azim (Kangana Ranaut) as a Bollywood superstar who is dominated by her boyfriend Nikhil (Shaad Randhawa), who makes all her career decisions for her; to the world she is a successful and independent woman but in reality she is lonely and lost, a mere puppet in Nikhil's hands. Aditya Garewal (Shiney Ahuja) is an aspiring director who is keen on casting Sana for his debut film, but only on his own terms; he is willing to go to any lengths to get her to agree to the film, even if that means preying on her slight insecurities and her turbulent relationship with Nikhil. Nikhil is successful in casting her in her film and the film turns out to be a super-hit. However, he loses track of his plan somewhere along the way and realizes that even though his film is complete and a super-hit, he just can't pull himself away from Sana; he has actually fallen in love with her in spite of his friend Sam (Purab Kohli) reminding Aditya that Sana is just their ladder to success. But Aditya had fallen for her. As the film progresses Aditya realizes that Sana is not just insecure and lonely, but that she is also mentally imbalanced; suffering from acute schizophrenia wherein she is haunted by the imaginary Rani who leads her to believe that everyone is out to kill her. Sana's mother and Nikhil get her admitted to the hospital and resort to shock treatment for her speedy recovery so that she can start shooting for all her assignments again. What follows is Aditya's unshakable belief that he can heal Sana and he giving up his upcoming career in order to take her away from the industry and free Sana from all of her mental demons. However, Sana is unable to break free from her illness and one day walks out of Aditya's life as she no longer wants to be the cause of pain and turbulence in his life. They meet three years after her disappearance in a hospital, post Sana's attempt on her life.
Sana Azim used to live in Junagadh with her widowed mom, and was discovered by Nikhil Rai, who introduced her to Bollywood's tinsel screen - and thence there was no looking back for this actress. She lived with Nikhil - albeit in a strange relationship - as he ordered her around, controlled, and even physically abused her. When Journalist/Film-maker Aditya Garewal wrote about Saan he described her in very unflattering terms, angering her, leading to a well-publicized confrontation - which was merely a ploy used by Aditya in order to compel Saan to act in his movie - a ploy which was successful. Both started working together and were drawn to each other - a closeness that will draw Aditya in to Saan's dark and unstable world, a world where Saan is now controlled by a woman named Rani, who has made her believe that Aditya is going to kill her - and the only way to deal with this threat - is to kill Aditya first.

