In war-torn Eastern Europe, a world-weary group of mercenaries discover a long-hidden secret in an abandoned WWII bunker.
In a seedy bar in a town ravaged by war, mysterious businessman Hunt hires ex-marine D.C. to assemble a crack team of ex-soldiers to protect him on a dangerous journey into no-man's land. To this gang of hardened warriors, battle-worn veterans and borderline criminals killing is just a job - and one they enjoy. Their mission - to scope out an old military bunker. It should be easy - 48 hours at the most. Lots of cash for little risk, or so he says. Once at the outpost, the men make a horrific discovery that turns their mission on its head - the scene of a bloody and gruesome series of experiments, carried out by the Nazis on their own soldiers during WWII. Amid the carnage, they find something even more disturbing - someone who's still alive. As war rages above ground, and a mysterious enemy emerges from the darkness below, D.C. and his men find themselves trapped in a claustrophobic and terrifying scenario. Their mission is no longer one of safe-guarding - it's one of survival. Together they must discover why Hunt has brought them to the outpost - and what it is that's killing them off, one by one.
Outpost follows a crack team of battle-hardened mercenaries on a routine mission to protect a mysterious businessman through the no-man's land of war-torn Eastern Europe. However, after he leads them to a long forgotten, underground outpost, they unwittingly reawaken a lurking terror that soon changes their mission from one of safe-guarding, to one of survival, as they desperately battle an enemy even they've never faced before.
In a town ravaged by war, mysterious businessman hires an ex-marine to assemble a crack team of ex-soldiers to protect him on a dangerous journey into no-man's land. To this gang of hardened warriors, battle-worn veterans and borderline criminals killing is just a job - and one they enjoy. Their mission - to scope out an old military bunker. It should be easy - 48 hours at the most. Lots of cash for little risk. Or so he says...Once at the outpost, the men make a horrific discovery that turns their mission on its head - the scene of a bloody and gruesome series of experiments, carried out during World War Two. Amid the carnage, they find something even more disturbing - a survivor. As war rages above ground, and a mysterious enemy emerges from the darkness below, the ex-marine and his men find themselves trapped in a claustrophobic and terrifying scenario. Their mission is no longer one of safe-guarding - it's one of survival. Together they must discover what it is killing them off, one by one.
Mercenary missions and other strong-arm tasks are what veteran tough guy DC (Ray Stevenson) lives for. When he and his motley crew of battle-worn soldiers-for-hire are offered a large amount of cash from Hunt (Julian Wadham) they take it. What is presented as a 48-hour mission to go into Eastern Europe and pick up some mysterious package and return, becomes something quite different when they arrive at an abandoned World War 2 outpost. Going through the facility they discover old Nazi relics and documents of some scientific experiments that were conducted on German soldiers, and a "breather", an emaciated man left for dead who only sits and stares. As Hunt discovers what he's come for, a strange electronic machine that possibly alters reality, uniform-clad specters begin to appear and kill off the collected group of mercenaries. When it is learned that the Nazi war machine may have been able to apply Albert Einstein's theory of relativity to create a master generation of other-worldly unstoppable soldier, DC and Hunt and the rest of the men realize they are in the fight of their lives.
