Ben Singer has his cynical worldview darkened by his roommate Ibu's sudden medical situation, though the arrival of Ibu's sister, Khadi, might remedy both men's ills.
Ben is a failed children's folk singer and less-than-extraordinary weekend dad. Deeply cynical, Ben's sole pleasure in life is derived from chess games with his Senegalese roommate Ibou. When Ibou is suddenly struck ill and an insensitive municipal employee exacerbates the emergency situation, Ben's pessimistic world view seems unequivocally confirmed. But when Ibou's sister Khadi takes his place in their apartment, what starts as an awkward living arrangement becomes something more, and Ben finds that cynicism may be all a matter of perspective.
Ben Singer sees the glass half full... of polluted water. He bums out his co-workers at a dead-end job proof-reading at a law firm, his ex-wife who's remarried to a Hollywood exec, and his pre-teen daughter who can't handle the negativity. Only his flat-mate, Ibu, a Senegalese security guard, and the old guys at a music store where he jams on acoustic guitar enjoy his company. When Ibu goes into a diabetic coma, Ben invites Ibu's sister, Khadi, to stay with him while she visits her brother from Dakar. She tries to break through Ben's shell with the message that emotions can be magic. He keeps that door closed and may also lose his daughter's affection. Will he ever see possibility?
Ben Singer (Matthew Broderick) is a failed children's folk singer, a career proofreader, a compulsive marijuana smoker, and a less-than-extraordinary weekend dad. He's also the most negative man alive. Floundering in all aspects of his life, Ben's only comfort comes from regular chess games and friendly debates on game theory with his Senegalese roommate Ibou. When Ibou is suddenly struck ill, and an insensitive municipal employee exacerbates the emergency situation, Ben's pessimistic worldview seems unequivocally confirmed. His only recourse is to pour his energies into a frivolous lawsuit against the city for depraved indifference. But Ben soon finds that cynicism may be all a matter of perspective. Writer/director Josh Goldin increasingly calls into question Ben's misanthropy and carefully navigates the character's midlife melancholy as a possible product of his own mind. Goldin delicately balances both seriousness and levity, giving texture and depth to this offbeat and entertaining character study. Broderick brings the unlikable but undeniably savable Ben to life with the wry antics of his performance.
