Two curious teenage boys break into an old mortuary looking for thrills, only to find themselves stalked by a former teacher who is a very real vampire looking to increase the ranks of the undead.
Kerry and Justin are two best friends who decide one night to break into a mortuary to explore it and they encounter a vampire who thirsts for their blood. When both teens realize that the vampire has infected them, they must find a way to get revenge against him before they too join the ranks of the undead.
Two teenage boys, Kerry (Arjay Smith) and Justin (Branden Nadon), are at Justin's house playing video games and soon get bored with it. Kerry and Justin are best friends from school and spend a lot to time together since Justin's mother and little sister are away for the weekend. Justin tells Kerry that he resents his parents since their recent divorce and his father is never there when he needs him. Later he tells Kerry about an idea he has to break into an old mortuary to look for a good time.When Kerry and Justin arrive at the mysterious funeral home, Justin's cousin James, whom is supposed to let them in, does not respond to their knocks on the front door. After noticing that the door is unlocked, the two teenage boys look around for anyone, but find the place deserted. While looking through the rooms upstairs, they find James as well as the entire funeral home staff dead. Suddenly, a strange looking man, (Michael Ironside), who is a vampire attacks them, biting into Kerry's neck while Justin is forced to flee.Justin returns home and tries to phone his mother, but cannot get through. He tries calling his father, but his father tells him that he has a date over as his apartment and tells Justin to call him back tomorrow. Justin tries calling the police to report the murders over at the mortuary, but when he gives the desk sergeant his name, he gets hung up on for Justin apparently has a history of juvenile delinquency as well as making prank phone calls.Suddenly, Kerry stumbles into the house, with a ghastly neck wound, claiming to have gotten away from the vampire. When Justin tries to call for an ambulance, Kerry stumbles into the kitchen and drinks from every milk carton, and water bottle in the refrigerator claiming to be "so thirsty". Kerry suddenly spouts a set of sharp teeth and bites Justin.Justin wakes up the next morning, feeling dizzy and finds that he is unable to stand bright lights, especially sunlight. When his mother Carolyn, and younger sister, Lisa, return home, his mother yells at him for not keeping the house clean for there is a large bloodstain on the living room floor where Kerry fell the following night, but she doesn't realize that it's a blood stain. When Kerry's mother phones the house asking of her son's whereabouts since he apparently did not come home last night, Carolyn asks Justin where Kerry is. Aware that his mother will not believe him, Justin denies knowing Kerry's whereabouts, but he tells her about having an "accident" and that his father, whom he tried to call last night, hung up on him.As night falls again, Justin becomes aware that he has transformed into a vampire due to his heightened senses as well as his smell for human blood, but he tries to restrain himself. He declines a take-out pizza that Carolyn orders, and instead confines himself to his bedroom. There, he meets Kerry, who climbs in through a window and wants Justin to come with him. Kerry and Justin go over to Justin's father's apartment where Kerry tries to persuade Justin to kill his father for the years of neglect. However, Justin refuses to do it. Frustrated, Kerry smashes a mirror and kills Justin's father himself by slashing his throat with a mirror shard.Dragging Justin from the apartment, Kerry takes him to a nearby park where they meet the vampire who attacked them the previous night. Justin identifies him as Mr. Chaney, a former grade school teacher of theirs. Mr. Chaney tells them that he recently became a vampire and wants to spread his newfound powers to his former students. They go back to the mortuary where Justin discovers that Mr. Chaney had kidnapped his sister, Lisa, and has her tied up on a slab in the embalming room in the basement where he wants Justin to kill her and embrace his new life as a vampire.Justin instead attacks Mr. Chaney. Kerry, out of loyalty to his friend, joins in the attack and together they kill Mr. Chaney by decapitating him with a hacksaw blade. Justin unties Lisa who flees from the mortuary. Relieved that Mr. Chaney is dead, Justin realizes that he and Kerry are now vampires doomed to walk the earth as bloodthirsty killers to survive. Justin makes a devastating choice to kill himself rather than feed on the blood of the innocent, while Kerry thinks otherwise and wants to experiment with his new life. After bidding each other goodbye, Kerry leaves the mortuary while Justin remains behind. As dawn begins to break, Lisa returns home to her mother who was hysterical to her disappearance, while Justin lays on a slab and allows the sunlight to hit him through the basement windows; thus he is burned to death.The final scene, set the following night, has Kerry on a bus to New York City where he talks to a fellow passenger about traveling to the city. Kerry tells the passenger that he wishes the bus would stop soon, for he is getting hungry...
