A young elephant goes on an extraordinary adventure and learns important lessons along the way about friendship, love and courage.
Khankluay is a young elephant who lives his carefree life in a forest, but he's always wondering of his lost father whom he's never met. Inspired by the intention to search for his father, Khankluay leaves the forest and sets his journey to the bigger world. His journey brings such an extraordinary adventure to him. He's experienced so many lessons of life, and finds real friends. Finally, Khankluay becomes a mature elephant who's so brave and powerful, but has a gentle heart. He fights for the king and country until his courage becomes a legend.
The animals in the jungle are unaware that the Burmese have conquered the Kingdom of Ayutthaya in 1569 when the baby elephant Khan Kluay ("banana stalk") is born and named by his grandmother due to the slope of his back. They are also unaware of the fate of his father, who had disappeared with some soldiers from Ayutthaya. In fact he was a great war elephant who died fighting a huge and menacing black elephant with glowing red eyes in the battle. Life in 16th Century Thailand is relatively carefree for Khan Kluay, but he is naturally curious about the father he has never met. When some Hongsa (Burmese) soldiers appear near his home, Khan Kluay investigates their camp seeking information about his father, and is almost captured. He escapes with the help of a young captive prince from Ayutthaya, but finds survival on his own difficult and becomes tired and wounded. He is befriended by a girl elephant his age, Chaba Kaew, who leads him to the camp of a human elephant trainer. Although feeling he is a captive, his wounded leg is tended and healed. When the camp is threatened by Hongsa bandits exacting tribute, he helps in its defense and decides to stay and train to be a war elephant. As Khan Kluay matures, Ayutthaya is proclaimed as independent, and no longer a Hongsa vassal state. All war elephants will be needed for battle. Khan Kluay takes part in a competition in Ayutthaya, but is distracted by his mother. His spirit in attempting to reach her brings about the notice of King Naresuan, the prince he had bonded with so many years before and he is selected by the king as his use in battle. King Naresuan riding Khan Kluay faces the Crown Prince of Burma on the vicious black elephant in a fight to the death in defense of Ayutthaya.

