Set in the mid-80's when a reporter is sent to cover the Challenger Space Shuttle launch only to become mixed up in the lives of some local students.
What makes a hero? January, 1986. Campbell Babbitt is a reporter for the New York World, writing a series on a woman who turned the grief of losing a son into civic acts. He falls in love with her, and when she commits suicide, he continues to write made-up stories about her. His editor sends him to New Hampshire to cover the Challenger flight from the town of teacher Christa McAuliffe. The launch is postponed for a few days, giving Campbell time to get to know a group of misfit students whose own teacher killed himself the day Campbell arrives in town. He pieces the story together that led to the suicide, finds himself attracted to a student, and has to sort out his own loss.
This poignant slice-of-life film revolves around Campbell Babbitt (Steve Coogan), a morally challenged and emotionally distraught New York reporter sent to cover the New Hampshire hometown hoopla surrounding Christa McAuliffe, the first civilian astronaut.
Upon arriving in the small New Hampshire town, Babbitt decides to call an old college friend, only to discover an apparent suicide. As another teacher (Molly Shannon) attempts to keep a looming scandal and celebration spoiler out of the newspaper, Babbitt gravitates toward his friends students in hopes of finding an unsung hero story about a teacher who made a permanent impact on kids that nobody understands.
Instead, he discovers the least likely teachers a group of dysfunctional high school students, misfits, and outcasts led by a narcissistic seductress (Hilary Duff), a repressed voyeur (Josh Peck), and a scheming pregnant teen (Olivia Thirlby). After sharing his own lapse of ethics in New York to gain their trust, Babbitt becomes obsessed with their subtleties of manipulation, need for attention, and desire to make heroes where no heroes exist.
In a gradual reversal of roles, the students teach Babbitt that the characteristics he is attempting to project on them might really be qualities that he and other adults possess. The lesson Babbitt learns is that he may need a hero more than students need him to replace their hero. And, in learning he is not so different than the students, he begins to relate to them in unexpected and potentially perilous ways, including an infatuation with the same student rumored to have had an affair with his dead friend.It is 1986. An emotionally damaged New York reporter is sent to cover the hometown hoopla for a local hero. But rather than pursue his assignment, which leaves him cold, he follows a group of disaffected students, whose own hero - their beloved, unconventional teacher has just died under a cloud of scandal. Their passionate and, at times, ludicrous expressions of grief attract the reporter. He moves into their alternate universe, a willing "substitute teacher", but descends into a web of lies and misplaced sexual desire with this group of confused and combustible youths who attempt to cast him as their new hero and teacher. [D-Man2010]
