A hitman who's in Bangkok to pull off a series of jobs violates his personal code when he falls for a local woman and bonds with his errand boy.
Joe is a professional hit man who picks someone off the street to do his errands, and after he is finished kills that person. His next assignment takes him to Bangkok, and as usual, he finds a street-wise guy named Kong to help him. After Kong has a close call and learns who Joe is, Kong asks him to train him and he does. Joe also meets a local girl who is deaf and spends time with her. However, Joe has a hard time keeping his other life from her. It also appears that the person who hired Joe, breaks his rule of complete anonymity and tries to find him.
Joe, an international hit man who follows a simple code, arrives in Bangkok for his last contract - four kills and then retirement. He hires Kong, a local street hustler, to run his errands, and he gets to work. By the second hit, Joe has started violating his four rules, losing his anonymity, leaving behind traces, and getting emotionally involved. Only one rule remains intact: don't ask questions. Can Joe regain his footing and get out alive?
The American professional assassin was hired by the Thai mafia boss to do the assignment by killing four people. The assassin get the order by the pickpocket who later becomes his disciple. Everything looks alright, but after the third target killing. Joe found that he was betrayed, he decided to quit the job. However, when he was hunt and his disciple was caught as the hostage. The assassin decided to end all of the problem and give the gang's payback.
The hit man Joe is a professional killer with a peculiar code of honor and modus-operandi. He travels to Bangkok to kill four persons and he hires the smalltime hoodlum Kong to help him in his job. When he meets the deaf and dumb Fon in a pharmacy, he falls in love with her and breaks his code. Further, he teaches Kong how to become a hit man. But when Kong is abducted by Surat, who had hired Joe for the assignment in Bangkok, he is forced to betray Joe. But the hit man decides to rescue Kong in his last job.
One more mission separates Joe, the lone contract killer, from an affluent retirement and a peaceful life. Hired to assassinate four targets in bustling Bangkok, once more, Joe must stick to his code and the rules that kept him alive to get the job done; however, for the first time, Joe decides to enlist the help of a new assistant and protégé: the local Thai hustler, Kong. Before long, Joe starts breaking the rules one by one--and what seemed like an ordinary assignment--it may very well be his last. Can Joe make it one piece in the seedy underbelly of dangerous Bangkok?
Hitman Joe (Nicolas Cage) goes to Bangkok for a month long assignment, to kill four people for Bangkok gang lord Surat (Nirattisai Kaljareuk).He hires pickpocket Kong (Shahkrit Yamnarm) as his go-between, a condition of the contract being that the gang will never meet Joe. Contracts from the Bangkok gangsters go through Kong via a nightclub dancer (Panward Hemmanee), who becomes romantically involved with Kong.Joe's first execution is done in traffic with him riding a bike and stopping in front of the car, he then shoots the target and all in the car with a semi-automatic gun. His second target is a hotel owner, Joe sneaks in to the penthouse and kills the target by drowning him in the pool.Originally he plans to kill King before he leaves but after Kong gives him information about the second target he begins to train Kong. For the third execution Kong assists Joe, the kill does not go as planned, with the target nearly getting away before Joe catches him and shoots him after a chase in front of many shocked onlookers. Before the third kill the gang attempt to identify Joe, he warns them off.His fourth target is the Prime Minister of Thailand. Joe is about to make the kill when he has second thoughts. He is seen, but he escapes through a panicking crowd. Joe is now a target and is attacked at his house by four gang members; he manages to use explosives to take them out and is faced with the choice of rescuing Kong or leaving the country unharmed. Joe decides to rescue Kong, so he sets off to the gang's headquarters with one of the half-alive attackers who was injured in the explosion at Joe's safe house.Joe goes to the gang's headquarters, kills most of the gang and saves Kong and the dancer. The fearful gang leader flees to his car with three other accomplices; Joe spots him and shoots and kills the gang members at the front of the car. After one of the gang in back of the car attempts to run to safety, Joe kills him. Joe gets into the back seat with Surat, the gang leader.As the police arrive at the location, Joe is again in a difficult situation; he decides to use what is believed to be his last remaining bullet to kill himself by putting both his and Surat's heads together. Joe then puts the gun up to his temple and pulls the trigger, killing himself and Surat.
