Shortly after a tornado rips through her Kansas home, Dorothy returns to Oz to save her friends from a villainous jester.
In the Land of Oz, the Emerald City's co-leaders, the Scarecrow, Tin Woodman, and the Cowardly Lion, discover that an evil Jester has stolen the broomstick of his sister, the late Wicked Witch of the West, and taken control over the Flying Monkeys. With Oz's future at stake, the Scarecrow decides to use his invention called the Rainbow Mover to summon Dorothy Gale to save the kingdom again. However, flying monkeys invade the castle and force the trio out the window. In Kansas, Dorothy's farm has been wrecked by a tornado, leaving it in disrepair. A sleazy man claiming to be a government appraiser arrives and condemns the farmhouse, handing the Gales an eviction notice. Dorothy discovers people all across town have been handed the same notices and are moving on. Dorothy and Toto encounter a rainbow which transports them to Oz, but not to the Emerald City as intended.
Dorothy wakes up in post-tornado Kansas, only to be whisked back to Oz to try to save her old friends the Scarecrow, the Lion, the Tin Man and Glinda from a devious new villain, the Jester. Wiser the owl, Marshal Mallow, China Princess and Tugg the tugboat join Dorothy on her latest magical journey through the colorful landscape of Oz to restore order and happiness to Emerald City.
In the latest chapter in the Oz legacy, Dorothy returns to Kansas only to find it devastated by the tornado that had whisked her away to Oz. The home she has been so desperate to return to is severely damaged and the townspeople are packing up and moving out. But shortly after arriving, she is magically transported back to Oz. She finds out that Oz is in trouble and the people there need her help. Dorothy's old friends have disappeared and Oz is in a state of decay. As she journeys to find her friends, she encounters a number of new companions (and lots of problems).
The plot begins as Dorothy returns to Kansas to find it devastated by the tornado that sent her to Oz. Before she can react to the destruction of her home, she is transported back to Oz, where her three friends (Scarecrow, Lion and Tin Man) have disappeared. She meets a charming man made of marshmallows who cant quite think for himself, a tiny china doll princess whose bossiness is a cover for her fragility, and a tugboat with as many personalities as he has pieces. Dorothy must help this group band together against the Jester, a wicked new villain who believes that all of Oz should be under his control.
