In the early part of the 21st century, an unknown deadly virus is spreading among the population. The planet becomes infested with a new threat unlike any other The Undead. Three compelling video diaries chart the beginning of the plague through the last days of the apocalypse. In the first, a documentary film crew traveling the countryside becomes caught in the outbreak and are forced to survive at all costs. In the second, a husband and wife flee London and meet a mysterious hitchhiker, scavenging the remnants of dead towns where shadows lurk at every turn. In the third, a group of survivors escape the virus, making their way to a farm for refuge, only to find themselves attacked by the creatures who now rule the night.
In the early part of the 21st Century, an unknown virus began spreading among the populace. Within weeks it had engulfed the entire planet, from the smallest rural communities to the greatest cities. Upon the death of its host, the virus would reanimate the corpse until it was no longer able to support itself. Soon, the planet was infested with a new threat - the undead. So begins our journey into the dystopian world of The Zombie Diaries.Three home video quality diaries chart the early days of the plaque, right through to the last days of the apocalypse:A documentary film crew travel to the countryside to make a movie about the virus. Unaware of what is happening around the country, the team is accidentally caught up in the outbreak. It is a little stupid that documentary filmmakers wouuld be that oblivious to the very subject they are researching though. Other lame plotholes abound.They later take shelter in a nearby wood, where a much more sinister fate awaits them.A husband and wife escape London and pick up a mysterious hitchhiker as they scavenge the remnants of dead towns, unaware of the boredom that wait for them in the shadows.A group of survivors flee to an old farm to seek refuge, only to find themselves under siege from creatures that attack in the dead of night.Watch the devastation unfold through the eyes of those who were there. All in all poor attempt at filmmaking.
