A young mother and her six-year-old son come face to face with the mysteries of two murders and a great crime against the Chinese community into which they have recently arrived from Shanghai.
A couple returns to North America for a family funeral, having lived in Shanghai, China for the previous six years. Soon after they arrive, their son Jamie begins to see ghosts and suffer possession by one of the living dead, and it all ties in with the Chinese festival of Ghost Month, when the doors of hell supposedly open and angry spirits are given the chance to terrorize the living.
After living in Shanghai for three years, Sarah, her husband, Jason, and their young son, Sammy, return to North America for a family funeral. But something strange is going on. Sammy starts seeing ghosts and then falls gravely ill. Traditional western medicine offers no hope. Sarah turns to a mysterious pharmacist who warns that her son is being held in a death grip by a living corpse. Sarah must find out what the spirits want if she is to save her child. Time is of the essence; once the sun rises the next day, the last day of Ghost Month, Sammy will be lost forever.
Jason Tsai, his wife Sarah and their six year-old son Sam live in Shanghai and they need to travel to the Pacific Northwest in North America in the Hungry Ghost Month for the funeral of Jason's Uncle Raymond. Raymond and Aunt Mei owned a family factory in the basement of their house, and Jason was raised by them. Further, Raymond founded a Benevolent Society fifty years ago and he was also known as The Bone Collector since he exhumed the bones of the immigrants and shipped them back to China. Sam begins to see spirits everywhere and a pharmacist feels that the boy and Sarah have sensitive souls and he advises that the Hungry Ghost Month is a dangerous period for people that can see spirits. He explains that angry ghosts can become demons and the realms of the living and the dead intercept and the dead can walk in the world of the living. Sarah and Aunt Mei do not like each other but they stay in her house. Sooner Sam mysteriously falls into a coma and the doctors can not find an answer for his problem. Sarah sees the ghost of a woman and finds a grave box in the former factory. She returns to see the pharmacist and he tells that the box belonged to a woman named Shen-Lu. Further, he tells that Sarah needs to go to the world of the dead to retrieve the soul of her beloved son.
Married couple, Sarah (King) and Jason (Chen), along with their son Sammy (Oey), return to Vancouver from their home of Shanghai of 6 years, for the funeral of Uncle Raymond (Foo). It is during this time that Sammy begins to see ghosts and falls gravely ill, all coinciding with the Chinese festival of Ghost Month. The traditional western medicine proves to not help, so Sarah turns to a mysterious pharmacist who tells her that her son is held in a death grip by a living corpse. Sarah now must find what the spirits want before the last day of Ghost Month, or Sammy will be lost forever. [D-Man2010]
