A group of friends form a soccer team and call themselves "Tigers". The group gets into a fight seniors at their school and other students begin to view them differently. One of the friends then becomes interested in the ex-girlfriend of a gang leader at another school. The "Tigers" soon find themselves in a gang war.
The film opens with Sang Ho being interrogated by a man, informing him that he is arrested for murder.To the man surprise Sang Ho says he belongs to a soccer club called the 'Tigers'. The film then sets back 4 days before, where friends Sang Ho, Chang Bae and Jae Gu are back at school. Sang Ho and Chang Bae are invited to a game of soccer, while Jae Gu is somewhere else after carelessly rushing through his exam. Chang Bae scores a goal in which a student from the other team, Kyong Chul, calls off side, and the two later engage in a heated argument. The two fight until they are broken up by other players. Kyong Chul's friend, Hong  Gyu, defends Kyong Chul, insisting Chang Bae to apologize, in which Sang Ho does not approve. The two later agrees to have a clean fight on the grounds of defending their friends. The two fight in the school hall accompanied by their friends. While the two boys are fighting, Jae Gu enters, and after a moment of silence greets all four boys, apparently knowing all four. All five boys are later in a restaurant together. Jae Gu introduces them to each other. Sang Ho is the first to apologize, and shakes hands with Hong Gyu. Jae Gu says that if they are his friends, each other should also be friends. Kyong Chul and Chang Bae reluctantly shakes hands, and all five drink together, marking their friendship.While walking home, Jae Gu, Sang Ho and Chang Bae talks about a soccer club the boys are willing to make when they see a fellow student and several others at a park nearby. The student calls for Jae Gu in an unpleasant manner. Jae Gu approaches him reluctantly when the student demands some cigarettes. When Jae Gu says he has none, the student angrily asks him for money. Jae Gu tells him he has no money either, and in reaction, the student tells Jae Gu to get out of his sight. Jae Gu runs to his two friends and insist in walking back home. Sang Ho and Chang Bae farewells Jae Gu home. Chang Bae informs Sang Ho that the student that harassed Jae Gu was Jong Suk, the leader of the TNT gang. Chang Bae then greets Suhee who is walking by, and the both have a conversation. When Suhee goes, Sang Ho ask if she is Suhee Jung, in Chang Bae's surprise asks if he knows her. Sang Ho says he only heard of her, apparently appearing different to what he has heard.Jae Gu, Sang Ho and Chang Bae are sitting in a restaurant room, watching news on the Gulf War. Hong Gyu and Kyong Chul arrive with a friend, Sang Sik. All six then discuss what they should call their soccer club. The boys agree to 'Tigers' after seeing a photo on the wall. The boys decide to choose Sang Ho for president of the club, for being a responsible and model student. The boys then drink to being 'friends for life'.At school the boys discuss how to be better at soccer. Jae Gu and Chang Bae are smoking behind the school. Sang Ho asks why they smoke when its bad for the health, in which they tell him he cares too much about his health. Kyong Chul suddenly runs to them. Hong Gyu and Sang Sik are being tormented by senior students. When the four friends approach, the seniors tell them they are training juniors and that it is none of their business. Kyong Chul tells them they are the 'Tigers'. The students later engage in a fight. After clearing things up, the friends have a soccer match.At night, Jae Gu and Chang Bae are smoking near the gardens. The two encounter a couple students walking by. Jae Gu demands some cigarettes and takes a couple. Sang Ho witnesses the 'cruelty' of his friends. Back at the restaurant,  Sang Ho and Jae Gu have a competition in who can drink the most Soju. Sang Ho tells Jae Gu that if he loses he cannot take cigarettes from fellow students. The two agree in which Jae Ra loses and vomits.At a Billiard club, TNT gang leader Jong Suk and his friends are playing pool. When Jong Suk takes a call and bumps into another man, the man demands an apology. Jong Suk insults the man, and in retaliation the man hits Jong Suk. Jong Suk then kicks the man and beats him down, and then smashes him repeatedly with a billiard stick. The mans friend approaches quickly but Jong Suk quickly points the broken billiard stick to him, threatening them both.Sang Ho and Jae gu are walking home, talking. The two depart and Sang Ho meets Suhee. The two have a drink in a club, and later Suhee thanks Sang Ho.The Tiger club friends are playing soccer at a field, and later are spending time at a karaoke. Later, Chang Bae, Suhee and her friend are talking in a club. Suhee says she broken up with Jong Suk, revealing that she was Jong Suk's boyfriend. Suhee's friend says that Jong Suk sent Min Su to take care of Suhee while he was away, despite having no more relationship. While Min Su is spying on them, Suhee says she will talk to Min Su herself. Suhee walks out of the club, and greets several boys including Min Su. Min Su tells her Jong Suk told him to take care of her 'hole' while he was away. Suhee insults Min Su heavily, and Min Su in reaction slaps her. Chang Bae and Suhee's friend come out and tells Min Su to back off. Back at a Billiard club, Suhees friend comes rushing to the Tiger club boys, desperately asking for help. Enraged, the boys runs to them. They approach the rival group, and find Chang Bae stripped off his clothes and Suhee trapped. Angrily the boys rush up to them, sparking a fight. Sang Ho, reluctantly watches, not willing to get physically involved. Min Su picks up an object as Suhee jumps on him. He pushed her away violently and is punched by Sang Ho. Min Su fights back, but Sang Ho beats him off. The Tiger boys fight off Min Su and his gang. Min Su, injured, threatens the Tiger boys, saying he is from the East High TNT gang. Min Su threatens them, saying Jong Suk is not going to let this go through. Moments later a couple policemen walk by and spots the group. Kyong Chul and Sang Sik runs away but the rest are taken to the police station.Chang Bae is allowed to go after his mother arrives. Sang Ho's father, an army colonel arrives to pick up Sang Ho. At a nearby food stand, Sang Ho explains to his father why he was involved.Next morning at schoolwhile the boys discuss what happened last night, Hong Gyu and Jae Gu are in detention. Jae Gu complains, throwing his paper into the air in anger. At the moment the discipline teacher walks into the detention room. The teacher angrily questions why Jae Gu just did. He reluectantly tells him that there is no difference or good in writing out lines as a punishment. The teacher furiously bashes his wooden stick in Jae Ras head and hits him. Hong Gyu holds the teacher back, telling him to stop. Hong Gyu tells the teacher it is pretty 'cheap' to hit with a wooden stick. The teacher tells him to let go, chuckles and drops his stick. The teacher then repeatedly hits Hong Gyu, punching him viciously and slapping him numourous times. As Jae Gu is bleeding in the head, Hong Gyu suddenly punches the teacher in the head, and stands back. The teacher angrily approaches him but is kicked. The teacher blockes the kick but is slammed to the ground. Later, outside Sang Sik and Sang Ho's English classroom an ambulance rushes pass.The Tiger club meets at a school hall talking about what happened. The teacher and Jae Gu was rushed to hospital, while Hong Gyu being expelled from the school. Later Jae Gu and Sang Ho meet at an arcade. Jae Ra leaves afte the two have a little argument. Outside the arcade Suhee meets Sang Ho. Suhee tells Sang Ho she will buy him a drink. Sang Ho drinks then leaves early but Suhee follows. Suhee follows Sanh Go to Hong Gyu's home. Sang Ho lies down in a bed and i surprise, Suhee kisses him. Suhee tells Sang Ho she liked him because he was cute. Hong Gyu then suddenly comes in, and Suhee excuses herself and leaves. Hong Gyu ask him if they had sex, in which Sang Ho says he didnt.The next day afternoon Suhee spends the day with Sang Ho. Jong Suk sees this and is angered. At night Jae Gu greets Sang Ho and the two have another argument and later fight. During this, however Chang Bae and Sang Sik are attack the Jong Suk and his TNT gang. Chang Bae is nearly beaten to death with a metal weapon. Jong Suk asks him where his 'leader' is (Sang Ho), but Chang Bae refuses to tell him accurately and insults him. Jong Suk then repeatedly kicks him and later sets him to the schol hall and violently breaks Chang Bae's leg. Meanwhile, Sang Ho and Jae Gu are still fighting. Both tired, they lie in the dirt. After both agreeing not to fight and going to the hall, they find Chang Bae in a serious condition.Next morning, in the hospital Chang Bae in bed, tells his friends not to tell anyone what really happened, fearing his mother might start asking around. At night, Hong Gyu, Kyong Chul and Sang Sik are walking home when they see Jong Suk. Jong Suk calls to Hong Gyu, asking if his the boy that got expelled for assaulting a teacher. Jong Suk insults him for his actions, but Hong Gyu continues walking. Jong Suk attacks Hong Gyu, and insults the three friends. At a park, the five friends are sitting in silence. Jae Gu insists on attack them, despite being hugely outnumbered. He also mentioned they are looked down on because Sang Ho, the 'president' is not acting quickly.Next morning at school, the boys are all in a bad mood. In the King Biliard club, Jong Suk meets with Suhee. After arguing, Suhee tells him she will date him if he doesnt hurt Sang Ho, in which Jong Suk agrees to. On the top of the hospital roof top, Hong Gyu and an injured Chang Bae are smoking. Sang Ho comes by. In the streets Hong Gyu and Sang Ho see the senior student that harassed them few days ago. He is with Jong Suk at a sefvice station, eating noodles together. Hong Gyu says the senior is related to Jong Suk. During this, at an arcade, Jae Gu and Kyong Chul are happily playing. Three random boys suddenly appear. They hit Jae Gu across the head. Jae Gu tells Kyong Chul to go home first. Jae Gu tells the ring leader of the students to fight him one on one, and leaves the arcade. The three students chuckle. Outside, the ring leader tells Jae Gu has not to worry, and Jae Gu, after thinking for a moment, tells them he will take one shot from all three boys. The boys laugh, and the counterpart furiously attack Jae Gu. After some hits, Jae Gu finally blocks, and the two engage in a longer fight. Jae Ra's fighting skills prove he is the victor. When Jae Gu is walking away the other student grabs a rock and smashes it into Jae Gu's head. The student then tells the two others to block the alley, while Jae Gu is on the ground, bleeding. The student pulls out a pocket knife, but suddenly Kyong Chul appears, attacks the two blocking students and tells Jae Gu to run. The two friends run but then a car crash heard. The three rivals run away. Sang Ho is running to a hospital to find Kyong Chul injured and bloodied. Sang Ho runs into the hospital to find Jae Gu in a hospital bed desperately being revived by doctors. Jae Gu doesnt respond, impling he is deadThe five friends and Jae Gu's family mourns, and Jae Gu's body is later burned for ashes. The boys, at school later decide they will attack the gang when they are all together, and spys on them. Sang Ho and Hong Gyu are in a park getting ready. Sang Ho says he'll enter the club from the back and says the other three should come from the back. The other two arrive late, Kyong Chul tells the boys he brought steel pipes, and hands each one of them. Sang Ho refuses to take one. When the four goes leave they see Chang Bae in his homes car. He takes them to the city alley where the King Billiard club isIn the Billiard club, Suhee takes a call from Sang Ho. In her seat, Jong Suk asks who she took a call from. Suhee says it was a friend. Suhee rethinks what Sang Ho said. "I have something to say. Ill see you in the cafe across the street. Bring your friend too". Waiting in the car, Sang Ho sees Suhee and her friend leave. Sang Ho tells Chang Bae to go but he tells Sang Ho he'll wait for them. The boys exit the car with their weapons. Suhee sees the group of boys, a d pursues Sang Ho. Sang Ho runs up the stairs towards the Billiard club but Suhee stops him. She tells him not to do it, but Sang Ho tells her it is a guys thing. Suhee asks if he wants to be the same as the gangsters inside. In the Billiars club, the three friends see the TNT gang, waiting for Sang Ho. Jong Suk laughs, tells them to atleast bring enough guys and tells one of his gang members to take them outside. At the very moment, Sang Ho appears. He locks the back door where Suhee is in the staircase. Kyong Chul locks the front door, pulls out an axe, and the 2 groups collide. Sang Ho is redeemed too powerful, and despite being outnumbered, the boys hang on. Sang Ho beats Jong Suk who later pulls out a dagger, but Sang Ho's fighting skills prove too powerful. Sang Ho fights a few more students before being kicked to the ground. Hong Gyu breaks in and punches a student, smashing their face on the billiard pool, being hit on the spine by Jong Suk with his own steel pipe. Sang Ho gets up, kicks Jong Suk and knocks him out. Sang Ho goes to Hong Gyu, who is barely concious. A huge pool of blood is seen, and Hong Gyu spits out a lot of blood. Sang Ho then watches Sang Sik and Kyong Chul fighting bravely and viciously. Sang Sik is beaten several times in the back and stomach and Kyong Chul is wounded by his own axe. It is unknown if they ate alive. Sang Ho then gets up and fights through the rest of the gang and Jong Suk. Sang Ho smashes his steel pipe into an unconcious Jong Suk's stomach, then sets Jong Suk's leg on the billiard table, and smashes his leg broken. At this point Jong Suk doesnt seem to be alive. Sang Ho is seen with his face bloodied by Hong Gyu's blood.The film ends with Sang Ho in jail, reading a letter from Jae Gu before he died. The letter includes Jae Gu saying he doesnt want to fight Jong Suk, and that he thinks the Tiger club should be no more because it is more like a gang.
