The wealthy stock dealer bequeaths his Montana farm to the three daughters provided they would live there together at least for a year.
Cancer-deceased stock trader Jack Mercy's funeral is where his three daughters Willa, who lived on his Montana cattle ranch, shy Lily and Hollywoodian Tess, from different mothers, meet. The notary and neighbor Ben McKintock, who fancies Willa, are to supervise the surprising last will: the girls only inherit 1/3 each of the $24,000,000 estate after cohabiting there for a year. Tess and Munroe County's gentleman sheriff Nate Torrence, a hunky vet, fall in love. So do Lily and Adam Wolfchild, a half-blood ranch-hand, but her abusive husband, ex-con Jesse Carne, stops at nothing to get her back. But is he the one who viciously kills ranch animals and ranch-hand Pickles?
When Jack Mercer, the owner of a ranch in Montana dies. His daughters from other women show up and they meet Willa, their sister who grew up at the ranch and has been taking care of it. At the reading of the will, they learn that Jack's final wish was for all of his daughters to live together at the ranch. Cause if they don't they forfeit their rights which is worth millions. So they decide to stick it out. Tess who's from Hollywood, is not happy to be there but makes the best and takes a liking to the Sheriff. Lily, who's just coming out of a bad relationship, finds solace with Adam, Willa's half-brother. Willa has to deal with Ben McKinnon, a neighboring rancher whom Jack appoints as overseer of the ranch for the year that the girls are there. It seems there's some history between them. And Willa has to deal with someone who is killing some of their cattle.
When a recently deceased rancher leaves his multimillion-dollar estate to his three daughters, the girls discover that they will only be able to receive their inheritance by living together on the ranch for one year in this rural family drama starring John Corbett, Ashley Williams, and Charlotte Ross. Having never even previously met, the three half sisters agree to the curious stipulation despite reservations that their forced family reunion might be a complete disaster. The biggest problem that the girls face, however, is the discovery of a saboteur in their midst. It seems that when dear old dad died, he left some pretty bitter enemies behind -- enemies who would love to see his daughters fail. Now, in order to get what is rightfully theirs, the three siblings will have to work harder than ever before to clean up the mess their father left behind.
