Five young Europeans (German, English, and Irish) try to find answers to life's questions in India and Thailand.
Five Europeans in Asia. Josh and Adam, friends from England, are on holiday. Josh runs out of money and complains as Adam plays with the purse strings. Svenja, also in Thailand, has missed a flight and calls a travel agent whose English and ability to assist are limited. A phone friendship develops that might lead to more. In India, Liam is an Irish lad looking for experiences as he smokes dope and thinks about a baby he's fathered during a one-night stand. Marion is taking dance and meditation at an ashram as she seeks to grow; she's guessed that her relationship with her boyfriend back in Germany is kaput. Does anyone make a self-discovery?
Washington-based Svenja misses her flight from Bangkok to Shanghai, ends up befriending a male travel agent via telephone, and even agrees to meet him at a temple. U.K.-based Josh and Adam - also in Thailand - attempt to link up with women and argue when money runs out. After being alcoholically impaired, Ireland-based Liam gets intimate with an unknown woman, gets her pregnant, is soon to be a father, and decides to get away from it all by traveling to Rajasthan (Ajmer, Jaisalmer), India. While Marion, who is having issues with her German-based boyfriend, Thomas, decides on a 'trial separation' and travels to the Indian cities of Mumbai and Pune. Will the five find inner peace?
Trapped in transit between Washington, D.C. and Shanghai after a missed flight, Svenja (Svenja Steinfelder) begins an odd relationship from her Bangkok hotel room with the disembodied call center voice attempting to rebook her flight. Meanwhile, rave-surfing mates Josh (Ricky Champ) and Adam (Gareth Llewelyn) bicker over money and girls as they wander Thailand. In India, laidback Liam (Chris ODowd) tries mightily to escape his past. Finally, fragile Marion (Eva Loebau, star of The Forest for the Trees), eagerly partakes various self-help programs in the new age-y meditation center Happy Home, hoping to dull the pain of a disintegrating relationship. A crafty critique of anglo twentysomethings adrift in an Asia they mistakenly believe to be a cleansing pleasure palace.
