When Amal impresses an eccentric millionaire with his humility and humanity, he unknowingly becomes the old man's beneficiary.
Autorickshaw driver Amal is content with the small, but vital, role he serves - driving customers around New Delhi as quickly and safely as possible. But his sense of duty is tested by an eccentric, aging billionaire, who, moved by Amal's humility, bequeaths him his entire estate before passing away. With only one month to discover and claim the inheritance, Amal's struggles with duty and wealth are threatened by all those around him - from a young injured beggar girl and a lovely store merchant, to the danger of the old man's upper-caste friends and siblings, all seeking to claim their share of the riches.
In New Delhi, poor Amal Kumar, following in his deceased father's footsteps, works as an autorickshaw wallah, he driving the one passed down to him from his father, although this work will probably soon end as a Metro is being built which will largely make rickshaws obsolete in the city. Amal has also inherited his father's sense of hard work and doing the right thing - he one of the few who works by the meter and only asks his fares to pay what they think his service is worth if they argue the meter - although that modus operandi will never result in him getting rich from the work in and of itself. His decent nature is displayed in he trying to help Priya, the street urchin who tried to rob one of his fares, she who is now in the hospital requiring expensive surgery, his help, despite knowing she working for one of the local crime godfathers Thakur, which may end his livelihood sooner than when the Metro gets built. In the meantime, Amal, because of his work ethic, has a few regular fares, such as the wealthy family whose son he drives home from private school, and pretty but hard-nosed Pooja Seth, who operates a small concession storefront and who has hired Amal to help her pick up her daily supply of bottled water. What Amal is unaware of is that the ornery seeming vagrant he drove was actually extremely wealthy G.K. Jayaram, who, who has since passed, had been looking for someone worthy to give all his money to - instead of what was in his existing will of giving most of his money to his ungrateful adult children - he finding that person in the form of Amal. As Jayaram's lawyer, Sapna Agarwal, one of the few people he truly trusted in his later life, uses her resources primarily in the form of longtime family handler Suresh Gupta to find Amal, one of Jayaram's sons, Vivek Jayaram, getting wind of his father's new deathbed will, does whatever he can for Amal not to be found, he arguably the offspring with the most to lose as he is deep into debt to Thakur from gambling, Thakur's thugs who will inflict much pain if he is not imminently paid.
New Delhi-based Amal Kumar lives a poor lifestyle along with his widowed mother, Radha, and drives a three-wheeled auto rickshaw for a living, fully aware that his livelihood is threatened by the soon-to-be commissioned Metro. He is kind, honest, compassionate and generous to a fault, even decides to sell his auto to pay for the surgery of a homeless girl, Priya, who stole from his passenger, Pooja Seth, and takes up a job in a post office. Amal does not know that he has been chosen to be the sole heir by a deceased eccentric millionaire, G.K. Jayaram, and also does not know that Jayaram's children, as well as others, will leave no stone unturned to ensure that Amal does not get a single Paisa.
Amal (2007), a multi-layered portrait of contemporary India, follows an auto-rickshaw driver in New Delhi (Amal [played by Rupinder Nagra]) who is content with his
small, but vital role in life. One day he drives an eccentric billionaire (G.K. Jayaram [played by Naseeruddin Shah]) who, disguised as a vagabond, is searching the
streets for the last morsel of humanity, and someone he can leave all his money to, and [Amal's] life may change forever. Amal (2007) serves
up a visual feast for audiences. Filmed on location in New Delhi, India, this modern day fable asks the important question of what success means to each individual and ultimately reveals that the poorest of men are sometimes the richest.
-Short Synopsis from Amal (2007)'s Press Kit [edited by Christopher Taguchi]
