Condemned to death to salvage her family's honor, a young rape victim escapes to a seaside town with the man tasked with her execution.
Young Meryem is found raped near his native village. Following the ancient traditions of the Middle-East, relatives need to kill the girl because she dishonored herself and her family. Her father does not have the courage to kill his own daughter, and the stepmother does not want to dirty her hands, so to perform the "task", they send her cousin Cemal, who recently returned from military service. Although Cemal seems determined for the duty, he cannot be successful in realizing the punishment. One day, by chance, the intersection of the paths with Professor Irfan will be a turning point for all the three. Will the course of the journey to death turn towards bliss?
When a young woman named Meryem (Özgü Namal) is raped, her village custom requires that she be killed in order for the dishonour to be expunged from her family. A young man named Cemal (Murat Han), the son of the village leader, is given the task but at the last moment he has doubts. The pair go on the run, followed close behind by local thugs intent on killing the girl. Luckily enough, Cemal and Meryem meet up with a charismatic man named Irfan, an ex-university professor who is embarking on a sailing trip, and needs a crew. Seems Irfan is running away too--in his case from a dead marriage and an empty life. Together this unlikely trio set forth on a voyage that will change all of their lives.Adapted from Zülfü Livaneli's international best-selling novel, director Abdullah Oguz's drama is filled with intensity, vivid cultural clash, fine music and some absolutely stunning scenery (the film was shot on the Sea of Marmara). But ultimately it is the figure of Meryem, a young woman struggling to live in a culture that condones the practice of female honour killings, that gives the film its heart. Meryem's decision to live, and ultimately, to enjoy her life is the quiet revolution that ignites the entire story.
