For as long as she could remember, Dakota Skye has been cursed with a super power. She has the ability to see the truth in any lie she hears. From small, harmless white lies, to the more devious kind, they have come from the people that she should trust the most; her family, friends and teachers. These lies have snowballed, leading to her becoming bitter and apathetic towards the world around her. Now seventeen, Dakota just watches the world happen around her, unmotivated to join it. She has a boyfriend who plays in a semi-popular local rock band and her best friend from childhood, but finds little joy in her own life. One day, Jonah comes into town. It only takes a few days before Dakota notices something about him that sets him apart from the other people in her life. He doesn't lie. Through her friendship with Jonah, her eyes are opened to the world around her and she sees that there is something out there more than all the lies. There is a possibility of something different... something better. If only he wasn't her boyfriend's best friend. Now she must make a choice. Can she go back to the apathy that has dictated her life, ignoring something potentially amazing? Can she take the leap into the unknown with Jonah, ignoring all the repercussions that may come from that decision? Is he really the person that she thinks he is and wants him to be? The only thing that becomes clear is that Dakota can no longer be a spectator in her own life. She has to look at her life as it was, is and could be and make a choice for the first time.
The coming of age story of a seventeen year-old girl who has a super power. Dakota Skye has the ability to see through any lie that is told to her. The combination of knowing the truth behind every lie throughout her life and the fact that she is seventeen has lead to her become bitter and apathetic. When Jonah, her boyfriend's best friend from New York, comes into town and doesn't lie, it shakes up her world and causes her to re-examine her own life.Dakota Skye (Eileen April Boylan, South of Nowhere) has a super power. For as long as she can remember, she has been cursed with the ability to see the truth in any lie she hears. Now seventeen, Dakota has become apathetic towards life - until her boyfriend's best friend Jonah (Ian Nelson) arrives and catches her eye... An award-winning, film festival favorite that mixes Juno with a touch of Heroes. [D-Man2010]Dakota Skye (SOUTH OF NOWHEREs Eileen April Boylan) has a superhero talent to match her impressive name: she can tell ... Full Descriptionwhen anyone is lying to her. However, she hates her "gift," and teen apathy is starting to overtake her. The only person who can bring her out of her trouble isnt her boyfriend--its his best friend. [D-Man2010]
