Life for a happy couple is turned upside down after their young son dies in an accident.
Becca and Howie Corbett are a happily married couple whose perfect world is forever changed when their young son, Danny, is killed by a car. Becca, an executive-turned-stay-at-home mother, tries to redefine her existence in a surreal landscape of well-meaning family and friends. Painful, poignant, and often funny, Becca's experiences lead her to find solace in a mysterious relationship with a troubled young comic-book artist, Jason - the teenage driver of the car that killed Danny. Becca's fixation with Jason pulls her away from memories of Danny, while Howie immerses himself in the past, seeking refuge in outsiders who offer him something Becca is unable to give. The Corbetts, both adrift, make surprising and dangerous choices as they choose a path that will determine their fate.
Becca and Howie are still dealing emotionally with the accidental death of Danny, their four year old son and only offspring, eight months after the fact. Danny died by being run over when he ran out onto the street chasing after his dog. Becca and Howie are finding that they need different mechanisms to cope. They have been attending a support group, Becca who is openly hostile toward the group, not wanting to turn out like Gabby and Kevin who have been attending the sessions for eight years, or like the couple that relates everything about their experience to their religious beliefs. Becca seems to be erasing anything physical that reminds her of Danny, including wanting to move, while Howie wants those physical touchstones, even wanting the dog back which they got rid of after the accident but which he still loves and knows Danny loved. Outwardly, Howie wants their life to return to some normalcy, including resuming a sexual relationship, while Becca seems to be having more difficulties doing so as she will not even reach out to one friend she knows wants to provide support but doesn't know how to make that first step. It may not help Becca's psyche that her irresponsible unmarried sister Izzy is having an unplanned baby. And Becca cannot handle it whenever her and Izzy's mother Nat tries to provide comfort, especially relating stories about the heroin overdose death of Becca and Izzy's brother Arthur eleven years ago. Despite loving each other, Becca and Howie's marriage may not be able to to survive these differences. The way they individually cope may change when each experiences something that they don't tell the other. For Howie, it's learning something about Gabby and Kevin. And for Becca, it's spotting Jason, the high schooler who was the driver of the car that hit Danny.

