Conan and his friends were invited to the premier of an new virtual computer game. But someone programmed the game, that if they can't answer the riddle in the game, they all have to die.
Hiroki Sawada was a 10-age kid who got into a US college and even graduated. One day, Hiroki finished A.I. Noah-sue-ark and suicide to end his life. 2 years later. Conan and Rachel and Genta,Ayumi,Mitsuhiko,Haibara finally able to play Cocoon but Noah-Sue-Ark modified the program and made Cocoon more and more harsh and difficult with these 5 scenes: Viking. Paris Dakari Race. Colosseum. Solomen Treasures. 1888 London. The condition the Noah Ark altered was the 50 kids must be able to have one survived or else none of them can survive in real world if all got killed. Which scenario would Conan choose, and what would happen?
2 yrs ago...Hiroki was a University alumni in his age of 10. He finished making AI, Noah's Ark (Noah-Sue-Ark) and jump down to enter Noah's Ark AI world to talk with father Tadaaki.Tadaaki made Cocoon with Thomas Schindler (52) 2 yrs later.Tadaaki got killed by Thomas Schindler (52) with his JTR knife and Tadaaki typed JTR before died. Conan found JTR and think of 1888 London and decided to use Agasa' given badge to play Cocoon.The kids used 4 gold superman cards to get 4 game badges for Haibara together.Seeing Conan queuing in Cocoon , Sonoko gave her badge to Rachel.Conan and Rachel and kids finally made their chances to get inside Cocoon world...There were 5 scenarios (Viking, Paris Dakari Race, Kor-Lor-Sen/Colosseum, Solomon treasure, 1888 London with JTR)Conan and Rachel and kids decided to enter scenario 5.At the starting 2 people already killed themselves. More and more people are killed in the 4 other scenarios...When Rachel spoke with Mrs.Hudson they found that Holmes and Watson had gone to Darthmore for Hound of Baskerville. Agasa told Yusaku that Noah's Ark sent Conan and Rachel to the moment when Holmes and Watson gone far away and wont be available sooner.A harmonica man came out and spoke, if you wish to avoid JTR killing you, you gotta got youself "whole body full of blood"!Hideki think "Kill rivals before they can attack?"Hudson mistaken them as Baker Irregulars and took them into holmes home and drink milk tea.Conan sat like Holmes. Genta took out Holmes's Gun and played, Conan call him to put the gun back.
Hideki took the gun when people left.30 people left only. Someone inside said that now, this time ,in London Scenario5, someone must pay lives.When they went Pub trump club for Moran. Conan found grey monkey keep showing clue to Moran. Hideki ask if moran is good in playing tarots, Conan told him what had happened, and used spade 3 to be example.When Conan turn left found an empty seat with premium red wine...Hideki shouted that Moran cheated and 4 people inside Cocoon got killed. include Ayumi, Mitsuhiko, Genta.WHAT?img192.imageshack.us/img192/9780/movie6.jpgLet me beat you like MJ's BEAT IT , glasses-kid!img202.imageshack.us/img202/9780/movie6.jpgFinally, Conan used the red wine and saved everyone who left.Conan pointed that Moriarty was the stander. Moriarty uses NAtural Vanilla Cologne. use tummy to sound.Moriarty said that JTR gets uncontrolled, but as long as killing order is from Moriarty, JTR would still obey.Moriarty call Conan to buy the sunday gazette and read what he order JTR.Conan suddenly warn him about the 1891 Mai 4th Reichenbach falls inside Switzerland.===Sunday, Conan went to the white Chapel, to investigate the 2nd victim, Hailey Charlester's corpse finding place. and found that the Church would hold a charity fair, selling mother-son products (hand-made) every 2nd-saturday in every month. Conan realised that the reason why JTR left the 2 rings ...Conan returned and everyone started finding inside news, "Msg from M to J. Clear the Theater Stage"Conan turn inside, "IRENE ADLER."Conan "Moriarty had really gone too far!"They sneak inside Irene's restroom and found that Irene Adler looks like Yukiko Kudo.Yukiko only said that she does not fear to die. she said that she also wish to see how sad SH would be when she was killed. Everyone inside her room all said it's regretful to protect a girl who does not fear death.2 people got killed when protected IRene Adler.When the left 4 escaped, Haibara Ai got killed. Haibara, "Dont give up Kudo! You are our sherlock holmes, there is nothing that SH can't solve and you too!"3 left...Conan told Adler to stay with police...Then they ran to Charing Cross Train Station and get into the last train.Conan took the 2-ring photo out and spoke that 2nd victim Hailey Charlester's story,"She was a woman with dream, 10 yr ago throw her family and put a small ring to her son and left. JTR was her kid.""The reason why JTR, after killed mother Hailey, left the 2 rings there, is to tell everyone that he also wish to be with his mother in that church charity fair by selling the 2 rings."Hideki began to cry...Conan remembered in SH home, Hideki did not touch soccer, Conan felt he is Hiroki SawadaFinally 3 went to London Charing Cross Train (Zug)
img97.imageshack.us/img97/8917/dc054m.jpgimg143.imageshack.us/img143/683/dc054.jpgRachel was captured to above. JTR siad that he used a rope to tie Rachel and him together, so if he fell she would fell die together.During the train ride, Conan and Hideki nearly got killed.
"But before the train drives us to hell, you both will die sooner I believe"
"Watch out Conan! behind!"Rachel remember what Shinichi spoke to her ...
"If I can really destruct you, then for everyone's gain. I am glad to decease."Rachel jump down "Conan! I trust you!"Conan and Hideki left. Conan began to lose hope when Rachel died...Conan "Idiot. I've never give up! But think about this! within 5 min train will reach terminal...train speed keep rising...Train speed already exceeded 100kmh"Knowing that Yusaku Kudo found killer and helped father, Hideki(Hiroki) morphed Holmes in front of Conan"ARen't you still alive! You had put your hand on the rope that reveals truth! you still owe only one thing, make yourself full of blood, you just owe this one...""There is a colorless rope called life and a red rope call kill. These 2 ropes tied...Our detectives work is to untie them ... you are nearly reaching your victory, boy, are you giving up?"Conan stared hideki's shirt and knew the meaning of WHOLE BODY FULL OF BLOOD...Finally Conan saved all 49 peopleHideki told Conan that he wish to play together with a large group of people and he was glad.He had put all his life time into working in making AI Noah Ark without fun or enjoy life...that is why he decided to make inside Cocoon and make the game so difficult."Believe you is amazing, glasses-kid. When you woke up from Cocoon , tell others that real world is not simple like game world. The reason why I decide to help you is because, your father revenged for my father, he found the culprit and solved my daddy's death""Would hiroki still stay inside Noah-sue-ark"
"No...since my daddy's died. I had decided to go with him. computer like me would finally be availed by adults for bad stuffs..."When the moment of saying goodbye
"KUDO SHINICHI"The ending was a big image of Hiroki Sawada smiling to Conan and Yusaku when Rachel and Mori were hugging...Ending credit, Conan was playing Pac Man ... but still keep lost...2 Years ago, Hiroki Sawada (10) was a USA University Alumni. He jumped down dead after finished the AI, Noah-Sue-Ark (Noah's Ark).
Now, 2 years after Hiroki's death. Beika City hall, Schindler company and Japan game company made a virtual game, "Cocoon". Shinichi's dad Yusaku involved in the scenario design on Scenario 5 with Professor Agasa.
The kids were jealous of the 50 kids who got chosen to try Cocoon and got the COCOON game badge.
Yusaku eagered to meet Conan and talk but when he nearly succeeded, girls came towards himself and ask his autograph. Conan smiled.
Agasa gave Cocoon game badge to Conan to try Cocoon. Conan said he can't ignore the kids and play Cocoon himself alone. The kids finally used Gold superman Card and got 4 game badges.
Sonoko got the game badge because Suzuki Zaibatsu had sponsored the Cocoon making. Cocoon maker Tadaaki got killed by Thomas Schindler (52) and typed J, T, R in keyboard before killed. "Noah-Sue-Ark" got awakened and dominated Cocoon.
Conan decided to play Cocoon to see if there are clues to Tadaaki's murder. Sonoko saw Conan queue in Cocoon and gave her game badge to Rachel.
Finally when they enter Cocoon, Noah-Sue-Ark made a rule that the 50 kids must play seriously or else if all 50 died they won't be able to return to real world.
The first scenario was VIKING. The second scenario was PARIS DAKARI RACE. The third scenario was Kor-Lor-Sen (Colosseum, Ancient Rome). scenario 4 was Solomen treasure. Scenario 5, which Yusaku Kudo had decided to scenario. was "Modern Time London", 1888 London.Conan and Rachel and kids went to Scenario 5.During the game play starting, a lot of kids died in the other 4 scenarios. More and more people died...The helping cast in Scenario 5 was harmonica man who said that "To avoid JTR you have to make yourself whole body full of blood"They got the method that Officer Lestrade was inside the story when Jack the Ripper killed the 3rd ... Yusaku told the person to change English into "Ni-Hom-Gor"(Japanese)They went to door and Mrs Hudson open door. She said that Sherlock Holmes and Watson went to Darthmore already. Rachel asked the date, Hudson said 30/9/1888. Conan found out it's "Hound of Baskerville".Agasa said that they had underestimated Noah-Sue-Ark. At least Conan and Rachel was sent to the moment when Holmes gotta go far away and would not return in short period.Yusaku borrowed the surveillance VHS tape and saw Thomas Schindler killed Tadaaki and plan to reveal this to police.Then, Hudson mistaken the kids as Baker Irregulars. She invited them to drink milk tea. Genta took Holmes's Gun out and Conan force Genta to put the gun back. Conan read Holmes' notes and took the 2 rings photo with himself.
Conan said that, Moriarty was titled "Crime Napoleon", and said that, "to find Moritary they have to find Sebastian Moran"When they plan to Pub Trump to find Sebastian Moran, Hideki stole Holmes' Gun with him and go ...Pub Trump...Conan told them to wait outside, he enter alone. Sebastian Moran was using his monkey to deceive a person's money.Hideki, "Sebastian Moran good in playing tarots?"
Conan, "Sebastian Moran cheated, he did not use real ability"Conan told Hideki that monkey was showing Moran by eating the fruits according to the number on card, and the color of the pattern, and stated SPADE THREE. Right hand took 3 black fruits and eat.Conan turn left and found an empty seat with premium red wine, when Conan was still thinking...
Hideki, "HE JUST CHEATED"...Hideki told the men about the monkey and even explained, spade 3 and diamond 5...When Conan was nearly hit Rachel came out and hit the man, Finally 4 people died in the Pub Trump, include Genta, Ayumi, Mitsuhiko.Moran picked Hideki's gun and found it's Holmes. He was going to kill everyone inside...Conan took the red wine and told Moran to kill him.Moriarty stopped the killing, and order the kids to meet him in carriot outside. Moran spoke "Mor (Moriarty)" and Conan knew that the man coming is MoriartyConan asked Moriarty on Jack the Ripper. Moriarty said that he may be able to dominate JTR as long as killing order is given in gazette by Moriarty himself.
Moriarty told Conan to read Sunday Post and left. Conan warn Moriarty about 1891 May 4th Reichenbach Falls. Moriarty felt puzzled and left.Conan went to the white chapel and found that every 2nd saturday of every month the chapel would hold a charity fair selling mother-son products.They bought Sunday Post with 80Yen. They read , "M to J: Clean Theater Stage". Conan look inside the news, find "kill Irene Adler." Conan got pathetic.They decided to protect Irene Adler. Irene Adler looked like Yukiko, Shinichi's mother. Finally 2 people sacrificed to protect Irene.when they escaped, Haibara sacrifice herself to save Conan. Haibara praised Conan that he is Sherlock Holmes, there is nothing that Holmes can't solve, Conan too.Conan told Irene to stay with police, and 3 went to Charing Cross train stationConan took the 2 rings photo, said that the smaller ring is belonged to JTR. 2nd victim Hailey Charlester was JTR mother. JTR left the 2 rings after killed Hailey just to show that he wish to join the family Charity fair with his mother.Conan found out that the dame (not "damn"!) with red hair, purple dress was JTR. Rachel got captured. Conan went above and found Rachel.Conan and Hideki were nearly dead when train nearly hit them to bridge...Rachel warn Conan and they got down to avoid death. Conan was nearly killed off.Rachel remember Kudo, "The famous speech of Holmes which I favor, [If I can really destruct you, then, for everyone's benefit, I am glad to accept decease]..."Rachel spoke 1891 Reichenbach falls and jumped off with JTR, saved Conan from danger.Conan had already given up as train speed keep increasing but there is no more method to win. Hideki was Hiroki (Noah Ark)He quickly morphed Sherlock Holmes in front of Conan because Yusaku Kudo helped his father to find out Thomas Schindler was killerSherlock Holmes told Conan "Aren't you still alive? There was a colorless rope called LIFE and a red rope called KILL. they got tied. Our detectives' tasks are to untie them off. you already step on the rope that revealled truth but you still owe one thing, [make yourself full of blood]."Conan turn to Hideki clothes, find that it's red. then both went to train back and hit the red wine ... They dived inside the red wine sea...That is the meaning of WHOLE BODY FULL OF BLOOD.Finally Hideki, "Believe you is amazing Glasses-kid"
Conan , "Hiroki Sawada, or Noah-Sue-Ark?"Hideki morphed into Hiroki and told Conan that he wish to try to play game together with a large number of people and he enjoyed the Cocoon game.
He said he only concentrated on his work without enjoy his life by playing or whatever else, but now he is happyHiroki apologise for making Cocoon so difficult but Conan forgive him.Hiroki told Conan, reason why he decide to morph Sherlock Holmes on train is because Conan's real identity...Shinichi Kudo , his dad, Yusaku Kudo, had found the culprit and helped his daddy Tadaaki.Hiroki told Conan that he decide to end his life off. there is no so-called AI. AI can't be released,Hiroki said, Computer like him would just be used by adults to do bad things.Hiroki told Conan, when Conan woke, remember to tell people that real world is not simple as game world.When Conan return, Hiroki, "Kudo Shinichi."Yusaku met Conan, Hiroki switch off Noah Ark energy, Conan "He decide to end himself."Finally There is a big image of Hiroki Sawada smiling towards Conan and Yusaku for helping his daddy Tadaaki for finding real culprit Thomas Schindler.Ending Credits, As kids laughed Conan for his cheap and bad game skills. Conan keep playing Pac Man but still keep getting eaten by the ghosts.
