A black comedy centered around a TV weather girl and the two very different men who pursue her.
Gabrielle is a young woman with a future: she's the weather girl on a local TV station destined to a rapid promotion. She's self-confident and self-possessed. In Lyon, on successive days, she meets two men of high status: Charles, a middle-aged writer, and Paul, the heir to a pharmaceutical fortune. Both are attracted to her and both have flaws immediately evident: Charles, who is married, can be dismissive; Paul can be possessive and threatening. To the dismay of one, Gabrielle chooses the other. How will each man handle her choice, and after she falls in love, can she sustain her personal strength?
In Lyon, the successful middle-aged writer Charles Saint-Denis lives isolated with his wife Dona Saint-Denis in a comfortable house in the country. His friend Capucine Jamet invites him to promote his latest novel in a talk show and in an autograph evening in a bookstore. In both occasions, the cynical Charles meets the witty and gorgeous TV weather-girl Gabrielle Aurore Deneige, whose mother Marie Deneige works in the bookstore. Meanwhile, Gabrielle is promoted to host a show on television, and is wooed by the arrogant heir to a pharmaceutical fortune Paul André Claude Gaudens, who is Charles' enemy and invites Gabrielle to have dinner with him. Charles invites Gabrielle to go with him to an auction and then they go to his apartment in Paris. The inexperienced Gabrielle has one night stand with him and falls in love with Charles, who teaches kinky sex to her. Then he brings Gabrielle to a men's club where she is perverted. Sooner Charles travels to London and forgets Gabrielle. Gabrielle is lovesick and depressed without strength to live. Paul insists in visiting her and finally Marie agrees. Paul and Gabrielle travel to Lisbon and Gabrielle accepts to marry him. She tells to Paul what Charles has done to her and after the wedding, the possessive Paul feels jealous with the experience of Gabrielle on bed. His jealousy leads to a tragedy and Gabrielle has to choose between keeping her intimacy with Charles or disclosing it in court.
A French TV weather girl is torn between an older man - a famous married author whom she loves but who won't leave his wife - and the semi-deranged young heir to an industrial fortune who loves her. In the end she gets married to the younger man, but he starts to become obsessed with her love for his rival.
