The sequel of writer/director Rick Sloane's campy cult classic, Hobgoblins (1988). Old man McCreedy's locked away in a mental hospital when Kevin and his friends are revisited by the nasty creatures. Hobgoblins 2 (2009)'s done in a style unintentionally similar to Grindhouse (2007); looking like a 1980s cheesy horror film fake trailers included.
The film takes place after the original film, where McCreedy has been locked in a psychiatric hospital after blowing up the film studio because of the Hobgoblins, which occurred at the end the first film. Kevin and his friends are now in college, and their Professor introduces them to McCreedy, who warns them that it is still possible to be attacked by Hobgoblins. Despite McCreedy's warning, Kevin and his friends re-encounter the Hobgoblins and must fight against them to save their lives.Made on an impossibly low-budget, the film is full of inside jokes and the same cheap special effects from the the original. The characters are all dressed like its still the 80's. Fantazia now does internet sex instead of phone sex with Kyle, Nick has been dishonorably discharged from the army, Daphne is still a slut and Kevin is still henpecked by his frigid girlfriend Amy. Hobgoblins 2 also delivers even more stock shots of explosions and car crashes than the original.A DVD bonus feature, "Hobgoblins 2, What Were They Thinking?", features the original Hobgoblins cast critiquing the new actors who recreate their roles. Director Rick Sloane discusses how this film was originally planned to go into production two years after the original, and instead 20 years later, it was shot using the same script. [D-Man2010]It's twenty years later and poor old McCreedy has been locked away in a mental hospital for his ratings about the Hobgoblins. Kevin and his friends think they're free from any further puppet attacks, but the trouble has just begun. The Hobgoblins are back to finish what they started, kill Kevin and his friends, this time by recreating their worst fears, then doing them in. Shot on 35mm and made to look painstakingly identical to the original film, it's another trip to the depths of bad filmmaking. If you've only seen the first, you haven't seen the worst! [D-Man2010]The puppet-caused panic continues in this campy sequel to 1987s HOBGOBLINS. Kevin and his friends are once again under attack by the hobgoblins, but this time around, theyll evoke their most terrifying ... Full Descriptionnightmares to make the experience that much more painful.This is the only Sabrina Bolin video. Stars also making their debut in this video: Josh Mills, Jordana Berliner, Jason Buuck, Chanel Ryan. [D-Man2010]
