A dramatization of the turbulent first years of Queen Victoria's rule, and her enduring romance with Prince Albert.
Dominated by her possessive mother and her bullying consort, Conroy, since childhood, teen-aged Victoria refuses to allow them the power of acting as her regent in the last days of her uncle William IV's rule. Her German cousin Albert is encouraged to court her for solely political motives, but, following her accession at age eighteen, finds he is falling for her and is dismayed at her reliance on trusty Prime Minister Melbourne. Victoria is impressed by Albert's philanthropy, which is akin to her own desire to help her subjects. However, her loyalty to Melbourne, perceived as a self-seeker, almost causes a constitutional crisis, and it is Albert who helps restore her self-confidence. She proposes and they marry, Albert proving himself not only a devoted spouse, prepared to take an assassin's bullet for her, but also an agent of much-needed reform, finally endorsed by an admiring Melbourne.
A young woman comes of age, a queen and no one's puppet. We watch Victoria (1819-1901) navigate amidst many who want to control her, starting with her mother. The Kings of England and Belgium have picked mates for her: she examines her choices and prefers Albert, a Saxon Prince, Belgium's choice. She's also in the thrall of Lord Melbourne, Prime Minister when at 18 she takes the throne. She's lost when his party is beaten; her stubbornness in political and personal affairs nearly undoes her authority and marriage. It's Albert's help she accepts; counseled by the king's widow, Victoria finds something for Albert to do, and in the process, finds balance and social purpose.
Within a month or so after her 18th birthday, Princess Victoria ascends to the throne on the death of her uncle, King William IV. She did not have a happy childhood, forced to live under what became known as the Kensington Rules: she was never allowed to be alone or play with other children, slept in the same room as her mother and was not permitted to walk on a staircase without someone holding her hand. Her mother's private secretary, Sir John Conroy, tried to force her to sign an agreement that would make her mother Regent until Victoria reached the age of 25. Despite the pressure and physical threats, she stood her ground and refused. As Queen, Victoria starts off well and now independent of her mother, makes her own rules. She does commit a grave error however when she rejects the new Prime Minister's request that he name her new ladies in waiting and he resigns leading to riots in the streets. She had already met the handsome Prince Albert and they eventually marry but troubles arise early on when his role in her life is called into question. The Queen finds a solution and theirs proved to be a very happy relationship
As the only legitimate heir of England's King William, teenage Victoria gets caught up in the political machinations of her own family. Victoria's mother wants her to sign a regency order, while her Belgian uncle schemes to arrange a marriage between the future monarch and Prince Albert, the man who will become the love of her life.
Director Jean-Marc Vallée takes the helm for this look at the turbulent early years of Queen Victoria (Emily Blunt), who was crowned at the age of 18, and whose ill-fated marriage to Prince Albert (Rupert Friend) would later prompt her into a life of mournful seclusion.

