Few are aware that America may be on the brink of a financial meltdown. I.O.U.S.A. explores the country's shocking current fiscal condition and ways to avoid a national economic disaster.
I.O.U.S.A. examines the rapidly growing national debt and its consequences for the United States and its citizens. As the Baby Boomer generation prepares to retire, will there even be any Social Security benefits left to collect? Burdened with an ever-expanding government and military, increased international competition, overextended entitlement programs, and debts to foreign countries that are becoming impossible to honor, America must mend its spendthrift ways or face an economic disaster of epic proportions. Throughout history, the American government has found it nearly impossible to spend only what has been raised through taxes. The film blends interviews with both average American taxpayers and government officials to demystify the nation's financial practices and policies. The film follows U.S. Comptroller General David Walker as he crisscrosses the country explaining America's unsustainable fiscal policies to its citizens. The film interweaves archival footage and economic data to paint a profile of America's current economic situation. The film also proffers potential financial scenarios and propose solutions about how to recreate a fiscally sound nation for future generations.
In February 2007, the United States federal debt stood at $8.7 trillion, more than doubling over the term of George W. Bush's presidency. The situation will only get worse over time with known future spending such as payment of social security to the baby boom generation. The issues? The United States has had a history of consumption, spending more than it has available, especially during war years, most specifically during World War II and the Iraq conflict of the 21st century. There is also a history of non saving, both by the government and by individuals which leads to lack of investment moneys. And in the new global economy, the United States has the highest trade deficit in the world, reliant on other countries, especially China which holds more than half of the United States' treasury bonds. Overriding these issues is a lack of political leadership, politicians who really don't seem to know how to get the country out of this financial hole.

