Guinevere Pettigrew, a middle-aged London governess, finds herself unfairly dismissed from her job. An attempt to gain new employment catapults her into the glamorous world and dizzying social whirl of an American actress and singer, Delysia Lafosse.
War threatens London as Miss Pettigrew, a destitute governess, filches a client's card from her agency and presents herself at the door. A singer named Delysia Lafosse wants a social secretary as she seeks a West End role by sleeping with a feckless producer in the bed of Nick, a smarmy nightclub owner with whom she also dallies. She ignores Michael, her piano player, who loves her and has tickets for New York on the Queen Mary. Miss Pettigrew's job is to make sure Delysia gets the part. Over 24 hours, Miss Pettigrew is also called upon to help an ambitious and unfaithful fashion editor patch things up with her older fiancé, a lingerie designer. Has Miss Pettigrew found her calling?
In London in the beginning of World War II, the middle-aged Miss Guinevere Pettigrew is unemployed and hunger after being fired by her alcoholic employer. The social assistant refuses to offer another employment to her but Miss Pettigrew grabs the address of the American actress and singer Delysia Lafosse on her desk and heads to Delysia's fancy apartment. Soon she befriends and is hired by Delysia, a beautiful woman that manipulates her two lovers to live comfortably, sing in a nightclub and be cast for a play. Miss Pettigrew helps Delysia to resolve her affairs and learn that she has a true love, a poor piano player that has invited her to move to New York with him. Meanwhile Miss Pettigrew meets the lingerie designer Joe Blomfield, who seems to be attracted to her.
London, 1939. Middle-aged spinster Guinevere Pettigrew, whose attitudes and behavior are shaped by being a vicar's daughter, may not have the correct temperament for her chosen field of governess, having just been fired for the third time for not following the orders of her employer, right or wrong, she leaving this most recent employ out of circumstance with no money and only the "funereal" clothes on her back. With this a third strike, her employment agent, Miss Holt, refuses to represent her anymore. Desperate for another governess job if only to put food into her stomach, Miss Pettigrew, on a few mistruths, is able to finagle her way into the employ of flighty and disorganized American Delysia Lafosse, who Miss Pettigrew eventually learns the hard way is not wanting a governess but rather a social secretary for which Miss Pettigrew has no experience. Delysia, a singer, is trying to break onto the West End stage if only as a springboard to Hollywood stardom in films. The role of Delysia's social secretary, at least in this first day, is to manage her sex life, she having three men on the go: Nick Calderelli, the owner of the nightclub where she performs in a cabaret act and in whose lavish flat she lives; impresario Phil Goldman who is considering her as the lead for his next West End musical; and Michael Pardue, her penniless pianist in the cabaret act, he who has just been released from prison. An associated side job which Miss Pettigrew has no other option but to accept is for Delysia's acquaintance Edythe Dubarry, an upscale ladies fashion retailer who wants Miss Pettigrew to convince, without he not not knowing that he is being manipulated, her on again/off again - currently off again - boyfriend, ladies undergarment designer Joe Blomfield, to reenter into their called off engagement. Miss Pettigrew doing this task is despite she knowing that Edythe's interest in Joe is more professional than personal. Miss Pettigrew, working on Delysia's directive, may have her own views on what, or more precisely who, she should do as the one and only. In the process, Miss Pettigrew may also have some views on what she is doing for Edythe. The imminent war, which had been in the back of the minds of the general populace, becoming more of a reality may factor into what happens with this collective.
In 1939 London, Miss Guinevere Pettigrew (played by Ms. McDormand) is a middle-aged governess who finds herself once again unfairly dismissed from her job. Without so much as severance pay, Miss Pettigrew realizes that she must for the first time in two decades seize the day. This she does, by intercepting an employment assignment outside of her comfort level as social secretary. Arriving at a penthouse apartment for the interview, Miss Pettigrew is catapulted into the glamorous world and dizzying social whirl of an American actress and singer, Delysia Lafosse (Ms. Adams). Within minutes, Miss Pettigrew finds herself swept into a heady high-society milieu and, within hours, living it up. Taking the social secretary designation to heart, she tries to help her new friend Delysia navigate a love life and career, both of which are complicated by the three men in Delysias orbit; devoted pianist Michael (Mr. Pace), intimidating nightclub owner Nick (Mr. Strong), and impressionable junior impresario Phil (Mr. Payne). Miss Pettigrew herself is blushingly drawn to the gallant Joe (Mr. Hinds), a successful designer who is tenuously engaged to haughty fashion maven Edythe (Ms. Henderson) the one person who senses that the new social secretary may be out of her element, and schemes to undermine her. Over the next 24 hours, Guinevere and Delysia will empower each other to discover their romantic destinies.
