An egotistical 64-year-old chef and confirmed bachelor falls for a woman 30 years his junior.
Grouchy, uptight 64-year-old Buddhadev Gupta lives a fairly wealthy lifestyle in London, England, along with his widowed TV and wrestling-addicted mom. He is the owner of Spice 6, one of London's top restaurants that specializes in Indian dishes. One day a customer, Nina Verma, complains about the zafrani pulao, and Buddhadev does not take it well, only to subsequently find out that the pulao was indeed imperfect. He decides to make amends to Nina and lends her his umbrella during a rainy day. Both subsequently become friends, fall in love, and decide to get married. She is introduced to Buddhadev's mom, who instantly approves of her. Nina, who lives in Delhi with her widower dad, cuts short her visit when her dad gets sick. Buddhadev and his mom also travel to India so that Buddhadev can ask for Nina's hand from her now-fully recovered dad. Buddhadev does meet with Nina's dad and, after considerable hesitation, does manage to ask for Nina's hand and is abruptly refused--for Nina is only 34 years of age, and Buddhadev is six years older than Nina's dad. When Nina and Buddhadev insist on getting married, her Gandhian dad decides to undertake a fast unto death (satyagraha). The question remains, will Buddhadev and Nina continue their relationship, and how will this satyagraha impact Mr. Verma's life?
Buddhadev Gupta believes that he runs the best Indian restaurant in London, so when attractive Nina Verma sends his zafarani pulao back to the kitchen, he gives her a piece of his mind. She irritates him again a couple of days later by sending round the dish properly cooked. However, these encounters and the lending of an umbrella because of the London rain could mean the beginning of romance, even though he is almost twice her age, and she needs to return to Delhi urgently.
Two extremes... in age, character and attitude, meet and against all odds fall in love. They decide to get married. And, like any Indian man, Buddhadev Gupta [Amitabh Bachchan] respectfully comes to ask Nina's [Tabu] father, a true Gandhian played by Paresh Rawal.. and chaos ensues.Cheeni Kum focuses on Buddhadev Gupta (Amitabh Bachchan). Buddhadev is the 64-year-old chef and owner of London's top Indian restaurant, Spice 6. He lives with his 85-year-old mother (Zohra Sehgal) and his only friend and confidante is his 9-year-old neighbour, Sexy (Swini Khara) who is diagnosed with cancer and been to the hospital seven times. Buddhadev Gupta is an arrogant, ego-centric, pompous man with a singular passion in life cooking. He is a confirmed bachelor who has never been in love until 34-year-old Nina Verma (Tabu) walks into his restaurant and his life. Nina is a beautiful and charming Indian woman. Cool, calm, quiet, always smiling but independent and strong willed. The two extreme in age, character and attitude, meet and against all odds, fall in love. They decide to get married and like any Indian man, Buddhadev respectfully comes to ask Nina's father, Omprakash Verma (Paresh Rawal), who is a true Gandhian living in Delhi, for her hand. The main problem here is the Buddhadev is older than Nina's father. Omprakash is horrified when Buddhadev asks his daughter's hand and intentionally refuses, he start to commit suicide by starving himself to death. Buddha explained to him why he loved Nina and what kind of father is he keeping Nina single for 34 years. He left them with his mother and is horrified when Sexy's father (Vinay Jain) calls him and said that Sexy just died. Omprakash finally realises his mistake and let Nina go after Buddhadev and with his in-laws family, he let them go to London to his restaurant. He bonds with Omprakash when he tells him he got tickets to the cricket match. [Source: Wikipedia]
