On a Tuesday night, five couples have separate sexual adventures.
On a Tuesday night, five couples have separate sexual adventures. Matt and Kris, friends for years, want to have an only-once, no-strings good time. Abby and Andrew, married, celebrate his birthday, but it's marred by angst and miscommunication. Mia and Eric are exes, making sure they are over each other. Jaime and Ken work together and this is a first date. Inez and Gord invite his roommate, Dave, to join them. By the time each couple has gone through a prelude, foreplay, sex, an interlude, orgasm, and afterglow, they've answered basic questions: can sex be anonymous, are we bored, is our marriage really finished, does anyone tell the truth, and how do we make someone happy?
Firm sex god Ken has a first date on Tuesday night with another colleague, Jaimie, but finds she plays more games then he, and not such innocent conventional seduction. Andrew sweetly planned to spoil his bride on his own birthday, but suffers verbal abuse of his performance in bed followed by anal abuse with her vibrator. Shy recluse Dave gingerly accepts a threesome with his loud house-mates, a couple about to move out, but Ken wants to watch Dave mating with Jaimie and coach them to do it as brutally as him, while they enjoy a tenderer way. Matt is reluctant to risk his lifelong friendship with Kris, who insists to end his long sexual drought with a one-night-stand.
Five separate stories of one sexual encounter apiece between primarily twentysomethings are presented in chronological order of the six stages of the process: the prelude, foreplay, the actual sex act, an interlude, the orgasm(s), and the afterglow. Matt and Kris are lifelong platonic best friends. Because neither is in a relationship and thus each has not had sex in a long time, they decide to take their friendship into the realm of sex solely as a meaningless act to satisfy their respective current physical needs. Abby and Andrew are a longtime cohabitating couple who have fallen into a sexual rut, that is whenever they do have sex. This night, they are trying to figure out what they need to do to get out of that rut. Mia and Eric are exes, who have just recently reconnected socially. After their first dinner together in this new phase of knowing each other, they impulsively decide to have sex not having discussed their feelings for each other and thus if the sex means anything emotionally. Jamie and Ken, new coworkers, are on their first date. They decide to have sex but with the common knowledge baggage that Ken has a reputation at work amongst their other female coworkers as a player, he who has dated and slept with most of them. More demure Jamie has to decide how that information will factor into their night together. And couple Gord and Inez have a healthy and active sex life together. Tonight they decide to act upon something they have long discussed, namely adding a specific third to their sex, that person being Gord's roommate, Dave. Gord and Dave are seemingly not compatible even as roommates - Gord who is brash, loud and opinionated, while Dave is more mild mannered - let alone being involved together in a mutual sexual encounter, especially as Gord admits that he doesn't like Dave anymore most of the time. Dave does accept the last minute request. Dave learns they asked him for very specific reasons and that each has a specific role to play in their threesome. While Gord and Inez evaluate the encounter largely based on their expectations, Dave, who has probably never thought about them as a threesome, can only go with the flow to see what happens.

