The hockey career of former Toronto Maple Leaf Eric McNally, who was known as a tough enforcer, came to an end with a shoulder injury. He is now a sportscaster. Except to his assistant Nula, what he hasn't told his work colleagues is that he is gay and that he is in a long term relationship with a sports lawyer named Sam. Eric feels that he can't be openly gay as an ex-hockey player or as a public figure still associated with professional hockey. Eric and Sam's life is turned upside down when they take temporary custody of Scot Latour, whose drug addict mother, Julie, recently passed away from a drug overdose. Julie assigned custody of Scot to her ex-boyfriend, Billy, who is Sam's deadbeat brother. Sam is certain that Billy will eventually come for Scot when he learns that Julie's insurance money also comes with custody. Having only had Julie's influence in his life, Scot is a flamboyant adolescent, who wears make-up, a feather boa and his mother's charm bracelet, and who loves musicals and singing Christmas carols. As they all wait for Billy's arrival, Eric, despite not being Scot's father, and Scot have to figure out how to come to terms with each other - Scot being a boy who expresses himself freely whatever the consequences, and Eric always being concerned about maintaining a macho exterior - within their temporary guardian/charge relationship.
In Toronto, the Maple Leaf hockey player Eric McNally breaks his shoulder in four pieces while training and is forced to end his career. Five years later, he is a sportscaster, working with his assistant Nula that is the only person in the TV that knows that Eric is gay and lives with the lawyer Sam. When the drug addicted girlfriend Julie of Sam's brother Billy dies from an overdose, her son Scot is sent to the social care. Sam contacts Billy that is in Brazil, and tells that Julie has assigned him with the custody of the boy and the insurance money. Billy is tempted by the money and promises to return to Toronto in the end of the year and Sam convinces Eric to lodge Scot at home. Scot was raised by his mother and is a sissy. The lives of Eric and Sam turn upside down with the boy and Eric gives his best efforts to give a father's influence to Scot.
Eric and Sam have been in a committed relationship for four years. Eric's a former hockey player turned sportscaster and Sam's a sport's lawyer. But when Sam's adventure seeking brother Billy, takes a job in South America, his ex-girlfriend, Julie, is discovered dead from a drug overdose leaving her son Scot (not Billy's son) to Billy. But Billy is missing in action so Sam is left to pick up the pieces. But the problem is Eric never wanted kids. When 11-year-old Scot arrives and they open his duffel bag, inside they find... one pink musical hairbrush, two plastic containers of beads and faux-gold chains, a pink poodle belt, and four pairs of white sock-ettes with lacy fringe at the top... they realize Scot is more out of the closet then they are even though he does not know it yet. A unique boy in an even more unusual situation, Scot throws Eric and Sam's life into complete disarray. When Billy finally show's up to take Scot back to South America - Eric and Sam can't bear the thought of losing Scot.

