For generations, the people of the City of Ember have flourished in an amazing world of glittering lights. But Ember's once powerful generator is failing ... and the great lamps that illuminate the city are starting to flicker.
When mankind is about to come to an end, a group of scientists decide to create and populate a city deep underground. The city of Ember is to last for 200 years after which its inhabitants are to retrieve from a strong box instructions to return to the surface. Over time however, the message is lost and life in Ember is rapidly deteriorating. Their power supply is failing and food is being rationed. It's left to two young adults to unearth the secret of Ember and to lead the way out.
For generations, the people of the City of Ember have languished in a world of artificial lights. But Ember's once powerful generator is failing ... and the great lamps that illuminate the city are starting to flicker. Now, two teenagers in a race against time, must search Ember for clues that will unlock the ancient mystery of the city's existence, and help the citizens escape before the lights go out forever.
At the end of mankind on Earth, scientists build a self-sufficient underground city for a few people in order to preserve the human race for two hundred years. They leave also instructions for the future generations to return to the surface of the planet in a steel box that should be kept by the mayors through the generations. However, the instructions are lost and the inhabitants stay in the city that is completely deteriorated. The power generator has problems and the blackouts are longer and more frequent and the city is running out of food that needs to be rationed. On the Assignment Day, the teenagers Lina Mayfleet and Doon Harrow are assigned to work with the pipework and as messenger, but they swap their job positions. Lina, who is the descendant of the seventh mayor, finds the box of instructions in the house of her grandmother and shows it to her friend Doon. They decide to explore the way out of the city and they discover that the corrupt major and his henchmen are stealing food from the population. When they are hunted by the major's hoodlums, they have to find the way out of Ember to survive and save the populations from the imminent darkness and the end of the city.
The Futuristic Story Tale ofin September 14, 2088 A.D of the Future., A Nuclear War. The builders of Ember left instructions to the mayors in a box that would open by itself. Unfortunately, one of the mayors died without telling someone what the box was and it got tossed into a closet, where it was forgotten for generations.The year is September 18, 2416 A.D of the Future. After the Earth's destruction. Lina Mayfleet, and Doon Harrow are two children in Ember who find themselves on a mission to save their dying city. The city's lights are beginning to flicker and food supplies are running out.Doon lands a job at the Pipeworks where he wants to try to repair the failing generator. Lina's job is simple - she is a messenger, but she soon finds herself in over her head when she discovers the box of instructions left by the builders so long ago.Doon and she find themselves on a wild adventure when they discover the way out of Ember, but corrupt officials and a treacherous mayor stand against their wish to save the city. With courage and heart they brave the darkness - all to help their fellow citizens escape the dying city.
