When Thomas Archer's happy &amp; successful life is all but ruined following a horrific attack he is presented with a perfect opportunity to exact physical revenge upon the man who caused all his grief. However the immediate consequences of his actions and inactions are much more complicated than he imagined. Who will survive ?
The family man Thomas Archer is successful at work and happily married with his beloved wife Sarah Archer and they have an adorable boy. When a burglar kills his son and the babysitter and beats Sarah, Thomas fights the killer and glances at a tattoo on his wrist; however the killer escapes and the lives of Thomas and Sarah are destroyed. Neither Sarah nor Thomas recover from their loss and when the detective informs that the case will be closed due to lack of clues, budget and manpower to proceed, Thomas is forced to go on therapy with the psychiatrist Dr. Heller. Three months later, Thomas has no psychological improvement and Dr. Heller offers an expensive alternative method to resolve his trauma: Thomas should pay US$ 500,000.00 to a secret group of vigilantes that would deliver the criminal to him and he could revenge upon the man that ruined his family. Thomas accepts the deal and is summoned to an abandoned facility monitored by cameras where he meets a gagged man tied up to a chair in a room with instruments of torture. Thomas tortures the man that should be the wanted killer but out of the blue, he finds that the man does not have the tattoo on the wrist. He calls Dr. Heller to explain the mistake but the doctor tells that the only way to leave the room is killing the man that is a scum. But Thomas does not accept the offer and teams up with the man. Will they succeed to flee from the place?
A happy and successful family man is lured down the destructive path of revenge after his son is killed and his wife brutalized in a vicious home invasion. Thomas Archer (Ron Eldard) had it all, a successful career as a senior associate at a prominent architectural firm, a beautiful wife, and a wonderful child. Just when it seemed that things couldn't get any better for Thomas, however, his life was suddenly transformed into a waking nightmare. One night, a violent criminal breaks into Thomas' home, attacking his wife and senselessly murdering his innocent young son. In the aftermath of the tragedy, Thomas implores the police for help in catching the criminals while attempting to pick up the pieces of his broken life by visiting a highly respected therapist (Christopher Plummer). When local law enforcement fails to turn up any leads, Thomas' therapist suggests that the vengeful father contact a mysterious group with the resources to ferret out his son's killer and let the father exact the any kind of justice that he sees fit. His marriage failing, Thomas decides to take his therapist up on the offer, sending the lives of everyone involved down a dark path from which there is no escape, and no return.
