A sports writer becomes a single parent in tragic circumstances.
The Boys Are Back is a confessional tale of fatherhood. It follows a witty, wisecracking, action-oriented sportswriter who, in the wake of his wife's death, finds himself in a sudden, stultifying state of single parenthood. Joe Warr throws himself into the only child-rearing philosophy he thinks has a shot at bringing joy back into their lives: "just says yes." Raising two boys - a curious six year-old and a rebel teen from a previous marriage -- in a household devoid of feminine influence, and with a lack of rules, life becomes exuberant, instinctual, reckless... and on the constant verge of disaster. The three multi-generational boys of the Warr household, father and sons alike, must each find their own way, however tenuous, to grow up.
This story of fatherhood is set in South Australia. When the wife of sports-writer Joe Warr dies of cancer, he takes on the responsibility of raising their 6-year-old son, and his teenage son from a previous marriage. As Joe rejects the counsel of his mother-in-law and other parents, he develops his own philosophies on parenting. Despite this, he struggles to keep his family together, while his sons are just as confused as him.
After the sudden death of his second wife from pancreatic cancer, Australia's top sportswriter, Joe Warr, becomes the unprepared single father of his six-year-old son, Artie. Devastated, Joe--who has always been on the go covering major sports events--must now cope with the immediate responsibility of fatherhood, while, at the same time, he desperately avoids to confront his towering emotional anguish. As a result, Joe's solution to this sensitive problem is a "yes-to-all" approach; however, when Harry, his estranged teenage son from his first marriage, comes to visit, inevitably, Joe will have to deal not only with his grief, but also with the fact that he needs to be a full-time dad, probably, for the first time in his life. Can Joe live up to his sons' expectations?

