A satirical drama about the test-tube baby industry.
The inconceivable can happen with A.R.T. (assisted reproductive technology). An explosive investigation of the fastest growing sectors of medical and pharmaceutical industries; ART in Las Vegas asks 'what if' when something entirely 'inconceivable' comes to pass...
What if the inconceivable happened in the context of ART - the acronym for Assisted Reproductive Technology, the science of unnatural conception? In a climate of rapid technological advance in the fast booming baby business, perhaps a little pause for thought is required on behalf of the patients. Couples with infertility issues, biological clock challenged career women, and the gay community to name some can now achieve the previously inconceivable and are prepared to pay a high price for potential failure at the mercy of the medical gurus and drug companies expanding their businesses at a rate beyond the capacity of regulatory bodies to, and even at which society can, keep pace. Exploring a week in the life a typical "cycling" batch of women and their donors preparing to undergo and one or combination of a number of Assisted Reproductive Technology treatments at a progressive private clinic in the USA, the film asks "what if..." What if...something entirely medically conceivable went amiss? If the architects of ART went the way that any successful artist might - and lost the run of themselves? Are not the baby designers of the future in danger of becoming the architects not only of their own downfall, but potentially tolling the death knell to the survival of our species?
INCONCEIVABLE tells the story of two adventurous women in love who are desperate to have their own biological child. They take a chance on an experimental scientific process and makes sperm from their own stem cells. Pregnant with humour and unexpected twists, their journey ultimately confirms that all life is a gift and all families are crazy.
Dr. Jack Freeman heads a Las Vegas fertility clinic specializing in ART (assisted reproductive technology). The clinic is largely seen as the last resort for anyone wanting to have a child for whatever reason and is unable to have one without some sort of intervention. Dr. Freeman deals with nine different cases at the same time, the vastly different women with their vastly different situations and the people supporting them in their venture often meeting each other in the waiting room. Their concurrent processes include the consultation, the egg collection, the sperm donation, the embryo implantation, and the announcement of success or failure to each woman and her support as applicable, so as to achieve the efficiencies like an assembly line. Unlike most clinics which have a ninety percent failure rate, the success, at least with these nine, is ninety percent, with only one, Salome Marsh, not becoming clinically pregnant after the treatment. However, a few weeks later, Sally is able to get pregnant by regular, sexual intercourse despite the odds against her becoming pregnant without intervention. All nine pregnancies go to term with all nine being successful births. One of the nine mothers, journalist Tallulah Williams - Tutu - notices in the photos shared by the parents that all the babies look remarkably similar, despite not all the biological parents, most specifically the fathers, being Caucasian, which the babies look like. The only seeming guarantee is the identity of Sally's baby's father as the man with who she had sex. As such, Dr. Freeman and the clinic face an official investigation into possible impropriety, including why he is able to achieve such a high rate of success, with each of the nine sets of clients questioned. They are questioned regardless of their feelings about the matter, with some just happy to have that child, while some really do want to get to the bottom of the matter if only to discover if Dr. Freeman has an end goal if he did act improperly.

