Vasu is a tough street crook who lives at a movie theater. One day while transporting the reels of a new film, he clashes with a music student Mohana. Mohana is the daughter of the Police Commissioner, who Tulsidas an ex-gang leader released from jail has an old grudge against. He tells Vasu to kidnap Mohana for two days in order to ruin the family's honor. While being held captive by Vasu, Mohana falls in love with him after hearing him sing. Vasu rejects her love, but on learning of it, Tulsidas pays him to pretend to be in love with her. By the time Tulsidas learns that his enmity with the police commissioner is false and tells Vasu to stay away from Mohana it is too late, Vasu's love has become real.
The movie start with the protogonist, Vasu (Ajith) living his life by drinking, fighting and sleeping in a cinema theater owned by Vinu Chakravarty. However, the story starts when Dhamu loses Annamalai reel to Mohana (Shalini). After the clash between them, Mohana takes the reel. This makes Vasu to interfer and collide with her family. Where her father and brothers are in Commissioner's role. After their respective intros, incomes an ex-mafia Don Tulsi Das (Raghuvaran), who hires Vasu to kidnap Mohana, since he hates Birla Bose (Nasser). Mohana irritates Vasu by humming the lyrics which scripted in a stone. Which made Vasu to sing "Satham illatha".. Which impresses Mohana and fall in love with Vasu. Taking this as an advantage Tulsi hires Vasu to pretend to love Mohana. While the romance in-between, Tulsi meets Bose and informs their love. However, Bose reveals that, indeed Mohana is his Daughter. This makes a cameo role for Ganga (Raadhika) as her mother. As she is away from him because of his Don life. Realising this, he orders Vasu to keep himself away from Mohana. But Vasu refused since he too got a feeling for her. Tulsi meets Mohana secretly and tells her about the plot. But Vasu wins her heart by showing his true love. This, Tulsi plots a clash between a local goons with the cops making Vasu as a leader. The film ends by killing Ponnambalam and Vasu carry Mohana on his shoulder and leaves the scene.

