When a pregnant country girl leaves home to search for her missing husband, she finds refuge at a mysterious estate whose inhabitants hold more secrets than she may wish to know.
Nualjan's life took a happy turn when violin player Chob arrived in her village Cholburi. It was love at first sight and she got pregnant. Then Chob told her he will leave for business to Bangkok for a few days. He will be back soon he promised, but Chob never came back. Now, months later, Nualjan can't wait any longer and decides to search for him. On her way to Bangkok, she arrives at a mysterious pension. Supervisor miss Somjit refuses to let the very pregnant Nualjan stay at first however. She finally relents, but demands that she stays away from the main house, where the owner madame Ranjuan resides. Nualjan soon finds out there's something going on on the premises. Why does she see moving shadows? Who is the man cutting wood in the middle of the night, who is the old woman living in a garden shed? Only Choy, another guest, seems interested in her and is willing to tell about the disturbing peculiarities of the estate. But not everything.
The story tells of a pregnant village girl, Nualjan, who left her hometown in search of her lost husband. En route to the big city (Bangkok), where her husband had set off to on a business trip, Nualjan stops at a large estate. The house is owned by a mysterious and rich widow named Ranjuan, who lives in a separate house in the same compound. Madam Ranjuan secludes herself in her boudoir all day, welcoming a mysterious lover into her chamber every night. Nualjan quickly discovers that the house and its members hide some fairly serious mysteries. After spending several fearful nights at the estate, she decides that she needs to continue on in her search for her husband. Unfortunately, fate has other plans for her, as she goes into labor. With a newborn infant, she is in no condition to wander the streets of Bangkok searching for her husband. Despite her reservations about the spooky old house she has found herself in, she settles in temporarily as she adjusts to the demands of new motherhood.She soon realizes that most of the staff and family at the estate are at the very least bizarre and most probably linked to the spirit world to some degree. Her only friend in the dark, brooding house, is a fellow servant woman called Choy, who tells Nualjan frightening stories about the history of the house and its in inhabitants. If the houses owner, Madam Ranjuan, is not strange enough, her Grandmother Erb is a crazy old woman who lives in a shack behind the garden and clutches a scary-looking baby doll. In her daily strolls around the grounds, Nualjan often finds a ghostly little girl who wants her to come and play. Additionally, there is the unknown lover who frequents Madam Ranjuan's bedroom who Nualjan never recalls seeing coming or going from the estate grounds.Nualjan soon begins to understand that the mysteries surrounding the strange house not only center around its unusual household members. She comes to realize that her coming to the estate may have been more than a coincidence. Her fate may also be inexplicably linked to the mysteries of this strange mansion in the woods.
