In 1931 Paris, an orphan living in the walls of a train station gets wrapped up in a mystery involving his late father and an automaton.
Hugo is an orphan boy living in the walls of a train station in 1930s Paris. He learned to fix clocks and other gadgets from his father and uncle which he puts to use keeping the train station clocks running. The only thing that he has left that connects him to his dead father is an automaton (mechanical man) that doesn't work without a special key. Hugo needs to find the key to unlock the secret he believes it contains. On his adventures, he meets George Melies, a shopkeeper, who works in the train station, and his adventure-seeking god-daughter. Hugo finds that they have a surprising connection to his father and the automaton, and he discovers it unlocks some memories the old man has buried inside regarding his past.
Hugo is an orphan who lives in a Paris railway station, tending to the station clocks during his uncle's mysterious absence. He scrounges food from the vendors and steals mechanical parts from the owner of a toy shop, Georges Melies. In fact, Hugo's father was a watchmaker and he has inherited his father's talents for all things mechanical. Years before, Hugo's father found an intricate mechanical man, but they could never figure out how it worked. Hugo befriends Melies's ward, Isabelle, and together they have an adventure, one that centers around Melies himself.
Hugo is an orphan boy who works on the clocks and is trying to survive while hiding from the relentless yet clumsy and stupid Railway Inspector in the train station in Paris in the 1930's. During these struggles Hugo gets interested and tangled in a mystery involving his Automaton left by his dead father.
Orphaned and alone except for an uncle, Hugo Cabret lives in the walls of a train station in 1930s Paris. Hugo's job is to oil and maintain the station's clocks, but to him, his more important task is to protect a broken automaton and notebook left to him by his late father. Accompanied by the goddaughter of an embittered toy merchant, Hugo embarks on a quest to solve the mystery of the automaton and find a place he can call home.
Within the walls of a crammed with people railway station in 1930s Paris, hides the orphaned 12-year-old Hugo, an ingenious young boy who lives a secret life, maintaining the cavernous station's clocks. However, fearless Hugo has another secret: an astonishing, yet broken automaton, a keepsake from his late watchmaker father, bestowed with an obscure and utterly important message; but what could it be? Soon enough, as Hugo befriends Isabelle, a fresh and eccentric girl, together they will set off on a marvellous adventure in search of an answer to this intriguing conundrum, nevertheless, the remarkable machine needs repairing and a crucial key element is still missing.
In Paris in 1931, Hugo Cabret (Asa Butterfield), a 12-year-old boy, lives with his widowed father, a kind and devoted master clockmaker. Hugo's father (Jude Law) takes him to see films and loves the films of Georges Méliès best of all. (Méliès is an historical figure, a pioneer of the cinema.) Hugo's father is burned alive in a museum fire, and Hugo is taken away by his uncle Claude (), an alcoholic watchmaker who is responsible for maintaining the clocks in the Gare Montparnasse, a Paris railway station. His uncle teaches him to take care of the clocks, then disappears.Hugo lives between the walls of the station, maintaining the clocks, stealing food and working on his father's most ambitious project: repairing a broken automaton, a mechanical man who is supposed to write with a pen. Convinced that the automaton contains a message from his father, Hugo goes to desperate lengths to fix it. Hugo steals mechanical parts in the station to repair the automaton, but he is caught by a shopkeeper named Georges Méliès (Ben Kingsley), who makes, sells, and repairs toys. Méliès sets a trap with a toy mouse and catches Hugo, then takes Hugo's notebook, which holds his notes and drawings for fixing the automaton. Hugo presses for the return of his notebook, so the angry Méliès -- who's very interested in the notebook -- shouts at him, calling him a thief. Hugo runs. The Train Inspector (Sacha Baron Cohen), who is a handicapped gendarme, and his hound dog run after Hugo, pushing customers out of their way.To recover the notebook, Hugo follows Méliès to his house and meets Georges's goddaughter Isabelle (Chloë Grace Moretz), a girl close to his age. She convinces him to go home and promises to help. The next day, Méliès gives some ashes to Hugo, referring to them as the notebook's remains, but Isabelle informs him that the notebook was not burnt. Finally Méliès agrees that Hugo may earn the notebook back by working for him until he pays for all the things he stole from the shop.Hugo works in the toy shop, and in his time off manages to fix the automaton, but it is still missing one part -- a heart-shaped key.Hugo introduces Isabelle to the movies, which her godfather has never let her see. They sneak into a theater to see a silent movie without buying a ticket. She in turn introduces Hugo to a bookstore whose owner initially mistrusts Hugo. At first, Hugo is not trusting of Isabelle and tries to leave her, but Isabelle turns out to have the key to the automaton. When they use the key to activate the automaton, it produces a drawing of a film scene. Hugo remembers it is the film his father always said was the first film he ever saw: Voyage to the Moon. They discover that the drawing made by the automaton is signed with the name of Isabelle's godfather and take it to her home for an explanation.In the Méliès home, Hugo shows Georges's wife Jeanne (Helen McCrory) the drawing made by the automaton, but she will not tell them anything and makes them hide in a room when Georges comes home. While hiding, Isabelle and Hugo find a secret cabinet and accidentally release pictures and story boards of Georges' creations just as Georges and Jeanne enter the room. Georges feels depressed and betrayed.However, Hugo befriends the bookstore owner and he helps Hugo and Isabelle search a for a book on the history of film. They are surprised that the author, Rene Tabard (Michael Stuhlbarg), writes that Georges Méliès died in the Great War (World War I). When they try to understand the reason for this error, Monsieur Tabard himself appears and the children tell him that Méliès is alive. Tabard reveals himself as a devotee of Méliès's films who still owns a copy of Voyage to the Moon.Hugo, Isabelle and Tabard go to Georges's home, and at first Jeanne does not welcome them, telling them to go before her husband wakes. However, Jeanne accepts their offer to show Voyage to the Moon when it is revealed that she was one of the actresses in Georges's films. While they are watching the film, Georges appears and explains how he came to make movies, invented the special effects, and how he lost faith in films when World War I began. He went broke and was forced to sell his films for the value of the celluloid film stock, which was melted down to make things like buttons and shoe heels. To survive, he opened the toy shop. He believes the automaton he created was lost in the museum fire, and that there is nothing left of his life's work.Hugo decides to go back to the station to get the automaton, but on arrival he is cornered by the station inspector and his dog. He escapes, runs to the top of the clock tower, and hides by climbing out onto the hands of the clock. Once the inspector is gone he grabs the automaton and runs for the exit with it, but he is trapped by the inspector and the automaton is thrown to the railway tracks. Hugo tries to save it but there is a train coming. Climbing onto the tracks anyway, he is almost run over when the officer saves him and the automaton and proceeds to detain him. Hugo pleads with the officer, but then Georges arrives and claims that Hugo is in his care.Finally Georges is honored for his films, Tabard announcing that some 80 Méliès films have been recovered and restored. Georges thanks Hugo for his actions, and then invites the audience to "follow his dreams." Hugo becomes Georges's apprentice and Isabelle decides to be a writer.
