When two married business executives having an affair are blackmailed by a violent criminal, the two must turn the tables on him to save their families.
Vishal Dixit (Emraan Hashmi), a regular middle class man, is settled in Bangkok with his wife, Anjali (Sayali Bhagat) and their 5 year old daughter, Nikki. Anjali and Vishal are trying to hold on to their deteriorating marriage which is already under tremendous pressure. One ordinary day, on his way to work, Vishal meets Roma (Geeta Basra), a beautiful, captivating woman. The attraction between them is instantaneous. As Vishal gets to know her better, he realizes that she too is a loner, trapped in a loveless marriage. The attraction between them reaches a peak and at a point they decide to give in to an adulterous affair. As Anjali starts getting suspicious of Vishal's erratic behavior, his romance with Roma deepens. He is torn between the two loves of his life. Just when Vishal thought life could not get more complicated, he realizes that his secret liaison is known to someone, an unknown elusive enemy who is bent on using the knowledge to destroy all three lives. Vishal now realizes that the game will never end till he finds a permanent solution and that would be to eliminate the enemy. But how does one find an enemy who has no identity? Can he protect his family? Will he be able to save both the women in his life? All Vishal is sure of is that time is running out..... Is it too late? For Vishal? For Anjali? For Roma?
An Indian nationality Vishal Dixit and his family consisting of his wife Anjali and medically unfit daughter, Nikki are settled in Bangkok. Vishal is employed as a General Manager in an advertising agency. He meets with a young woman name Roma Kapoor on multiple occasions and they get intimate with each other in a hotel room. This scenario changes Vishal's life forever especially when he become a target of a blackmailer who claims he know of all that happen between Vishal and Roma.
Vishal Dixit a man tired of his life cheats on his wife, little did he know that he would be blackmailed in the future by a criminal. Vishal must choose to either give all his money to the blackmailer or save it for his ill daughter's kidney operation
Of Indian-origin Vishal Dixit lives in Bangkok along with his wife, Anjali, and a school-going daughter, Nikki. He works in the JMM Advertising Company and his immediate Supervisor is Sudhir. Things are not looking too bright at work, and this also reflects in the Dixit's family at home as well. Things get worse when Nikki is diagnosed with a kidney ailment and needs a donor soon. One day while going to work by train, Vishal is caught traveling without a ticket and is asked to alight at the next station. An Indian female passenger comes to his rescue pays his fare for him, refuses to take it back, introduces herself as Roma Kapoor, who is married to Ram, and works as a Financial Consultant with HB Finance. He meets her again on the train a few days later. Intrigued, he searches on the HB Finance website and finds out more about her. When Sudhir has his birthday party in a restaurant, he sees her in the company of a male, and assumes it is Ram. Both eventually find out that they are attracted to each other, they meet and attempt to get intimate discreetly in a hotel room, little knowing that their respective lives will soon be turned upside down when the hotel room will be broken into by a man named Tony - who will turn out to be the couples' worst nightmare.
Vishal Dixit leads an ordinary life with his wife and daughter but his once idyllic marriage is crumbling. When he meets a beautiful married woman en route to work on the train, it sparks a torrid adulterous affair. Vishal soon finds that an unidentified enemy knows his secret -- and is determined to destroy his life. Can Vishal find a solution, or will he pay the price for his passion?
Some lines should never be crossed, says the tagline of the film The Train. But the protagonist of the movie Emran Hashmi does cross the line, and pays for doing it.The Train has Emraan Hashmi pairing with two actresses: Geeta Basra and Sayali Bhagat . The film is jointly directed by Raksha Mistry and Hasnain Hyderabadwala.The Train tells the story of a man whose married life is dry. He gets attracted to another woman and has an extramarital affair with her.Vishal Dixit (Emraan) is a married man living in Bangkok with his wife Anjali (Sayali Bhagat) and their 5-year-old daughter Nikki. There is hardly any romance in their marriage. In fact, their daughter is the only reason why Vishal and Anjali are sticking together in a marriage of compromise.Then one day, Vishal meets a beautiful woman in a train while on his way to work. The woman is Roma (Geeta Basra). As Vishal and Roma get to know each other, they realize that both of them are alone deep within. Like Vishal, Roma, too, is trapped in a loveless marriage.Vishal and Roma are attracted towards each other. Their acquaintance turns into a passionate affair. However, this extramarital affair of Vishal and Roma is not entirely secret. There is a hidden enemy who stalks them secretly. The enemy seems to have just one aim: to destroy the lives of Vishal, Roma and Anjali.Who is this enemy? Will Vishal be able to save his family? What will happen of his affair with Roma? The Train is a romantic thriller with an element of suspense. The film has music by Mithoon. The movie has been shot in Bangkok. It is produced by Narendra Bajaj and Shyam Bajaj.
