The big screen adaptation of Perry's stage play about the trials of marriage, and what happens to one family when a sexy young temptress arrives on the scene.
Dr. Patricia Agnew, a psychologist, has written a best seller about marriage: hers and those of three other couples who together take a week's vacation each year to ask themselves, "Why did I get married?" It's time for one of those weeks, and all four relationships are strained: Patricia and her husband Gavin have the shadow of grief between them; Terry believes that Diane has abandoned him for her work; Angela, who's built a successful business, belittles her husband Marcus, who works for her; Mike is cruel to Sheila, his religious, overweight wife. During the week, each person's secret comes out. Will these marriages survive?
Four couples, who are also best friends, converge on a house in the mountains for a week-long retreat that has become their ritual of sorts to help work out their marital problems and ask the question "Why did I get married?". Though the couples have committed to being physically present for the week, some of them have not been emotionally present in their respective marriages for quite some time. The week is not planned out in a well-programmed sequence, so the events unfold somewhat spontaneously, beginning with their "adventures" in getting up to the mountain retreat. The first couple, Diane (Sharon Leal) and Terry (Tyler Perry), drives up together and argues most of the way because Diane refused to leave her job at the office and constantly gets calls on her blackberry or makes calls instead of talking to Terry. The other couple Angela (Tasha Smith) and Marcus (Michael Jai White)takes public transportation. Angela constantly argues with Marcus and with anyone who dares to interrupt them. Sheila (Jill Scott) is left to deplane (because of her weight and the requirement to purchase two seats) and drive the long distance in the snow, while her husband Mike (Richard T. Jones) continues on the flight with Sheila's single friend, Trina. Patricia (Janet Jackson) and Gavin (Malik Yoba) arrive by limo cab. Their journey is not documented, however, right before they leave to go to the retreat, Gavin shows up to pick up Patricia at a lecture she was giving (she is the author of a book called "Why did I get married?") and artlessly dodges a question about their marriage.Diane falls asleep not long after arriving with her blackberry close at hand, and when her secretary calls while she is asleep, Terry tells the woman not to call them while they are on their vacation. When Patricia arrives, she goes up to wake Diane at once while the men bond over the wine that Terry had poured for his wife.The sound of arguing signals the arrival of Angela and Marcus.When Mike arrives without Sheila, the other wives berate him and Trina, for having left Sheila to drive alone. Sheila's husband shows clearly that he does not care for her at all. Her friends try to reach Sheila by phone but get her voice mail only. Sheila is persistent to get to the retreat because she wants to make her marriage work. Providence leads her to Sheriff Troy's (Lamman Rucker) office and that is where she spends the night in a jail cell, because that is the only accommodation available to her because of the snowstorm. That same night, Mike tiptoes, not unseen by Angela to Trina's bedroom.
Sheila arrives at the retreat house the following morning with Troy in tow. She introduces Troy to the others and tells them she has invited him to breakfast. Troy fast becomes a threat to Mike, Sheila's husband, not because of Sheila but because of Trina, with whom he is being unfaithful to Sheila. Breakfast is a noisy affair with the arguing couples throwing words for each other or Angela throwing words for Trina, the only single woman on the retreat, whom she instantly disliked.Throughout the few days spent on retreat, there are spontaneous revelations. The infidelity of two of the husbands leads to a discussion by the men of the 80-20 rule. This rule states that most men get 80% of what they need from a marriage yet they tend to go after the 20% that someone outside can provide for them because it appears to be more to them when it really isn't.The secrets that come out in their heated discussions lead the couples toward a path where they can either choose to reconcile or to separate and the latter is what happens to Sheila and Mike. Mike makes it clear he is not attracted to his wife any longer and when it is revealed he is being unfaithful, he simply tells her he wants a divorce. The vacation is cut short when all the secrets come to light, as the couples suddenly decide they cannot stay in the house any longer. Sheila checks into a local hotel to recover from the shock of her divorce and the realisation that Mike has drained her bank account. She is in a depressed state when Troy goes to visit her. He takes her up to a mountain where she cries and mourns the loss of her love and the only life she knew.The other couples head back home. Patricia and Gavin are barely speaking to each other-he called her stupid because she didn't strap their son in and he died in an accident - but he eventually forces her to face the situation, and she breaks down emotionally in his arms, they reconcile.
Angela and Marcus are still fighting, especially when Keisha (Marcus' baby-mama, played by Kaira Whitehead) shows up at Angela's salon and disrespects Angela. Marcus finally stands up to both his wife and his ex, and then frightens Angela into realizing she is wrecking their life with her constant arguing by not showing up for a couple of days.
Diane and Terry fight again right before they leave the mountains because he had a paternity test done on their daughter. They fight again on Terry's birthday at their home because Diane forgot about his birthday on top of the other things she did like tie her tubes without telling him. Terry tells her he is moving out.
Patricia meets up with Diane and Angela moping over their husbands and gives them the counseling they need to get back on track telling them to make a list of the good things and the bad things their husbands have done. The men drown their sorrows in the bottle.In the mountains, Sheila is settling into a new life working for Troy in the general store his father owned and getting to know Troy and realizing her own self-worth. The two of them bond.Angela cooks dinner for her husband when she is finished with her list, but he suspects she is trying to poison him. Eventually she explains, they make up and set conditions of the new order.Diane goes to see Terry and begs him to come back after crying over her list. He plays with her head a little to get back at her, but they eventually reconcile too and all the couples converge on the gala celebration for an award that Patricia has received for her work. Diane, Patricia and Angela are shocked when Sheila introduces Troy as her husband. Ex-husband Mike, although he is still with Trina, is very jealous of Sheila's newfound bliss and tries to weasel his way back into her good graces but she tells him to go enjoy his "20", referring to the 80-20 rule.
