Cult Japanese director Takashi Miike draws inspiration from the popular Playstation 2 title Yakuza for this unhinged tale of underworld violence in Tokyo starring Goro Kishitani and Kazuki Kitamura. It's summertime in Tokyo, and as the temperature rises, two undercover cops stake out a high-profile bank robbery while complaining about the air conditioning. When the masked gunmen make their way into the vault only to find that the Tojo gang's ten-million-yen deposit has mysteriously vanished, an already complicated situation gradually starts to spiral out of control. Meanwhile, in another part of town, psychotic yakuza Goro Majima (Kishitani) strikes out on his own to pay a visit to rival gang leader Kazuma Kiryu (Kitamura) and track down the missing mother of adorable youngster Haruka (Natsuo). It seems that Haruka's mother has some valuable information, and Majima is determined to find her at any cost. Now, as Majima makes his way through the neon-lit streets of Tokyo, Satoru (Shun Shioya) and his girlfriend, Yui (Saeko), embark on a bold robbery spree, and South Korean hitman Park (Yoo Gong) prepares to locate and terminate the thieves who absconded with the Toho gang's money. Later, after Majima and Kiryu engage in a series of fights all across the city, a confrontation at the top of Tokyo's Millennium Tower finds the true criminal mastermind finally stepping out of the shadows.
It's a very hot night in a fictitious version of Tokyo. Based on the game "Yakuza" the story follows various loosely connected threads.Former Yakuza underling Kiryu Kazuma (Kitamura Kazuki), who has recently been released from prison after a lengthy incarceration, and is trying to piece his life together and distance himself from his Yakuza past. Along the way he encounters Haruka ("Natsuo"), a distressed young girl who is trying to find her lost mother (a former club hostess). Unfortunately Kiryu's problems slowly escalate as he is pursued by a former associate, the baseball bat-wielding psycho Majima Goro (Kishitani Goro) who has a grudge to settle with Kiryu. A lot of fights occur during their encounters.Two moronic bank robbers try to rob a bank, but the money has been removed because a mysterious person drew 10 billion yen belonging to the Tojo clan. The police only observes from a pharmacy across the street and both parties suffer the breakdown of the respective air-conditioning systems. The pharmacist (Tomorowo Taguchi) is acquainted with a Korean hitman (Gong Yoo) who needs weapons to kill the famous Mister N believed to be the mastermind behind the Tojo heist.The pharmacist sends the Korean killer to a weapons dealer (Yoshiyoshi Arakawa) where he meets a young pair (Shun Shioya, Saeko) intent to buy a gun for further robberies. The Korean hitman tests his new weapon by helping the young pair from afar when they are attacked by a horde of yakuzas.
