A worldwide epidemic encourages a biotech company to launch an organ-financing program similar in nature to a standard car loan. The repossession clause is a killer, however.
In the year 2056 - the not so distant future - an epidemic of organ failures devastates the planet. Out of the tragedy, a savior emerges: GeneCo, a biotech company that offers organ transplants, for a price. Those who miss their payments are scheduled for repossession and hunted by villainous Repo Men. In a world where surgery addicts are hooked on painkilling drugs and murder is sanctioned by law, a sheltered young girl searches for the cure to her own rare disease as well as information about her family's mysterious history. After being sucked into the haunting world of GeneCo, she is unable to turn back, as all of her questions will be answered at the wildly anticipated spectacular event: The Genetic Opera.
The film opens with a series of comic-book panels that explain how an epidemic of organ failures devastated the planet in the future ("Depraved Heart Murder at Sanitarium Square"). Out of the tragedy, GeneCo, a multi-billion dollar biotech company, emerged. GeneCo provides organ transplantation for profits. In addition to financing options, GeneCo reserves the right to implement default remedies, including repossession. For those who can't keep up with their organ payments, collection is the responsibility of "organ repo men", skilled assassins contracted by GeneCo. Repo men are ordered to recover GeneCo's property by any means necessary. One such Repo Man stalks and kills a client whose heart is then repossessed ("Genetic Repo Man").The president of GeneCo, Rotti Largo (Paul Sorvino), learns that he is dying, while Shilo Wallace (Alexa Vega), a 17 year-old girl with a rare blood disease that she's been told she inherited from her deceased mother, sneaks through underground tunnels to her mother's mausoleum ("Things You See in a Graveyard (Part One)").Shilo follows a bug out of the mausoleum in an attempt to catch it, and in the process, runs into GraveRobber (Terrance Zdunich), who is busy digging underground. They flee from GenCops and enter a massive underground graveyard ("21st Century Cure").After passing out from blood-pressure problems, Shilo wakes up ("Shilo Wakes") to her overprotective father, Nathan Wallace (Anthony Head). He has been keeping her locked in their house for 17 years due to her disease. Shilo is bitter towards her deceased mother for giving her this disease ("Infected"). Nathan, upset, gets ready for work as the head Repo Man for GeneCo ("Legal Assassin"). He takes great pride in his work, but knows that he can never reveal it to Shilo in fear of breaking her trust.Rotti's children, Luigi Largo (Bill Moseley), Pavi Largo (Nivek Ogre), and Amber Sweet (Paris Hilton), meet at a GeneCo warehouse for inventory and the two brothers begin to bicker over who will be chosen to inherit GeneCo after Rotti dies ("Mark It Up"). Rotti, however, begins to take an interest in Shilo ("Things You See in a Graveyard (Part Two)"), whom he invites to GeneCo's Genetic Opera ("Limo Ride"). Nathan, meanwhile, repossess a defaulted intestine and uses the victim as a puppet ("Thankless Job").Luigi kills two of his subordinates ("Largo's Little Helpers") while Genterns successfully attach a new face to Pavi ("Genterns"). The two siblings get on the nerves of Blind Mag (Sarah Brightman), a famous pop-opera singer who sings for GeneCo. When she tells them to behave, they argue back. Amber joins in and begins to harass Mag about being her replacement ("Luigi, Pavi, Amber Harass Mag"). Rotti then introduces Mag to Shilo ("Seeing You Stirs Memories"), who Mag thought died at birth.Nathan, while working and repossessing a spine, calls Shilo, who is at Sanitarium Square being guarded by Rotti's henchgirls while he's busy ("Inopportune Telephone Call"). GraveRobber arrives and helps Shilo slip away from the henchgirls ("GraveRobber and Shilo Escape"). Rotti, meanwhile, announces that Blind Mag will be performing her final song. He also announces that his daughter, Amber, will be the spokesperson for the newly revealed Zydrate Support Network, a rehabilitation center for those addicted to the powerful painkiller Zydrate ("Zydrate Support Network").Shilo watches as GraveRobber explains Zydrate, harvested from the brains of corpses and peddled to addicts. Those who are addicted to surgery, including Amber, need Zydrate to ease the pain. Amber arrives and gets a shot of it, explaining in the process that she will be replacing Blind Mag after Mag's eyes, which she got from GeneCo, get repossessed after her final song ("Zydrate Anatomy"). GenCops arrive and everyone scrambles to escape, except for Amber and her two valets, who hold her up as she passes out in a drug-induced haze.Nathan delivers the repossessed spine to Rotti, and he gives Nathan his next target - Blind Mag. Nathan refuses ("Who Ordered Pizza?"). Rotti, Pavi, and Luigi follow Nathan as he kills another victim, trying to guilt him into repossessing Blind Mag's eyes ("Night Surgeon"). He still refuses, and leaves once done with the victim.Later, Rotti sends his henchgirls to accompany Blind Mag to Shilo's house, where Blind Mag reveals to Shilo that she is Shilo's godmother, having been good friends with Shilo's mother Marni before she died. Blind Mag was sent by Rotti to convince Shilo to come to tonight's Genetic Opera. However, she also warns Shilo about GeneCo ("Chase the Morning"). Nathan arrives and, mad at Mag, starts an argument before kicking her out of his house ("Come Back!"). After trying to tell her dad that a Repo Man will take Blind Mag's eyes, Nathan tells her that there's no such thing as Repo Men and sends her to bed. When she argues, he asks what she, a seventeen year old, could possibly do ("What Chance Has a 17 Year Old Girl?"). Shilo retorts that it's better than being forty ("Seventeen").Amber, meanwhile, complains to her father that her latest surgery was botched, ruining her face. Rotti explains that he told her not to get so many surgeries. However, he eventually tells her that he'll take care of it ("Happiness is Not a Warm Scalpel"). After she leaves, Rotti voices his opinion that the only persistent thing in the world is gold and signs his will, which shows Shilo as his sole benefactor.Nathan discovers GenCops in his basement whose mission is to find the "rogue Repo Man" ("Nathan Discovers Rotti's Plan"). After realizing that Shilo isn't home, Nathan discovers that the GenCops have stolen Marni's body from the basement ("Tonight We Are Betrayed").Everyone gets ready for the Genetic Opera (Nathan puts on his Repo Man gear, Blind Mag walks through the cemetery on the way to the opera house, Amber picks up a last hit of Zydrate before the show, etc.) ("At the Opera Tonight"). GraveRobber, meanwhile, believes that there will be a bloodbath at the Genetic Opera, and that whoever survives it will inherit GeneCo ("Bloodbath!").The stories intertwine as everyone arrives at the GeneCo Genetic Opera, where the performance begins ("We Started This Op'ra Shit!"). Amber takes the stage for her premier as a singer, but her solo song is cut short when she trips and her face falls off ("Blame Not My Cheeks"). Mag begins singing her final song, ending it by gouging out her own eyes, stating that she'd rather be blind ("Chromaggia"). The cords suspending her in the air begin to snap "accidentally", dropping and impaling Mag on metal rods of a fence, killing her ("Mag's Fall"). Rotti insists that it's part of the performance and convinces the audience to stay by saying that he will cure Shilo's illness ("Pièce De Résistance").Shilo attacks Nathan in his Repo Man gear by hitting him in the head with a shovel, as Rotti instructed her to do earlier. Shilo realizes that the Repo Man is her father ("Let the Monster Rise"). Rotti then reveals Nathan to be the man who's been making Shilo sick by giving her poisonous "medication" ("The Man Who Made You Sick"). Nathan explains that he was only doing so to keep her away from the world, which he knew to be a terrible place. Rotti then tells Shilo that if she kills her father, she will inherit GeneCo ("Cut the Ties"). When she refuses, Rotti uses the last of his strength to shoot Nathan ("Shilo Turns Against Rotti"). Rotti then dies, on-stage, from his disease. Shilo and Nathan say goodbye to each other before Nathan dies from his wound ("I Didn't Know I'd Love You So Much"). Shilo leaves, free from her genetic destiny ("Genetic Emancipation").The following day, GraveRobber reads about Shilo turning down the inheritance of GeneCo ("Epitaph"). Amber takes control over GeneCo in her place, and auctions off the face that fell off to her brother Pavi.
Provided by Wikipedia.com.
