A deadly car accident brings together a group of previously unrelated people, each of whom is forced to deal with the emotional fallout.
A grieving mother cannot "move on" after her son's death, keeping his room as it was, wanting her younger boy to be like his dead brother. A youth leaves juvenile detention, going home to an angry father and a lonely young step-mother. A college teacher whose brother has autistic behaviors separates from his wife and is attracted to a student. The narrative discloses slowly the mother, youth, and teacher's connections to a car accident. The paroled youth talks to the dead boy's girlfriend and must sort out his relationship with his step-mother; the professor encourages his brother to go on a date. Can the mother see her living son for who he is? In what ways can each be normal? In what ways can each be normal?
A car accident results in the death of sixteen year old Nickie Reichert, the passenger in one of the cars involved. Two years after the accident, three families are still profoundly feeling the effects of the devastating event. Nickie's mother, Catherine Reichert, can't get over the grief of losing her eldest son. She refuses to let anyone touch Nickie's things, which still lay as is in their home. Catherine's grief results in her neglecting her husband, Dale Reichert, and their younger son, Brady Reichert, who lives in Nickie's shadow. College professor Walter Braugher, the drunk driver in the other car, was found not criminally negligent of the accident. He has self doubts about his life, which manifests itself in his drinking. Since the accident, he has been having trouble relating to his wife, Abby, and looks for solace from Sherri Banks, one of his students. Also in the car that night was his autistic brother, Dennis Braugher, who has not been able to leave his apartment since due to fear. And Nickie's friend, Jordie, was the driver of the stolen car in which the two were traveling. Jordie has just been released from the Youth Detention Centre, where he's been housed since for the theft. He has become a sullen young man. His father, a psychotherapist named Carl, hasn't forgiven Jordie for that night, which in turn has affected Carl's relationship with his second wife/Jordie's stepmother, Elise. Jordie and Elise want to feel loved again. Events make some think that they need to make significant steps to deal with their emotions in a constructive manner.

