Spain. The Basque Country. Sometime in the 90s. Josu Jon, a young member of a terrorist organization, has suffered an almost complete memory loss after being wounded in a shooting with the Spanish police. As he awaits for his trial, his condition is being treated at the prison hospital. Other inmates belonging to the same organization try to make him remember how brave a "gudari" -a Basque soldier- he is and how he must go back to the armed fight for the independence of their country as soon as he gets out of prison. Meanwhile, Xabier, a college professor who has been death-threatened by the terrorists due to his political views on the Basque situation, is having an affair with Francesca, a young psychologist who happens to end up trying to help Josu Jon recover his memory. A warm feeling of mutual affection grows between her and her patient. At a point, it doesn't seem to be clear whether Josu Jon really wants to recover his memory or rather forget forever who he actually is.
Spain. The Basque Country. Sometime during the 90s. Josu Jon, a handsome and noble looking young fellow -member of a terrorist organization- has been wounded in a shooting with the Guardia Civil. A bullet has reached his left brain hemisphere resulting in an almost complete memory loss. He is under treatment in a prison hospital, as his trial awaits. He is not too sure about who he is, so the nuns that nurse him at the hospital encourage him to be a good christian; yet other inmates who belong to the same terrorist organization he used to be a part of, try to help him remember who he actually is: a brave gudari -a basque soldier- who will join back the armed fight for freedom as soon as he gets out of prison.Meanwhile events develop: Xabier, a College professor, is threatened for his political views on the situation of the Basque Country. He is somewhat of a Don Juan and is having an affair with one of his students, Francesca, an Italian girl who is surprised on a daily basis with what she sees on the streets and places of the Basque Country. Francesca, a nice and beautiful woman, works as a psicologist in a sanitarium.Despite the constant threats he is being posed to and the warnings of the Police, a stubborn Xabier will not stop meeting his friends at the traditional meals of his Sociedad Gastronómica.A series of this kind of dinners and suppers follow, as Josu Jon, the terrorist who has lost his memory, is shown again, still under strict medical supervision but now in the sanitarium where Francesca, Xabier's girlfriend, works.A warm and nice feeling seems to grow between Francesca and Josu Jon. Francesca wants to help him recover his memory... but does Josu Jon really want to recover his memory or would he rather forget who he has been?The end of the plot is the final answer to that question.
