A young man inherits a nearly bankrupt funeral home from his estranged father. He falls in love with the alluring young mortician, only to find out she's offing people to keep the place in business!
Young adult brothers Jackie and Oliver Whynacht head to small town Elder's Bluff for their father Rollie Whynacht's funeral, he a man they haven't seen since they were children or really ever knew. Part of what they didn't know is his business, he who owned and ran a funeral home. Four similarly aged people are convened to view the video will - Jackie, Ollie, Rollie's dumb blonde trophy wife Luanne, and Rollie's mortician/the town's coroner Roberta Knickle - they who all learn that Ollie, in the proverbial pure luck of the draw, inherits everything, most specifically the funeral home. Subsequently in private with the lawyer, Ollie learns that Rollie rigged the draw to choose him, who Rollie felt, as the always nervous lost soul of the four which has not changed since he was a child, needed something like the funeral home to focus his abilities. In speaking with the funeral home staff who solely includes Roberta and Jack-of-all-trades Henry Sanipass, Ollie further learns that the business is failing as all the trade goes to Snarr's in a neighboring town, Rollie's the first funeral they've held in a year. As Ollie contemplates selling the home, Roberta, who is as passionate about life as she is about death and who is slowly starting to fall for Ollie, literally runs into an idea, stemming from a series of subsequent and associated events, to save the business. The questions then become if Ollie, who is also starting to fall for Roberta, will agree to the idea especially considering their criminal roles in the events about which no one yet knows, or if anyone will find out about their criminal acts, especially her father and boyfriend who are the local law enforcement. There may be other items in play bubbling beneath the surface with this collective.
Oliver is destined for an uneventful life until the day he and his brother Jackie breeze into town to attend the funeral of their estranged father. To everyone's bewilderment, Oliver inherits his father's estate-a funeral home. Oliver learns from the handyman Henry that the home is on the verge of bankruptcy. That night, his life gets increasingly complicated when he takes a drunken drive with the bewitching mortician Roberta and collides with a hiker. Roberta cleverly disguises the fatality as an accident, providing Oliver with his first paying customer and launching the duo on a merciless killing spree that evolves from accidental to intentional. As they scramble to stay out of jail and keep the funeral home in business, the body count rises steeply and their victims expire in increasingly bizarre and brutal "accidents". Trying to remain one step ahead of the local law (Roberta's father, Chief of Police Knickle, and her boyfriend, Constable Richmond), Oliver is torn between the affections of Roberta and his young, alluring stepmother, Luanne. With his business and love life blossoming, Oliver gains confidence-until he finds he has dug a grave for himself too deep to escape.

