After seeing herself drive down the street, Radiologist Gina McVey unravels a mystery centered around a broken mirror.
In London, the radiologist Gina McVey organizes a surprise birthday party to her father John McVey with her boyfriend Stefan Chambers, her brother Daniel McVey and his girlfriend Kate Coleman. On the next day, she sees herself driving a car on the street and she follows the woman to her apartment, where she finds a picture of her father and her. While driving back, she has a car crash and loses parts of her memory; further, she believes Stefan is another man. Gina decides to investigate what is happening and unravels a dark reality.
On a busy street in London, Gina, a successful radiologist, thinks she sees herself drive past in her own car. Stunned by this strange event, Gina follows the mystery woman up to her apartment. From here, events take an eerie turn for the worse which leads to a car accident. Soon Gina's awareness slides from solid reality into a world that will haunt more than just her nightmares as she attempts to unravel the mystery where the only clue is a broken mirror.
Gina McVey (Lena Headly) is a radiologist living in London, England who is enjoying dinner one evening with her family and her boyfriend, Stefan, when a mirror shatters for no apparent reason. After a few moments, no one thinks much of it.The next day Gina is leaving work and she sees something even more troubling -- a woman who looks just like her, driving a car identical to her own. Curious, Gina sneaks into the doppelganger's apartment and sees a photo of herself and her father in the hallway. Seriously rattled, Gina runs out and drives away, only to get in an accident that lands her in the hospital.After she's released, Gina asks Stefan if she can stay with him, but while he looks the same, his personality and behavior are quite different from the way she remembers him, and she begins having vivid nightmares which become all the more terrifying when the same horrific images begin popping up in her waking hours. Determined to solve her bizarre dilemma, and realizing her family has been exposed to unspeakable danger, Gina fluctuates between grim resolve and manic despair as her odd mystery begins to unfold once she begins to retrace her steps.Gina soon discovers that doppelganger entities have escaped from a mirror broken earlier in the movie and are doppelgangers of her friends and family, killing them and taking their places. She tracks down her own double and finds her dead. Gina then remembers that SHE is the mirror double and killed her other in the first scene when they met, only to forget it after getting into a car accident which caused her mild brain damage. After one minute, Gina doppelganger remembers her true self and comes to terms with it, then her mirror father shows up outside her house. She signals that it is her.The next day, Gina goes to work as usual as London is being taken over person by person. At work she runs into her brother (not yet a doppleganger clone), who takes a long look at her and then runs away. Gina does not chase after him knowing it will only be a matter of time before his own doppelganger will kill and replace him too.
