A look at the relationship between a lonely introverted girl and a young video store clerk vying for her attention.
They're in their 20s. He works in a video store; he's eager, chatty, sleeps in his car. She rents adult films, looks disheveled, rarely speaks. He chats her up, she brushes him off. He takes her address from store records and contrives to run into her. He rings her doorbell; she tells him to go away. He invents a story of a great-aunt who lives in the building and fakes her death to get the girl to let him in her apartment but holds a butcher knife between them. So it goes and he is no longer living in his car. He presses for a relationship; she ignores him, insults him, or yells. He's persistent, inviting her to get out of the apartment, cooking, washing her hair. Both have demons and, as their stories become more clear, his addictive personality and her sex nausea may be on a collision course.
A young man working in a dead end job as a video store clerk leads a relatively sad existence and lives in his car. Beyond speaking to his Polish grandmother once a week at a specific time or else, his social circle consists of the three guys who work at the store who have their own issues. However, his boss, Eric, tries to look out for him and keep him off drugs. The one bright light for him is the young woman who comes into the store every night and rents only porn, generally but not exclusively girl-on-girl porn. Knowing nothing about her except the official information on her store account, he obsessively goes about getting her to be his girlfriend by stalking her at her apartment. She makes no bones about the fact that she has no interest in him romantically or even as a friend. But among the many small white and bold faced lies he uses as pretenses to be at the apartment building, one does provide a small crack for him to get through to her, with her still proclaiming that he has no chance to be her friend. Regardless, he finds that she is a recluse who doesn't go out, doesn't work but still manages to lead what looks to be a comfortable enough existence. In his determined goal of getting to be her boyfriend, he may come to learn the whole story of why she is such a damaged person.
Official Synopsis:Good Dick is a modern fairy tale about a troubled, reclusive young woman and the persistent video clerk who draws her out of her claustrophobic world by starting up a unique courtship with her.As they become closer, her sexual antipathy is met with his unflinching optimism, until finally her aggressive defenses overwhelm them both and the relationship bursts apart.Profoundly affected by his presence in her life, she finds that she has the courage to face her past.
