An over-protected private college student comes of age as she comes to terms with the notion of punishment in all areas of her life. She discovers that all the people close to her have their own deviated agendas.
MISBEHAVIOUR , a truly strong psychological drama with numerous twists and turns, will have you on the edge of your seat from the first few minutes to the totally unexpected ending.. A keen look at the struggle of a traumatized 19 year old facing harsh discipline methods in an upper scale protected boarding junior college. Take a deep breath and get ready for a roller-coaster ride with the characters of MISBEHAVIOUR.
The film opens on the eve of the Thanksgiving school break as we are introduced to two inseparable friends, Stephanie Miller and Diane Leblanc, at the boarding preparatory college where they are in the graduating class. Enfield Academy is a prestigious private establishment where discipline and modern methods are mixed effectively to forge the future elite. The schools director is Tamara Nuevo, a proud and authoritarian woman. She uses an extensive network of security cameras, set up by the schools ubiquitous security guard Bernie, to keep tabs on everything and everyone.Stephanie is picked up and brought home for Thanksgiving weekend by her father Ted, and her very controlling mother Nanette. Stephanie discovers that she forgot to return a book to the star teacher of the school, her biology professor James Carling, a handsome and domineering man she secretly has a crush on.Evading Bernie and the schools other star teacher, the manipulative seductress Ophelia Lachance, Stephanie returns to his office. There she overhears unrecognizable noises. She peeks through the keyhole and is shocked to see James spanking a student that turns out to be her friend Diane.Betrayed and deeply upset, Stephanie races home to take refuge with Sofia, who has always been there for her and raised her instead of her mother Nanette. She keeps the incident to herself, but the confusion in her mind rapidly becomes obsessive. All along avoiding her best friend, she spends a horrible Thanskgiving break full of doubt and questioning, made worse by her mothers attempts to impose her career choices on Stephanie. Even the gift of a brand new car by her parents helps nothing. Her brief chance encounter with a young man named Daniel is the weekends only bright spot.Back in school, a feeling of profound uneasiness clouds Stephanies class. It is as if James, secretly desired by all the students, has instinctively pierced her secret. When Stephanie confronts him in class to defend her friend, James summons Stephanie to his office after class. There she reveals what she knows to him, but he sharply dismisses her.As Ms Nuevo dotingly grooms James for a ceremony where he will receive yet another award, she reveals that she too is aware of certain things that must stop and he must be weary of the stupid guard Bernie. Unbeknownst to them, Bernie overhears them and loses faith in Ms Nuevo. He seeks solace in his secret surveillance room where it is revealed that he has greatly enhanced the surveillance network, and not just in the school. When Ophelia follows him there, a cornered Bernie reveals he has been taping the students in their private moments and selling the videos to an outside source.In Teds absence, Sofia emerges victorious yet again from a clash with Nanette. Ted is with Ophelia, reminiscing their shared history as lovers. Even though Ted rejects her renewed advances, a hurt Ophelia still decides to officially keep protecting his precious daughter. Meanwhile, when James informs Diane that their special relationship is over, Diane begins scheming his downfall.Stephanie sees Carling and Ophelia making love. It is now clear she has been pulling the strings of this man all along. Ophelia easily convinces James to introduce Stephanie to their twisted game, and then graphically demonstrates how she is to be spanked and dominated by him. When Stephanie surprisingly asks James why she is not subject to his special attentions like others are, she unknowingly sets herself up for Ophelias trap.With his control of the camera network, Bernie anonymously shows Ms Nuevo a shocking video of James and Ophelia together. Finally, she must accept that all the rumors are true, her perfect ideal school has only existed in her mind. After a cat and mouse game, Stephanie agrees to meet James at his apartment, for what she expects will be a dream romantic encounter. But when the moment comes, she is shocked as Ted begins to spank her violently, only to be stopped by Ophelia, allowing Stephanie to escape.All the tension then reaches a crescendo as Ms Nuevo orders Carling to quit. In the midst of this upheaval, Bernie gives Stephanie a tape for her own protection. At her home, she views the tape showing Carling and Diane together, and happens upon an identical tape in her parents bedroom, this one showing fellow students in a lesbian encounter. In anger, she searches the bedroom for other tapes and discovers a contract revealing that her mother has been financing the production of these videos from the school. She confronts her mother, and when the very disturbing truth is confirmed, Stephanie runs away from home.Ted is told of everything and with Sofia he goes searching for Stephanie, with no success. Dismayed and confused, Carling pathetically goes after Stephanie seeking forgiveness, but neither want anything to do with him anymore.Stephanie returns home, with all the recent events she has matured and finally come into her own, and she announces she is leaving home for good to pursue her dream. Ophelia makes her final move and returns to confront Ms Nuevo, who resigns, paving the way for Ophelia to at long last take her place as director, with Bernie now on her side. The film ends with Stephanie, free from her mother and the sordid world of Enfield Academy, embarking on her dream in Italy with her boyfriend Daniel.
