Connecticut high school students Max Doyle and Jessica Carpenter fall in love and feel making love isn't enough, so they brave everyone's objections and get married. Jess gets accepted at Harvard, to pursue her lifelong ambition to become an orthopedic surgeon; Max decides against accepting any other college and waits for another chance to get in, meanwhile taking a job in construction so he can still be together. Still they really spend most time apart, she even sort of falls for fellow student Carter, who is also a gifted guitarist-singer. When Max announces college is no longer his firm resolve, she blames him for changing their plans, too much ingratitude even for his love to swallow...
Max Doyle and Jessica Carpenter, in love with each other, are high school seniors in a small Connecticut town. They have their immediate future all planned: they will both attend Harvard after they graduate so that they can be together. Their plan hits a snag when overachieving Jess is accepted into Harvard, but Max's application is deferred, although he is accepted into five other post-secondary institutions, the closest to Harvard being three hundred miles away. This snag leads to an impromptu engagement between the two. They want to emulate Max's parents marriage, they who also married young and are seemingly happy. They also want to show that being older does not guarantee marriage happiness, as Jess' parents are going through a nasty divorce. Their converse argument is that being young and in love will lead to a better marriage than Jess' parents. Despite each set of parents truly liking their potential daughter-in-law or son-in-law, the parents are split on whether to give their blessing to this marriage. It doesn't matter for eighteen year old of-age Max, but underage seventeen year old Jess needs at least one parent to provide consent. If they are able to go through with the marriage, Max and Jess need to decide what to do, their options being to have a long distance relationship, for Jess to forgo Harvard to attend one of Max's schools, or for Max to move to Boston and work in the meantime. Their plan still is for Max to work his way into ultimately getting accepted into Harvard regardless. Will Max and Jess' relationship be able to withstand these pressures, will they be able to prove their naysayers wrong, or are they indeed too young and irresponsible to deal with the more adult issues that go along with marriage?

