A complex story of a misaligned man, though good intent, creating a nightmarish Dystopian existence.
In the near future, oil reserves are nearly depleted and Europe is connected by series of underground tunnels. While navigating these tunnels, Roger hears voices, one in particular. Seeking a way to rid himself of the voice only leads Roger deeper into a bizarre conspiracy of control - mind and body.
Story takes place in 2024, Europe. Natural resources are depleted and global financial markets crashed. One company controls global European subway system called "The Metro". After hearing voice inside his head Roger meets Anna - model which offers him help in getting rid of it which starts unraveling global surveillance and mind control conspiracy.
A great man, Ivan Bahn creates an underground train system (Metro) that links all of Europe with the idea that openness and mobility are the solution to the worlds problems. Then he falls to his own weaknesses. Starting in the late 1990s, though a parent company, Trexx, all people are being watched though a camera in their television then in the recent past, a new technology has evolved, "organic computer chips", which are introduced within a shampoo called Dangst and administered though the pores of the skin. These organic computer chips then create synapses to the subjects brain and using the subjects hair as antennae the human subjects brain is then directly linked to an AI surveillance and control mechanism and the human "handlers" that work there. It's hopeless as AI soon will control all of human experience and actions...or is it? There's one person, equally strong as Ivan Bahn and without his weakness "fear, sorrow, anger" that caused him to become corrupted. Will the hero fix things and bring Mr. Bahn's initial intentions into fruition? This superb film is quite difficult to understand as much is not stated explicitly but is rendered to the viewer though a careful consideration of the characters motives and connecting the clues, right down to why a child's toy of all things. Unsere "Rosebud" Vater...Sie verstehen...Wiedersehen mein Held. A "quality kill" if ever there was one.
METROPIA is taking place in a not-so-distant, terrifying Europe. The world is running out of oil and the net of undergrounds has been connected, creating a gigantic web underneath Europe. Roger (Vincent Gallo) from a suburb of Stockholm tries to stay away from the underground. He thinks it's unpleasant and sometimes he hears a strange voice in is head.One day Roger finds out that his life is controlled in every detail. He tries to break free. To succeed he needs super-model Nina (Juliette Lewis) to help him. Or is it maybe Nina that needs Roger?
