A small-town girl finally realizes her dream of becoming a famous supermodel but soon finds out that there's a price for her glamorous new life.
Set against the glittering backdrop of the glamorous but ruthless world of haute couture fashion, this is the story of a small town girl with big dreams. Meghna always knew she was meant to be famous, but she was about to find out the hard way that success came at a price. Fashion is the tale of what happens when the price of success becomes too much to pay
Living a middle-classed lifestyle in Chandigarh's Sector 17, Meghna Mathur wins a beauty contest and decides to become a model, much to the chagrin of her dad, who wants her to be a Chartered Accountant. Determined to succeed, she re-locates to Mumbai, where she initially lives with her maternal uncle, Kuldip and his wife, Santosh. When they find out that she has been appearing scantily-clad in magazines, they ask her to leave. She moves in with fellow-model, Manav Bhasin, and soon finds herself as the lead model of 'Panache', replacing Shonali Gujral. Her decline from fame and fortune begins when she has an affair with her boss, Abhijit Sarin, becomes pregnant, and gets fired for attempting to break-up the Sarin family. Disgraced, and publicly humiliated, she must now decide to stay on or return home to her parents.
Meghna is from small town and wants to make it big in fashion world she comes to Mumbai and tries to get work from her fashion designer friend Rohit she befriends a small time model Janet and enters the fashion world with small assignments where she catches the eye of Anisha Roy and executive for major fashion agency Panache,Shonali is a top model for Panache but agency is fed up with her tantrums and drug abuse which makes them replace Meghna with Shonali she meets Abhijeet Sarin owner of Panache who takes advantage of Meghna where she gets pregnant at the height of success Meghna looses her friends due to her attitude and returns back to her home town she comes back to the city to try her luck back in fashion world and is helped by Rohit and Janet while Meghna is overcoming from her past she gets the news that Shonali is gone in depression and is found begging on streets and Meghna blames herself for that.

