Remember when you were a teenager and every little event seemed like it was of epic importance, like it would influence the rest of your life?
Over the course of a single weekend, various teenagers discover that, perhaps, they don't yet have it all figured out: Benjamin thinks he's going to marry his hesitant girlfriend, Marty pines for the unattainable Rachel, rich kid Jacob throws elaborate parties and sells drugs, and the underage "cool" Donny blackmails his "nerdy" older brother to tag along to Jacob's party.
Remember when you were a teenager and every little moment seemed like it was of epic importance, like it would influence the rest of your life? But, in reality, it was just another exceptionally crazy weekend... THE WEEKEND relishes the moments that made being a teenager so excruciatingly painful and fantastic.
In the spirit of "Superbad" and "Dazed and Confused," "The Weekend" relishes the moments that made being a teenager so excruciatingly painful and fantastic. Over the course of a single weekend, various teenagers discover that, perhaps, they don't yet have it all figured out: Rich kid Jacob throws an elaborate weekend party, Benjamin thinks he's going to marry his hesitant girlfriend, Marty pines for the unattainable Rachel, and the underage "cool" Donny blackmails his "nerdy" older brother to tag along to Jacob's party. The film showcases intense teenage love, the possibility of relationships, youthful recklessness, and challenges the perception of cool.
"The Weekend" relishes the moments that made being a teenager so excruciatingly painful and fantastic. Over the course of a single weekend, various teenagers discover that, perhaps, they don't yet have it all figured out: Rich kid Jacob throws an elaborate weekend party, Benjamin thinks he's going to marry his hesitant girlfriend, Marty pines for the unattainable Rachel, and the underage "cool" Donny blackmails his "nerdy" older brother to tag along to Jacob's party. The film showcases intense teenage love, the possibility of relationships, youthful recklessness, and challenges the perception of cool.

