A young girl zealously wants to go to school and learn to read and write. Almost everywhere she is met with hostility or indifference. The only young boy who takes her to his school is thrown out by the teacher, because helping her prevented him from coming in time. - It must not go unnoticed that the schoolgirls and the female teacher are likewise hostile toward this girl. None of them want her in the classroom. On her way home she and other girls are taken as prisoners by boys playing talibans. They tear her school book to pieces (or rather what was left of it after the schoolgirls had done the same thing.) The "taliban boys" threaten to stone their girl prisoners (although in this movie there is little real physical violence against girls). The girl's attempts end in complete failure. (Whatever moods of the scenes throughout the entire movie, the acting by the central girl is really impressive.)
The film starts with the the footage of taliban militia dynamiting and demolishing the 6th century bamiyan Buddha statue.
The film moves to the life of afghan people after the end of the Taliban regime, living in the cave houses in the mountain cliff in the bamiyan valley.
Bahtai is a 5yr old girl child shown with her mother and younger brother.abbas is her neighbour and friend narrates to her the stories from his school text.bahtai is fascinated by the funny story of the man sleeping under a tree and a nut falling on his head and wanted to go to the school.she searched for her mother for the money to buy the book in vain.
Later she takes the egg to the nearby market for the money.with the ten bucks she managed to buy only a book and decided to manage with the lipstick instead of pencil.
She first went to the boys school but the teacher told her to go to the girls school on the other side of the river. on the way to the school she met playful children identified themselves as Taliban, they decided to stone her to death for going to school,shows the deep rooted bias against women in the afghan society.abbas arrives their and they branded him as the american spy and made him fall in a ditch.
After that she met some other girls held hostage by the child Taliban.later a mock war was going on between the Taliban and Americans,and bahtai goes from their to the school.
She trespassed in to a classroom and sits there until the teacher finds her and showed her the way out.she then meets abbas and says him that she studied herself.way home,they met children playing as Americans,and abbas mocks death when they shot.
Bahtai runs away and film ends with Abbas saying :
"Bahtai,die to set you free."
