Ben Stein examines the issue of academic freedom and decides that there is none when it comes to the debate over intelligent design.
Academic freedom is being suppressed, says Ben Stein. He contends that professors from around the United States are being fired from their jobs for promoting, or even exploring the possibility of, intelligent design as an alternative to Darwinism. Stein interviews the expelled academics and other supporters of intelligent design. He also interviews the scientists in the mainstream, who support Darwinism. Stein links Darwinism to Nazism, Communism, eugenics and abortion. Vintage clips of educational films and Hollywood movies are used to illustrate points in a satirical way.
This is an in-depth study of the "Higher Reasoning" rampant in academia at all levels of universities and governments everywhere. From the authors of "The Deliberate Dumbing Down Of America" to "Creations Tiny Mystery", to people even mentioning the idea that maybe Darwin was incorrect in "his" ideas of evolution, are paying heavy prices for truly thinking outside the academic box. It has been proven that evolution and natural selection can only have effect on what already exists. How did it get there? Ben Stein helps to expose the establishment that hangs over like a wraith those choosing the "heresy" of free thought.
Ben Stein stars in this satirical documentary which examines the criticisms and hostilities that exist in today's scientific field (both academic and professional) towards peers and journalists who subscribe to or even entertain the perspective of Intelligent Design in science. This documentary shows Ben Stein mostly hosting or introducing interviews to help the audience understand his point (lack of academic freedom) and then to get the perspective of scientists on both sides of the issue. The movie credits lists about thirty interviewees who are mostly scientists, a few journalists, and one US congressman. Scientists on both sides of the issue come from a multiple of universities located mostly in the US and Britain. One scientist residing in Paris and one scientist from Poland are also included.Dr. Richard Dawkins (author of "The God Delusion") and Dr. P.Z. Myers (who has the "Pharyingula" blog) are two notables amongst the interviewed scientists who do not wish to allow the discussion of the possibility of an intelligent designer into science classrooms, scientific papers, or other scientific professional or research venues. Dr. Guillermo Gonzalez (author of "The Privileged Planet" and co-discoverer of various planets) and Dr. Alistair McGrath (author of "The Dawkins Delusion") are two of the notables amongst those interviewees who wish to allow the discussion of the possibility of an intelligent designer into the scientific arenas noted above.The documentary is interspersed with B&amp;W clips either made in old film style or used from old movies. These clips usually humorously illustrate Mr. Stein's spoken point or offer visual, humorous commentary on an interviewee's spoken words. A couple minute color computer animation of many activities going on in one cell is included and is set to music. DVD includes a clip with comments of two scientists who use the "intelligent design" principle in their current research.
