An imprisoned vampire, Barnabas Collins, is set free and returns to his ancestral home, where his dysfunctional descendants are in need of his protection.
In the year 1752, Joshua and Naomi Collins, with young son Barnabas, set sail from Liverpool, England to start a new life in America. But even an ocean was not enough to escape the mysterious curse that has plagued their family. Two decades pass and Barnabas (Johnny Depp) has the world at his feet-or at least the town of Collinsport, Maine. The master of Collinwood Manor, Barnabas is rich, powerful and an inveterate playboy...until he makes the grave mistake of breaking the heart of Angelique Bouchard (Eva Green). A witch, in every sense of the word, Angelique dooms him to a fate worse than death: turning him into a vampire, and then burying him alive. Two centuries later, Barnabas is inadvertently freed from his tomb and emerges into the very changed world of 1972. He returns to Collinwood Manor to find that his once-grand estate has fallen into ruin. The dysfunctional remnants of the Collins family have fared little better, each harboring their own dark secrets. Matriarch Elizabeth Collins Stoddard (Michelle Pfeiffer) has called upon live-in psychiatrist, Dr. Julia Hoffman (Helena Bonham Carter), to help with her family troubles.
In 1760, the Collins family moves from Liverpool to the Maine to expand the family empire and dedicate to fishing business. One year later, they are successful and the city of Collinsport is raised in the place. Then, for fifteen years, Joshua and Naomi Collins build their Collinswood mansion. Their servant Angelique Bouchard has an unrequited love for their son Barnabas that actually loves Josette DuPres. But Angelique is a powerful witch that curses Barnabas and his family, killing his parents, Josette and turning him into a vampire. Then she brings the locals that lock him in a coffin and bury him for the eternity. In 1972, the young Victoria Winters comes to the decadent Collinswood to be the tutor of the young David Collins, who lost his mother two years ago. She finds a dysfunctional family composed by the devoted matriarch Elizabeth Collins Stoddard ahead of the family business that is near bankruptcy; her rebel daughter Carolyn Stoddard; her brother and David's father Roger Collins; the psychiatrist Dr. Julia Hoffman that takes care of David; and the servants Willie Loomis and Mrs. Johnson. When eleven workers release and awake Barnabas, he drinks their blood and returns to Collinswood. He meets Elizabeth and she tells him that the family has been cursed then Barnabas shows a hidden room with a treasure inside and he promises to protect them and assume the business. When he sees Victoria, he rekindles his love for her. But the witch Angelique is still alive and is prominent in the town and she has not forgotten Barnabas or that he broke her heart.
Dark Shadows is a melodramatic comedy following the misfortunes of a vampire named Barnabas Collins. Centuries ago a witch had sought revenge upon the Collins family following her and the man's discontinued love affair. To his travail she set a curse on Barnabas turning him into a blood feeding monster and locking him away for years. Later he escapes from his imprisonment and sets out into his evolved hometown. And nothing is as it once was.
A 1970's gothic-horror tale centering on the life of Barnabas Collins (Johnny Depp) who had entombed for 196 years by a jilted lover, Angelique Bouchard (Eva Green), a witch that also cursed him by making Barnabas a vampire so he would have to live forever with the memory of having spurned her and causing the death of of his true love, Josette. Barnabas has run-ins with various monsters, witches, werewolves and ghosts. Based on the popular 'Dark Shadows' Television series created by Dan Curtis and dedicated to his memory.
Having spurned the love of the wrong woman--the inconspicuous but powerful witch, Angelique Bouchard--the shameless philanderer and 18th-century aristocrat, Barnabas Collins, finds himself buried alive in Collinsport's cold ground. Cursed to roam the earth as an eternal vampire, Barnabas is unintentionally unearthed some two hundred years later, in 1972, only to discover that his once-enviable palatial estate has fallen into decay, whereas the heartless sorceress, Angie, is as fresh as ever. Under those circumstances, can Barnabas restore the Collins family to its former glory--and in the meantime--get even with Angelique?
The film begins with a voice-over prologue from Barnabas Collins (Johnny Depp): When Barnabas was 10-years-old in the year 1752, the Collins family left Liverpool, England to settle in the New World, where they established the seashore town of Collinsport in Maine and their foundation manor of Collinwood. In 1776, the adult Barnabas, then a charming aristocrat, denies the affections of his French maid Angelique Bouchard (Eva Green). When his parents meet a mysterious death, he learns that Angelique is a witch, but before he can do anything she hypnotizes his lover Josette duPres (Bella Heathcote) to commit suicide by jumping off Widows Hill, a lofty jagged cliff. Driven beyond endurance, he too jumps off the cliff, but Angelique curses him to be a vampire to make his suffering endless. She then reveals his monstrous nature to the residents of Collinwood, who turn on him and lock him in a box, which is buried in a lonely forest.In 1972, a governess, named Victoria Winters (Bella Heathcote), arrives at Collinwood by train from New York City. She has been hired by Elizabeth Collins Stoddard (Michelle Pfeiffer), the current family matriarch, to oversee her young nephew David (Gulliver McGrath); the boy lost his mother and apparently his mind, as he appears to talk to her. Victoria also meets the other members of the family: David's shifty father Roger (Jonny Lee Miller), Elizabeth's mean-tempered teenage daughter Carolyn (Chloe Grace Mortez), David's alcoholic psychiatrist Dr Julia Hoffman (Helena Bonham Carter), and the servants Mrs. Johnson (Ray Shirley) the housekeeper and Willie Loomis (Jackie Earl Haley) the gamekeeper. That night, as she settles in she spots a familiar specter, who cryptically informs her of an impending arrival...That night, a group of construction workers dig up Barnabas's box, and he bursts out and feeds on all of them. He stumbles through 1972 Collinsport, fazed by the new world around him, but is able to get back to Collinwood. He proves his identity to Elizabeth by revealing to her a secret vault in the manor, filled with treasure; he explains to her, however, that all he wants is to get back his home and family. Elizabeth agrees to let him stay, on the provision that he doesn't reveal his true nature or the treasure.The next day, Barnabas begins to fit in with his descendants. He passes himself off as a distant relative from England, who has arrived to restore the Collins family's fortunes. He discovers that the Collins fishing business and family has been brought to ruin by a new competitor, Angel Bay, whose owner comes to welcome him... Angelique. She explains that while he was gone, she became a major chieftain of Collinsport and with her position runs the whole town, having brought the Collins to ruin with her influence. She manages to wound Barnabas with daylight, but later Elizabeth encourages Barnabas to defy Angelique for the sake of the family.Barnabas manages to restore the family business (mostly through hypnotizing most of Angelique's fishermen and inducing them to work for him instead), as well as gain the trust of the Collins family. He is also able to cultivate a romance with Victoria, who uncannily resembles his lost love Josette. Dr. Hoffman discovers Barnabass secret, but is convinced by Elizabeth to keep it a secret for scientific purposes; she works on making Barnabas human through transfusions of human blood. Angelique, who is still lethally attracted towards Barnabas, has a meeting with Barnabas and she repeats her advances on him and seduces him; he refuses her a second time, and she swears to destroy him if she won't have him.Barnabas enters a hippie commune whom Victoria is acquainted with to adjust himself to the 1970s era, but instead ends up killing them all. Later, he proposes hosting a ball at Collinwood to restore the family name. At this ball, he discovers Roger stealing money from the guests and neglecting his son. Later, he has an intimate moment with Victoria, who confides in him the truth about herself: she was originally a child named Maggie Evans, and she had the ghost of Josette duPres as her constant friend, an act which convinced her parents she was insane and put her in a mental asylum. She managed to escape and take on a new identity of Victoria Winters, and make her way to Collinsport. She feels drawn to Barnabas as if shes known him forever, and the two of them kiss, not knowing an enraged Angelique is watching them...The day after the ball, Barnabas discovers that Dr. Hoffman has been using his blood to make herself immortal; enraged at this deceit, he kills her and dumps her body into the ocean. Finally, he discovers Roger looking for the vault and presents him an ultimatum: either be a good attentive father to David, or leave with enough money to keep him comfortable. Roger decides to leave Collinwood and David behind, to his son's grief. When a ceiling ornament drops and nearly crushes an unknowing David, Barnabas saves him, but unfortunately exposes his true nature to everyone, including David and Victoria, who consequently draw away from him.Barnabas meets Angelique and asks that she rid him of her curse. She proposes that he join her and they rule Collinsport together, or she locks him back in the box and destroys all he holds dear. He outright refuses this bargain, so she makes good on her promise: she locks him in the box and deposits it at an abandoned mausoleum, where she plans to keep him there until all he loves is destroyed. She starts by blowing up the Collins family factory, and then blaming it on the Collins; she manages to stir up an angry mob of townspeople to attack Collinwood.Barnabas is freed by David, who explains his ghost mother guided him to the mausoleum. They make it back to Collinwood just as the mob arrives. Barnabas offers to give himself up in place of his family, then attacks Angelique and cracks her skin. This unnatural spectacle exposes her as a witch to the townspeople, who abandon her and leave Collinwood as fast as possible. The Collins then make a combined assault on the woman who ruined them; Barnabas with his vampire powers, Willie with an ax, Elizabeth with a shotgun, Carolyn as a werewolf (revealed to have been cursed by Angelique), and finally David summons the spirit of his mother (whom Angelique drowned) to hurl Angelique into a chandelier. Mortally wounded, she tears out her heart and offers it to Barnabas, saying she really did love him.In the aftermath, Barnabas searches for Victoria; David hears from his mother that she's heading for Widows Hill. Barnabas rushes off and manages to stop her, but learns she is planning to jump off the cliff of her own accord: unless Barnabas will make her a vampire like him so that they can be truly united, she would rather die than be apart from him. She jumps, and Barnabas saves her by biting her and turning her into a vampire; this has the effect of combining Josette's psyche with Victoria, who wakes up as a vampire and is now taken over by Josette. Barnabas ends the film with a another voice-over narration that despite Victoria being dead, Josette is now alive in Victoria's body, and they lived happily ever after in the dark shadows, and his curse of eternal suffering and guilt of being immortal has come to an end... so to speak.In the final shot, at the bottom of the ocean, the body of the newborn vampire Dr. Hoffman reanimates....
