An undercover FBI agent faces a moral dilemma when he's asked to torture a member of one of the world's most powerful crime syndicates.
Jimmy, a business-like young man, enters a room where a man, the accountant for a shadowy drug lord, is shackled. Over the next week, Jimmy systematically tortures the accountant, demanding information about missing funds. The accountant denies any knowledge. In flashbacks to six months before, we see Jimmy's joining a group of the drug lord's enforcers, surviving brutal hazing, getting his first assignment, and keeping his cool. We also learn that Jimmy has another identity, friends in high places, and a girlfriend unhappy about both his work and his changing personality. Can Jimmy hold on to his humanity as he carries out increasingly nightmarish orders?
Kevin Cole (Cole Hauser), an FBI agent goes undercover to infiltrate the crime syndicate to learn the new identity of Ziggy, a notorious and mysteriously unseen drug lord who has had many plastic surgeries, before he can get inside the FBI and take down the people he has unfinished business with. In order to gain entry into Ziggy's crime syndicate, Agent Cole had to undergo a brutal initiation process. Known only as Jimmy Vaughn by Ziggy and his cronies, Agent Cole is put to the ultimate test when he is ordered to interrogate and torture a confession out of Ziggys accountant and family man Archie Green (Laurence Fishburne) who was accused of stealing millions of dollars in dirty money. The sick torture affects the behavior of Agent Cole and his relationship with his wife Becky (Emmanuelle Chriqui), who leaves him after years of marriage. But the agent keeps going on his dark mission to prove that he deserves to be promoted by his own merits and not because of the influence of his father and FBI Director Jack Cole (James Cromwell). But as he starts turning the screws tighter, the mind games begin. Who is controlling who now? And it appears that he is not the only one who isnt who say they are.
