Dying Breed interweaves the two most fascinating icons of Tasmanian history: the extinct Tasmanian tiger and "The Pieman" (aka Alexander Pearce) who was hanged for cannibalism in 1824. Against all odds, Pearce escaped from the most feared penal settlement of the British Empire - Sarah Island - and disappeared into the impenetrable forests of Western Tasmania. Seven convicts escaped with him, yet Pearce was the only one that emerged... along with chunks of human flesh in his pockets. The legend of Pearce was born. An extinct species... a long forgotten legend... both had a desperate need to survive; both could now have living descendants within the Tasmanian bush. Many sightings of the tiger have been reported. Many hikers have gone missing. Hundreds in fact. Zoologist Nina is convinced there are still tigers remaining in the Tasmanian wilderness, and she has proof - a photograph of a paw print snapped by her sister just before she met with a fatal accident in the bush eight years before. Unable to attain funding for an expedition, Nina fears her wish to finish her sister's work (and perhaps lay to rest recurrent nightmares she has about her sister's death) will never happen. Her partner, Matt, manages to persuade an old mate Jack to help finance the trip - at a price. Jack brings along a girlfriend, Rebecca, who uses the trip as an escape from her stifling real estate job. On their quest to find the extinct tiger, the group venture deep into isolated territory and into the domain of "Pieman" descendants. "Sarah" is a small township that passionately upholds its cannibalistic heritage in honour of the convict patriarch that gave birth to it. It needs to stay hidden to survive... but it also needs fresh "stock" to breed. The four hunters become the hunted.
Between 1788 and 1868, Australia served as a penal colony for the British Empire and Tasmania was the most feared. The prisoner Alexander "The Pieman" Pearce escaped and survived in the woods eating human flesh. In the present days, the researcher Nina organizes an expedition to Tasmania to proceed the work of her deceased sister Ruth and find evidences of the extinct Tasmanian tiger in the wilderness. She travels to a remote area with her boyfriend Matt and his troublemaker friend Jack that brings his girlfriend Rebecca and they spend the night in a village of descendants of "The Pieman". Sooner the quartet discovers that things have to stay hidden to survive.
Tasmania, Australia---one of the world's most isolated islands. It is rumored that, deep within the wilderness, an ancient species known as the Tasmanian Tiger is alive and breeding. Yet, modern science refuses to believe such a creature now exists, since no witnesses have ever been able to prove it. That is, until zoology student Nina (Mirrah Foulkes), claims she can breach Tasmania's impenetrable forests and confirm the tigers' existence. Driving Nina's quest is one critical piece of proof: a photo of a paw print taken by her sister just before she met with a fatal accident eight years before.In the early 19th century, the murderous convict Alexander Pearce (aka "The Pieman") had broken out of prison twice, and each time he had killed and eaten his fellow escapees. But what Nina doesn't know is that, before he was hung for cannibalism in 1824, he'd spawned a blood line who inherited his taste for human flesh. Soon, Nina and her friends discover that in the wild, as one species may have died out, another has thrived---in the form of the Pieman's descendants. When she sets out with her partner, Matt (Leigh Whannell), his old mate, Jack (Nathan Phillips), and his girlfriend, Rebecca (Melanie Vallejo), their little expedition encounters the island's reigning breed, but one who stands on two legs, not four. The Pieman clan has survived, and their need to feed and breed turns Nina, Matt, Jack and Rebecca into this island's next endangered species.
