A woman assists her friend in arranging an illegal abortion in 1980s Romania.
Romania, 1987, the brutal Ceausescu communist regime is in place; birth control is illegal and abortion is a crime punishable by death. Gabita (Laura Vasliu) is almost five months into an unwanted pregnancy and in meek desperation turns to her friend and roommate, Otilia (Anamaria Marinca) for help in organizing an illegal termination. Unfortunate circumstances force the two women to use an unwanted male abortionist, Bebe (Vlad Ivanov). The bleakness of the storyline expresses a dark socio-political critique in the twilight years of a repressive dictatorship.
Romania 1987, the era of the repressive Communist regime. Gabita Dragut and Otilia Mihartescu are friends and college roommates, they living in the coed dorm. One day in their life is presented, this day when Gabita hopes to get an abortion, which is illegal in Romania. They have told no one beyond those that need to know, such as their friend Ramona, who recommended Mr. Bebe, a man they don't know and have yet to meet, to do the procedure. Otilia has not even told her bourgeois boyfriend, fellow student Adi Radu, despite Otilia borrowing money from him for the many expenses. Gabita has made most of the arrangements, such as talking to Mr. Bebe on the telephone, he who provided very strict instructions to her, and booking the hotel room at the Unireal where the procedure will be done, the reservation for three days just in case Gabita's recovery ends up being on the longer side, but Otilia, in Gabita's emotional descent, has to do much of the heavy lifting in preparation for the abortion today, such as checking into the hotel, ensuring the room is adequate and all the supplies needed are there (including some black market items, such as foreign cigarettes, just in case they need to bribe anyone), and picking up Mr. Bebe. The process is fraught with potential problems as they are required to show and surrender their ID to anyone in authority for the asking, even to the hotel receptionists in their coming and going. As the day progresses, Otilia and Gabita's friendship is tested as one problem arises after another, Otilia who has to decide how far she will go for her friend. And the goings-on of Otilia and Gabita's day will also make Otilia reflect on her relationship with Adi, from who she is receiving pressure to make an appearance at his mother's birthday dinner this evening, Adi's parents who she has yet to meet.

