A high school girl is invited to a party by the most popular boy in school -- only trouble is, she's grounded.
Rich, handsome team captain Drew Patterson, like his elder brothers before, the high school's dream prince, tires of the haughty head cheerleader and shows some interest in nerdy nobody Mandy Gilbert. For her, his invitation to the party of the year of his parental estate bodes instant social promotion, but her overprotective pa Tom grounds her for dishonesty. She's as determined to get in anyway with friends' help as her rival's pack to prevent that and dad to guard her. Furthermore, there's a dooming rumor about the Patetrson boys.
High School Musical star Ashley Tisdale headlines this coming of age comedy about an unpopular high school senior who lands a date with the most popular boy in school, only to find herself grounded on day of the big event. Mandy Gilbert (Tisdale) never ran with the "in" crowd, but the biggest party of the year is coming up and she needs to land a date as soon as possible. Much to Mandy's surprise, high school hunk Drew (Robbie Amell) agrees to accompany her to the big event. But just when it seemed like everything was going to work out in the end, Mandy is placed under detention by her overprotective dad. Perhaps with a little help from her resourceful friends and her handy new video phone Mandy will be able to trick her father, outsmart Drew's jealous ex-girlfriend, and finally prove that she has what it takes to become the most popular girl in school.
Ashley Tisdale stars in this hilarious teen comedy as Mandy, an unpopular high school senior who lands a date to the biggest party of the year with Drew, the schools hottest guy. But while her dreams are finally coming into focus, with the help of her friends, shell have to battle her overprotective dad and Drews ex-girlfriend, whos determined to keep Mandy away from the bash. In one crazy, adventure-filled day, Mandy strives to get to the party and discovers that popularity can come and go, but good friends will always be in the picture!
