The movie takes place in the year 1807 in the city of Puebla, New Spain. Leo San Juan, a shy 9-year-old boy, lives with his grandmother and his older brother Nando. Leo is constantly frightened, due to the legend of the Nahuala that his brother told him about. The legend speaks of an old abandoned house, in which "La Nahuala", a witch, lives.
Sinópsis
Corre el año de 1807 en la Ciudad de Puebla de los Ángeles, Nueva España.Leo San Juan, un inseguro niño de nueve años de edad, vive eternamente asustado por las historias de terror que le cuenta Nando, su hermano mayor. Dentro de estas historias está "La Leyenda de la Nahuala", según la cual, una vieja Casona abandonada se encuentra poseída por el espíritu de una Malvada Bruja conocida como la Nahuala, quien está esperando el alma de un niño inocente para resucitar y obtener poder absoluto.
Esta Leyenda se convierte en realidad cuando el espíritu de la Nahuala secuestra a Nando ante los ojos de Leo y éste se ve obligado a vencer todos sus miedos para rescatar a su hermano.
En su recorrido por el interior de la Casona Embrujada, Leo se enfrentará a peligros y seres sobrenaturales; y nosotros descubriremos que no todo es cómo parece y que dentro de esta Casona se esconden terribles sucesos pasados que ponen en grave peligro no sólo la vida de Leo y Nando, sino la tranquilidad de toda la Ciudad de Puebla.Synopsis
In 1807, in the city of Puebla de los Ángeles, New Spain.Leo San Juan, a 9 year old insecure kid, throughout his life he has lived scared by the stories that his older brother Nando tells him. Among these stories is "The Legend of the Nahuala", ; according to which, the old abandoned house located on Street of Nahuala number 7 is possessed by an evil spirit Nahual that took over the spirit of the houses cook. Now, the Nahuala is waiting for the soul of an innocent kid to revive and gain full power.
This legend turns into reality when the spirit of the Nahuala takes Nando in the presence of Leo and makes him beat all his fears to rescue his brother.
In his journey inside the bewitched house, Leo will face dangers and supranatural beings, and we will discover that not everything is what it seems and that inside this house there are terrible events hidden which are not only of great danger for Leo and Nando, but also for the calmness of the city of Puebla.
