While on a trip to Thailand, a successful American businessman tries to radically change his life. Back in New York, his wife and daughter find their relationship with their live-in Filipino maid changing around them. At the same time, in the Philippines, the maid's family struggles to deal with her absence.
In New York, the immature family man Leo Vidales is a successful businessman, owner of the Underlandish, a successful website of digital games and married to Dr. Ellen Vidales, a dedicated surgeon of the emergency room of a hospital. They have a daughter, Jackie, who is an intelligent girl that is raised by her nanny, the Filipino Gloria, who spends more time with her than Ellen. Gloria has two sons in the Philippines that miss her. When Leo need to travel to Singapore with his partner, Bob (Tom McCarthy), to sign a multi-million dollar contract with investors, Ellen operates on a boy stabbed in the stomach by his own mother and she feels connected to the boy and rethinks her relationship with Jackie. Meanwhile Leo is bored waiting for the negotiation of Bob with the investors and he decides to travel to Bangkok and lodges in a rustic cottage on the seashore. Leo meets the young prostitute and mother, Cookie, and he has a one night stand with her. Meanwhile, Gloria's ten year-old boy, Salvador, misses his mother and decides to find a job. His innocence leads him to a tragedy.
In New York, the immature family man Leo Vidales is a successful businessman, owner of the Underlandish, a successful website of digital games and married to Dr. Ellen Vidales, a dedicated surgeon of the emergency room of a hospital. They have a daughter, Jackie, who is an intelligent girl that is raised by her nanny, the Filipino Gloria that spends more time with her than Ellen. Gloria has two sons in Philippine that miss her. When Leo need to travel to Singapore with his partner Bob (Tom McCarthy) to sign a millionaire contract with investors, Ellen operates on a boy stabbed in the stomach by his own mother and she feels connected to the boy and rethinks her relationship with Jackie. Meanwhile Leo is bored waiting for the negotiation of Bob with the investors and he decides to travel to Bangkok and lodges in a rustic cottage on the seashore. Leo meets the young prostitute and mother Cookie and he has a one night stand with her. Meanwhile, Gloria's ten year-old boy Salvador misses her mother and decides to find a job. His innocence leads him to a tragedy.
Leo and Ellen are a successful New York couple, totally immersed in their work. Leo is the creator of a booming website, and has stumbled into a world of money and big decisions. Ellen is a dedicated emergency surgeon who devotes her long shifts to saving lives. Their eight-year-old daughter Jackie (Sophie Nyweide) spends most of her time with her Filipino nanny Gloria; even when Ellen has time for her, Jackie often prefers to be with Gloria.Gloria has two children of her own, young boys staying in the Philippines with their grandmother. The older boy tries to find a job so that Gloria does not have to work abroad, but he gets hurt. Gloria is informed and quits her job right away to return to her country.Leo travels to Thailand to sign a contract, but in Thailand it turns out that his colleague has to negotiate additionally. In the meantime Leo is bored. There are attractive women offering themselves to him, but at first he does not want sex, and even pays a prostitute for not having sex with any client one evening. Later he has sex with a local women after all, but he regrets it afterwards, and has his colleague accept the terms offered, so that they can finish the work and return to the US. [D-Man2010]
