Andy, Nico, Jarod and Griff reunite in Fort Lauderdale for Spring Break and participate in a contest called "Gays Gone Wild" to determine who can attain the most "buttlove" over the course of the vacation.
Gay friends Andy, Griff, Jarod and Nico, following the summer of their high school graduation when they all lost their respective virginity, decide to reconnect for further sexual debauchery by spending spring break together in Fort Lauderdale. They are delighted to find that the resort where they are staying is holding a week-long spring break contest called "Gays Gone Wild", Fuckstamps which are awarded for each sexual encounter or for organized resort party games, with the gay with the most Fuckstamps being crowned Miss Gay Gone Wild and the prize of a sex boy toy. Something that happens to a gay celebrity on their flight affects his participation in the contest. Hung geek Griff and shy jock Jarod, who are a monogamous couple in love, have to decide if they want to open up their relationship for the contest and for their stay in Fort Lauderdale, and if so if they will place any limits to that openness. Boy next door Andy, the power bottom, may reassess his goal of having as much sex as he can get when he meets virgin Luis, who is more into love and romance, and when he sees someone he knows at the resort who is having his own coming out of sorts. And flamboyant, camp Nico slowly comes to feel like an outsider among the masculine men at the resort. He meeting Stan, with who there is no possibility of ever getting together, may give him a different perspective of his situation. Any of Andy, Griff, Jarod or Nico winning the contest is challenged by Jasper - last year's winner - and his entourage of Jasper Chan and Jasper Pledge, who will do anything to ensure that Andy, Griff, Jarod or Nico, who they see as Jasper's main competition, don't win.
ANOTHER GAY MOVIE was about getting laid for the first time. In true gay fashion, ANOTHER GAY SEQUEL: GAYS GONE WILD! is about who can get laid the most.ANOTHER GAY SEQUEL finds our heroes ANDY, NICO, JAROD and GRIFF reuniting at a gay resort in sunny Fort Lauderdale for Spring Break. They participate in a contest called 'Gays Gone Wild!' to determine who can attain the most "buttlove" over the course of the vacation.Between Wet Package contests, Evil Gay Fratboys, and genital crabs the size of kittens, it's a bumpy road to booty victory. But this time around, love proves to be the biggest conflict of all as the boys struggle to rectify just how casual sex fits into their lives.Production of ANOTHER GAY SEQUEL: GAYS GONE WILD! will take place entirely on location in and around Ft. Lauderdale during the month of December 2007 and is set for a summer 2008 theatrical release.
