On Halloween night a group of college students get trapped in a mysterious board game that brings their darkest secrets and fears to life, where they must play to escape...and win to survive.
The movie starts following a guy who is running from something in absolute pitch black dark. As he's running, there's a lot of creepy noises like a little girl's evil laugh, ghostly whispering, etc. Running man stops and sees who we assume is "uncanny Annie" and falls. "I've enjoyed our game together, but you broke the rules," she says in a creepy fashion before running man is dragged off screaming.After the creepy beginning credits roll, we cut to four college guys playing a dungeons and dragons type game in a house. After it's clear that two of the guys, Craig and Peter, don't take the game as serious as they do, the other two guys leave. After the other guys leave, another friend, Michael, jumps down and scares Peter and Craig. Michael was upstairs with his girlfriend Wendy, and said they would come downstairs later when everyone else arrives. Tonight their small group of friends are getting together to celebrate/honor their friend named Tony, who died almost a year to the day. As Michael is going upstairs, he asks if Peter or Craig can order some beer, since Wendy invited two of her friends to join them later. Craig stops, "wait she didn't invite Eve did she?" Apparently Craig and Eve had recently broken up. Michael says he didn't know and if he did he couldn't tell Craig, and responds with, "but probably."Michael comes upstairs with two beers and slices of pizza, trying to talk Wendy into some fooling around, but she's not interested. Wendy reminds him to hurry up, because they had all promised each other that they would spend time together and play board games, which apparently was what Tony was into. Cut to Peter and Craig downstairs. Craig is having a mini-freak out that his ex-girlfriend has been invited, saying that they've barely spoken since they've broken up. Someone knocks at the door, and in walks Eve and a new friend, Grace. Grace seems like a down-to-earth, and fits in well with the guys. Grace has obviously been brought as a potential date for Peter, and they walk off together for Peter to show her the house while Eve and Craig have that awkward "so...how've you been" chat.Michael and Wendy finally come down, and chat with the everyone, introducing Grace to everyone. Wendy asks Eve to go the kitchen with her, leaving Grace with all three of the guys in the living room. In the kitchen while she's fixing Eve a drink, Wendy asks Eve if she's sure she's ok being here with her ex-boyfriend Craig . Eve reassures Wendy that she's ok, that she's there for remembering Tony. In the living room, Grace grabs a beer and pops the top off using another beer, which seems to impress the guys. Grace sits with the guys in the living room and chugs her beer, which the guys also find impressive. Grace uses a little humor to break the ice, and makes small talk asking what their majors are. Grace knows why they are all getting together, and asks point blank, "what happened to your friend Tony?" Grace says she thought she heard that he drowned in six inches of water, which she didn't think was possible. Michael immediately gets defensive and says "yeah well it happened so look it up if you want." Grace realizes she hit a nerve and immediately apologizes. The guys tell Grace that every year their friend Tony would get incredible excited for Halloween, "too excited." The guys tell her that it was Tony's favorite holiday, and they didn't feel like going out tonight so they were going to stay in and play board games, which Tony loved to do.Wendy and Eve come back in, and they all decide that they should pick a board game to play. All the games are down in the basement, and Eve volunteers to go get them. The basement is definite creep show material, and Eve walks down and grabs an armful of board games, hauling ass back upstairs after she hears a noise like someone is in the basement behind her. The group looks at all the games, and ultimately settle on a new game, Uncanny Annie. On the cover, we can't help but notice that Running Man from the beginning of the movie is on the cover of the board game. Peter picks up the box and reads the rules: "You're now in Annie's dark box of fun, where you must play to see the sun. Annie loves games and needs new friends to play with. Clever and eager, she plays for keeps. On each turn, a player picks a Challenge Card. If you succeed, you win the round and add a tile. If you don't you have to draw a Mischief Card, which gives you a last chance to survive. Otherwise, you'll be eliminated. Spell out Annie's name and seal the box in time, or out of Annie's void you'll never climb. It isn't safe for the box to be open too long. Finish within an hour because Annie's keeping time, so don't step wrong. Fight back and survive or Annie will get you. If you break the rules, then Annie will too." There is no timer, only a creepily drawn card of a girl with her back turned to the player. There is a multi-faced die with a grim reaper type drawing and Annie's face, but there is no mention of it in the game. The group figures that the cards will reveal what those are later in the game.Michael says let's get this game going, and the group sets the game board up to play. They don't notice that as soon as they do, every light on the outside of the house flickers, and the house is now surrounded in complete and total darkness. Michael draws the first card, saying to confess their deepest fears. The group goes around and says one of their biggest fears, answers ranging from driving alone at night to eye drops. They completed the challenge, so they put the first tile down, the letter A. Grace draws the next card, "Don't lose your head. Choose someone you care about, and when they next play, they will see that love doth have a price to pay." Grace picks Peter, which makes the group begin to joke with them and makes Peter blush. As Grace hands him the card and puts the second tile down, the "N", she gets a sort of premonition. Her eyes glow white and she sees something stab Peter and a closeup of Annie's face. She thinks that it has something to do with the beer, and shrugs it off when the group asks her what is wrong when she has a horrified look on her face.Wendy's turn is next. Wendy draws a card that says to bite a player's neck until they bleed. Ew, no. She declines and picks up a Mischief card. The Mischief card tells her to go into a room with a mirror and say a rhyme that "summons" Annie three times. Wendy goes and recites the rhyme three times, and when she turns the lights on, a message from Annie is written on the mirror while hearing a little girl laugh. "Thanks for choosing my game, Wendy." Wendy freaks out and demands that someone tell her how they did it, but the others are clueless. Michael asks what she's talking about, and when she takes him to see the writing, it has disappeared. Wendy is not amused when they continue to make fun of her, but she lets it go. It is Peter's turn now, and he draws a card. "Challenge: Pierce Death before it pierces you." The group is confused, and begin to hear noises upstairs like someone is walking around. Grace enters bad ass mode, and asks where the keep their tools. Grace grabs a drill and heads upstairs with Peter and Craig to check out the noise. Michael enters bitch mode and "stays to keep the girls safe." Wendy pulls our her phone to call for help, but finds all the phones aren't working. The three go upstairs and see nothing after checking out several rooms, only for some shadowy "dementor" type figure to appear in the hallway behind them. Michael, Wendy and Eve hear the commotion upstairs and run to see the figure in the hallway. Grace has another premonition, and tells Peter, who is armed with scissors, to stab the figure. Peter stabs the figure, and it disappears.The group freaks out and runs out the front door, only to discover that they are completely surrounded by a black void, while hearing a little girl laugh. Peter guesses that they're in the black box that is on the board game, while the others come up with alternate theories. Grace agrees with Peter and says that they're in the black box, as she steps off the front steps and onto where the pavement should be, but they are surrounded by black. Peter follows her and elaborates on his theory, and when he steps past Grace, her premonition comes true as something stabs Peter from behind, and he is dragged screaming into the void. The group runs back inside, and tries to convince themselves that this is not really happening. While the others are reeling in shock, Grace looks at the board and sees the "time card" of Annie move. Grace grabs the third tile, the "N" and places it on the board since the previous challenge was complete. Grace seems to be the only one that realizes what's going on at the moment, and tells the others that they need to keep playing, saying that Peter was right and that they are in fact in the game. Michael throws the game cards in the other room in frustration, and they go back immediately to how they were on the board. Wendy is on board now too, and tells Michael that they need to finish the game while Michael picks up the game box with a look of horror. Peter's face is now also drawn on the front of the game box. The others all finally realize that they need to play before time is up or they're all going to die since Annie is now keeping time.The group all gets individual weapons and continue to play. Craig's turn. "Prankster: 30 minute challenge. He thinks he's really funny but he's really a bother. Protect this card from the thieving little robber." Craig starts a cell phone times for 30 minutes. Cue the eerie music. Things start to get thrown around and then Michael says that it must be a poltergeist. Craig realizes that the prankster is trying to distract them, and tries to pick up the card but it's somehow stuck to the board. The prankster looks like a dirty older man who keeps trying to freak the group out and distract them from the card. He appears in front of Craig, scaring him and making him release the card and the prankster steals it. They fail the challenge, so they have to draw a Mischief Card. Craig draws a card, "Spin and get a kiss, Craig." Understandably he's freaked out that his name is on the card. Craig takes a beer bottle and spins it, and it lands on his ex, Eve. They're uncomfortable but Eve says just to get it over with. As they kiss, Craig's eyes go dark and he stabs Eve with the broken beer bottle in the stomach, barely cutting her. The group is horrified, but know that it was Annie and not Craig. They bandage Eve's stomach up and continue to play.They jump back into the game, and it's Eve's turn. "Truth and Truth." Eve hands the card to Wendy and questions appear for her to ask Eve. If she tells the truth, she wins, but if she lies then Annie will know. Wendy asks Eve the five questions on the card that are pretty vague: "Do you have a secret? Do you know the secret of which I speak? Do you hold this secret because you know it'll hurt someone in this room." She looks at Craig: "yes." Wendy continues with the last two questions: "Do you love this person?" Yes. "Before tonight, did you have any intention of telling this person the truth?" Looks at Craig and Wendy: "no." Eve completes the challenge, and they slap the "I" tile down. Michael is excited that they only have one more tile to go, and draws a card. It's the exact same card: 5 questions. Michael is visibly uncomfortable and tries to draw another card, but the game will not let him. Wendy picks up the card, "Do you have a secret?" Sure. "Are you willing to tell the secret tonight?" Michael gets upset saying that the game is stupid. Wendy picks up where this is going and tells him that whatever the secret is, she doesn't care because she just wants to get through the night alive and that she won't be mad whatever he confesses. Michael refuses and yells at the game that he has no idea what "secret" the game is talking about. Bad choice, Michael. The lights flicker while Annie appears in the dark and none of the group notices. There is a bunch of commotion in the dark and the lights suddenly come on. Michael is nowhere to be found. Craig looks at the board game, and picks up the box. The whole house shakes, and the group figures out that they are actually in the box now.Cut to Michael standing up in the void, and he sees the house in the distance. Michael begins to run to the house, but no matter how fast he runs, the house gets farther and farther away. A car's headlights come up to Michael, barely missing him and Michael closes his eyes. When Michael opens his eyes, he is watching a memory with Tony. Apparently the "secret" that he claimed that he had no idea what the game was referring to. It's raining and Tony is driving a car, who gets out to vomit. Michael is in the passenger seat and comes out saying that he should drive, that it's his own car. Tony refuses and says no that Michael is more drunk than Tony is, and gets an attitude when Michael won't drop it, asking if he's upset that Tony interrupted Michael's "make-out session." Michael is triggered, and yells at Tony saying that he can walk home. Tony yells that Craig is his friend, and that Michael needs to walk home and think about what he's doing. Michael is in the void yelling at his self to stop, but nothing changes. Michael throws Tony into the hood of the car, and crawls away, obviously hitting his head too hard. A girl's voice is heard in the backseat saying not to leave Tony, but Michael tells her that Tony will be fine. Michael yells at Tony to walk home in the rain and cool off, and that he'll see him later before driving away. Tony is visibly struggling, and crawls a few feet before he collapses in a water puddle and drowns because he's unable to move. Surprise! Michael is the one that is responsible for Tony's death. Current Michael grabs Tony's body and makes a tearful apology, before Tony's body disappears. Michael is confused and sees the water beginning to bubble. Tony appears behind him, and instead of a tearful reunion, Tony holds Michael's head under the water until he dies. Annie is heard laughing as this happens.Back at the house, the group has tried to find Michael by looking all over the house, but nobody can find him. Wendy wants to look for him, but the other girls tell her that he can take care of himself, since he pretty much potentially put their lives in danger by not being truthful in the game. Wendy agrees and they begin to play the game again. It's Grace's turn and she draws a "mourning card," which allows them to take a moment to grieve their friends. Craig looks at the game board, and sees Michael's face appear, and shows only Grace as Wendy cries and Eve comforts her. After a moment, Wendy draws a card: "Hide and Seek." "Find home before It finds you, if it sees you then you're next in line." BANG. The house starts rumbling and everyone scrambles to find a hiding spot: Grace in the upstairs shower, Wendy behind boxes in the basement, and Eve and Craig hide together in the pantry. While hiding, Eve tries to tell Craig something that "she should have told him before." Craig tells her that she can tell him later when they survive. Everyone watches from their hiding places as the shadowy figure from the hallway before searches for them. As Craig and Eve are about to be discovered in the pantry, the phone alarm that Craig set off for the Prankster challenge sounds off. This distracts the figure for a moment as it goes into the living room and destroys the phone. Wendy knocks over a box in the basement, which sends the figure down there and destroys everything in anger trying to find her. Wendy uses that distraction to slip out of the basement and traps the figure in the basement while she holds the door shut. Wendy yells for everyone to come out, which they do and they decide that the board must be "home." Craig tells Wendy to go to the board, and takes her place keeping the door shut. The girls all touch the board, and the thumping on the basement door stops. They're all relieved, until the figure stabs Craig in the back of the head through the door. The girls scream as the figure comes out the door, but disappears right before it reaches them.Only the three girls are left now. Grace says they need to take this serious now, and commit to doing whatever challenge is next to complete the game since they only have one tile left and time is running out now. The girls agree, and Grace draws another card. Another Prankster card. "Quiet game: Hold perfectly still and don't make a sound, for that filthy Prankster is lurking around." The prankster appears behind Grace, who doesn't move a muscle. The Prankster tilts her chair back, gets in her face and waves one creepy long fingernail in front of her face waiting for her to move. Grace blinks and the Prankster cackles as he uses that long fingernail to cut Grace's throat. The other girls scream and Grace instantly appears on the box cover. Wendy and Eve convince each other that they have to keep playing since there's only one tile left.Wendy draws a card: The Wager. "Listen to her offer and weight its cost; if luck is in your favor then all is not lost." The lights flicker and everything disappears except for the table that the game is on, and Annie appears behind the girls. Annie thanks them for playing her game and congratulates them for reaching the end, and tells them to make their wager. They must wager something of value, and Annie will do the same. Wendy says that she wants her friends back. Annie says that will be her wager, but Wendy must offer a life in return. Wendy offers her own life, and Annie insists that she wants Eve. Wendy fights and says that she drew the card and she wants to wager her own life. Annie says she wants Eve and if she can't have her then she takes back her stake. Screaming voices can be heard, and Annie taunts them saying that those are all the people who have played the game, including their friends. Eve tells Wendy that out of the both of them, Eve deserves to die. "I betrayed you and Craig. If it weren't for me, we wouldn't be playing this game tonight...I was there the night Tony died." Eve reveals that she was the girl in the backseat in Michael's flashback. That she was hooking up with Michael and that they both left Tony on the side of the road where he ended up dying. Wendy is furious and slaps Eve as she cries. Wendy is ok with Eve's life being a wager now and agrees. The multi-faced die is brought into play now and Annie says if it lands on her then they are free, but if it lands on the grim reaper figure then Annie wins and gets Eve's life. The girls almost have a chance as it lands on Annie then suddenly turns and lands on the Grim Reaper figure. Wendy and Eve share a final hug and Eve says she's ready. Annie says this isn't how it works and says that Wendy needs to take her life and hands her the drill from before. Wendy almost does it and says she can't before trying to charge Annie with the drill. Annie flicks her wrist, which knocks Wendy to the ground and paralyzes Eve standing upright. "I always get what's mine," Annie says before flicking her wrist again and kills Eve via breaking her neck. Wendy has disappeared, and Annie taunts her saying she can't hide in here. Wendy appears from behind the couch with the drill and tells Annie (in true Rick James/Chappelle fashion) "F--- your rules, Annie!" Wendy shoves the drill into the black box of the game, and Annie melts screaming along with the board game in a pile of hot black goop.Wendy looks up and she's back at the house alone, like nothing ever happened. She checks outside and sees that the house is no longer in the void, and even finds the beer at the door that they ordered at the beginning of the movie. Wendy checks around the house and can't find any of her friends, dead or alive. She walks back to the game board and realizes that they never placed the final piece, the "E" tile. Wendy sits down, places the tile at the end, and waits for something to happen. She waits a moment and calls their names again. Defeated, Wendy lays back in the chair, only for Annie to appear behind her. "You broke the rules, Wendy" Annie reminds her as she leans over Wendy's face. Wendy screams and we see her feet kicking and hear her screams as the camera pans over to the completed game on the table.
