Four college freshmen and best friends find that it may take more than a shared pair of jeans to help them stay in touch as their lives go in different directions.
Carmen Lowell is working on the backstage of a play at Yale. When the lead actress, her friend Julia, invites her to Vermont with her to work on a play with a professional cast, she decides to stay with her friends and her pregnant mother. However, she changes her mind after she finds that her friends will all leave for the summer: Lena Kaligaris will travel to a drawing course, Bridget Vreeland, who is in an existential crisis, missing her mother, will travel to an archaeological dig in Turkey, and Tibby Tomko-Rollins is working in a rental and still editing her documentary. Carmen grows a crush on the lead actor Ian, who convinces her to participate in an audition, and she is then invited by the director Bill Kerr to perform the lead female role. Later she finds the truth about the friendship of Julia. The broken-hearted Lena finds that Kostas has just married, and she dates the model of her drawing class. Bridget finds letters addressed to her from her grandmother that her father has hidden, and decides to visit her, discovering information about her mother. Tibby makes love with her boyfriend Brian McBrian and gets scared of a possible pregnancy. In the end, the girlfriends discover that their friendship is real and amounts to more than just a pair of jeans.
From the official website:In "Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants 2," based on Ann Brashares' best-selling series of novels, four young women continue the journey toward adulthood that began with "The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants." Now three years later, these lifelong friends embark on separate paths for their first year of college and the summer beyond, but remain in touch by sharing their experiences with each other as they always have-with honesty and humor. Discovering their individual strengths, fears, talents and capacity for love through the choices they make, they come to value more than ever the bond they share and the immeasurable power of their friendship.
