Romantic sparks occur between two dance students from different backgrounds at the Maryland School of the Arts.
Following the death of her parents, teen-aged Andie West is living with her mother's best friend, Sarah. Andie, who doesn't care about school, is trying to figure out where she fits in in life. The only thing she loves is dancing with her street crew, the 410, led by Tuck. The 410 are the most notorious of the street crews in Baltimore and are wanted by the police for their acts of vandalism and public mischief. Sarah threatens to send Andie to live with relatives in Texas unless she cleans up her act, which includes ending her association with the 410 and trying harder at school. Andie's neighborhood friend, Tyler Gage, convinces Andie to audition for entry into the Maryland School of the Arts (MSA), an institution which ended up turning his life around for the better. Andie passes the audition but isn't sure she fits in there. The school's director, Blake Collins, isn't sure she fits in there either. Blake is a brilliant dancer but looks for conformity to his way. After learning that Andie's absences from rehearsals are due to her new association with MSA, Tuck kicks her out of the 410. Chase Collins, a dance student at MSA, convinces Andie to start her own street dance crew using all the dance misfits from MSA i.e. those that don't conform to Blake's way of thinking. Chase feels like he's one of those misfits being Blake's brother and living in his shadow. This new association brings up a few conflicts within Andie, as her new dance crew tries to gain respect on the streets, especially among her old and judgmental friends, and as she and the crew try to hide the fact of what they're doing from Blake, who ultimately threatens expulsion from the school of anyone participating in the illegal street competitions.
When her guardian threatens to send her to live in Texas, dancer Andie enrolls in the Maryland School of the Arts. There she attempts to learn the traditional technique of dance while encouraging the school misfits to embrace their own unusual dance skills and styles.
Andie (Briana Evigan) is a member of the 410 crew, she goes around showcasing her talents illegally.Tyler Gage (Channing Tatum)one of her oldest friends from her younger years, understands her love for street dancing to save her from being sent away to texas he gets her an audition for MSA - Maryland School of Arts. she gets in but only by the kindness of one guy Chase (Robert Hoffman) also a student at MSA. However, not only is he the most popular guy in school but his brother is it's new director.In Andie's first class she is told to improvise, only used to upbeat music, she panics and makes a fool of herself, then when told to do it again she messes up again.Only this time catching the eye of Chase.she is made to attend after school classes- at the same time as the 4 1 0 's dance rehearsal .After the lesson she heads down to rehearse with the crew, and she's late not impressing her fellow crew members. After being late yet again and after mssing most rehearsals Andie is kicked out of the 410 crew and now cannot battle in 'The Streets'.On realising that she needs a crew Chase comes to her rescue, saying that under the radar in MSA there are a lot of people who would be skilled enough to join a crew. They find 10 people to join them in their crew, the MSA crew. They start practising and realise that they aren't good enough to battle at 'the Streets' yet. So after embarassing themselves at the dragon in a dance battle against her old crew one of Andie's fellow 4 1 0 ers decides to help them out. She helps them realise they have what it takes and make a prank, something that will help them get noticed. They stage their prank in the home of the lead member of the 410 crew. It doesn't go down to well. But Chase and Andie are drawn together by their unavoidable attraction, they flirt and almost kiss while at a family barbeque being thrown by missy a former 4 1 0 member.After this things go bad, the 4 1 0 track down Chase after he leaves the barbeque leaving him with a black eye, they head down to MSA and trash the school. The director finds out and orders the students to come forward if they know anything. However, he knows that Andie is somehow responsible and calls her to his office, where upon a discussion he expells her and she is left shattered...A few days later while the school is hosting a fundraiser they all recieve the text message telling them where 'The Streets' is being held. Andie chooses the ignore this but the other feel it nesessary to take part and go call on Andie, upon convincing her they head down the 8th and Main. Upon arriving they feel unwelcome and are told they don't fit in by the 410 crew. Andie doesn't appreciate this as she knows that the true meaning of the streets is about bringing something new to the floor. So she leads them all outside for 1 last showdown..........
