A bowling night will turn into a bloody death match for a team of teenagers, as a deranged serial killer is taking them down one by one.
A brutally sadistic rape leads to a series of bizarre gory murders during a midnight disco bowl-a-rama at a popular bowling alley. One by one, players of two teams meet blood-drenched gruesome deaths at the hand of a black bowling-gloved masked killer. This alley runs red with blood by sunrise.
Tensions between two rival cliques boil over during an after-hours bowling session and a fight breaks out. When a girl from one of the team forgets her purse in the arcade, she returns only to be brutally raped by members of the other team. The following night, both groups return to the bowling alley. Except this time, they're being stalked by a deranged serial killer adorned with a bowling bag as a mask and by sunrise, the alleys will run red with blood.
During an after-hours competition at the Xcalibur Bowling Centre, the rival teams of Steve and Jamie, two embittered friends, will engage in a fight over Lisa, a sassy girl whom Steve used to date. Sooner or later, things will take a bad turn, as Lisa will be assaulted by all four members of Steve's team and she will be sadistically raped after having forgotten her purse in the bowling alley. On the following night, the bowling groups will return to continue where they left off, however, a mysterious entry on the scoreboard by the initials BBK and the menacing presence of a man wearing a bowling ball leather case as a mask, will soon turn this disco bowling night into a bloody death match, as the deranged serial killer is vengefully taking them down one by one. By morning, the floors are bound to be slippery.
The film opens at Xcalibur Bowling Centre, a disco-themed bowling alley in Surrey, British Columbia. Egerton (Dan Ellis), the janitor, has allowed two groups of teenagers to bowl against one another after hours. The "prep", Steve (Alistair Gamble), is still bitter after his best friend Jamie (Nathan Witte), the "jock", had sex with Lisa (Candice Lewald), a girl with whom Steve was smitten and even took to their senior prom. After Steve and his friends Joey (Wade Gibb), Patrick (Trevor Gemma) and A.J. (Nathan Dashwood) harass the "tranny", Sam (Jimmy Blais), they are chastised by Jamie. This leads to a brawl between Steve's team and Jamie's. Lisa breaks up the fight by dropping a bowling ball on Steve's foot just as Steve is about to kick Jamie again. Egerton, brandishing a shotgun, tells the teenagers to leave and they can continue their tournament the following night.Lisa, having forgot her purse in the arcade, returns to find Steve and his friends waiting for her. Steve proceeds to violently rape Lisa while the others watch. Egerton is oblivious to Lisa's cries for help, as he is downstairs cleaning up the mess the teenagers made. After he is finished raping Lisa, Steve leaves the room. A.J. and Joey rape Lisa on the pool table while Steve is gone. Patrick, who believed the three were only going to "scare" Lisa, refuses to participate in the rape. Steve returns with a bowling pin and prepares to insert it into Lisa's vagina before Patrick intervenes. Steve retorts by giving Patrick the pin and ordering him to do it himself. Patrick refuses to do so at first but complies when Steve threatens to do the same to him. The four leave Lisa on the pool table, naked and barely conscious.The following night, the two groups arrive at the bowling alley to continue their tournament. Steve is joined by his "bitches", Julia (Danielle Munro) and Hannah (Saraphina Bardeaux). Jamie arrives late with Lisa, who barely speaks and wears sunglasses to hide her bruised eyes. As the teams begin their first game of the night, Lisa suddenly gets on an elevator. She is confronted by Patrick, who says he's only at the bowling alley to apologize. Lisa doesn't believe him, and insists that he is only there to make sure that she hasn't contacted the police.The players notice a mystery player on the scoreboard, BBK, but believe it is just a glitch. Dave (Scott Alonzo), one of Jamie's friends, meets Julia in the bar and pays for two beers she ordered. When he discovers that one of them belongs to Steve, he asks if he can urinate in it. Julia tells him that she doesn't care and that she dislikes Steve too but hangs out with him anyways because he's dating her friend Hannah. Julia follows Dave into the bathroom and the two begin to make out. A mysterious person wearing bowling attire and a bowling ball bag over his head with two small holes cut out for eyes, exits one of the stalls while Dave and Julia are in the "69" position and forces Julia's head further onto Dave's penis while forcing Dave's head further between Julia's legs, suffocating them both. After they are dead, two strikes appear next to BBK on the scoreboard in the form of a skull and crossbones.The game continues and Sam excuses herself to the bathroom so she can "freshen up." The person who murdered Dave and Julia is hiding in one of the stalls when Sam enters the girls' restroom and Sam, frightened by the noise coming from the stall, approaches it and is pulled inside. She tries to bargain with the killer, but the killer murders her by forcing a bowling pin down her throat. The killer lifts up Sam's skirt and, using the switchblade Sam tried to defend herself with, cuts Sam's penis lengthwise, giving her a "mangina."Ben (Jeremy Beland) and Cindy (Stephanie Schacter) leave to have sex in a storage room upstairs, but Ben leaves Cindy alone to get a condom from the bathroom. He dies when the killer hits him over the head with a bowling pin and gouges his eyes out with a sharpened pin. The killer finds Cindy upstairs and strangles her to death with a pair of shoelaces from bowling sneakers.Downstairs, Hannah searches for Julia but dies when the killer crushes her head with two bowling balls.Joey goes back behind the pin setters to fix his team's, which they notice is broken. A.J. notices the strikes appearing next to BBK on the scoreboard and questions Egerton about it, who assures him that it is just a glitch. Egerton sends A.J. to an area currently being remodeled with an "out of order" sign to put on an automatic ball polisher that Joey broke earlier. A.J. turns the ball polisher on and finds it already fixed but dies when the killer uses it to wax his face off.Steve, noticing that something is amiss, leaves to find Joey behind the pin setters. Joey lies dead on the ground, headless. Steve is frightened by the killer, who bludgeons him with a bowling pin before sodomizing him with a sharpened pin. As Steve tries to crawl away, the killer smashes his head in with the bowling pin.Meanwhile, Sarah and Jamie continue their game. Jamie reaches into the ball return slot to find his bowling ball, instead discovering Joey's severed head. The two try desperately to escape the bowling alley before coming face to face with the killer. While searching for a way out, Jamie and Sarah run and hide in the basement, where they find all of their friends' bodies. The killer appears with a shotgun and removes the bowling bag to reveal Egerton's face. Sarah discovers that Jamie knew about the murders of Steve, Joey and A.J. but not the others. Lisa appears, dressed up as well in the same bowling attire costume, revealing it was she that murdered Steve, but Egerton murdered everyone else. Jamie explains that Lisa told her father, who turns out to be Egerton, about the gang rape and Egerton let Jamie in on the plan. When asked why he killed their friends too, Egerton explains that they didn't intervene when Lisa reentered the bowling alley alone and are therefore just as guilty.Just then, yet another person dressed like the killer or "BBK", as Egerton goes on to explain, enters the basement and removes the bowling bag to reveal Patrick's face. Patrick explains that he confessed his involvement to Egerton and wanted to contact the police, but Egerton let him in on the plan instead and he was the person who murdered Joey and A.J., supposedly to make it up to her. Lisa is furious that her father allowed him to live so Egerton betrays Patrick and slits his throat with the switchblade he took from Sam. Jamie, realizing he's out of control, wrestles Egerton to the ground and, after a scuffle, blows his head clean off with the shotgun. Lisa cradles her father's body before grabbing the switchblade and trying to attack Jamie. Sarah grabs the shotgun and kills Lisa.Sarah shoots the locks off of the emergency doors and the two survivors escape the bowling alley. As dawn begins to break, the blood-splattered Sarah and Jamie walk away. Traumatized and, above all, upset that Jamie did nothing to prevent the murders, Sarah turns the gun on him. The screen cuts to black and a gunshot is heard.
