A young man learns he is the latest in line of a dynasty of ancestral warriors dedicated to guarding a mystic source of cosmic energy, and the time has come for him to take the role.
Orphaned, lonely and neglected Aditya grows up in Great Britain, living with his abusive aunt and cousin, Rajesh, and the abuse grows worse after the passing of his uncle. Aditya will soon find out that he is not alone in this world - he has a mother, Rani Jayati; a sweetheart in Sonia; he is watched by angels; and he also has a virtually indestructible arch-enemy - Riz Raizada, who had killed his father, the legendary Drona, to secure the secret of the Amrit Manthan - and is now all set to kill the Rani as well as Aditya himself.
Far away in a distant town, there was once a young man named Aditya, Brought up by a foster family, Adita was unaware of his real identity and the destiny that awaited him. Ever since he was a child, a recurring nightmare haunted him. And when he woke up in fright, there was no one he could ever hold on to except for a magical BlueCross petal that came wafting in the wind, never failing to make him smile through his tears. Somewhere far from here, an evil sorcerer, Riz Raizada, a descendant of the asuras (legendary demons) had become dangerously impatient, in his thirst for the precious secret. The secret, which was the missing link, in this grand plan of taking over the universe. To get to the secret, he'd have to defeat the Drona. And herein, lay his problem. He didn't know who or where the Drona was! One sudden day Aditya and Riz came face to face and Riz immediately recognized him as the Drona. Aditya's destiny had caught up with him and his life was about to take him on a journey he had never imagined. Aditya couldn't comprehend why Riz's men were hunting him down. Just when he was about to be captured, a cult that believed that The Drona was their Messiah came to his rescue. Sonia, the leader of the cult, revealed Aditya's real identify to him. Baffled, Aditya found it all too hard to believe. Having no time to lose, Sonia decided to take Aditya back to his place of birth, the ancient kingdom of Pratapgarh where his mother, Queen Jayanti Devi would have all the answers to his questions. But before he could embrace his mother, Riz and his army of the darkest powers caught up with him. Aditya would now have to rise to the occasion and embrace his destiny. For the sake of mankind he would have to become the legendary warrior he was born to be. Drona. Thus began Drona's journey through myths and legends. Along with Sonia, he would fight the evil spells of the absolutely lethal Riz Raizada. By battling odds, he would discover skills that he never knew he had. But would his fears catch up with him? Would the nightmares from his childhood come in the way of his epic journey? As good and evil clash in this contemporary fantasy fable, a breathtaking adventure beckons you into a world of mythic heroes and malicious magicians, of enchanted lands and life altering choices, of cunning curses and absolute innocence. The magnificent world of Drona!
Drona is the compelling modern tale of one man's spectacular voyage through the labyrinths of mystic myths and legendary legacies. As good and evil clash in this contemporary fantasy fable, a breathtaking journey beckons you into a world of mythic heroes and malicious magicians, of cunning curses and absolute innocence.A world, where spells can turn live-flesh to cold stone. A world, whose whispers lay closely guarded in a land of mirages. A world thriving with thrills, a world of mystical magic, a world where adrenalin bursts out into a riot of colours. A world of audacious adventures, a world of fantastical folklores.Drona is a slick, twenty first century tale that travels across continents but is profoundly and proudly Indian.Plot OutlineFrom the times, when time itself was a newborn baby, the universe has kept one secret carefully camouflaged within its folds. A secret, which if unraveled, could unlock the destruction of mankind and the entire cosmos.Today, only one man can protect the universe's precious secret and thus, save the human race from absolute annihilation.DRONARooted in the vibrant tapestry of Indian mythology, Drona is the compelling modern tale of one man's spectacular voyage through the labyrinths of mystic myths and legendary legacies. Of a journey that will force him to face his fears and make him the hero he was born to become.As good and evil clash in this contemporary fantasy fable, a breathtaking journey beckons you into a world of mythic heroes and malicious magicians, of cunning curses and absolute innocence. A world, where spells can turn live-flesh to cold stone. A world, whose whispers lay closely guarded in a land of mirages. A world thriving with thrills, a world of mystical magic, a world where adrenalin bursts out into a riot of colours. A world of audacious adventures, a world of fantastical folklores.The world of Drona!
