A disgraced member of the Russian military police investigates a series of child murders during the Stalin-era Soviet Union.
Based on the first of a trilogy by Tom Rob Smith and set in the Stalin era of the Soviet Union. The plot is about an idealistic pro-Stalin security officer who decides to investigate a series of child murders in a country where supposedly this sort of crime doesn't exist. The state would not hear of the existence of a child murderer let alone a serial killer. He gets demoted and exiled but decides, with just the help of his wife, to continue pursuing the case.
In 1953 Soviet Russia, the gruesome discovery of a maimed young boy near the railway tracks in Moscow points to an invisible prowler who preys on the innocent. Entrusted with the thorny task of finding a swift solution to this never-heard-of problem, the former war hero and now an outstanding investigator in the Secret Police, Leo Demidov, must work fast to track down the serial killer on the loose, especially after the death of a colleague's son. Under those circumstances, before long, things will take a turn for the worse, when Leo refuses to denounce his schoolteacher wife, Raisa, as a dissident--a bold act of devotion that will condemn the couple to exile, as the death toll keeps rising. However, in a system where distrust is ever-present, what separates an accident from murder?
A literally flag-bearing member of the Red Army which bloodily crushed Hitler's inner circle last stand in Berlin, war hero Leo Demidov became a blindly loyal member of Stalin's merciless repression police. Having refused to turn on his schoolteacher wife, Raisa, to be denounced as a dissident, he must cease his investigation of suspicious murders on 'missing', probably sexually abused boys, including a mate's son, which Leo refuses to help cover up blindly, as he 'follows' Raisa in exile, transferred to a rural town. Demoted to the deputy chief of the local police, he finds similarly strange deaths occur there, notably targeting the 'unthinkable' gay minority, and starts hunting fro a serial killer.

