In times of the infamous Argentinian Corralito, the neighbors of a little town trace a plan to recover the money they lost after to learn that their bank manager and a corrupt lawyer have stolen it.
August 2001, Alsina (east to Argentina, close to Atlantic Ocean). In a little town with absence of population and resources, former soccer player Fermín Pelassi and his wife Lidia decide to create a cooperative buying an abandoned silo to restore it and hire people to work, hoping to bring back the business Alsina. Talking between others with friends as aged Antonio Fontana (a self-declared anarchist and Bakunin's fan), train station chief Rolo Belaúnde, redneck expert in explosives Atanasio Medina, businesswoman Carmen Largio and the naive not-too-much-smart but lovely José and Eladio Gómez brothers, all they reunite an amount of 158,000 $. Not having a bank in Alsina, Fermín and Lidia travel the neighbor town of Villagrán to leave the money in a safe box trusting in Alvarado, bank manager, to keep it while they try to negotiate with silo's owner to reduce the original price of 300,000 $. Therefore, Alvarado convinces Fermín to change the money from the safe box to his own bank account to accelerate silo's purchase. But the next day, December 19, 2001, Argentina's government declares the infamous Corralito (a national bank freeze, preventing that any citizen can to extract from any bank more of 250 $ per day). With all them money trapped in the bank, Fermín and Lidia travel Villagrán to face without success Alvarado by the cheat. However, things worsen when during the return trip they have a car crash, where Lidia dies and Fermín is severally injured. One year later, a depressive and still mourning Fermín cared by his son Rodrigo, who left the Buenos Aires' University after the car crash, is visited by Fontana and Belaúnde to report him about news: going to Fontana's workshop, a young bank employee reveals Fermín that the same day that Alvarado convinced him to change the money, it was moved to the bank account of a corrupt lawyer and Alvavaro's partner-in-crime, Fortunato Manzi, who later kept it in an underground bunker located in the lands of a cow ranch. Looking for recover the money Rodrigo fakes to be a gardener in Manzi's office where he meets Florencia, Manzi's secretary, feeling attracted to her at the same time he learns about Alvarado's and his wife deaths in a fire in their house. While Fermín and the rest find the bunker and they try to open it, they discover in bad ways the so much strong bunker's security system, forced to runaway quickly. Tracing trace a plan to dismantle the security causing several consecutive fails on it, two unexpected troubles appear: Florencia uncovers Rodrigo, and an armed Manzi is on the verge of a collapse nervous, determined to kill anyone by the money. Fearing to lose Rodrigo as he lost Lidia, Fermín quits off the plan, but Rodrigo makes him continue despite the danger. Will can to get the money before Florencia betrays Rodrigo and Manzi catch all them?

