Ranjit, who makes fun of idiots, gets completely annoyed when he invites a tax inspector and a singer to his house.
Ranjeet Thadani lives a wealthy lifestyle in Mumbai along with his wife, Sheetal, who is a singer, while he manages Soundtrack Industries. At the request of his friend, Jagdish Verma, he decides to invite a singer and Libran, Bharat Bhushan, to his residence for dinner, as well as listen to him sing. Ranjeet, suffering from back pain, does not realize that Bharat is also an Income-Tax Inspector, and upon arrival at Ranjeet's residence, will virtually and hilariously turn his life upside down.
Ranjeet Thadani (Rajat Kapoor) is a music producer married to Sheetal (Sarika) a singer. Ranjeet and his friends get together every Friday for a party. This is a different kind of party where they invite idiots to ridicule them behind the scenes and calling them "talent". They enjoy doing it so much that they don't even mind missing out on family appointments.One of Ranjeet's friends meets Bharat Bhushan (Vinay Pathak), an inspector in the Income Tax Department, on a trip to Pune and decides that he could probably be a source of entertainment for Ranjeet. Ranjeet promptly calls Bharat and invites him for dinner.Bharat is a talkative self-promoting singer who carries with him a scrap book showcasing his musical life. He is excited at the prospect of meeting a music producer which might help advance his career as a singer. Bharat is kind-hearted and wants to help everyone but he also has the ability to mess things up for people around him. He can be annoying to the person who is sitting next to him but he makes it a funny experience for everyone else watching him.Friday arrives but Ranjeet's back is sprained badly and is restricted from moving around. Ranjeet knows that he will not be able to make it to the party but still decides to meet with Bharat to see how good or rather bad he is. Before Bharat arrives at Ranjeet's residence, Sheetal leaves after an altercation with Ranjeet. When Ranjeet asks Bharat to call his family doctor, he accidentally calls Ranjeet's girlfriend Suman Rao (Bhairavi Goswami). Ranjeet asks Bharat to leave his home for all the mess he has created. Ranjeet tries to get information regarding Sheetal's whereabouts. Bharat offers to help and calls Sheetal's previous boyfriend Anant Ghoshal (Milind Soman) under a false identity. Instead, he ends up giving Ranjeet's Landline number that makes it obvious to Anant that Ranjeet is trying to get all details. Anant tells Ranjeet that Sheetal might have gone to Keval Arora, a sex-freak.It turns out that a colleague of Bharat, Asif Merchant (Ranvir Shorey), who is also an inspector in the income tax department, knows the whereabouts of Keval. Asif is a snobby character who loves to watch cricket and is an ardent fan of Pakistan. While trying to mend the relationship between Ranjeet and Sheetal, Suman tells Bharat that he was called by Ranjeet to make a fool of him and have fun at his expense. This hurts Bharat, but the good-hearted Bharat still wants to help Ranjeet by letting Sheetal know how sorry Ranjeet is because of his acts and how much he loves her. However, he again messes up and the film ends on a funny note.
