In India, the backpacker American friends Gina, John, Stacy, Geraldine and Phil hike in the woods with their guide Brian. When Geraldine is bitten by a poisonous spider, the group decides to seek an American doctor that lives in the jungle in a tribe. Dr. Lecorpus treats the girl and while Gina, John and Phil return to the village in the civilization, Brian and Stacy stay with the native. They decide to visit a temple in the forest while waiting for the recovering of Stacey; however, they find a dark secret about Dr. Lecorpus.
Sergeant Sajan Chaudhri is instructed to take over the Police Station in a small town in Kanati District in India. His predecessor has been missing for over two months now. Sajan gets the feel of the town and it's people. Then one day two Caucasians, one a male, John, and female, Gina, attend the Police Station, asking for his assistance as one of their friends, Geraldine, has been bitten by a Bolivian spider and is being looked after by Dr. Lecorpus. They want his assistance in taking Geraldine to a proper medical facility. Sajan takes his jeep and goes to investigate. After alighting from the jeep, he is captured and brought into a primitive spider-worshiping village, and meets with Dr. Lecorpus. He is set free and upon inquiring about Geraldine, he is told that her health had improved and she decided to leave. Sajan decides to investigate further without realizing that he, along with John, Gina, as well as Brian, a Tourist Guide, and a woman named Stacey, will soon not only be the target of hordes of venomous spiders but also must run for their lives from a masked man who wants to paralyze them using spiders' venom, then take their organs out and sell them to the highest bidder.
starring: Emma Catherwood, Lance Henriksen, and Lisa LivingstoneA group of young European explorers are guided to an Indian village, located beside a cave, decorated in massive spider webs, and inhabited with "tarantula-like" spiders. The village is presided over by a mad scientist, protector of the village ogre -- whose grusome head is covered by a mask of spider webs. The action involves drum hypnotized villagers...explorers being chased into the cave by village guards, brandishing curved swords...a young woman, draped in spider webs, being paralyzed by a fearsome, metal hypodermic needle...a courageous Indian policeman...and lots and lots of arachnids, jumping crawling and biting, with the inevetable body count mounting. Undoubtably, a screen classic!
