The story of Coco Chanel's rise from obscure beginnings to the heights of the fashion world.
Several years after leaving the orphanage to which her father never returned for her, Gabrielle Chanel finds herself working in a provincial bar. She's both a seamstress for the performers and a singer, adopting the nickname Coco from her father in early childhood. A liaison with Baron Balsan gives her an entrée into French society and a chance to develop her gift for designing increasingly popular hats. When she falls in love with English businessman Arthur Capel further opportunities open up, though life becomes ever more complicated.
The life of Coco Chanel before her fame as a fashion designer is presented. Born with the name Gabrielle (Coco a nickname given to her from her singing the song, "Qui qu'a vu Coco dans l'Trocadéro?"), she and her older sister Adrienne live in an orphanage in Obazine, France in their formative years following the death of their mother and being abandoned by their father. They stay together into their young adulthood, working as seamstresses during the day, and performing in a cabaret at night in Moulins. Fashion in an off-handed manner is already present in her being, she always decrying both their costumes and the general style of the day for women, both which are in her mind overly frilly and constraining. She and Adrienne are different personalities, Adrienne who aspires to that of most young women, love and marriage to a husband that will take care of her. Coco, on the other hand, has a streak of independence, bluntly speaking her mind, stretching the truth or lying to get what she wants, and not believing in love or a man in her life. She believes security can be had by getting to Paris and performing in the famous Alcazar. En route, she begins a symbiotic relationship of sorts with Étienne Balsan, a wealthy stable owner who she met in Moulins. Through Blasan, Coco will meet two other people that play important parts in her life. One is actress Emilienne d'Alençon, who, while still adhering to the style of the day, admires certain aspects of Coco's own individual style, especially her simple straw hats. The other is English coal magnate Arthur Capel - nicknamed Boy - who may make Coco change her mind about love.

