A look at a few chapters in the life of Poppy, a cheery, colorful, North London schoolteacher whose optimism tends to exasperate those around her.
Poppy Cross is happy-go-lucky. At 30, she lives in Camden: cheeky, playful, frank while funny, and talkative to strangers. She's a conscientious and exuberant primary-school teacher, flatmates with Zoe, her long-time friend; she's close to one sister, and not so close to another. In this slice of life story, we watch her take driving lessons from Scott, a dour and tightly-wound instructor, take classes in flamenco dance from a fiery Spaniard, encounter a tramp in the night, and sort out a student's aggressive behavior with a social worker's help. Along the way, we wonder if her open attitude puts her at risk of misunderstanding or worse. What is the root of happiness?
Thirty year old Poppy Cross is a London elementary school teacher who is not averse to having a good time. She brings into almost any situation an outward happy-go-lucky attitude and behavior, both to place others at ease as well as for other people to like her. She can, however, deal with serious situations when the need arises. While some including her closest friends such as her roommate and fellow teacher Zoe naturally gravitate to her because of her personality, others are eventually disarmed by her while others want to get away from her as fast as they can. To some extent, Scott, her driving instructor who is a perpetual outsider in life, falls into that latter category, he who does not appreciate what he sees as her flippant attitude which can be dangerous in the serious matter of driving. Poppy will discover that her bubbly personality has unintended effects, especially with Scott.
In Camden, the elementary school teacher, Poppy Cross, is a very optimistic thirty year-old smiler that has been sharing a flat with her friend and co-teacher, Zoe, for ten years. When her bicycle is stolen, Poppy decides to have driving lessons with the Axle School of Motoring with the rude, bigoted and bitter instructor, Scott. Meanwhile she has trouble with her back after having a go on the trampoline and decides instead to take Flamenco classes with a Spanish teacher. When her pupil, Nick, bullies other students, Poppy feels that the boy is having troubles at home. She asks for the assistance of the social worker, Tim, and they start to date each other. However her attitude of happiness and joy is misinterpreted by Scott.
30-year-old Poppy is a London schoolteacher who's more upbeat than anyone I've ever met in real life: She dresses in colourful retro-hippie clothing, smiles and waves at strangers on the street, and laughs incessantly. When she goes out clubbing, she stuffs her bra because she likes the way it feels.Poppy can't stand to see anyone unhappy -- or even neutral. She's undeterred by a taciturn bookstore clerk who responds to her many friendly overtures with grunts and glares. It's unclear whether she's actually concerned about his well-being -- her banter is clearly not cheering him up -- or if after a while she's just sort of mocking him.Poppy has a ton of friends, one of whom is her roommate; a couple of sisters, and a very full life that includes bouncing on a trampoline and taking flamenco lessons. She keeps insisting that she's perfectly happy despite the fact that she's single and doesn't have kids or a mortgage, even though she's already reached the ripe old age of 30.In addition to being preternaturally carefree, Poppy is also a bit of a flake. When her bike is stolen early on in the film, she gets over it in a matter of seconds. Her only regret, she laments aloud, is that she never even had a chance to say goodbye. Since she can't bring herself to replace her trusty steed, she decides that -- global warming be damned -- it's time to take driving lessons.Poppy's driving instructor is an angry, humorless racist with bad teeth named Scott who's in no mood for any of Poppy's frivolity; to him, driving is serious business and if you fool around you will crash and you will die! Whoa. The core of Scott's driving philosophy is that one must pay constant attention to the golden triangle of mirrors: the one on the right, the one on the left, and most importantly, the rear-view mirror, which he equates to the all-seeing eye on top of a pyramid, and which he calls Enraha (a malapropism for Eye of Ra, perhaps?).Every Saturday, Poppy and Scott go out for a driving lesson. Poppy keeps goofing around and trying to make small talk, but Scott's hostile demeanor remains impenetrable. Enraha! he screams every time she takes the wheel. Enraha! Enraha! Enraha! Yikes.On the one hand, Scott is clearly a nutjob, but on the other, why does Poppy have to keep torturing him with her antics? Why can't she just shut up and concentrate on driving? I don't think I'd last five minutes with her, but Scott keeps coming back week after week because he prides himself on never having lost a student. And Poppy keeps coming back too, I suppose because she sees Scott as a challenge.Though she refuses to play it straight during her lessons, Poppy clearly has it in her, as is demonstrated by her attempts to help a troubled pupil. Despite this being one of the few serious parts of the movie, it was also probably my favorite, in part because it seemed so real.
