Much to his surprise, an utter misanthrope is transformed into a reluctant do-gooder, when a glorious pair of angelic snow-white wings sprouts up from his back. Now, everyone in town wants a piece of his feathered appendages.
Angel is a selfish, abusive, morally bankrupt man who hangs out as his local bar, berating the other patrons. One day, Angel mysteriously wakes up with a pair of wings on his back. The wings make him do good deeds, contrary to his nature. He desperately tries to rid himself of the good wings, but eventually finds himself fighting those who view the wings as their ticket to fame and fortune.
A man of inflexible schedule, and above all, an utter misanthrope, Angel is simply a sad, rude and self-centred chain-smoker who drowns his misery at the local bar, nagging incessantly and harassing the patrons. But, who would have thought that this abusive man had a suppressed inner angel struggling to get out? Much to his surprise, a glorious pair of angelic snow-white wings will transform this bitter cynic into a reluctant do-gooder; although, this newly-acquired exotic attribute is taking its toll on his bad reputation. Now, everyone in town wants a piece of the feathered appendages, but these only belong to Angel. Even though he never asked for this.
I love Bill Plympton for his creativity and animation talent, and although "Idiots and Angels" is a great exercise of his artistic style, the storyline and central character seems to be from an earlier epoch. The man who sprouts wings is a jerk; the epitome of an empty, unhappy, misogynistic, self-centered, low-class, evil-tempered jerk; a man-person of another age and time when no one was aware or seemed to care that there was anyone else alive in the world. Nothing that our protagonist achieves comes from the character's essense. He is a victim of everything that happens to him, just as he victimizes everyone that tries to touch him. Nothing in this plot elevates the story above the start-line. Sorry, Bill. Grow up.
