Four Los Angelenos, a mortician, an ex-con, a suicidal ex-priest, and a stripper, are brought together on Christmas Eve by a mixture of circumstances.
Los Angelenos meet on Christmas Eve through chance, tragedy, and divine intervention. Velvet Larry is the sleazy owner of the strip club where the glamorous but struggling single mother Rose Johnny dances. Qwerty Doolittle is a shy young mortician who falls in love with her. Randall is the head of a corporate crime organization who tries to convince a former employee just released from prison not to seek vengeance on his former co-workers. Charlie is a suicidally depressed ex-priest. Lexus is a lonely transsexual prostitute who shares an unexpected bond with the former priest.
Jessica Biel (Home of the Brave, The Illusionist) stars as Rose Johnny, a stripper who has a son in a hospital, and has a torrid romance with Qwerty Doolittle (Eddie Redmayne). The film also features Forest Whitaker (The Air I Breathe) as a suicidal priest named Charlie, and Ray Liota (Battle in Seattle, Even Money) as an ex-con named Jack Doheny obsessed with Rose.Powder Blue is a lot like The Air I Breathe with Andy Garcia, and Sarah Michelle Gellar, in that the characters all randomly cross paths on Christmas eve.Some of the more interesting scenes in the film involve Charlie trying to attempt suicide
with a transsexual hooker named Lexus (Alejandro Romero). Lexus finally ends up shooting herself instead of Charlie after talking about a failed love affair.Some of the strip scenes at the club, and private dances where Jack is getting off on
Rose are kind of kinky. The final strip scene where Rose goes topless with some
candle wax while Qwerty Doolittle watches is somewhat erotic, and also shows that
Rose has feelings for Qwerty.Patrick Swayze also puts on a good performance as a sleazy strip club manager named
Velvet Larry. Velvet forces Rose to be at work on Christmas eve so she cannot see her
dieing son Billy (Chandler Canterbury).Jessical Biel, Eddie Redmayne, and Forest Whitaker really give outstanding performances in Powder Blue. The film is well written and directed by Timothy Linh Bui.If you liked The Air I Breathe, or Showgirls then you will love Powder Blue.
