A woman becomes obsessively infatuated with her boss, and when his wife becomes ill, she sees an opportunity to seduce him.
CEO David Wescott greatly appreciates his trusted office assistant Rachel Parsons's efforts to help out in the Wescott household too when he loses his wife, leaving his child semi-orphaned after an ailing disease. Rachel stops at nothing to make herself seem indispensable in both spheres, aiming for her boss's exclusive attention. She's confident a business trip to New York provides the perfect opportunity for her to propose, but realizing she schemed to intrude his intimacy, he puts her in her place, planting the seed for spiteful revenge at a corporate dinner.
Many see Rachel Partson as being the perfect executive assistant to David Wescott, who owns his own fledgling PR firm. David, in turn, sees her as being indispensable. She is not only committed to her job, but also the well being of the company and doing whatever David needs to ensure his family life with his wife Carol and their daughter Isabelle runs smoothly in light of his busy schedule and focus on the company health, especially now when his company's well being is dependent upon being awarded a lucrative contract. What everyone is unaware of is that Rachel does all this extra work because she is in love with David herself. When Carol is admitted to the hospital with a serious illness - what is eventually diagnosed as encephalitis - Rachel sees it both as a sign an an opportunity to be with David forever. The question becomes to what extent Rachel will go to get what she wants.
RACHEL (Josie Davis), 30, is the perfect assistant to her boss DAVID (Chris Potter), 42. For the past three years, she's done everything in her power to help David manage everything that comes with running a boutique advertising agency. The problem is... she's fallen hopelessly in love with him in the process. She's never acted on her feelings because David is married to a beautiful woman named CAROL, 38, and has a young daughter, ISABELLE, 7. But when Carol contracts encephalitis, an impatient Rachel begins to feel that maybe this is her chance to show David that she should be the one he comes home to every night. Rachel does her best to help David through his wife's illness, gets closer to his daughter, and even orchestrates situations where she can be alone with him. David welcomes her help, unknowingly fostering a growing obsession in Rachel that will ultimately end in disaster when she finds out he doesn't feel the same way...
