On the coast of North America in AD 1007, two Norsemen are stranded when their expedition is attacked and they are left for dead. As they struggle to survive in the vast forests of the New World, their paths diverge as one pursues a spiritual quest and the other reverts to his primal instincts
In the 11th Century, Vikings, Indians, and Irish Monks collide on the shores of North America in an historically unknown epic adventure of exploration, personal glory, and religious dominance. Two stranded Vikings wade through a grand primeval landscape as they struggle for survival while still in the grip of their Norse ways.
In the year 1007, an expedition of Vikings arrives on the shores of the New World and travels south in search of a fabled Vinland. When their party is attacked by "Skraelings" and must flee to safety, two men who had gone ahead to explore the interior are left behind, assumed dead. Very much alive but stranded on the rocky shore, the two move north in hopes of reuniting with their countrymen. Haunted by memories and visions of the Old World, the Norsemen face the challenges of an unfamiliar landscape in very different ways. And though the terrain seems dense and deserted, they are not the only people in the woods: both Indians and Irish Monks factor in their epic adventure in the Americas.
Opens with a written account of vikings coming to America. Scene of dead people on a shore, two survivors, Orn (Tony Stone) and Volnard (Fiore Tedesco). The two guys build a shelter, fishing, eating, dumping and talking by the camp fire. They leave the camp to explore, and find two Irish monks; one monk is killed and their chuch is burnt. Volnard befriends the surviving monk , talking religion, while Orn is being watched by a native. They go their separate ways: Volnard hanging with the monk, Orn being lured by drugs into a native's camp, where he is sexed by a woman. He leaves the natives to find his friend with the monk, and kills the monk. Volnard gives Orn a beating. They sit by a camp fire together brooding. Volnard takes off, leaving Orn alone, and Volnard is soon killed by the natives. Orn comes running up to avenge his death, and then, after the burial of his friend, Orn is lost and walks through the woods alone. Winter and snow comes along and he walks into his demise by cold weather.
