Anne, now a middle-aged woman, is troubled by recent events in her life. Her husband, Gilbert, has been killed overseas as a medical doctor during World War II. Her two daughters are pre-occupied with their own young families and her adopted son Dominic has yet to return from the war. When a long-hidden secret is discovered under the floorboards at Green Gables, Anne retreats into her memories to relive her troubled early years prior to arriving as an orphan at Green Gables and being adopted by the Cuthberts. Still haunted by her early childhood, the impact of this difficult period has a far-reaching effect on this older woman, once she discovers the truth about her real parents. She begins a delicate search for her birth father. It is a journey through a past fraught with danger, uncertainty, heartache and joy. In the parade of humanity Anne encounters she also faces the root of her desire to find true "kindred spirits", an inspired imagination and the impetus to use her talents as a writer to inspire others.
In 1945, widowed Anne Shirley Blythe has returned to Green Gables to write a new play. There, she discovers some old letters hidden beneath the floorboards, the letters which shape both her play and make her reminisce about her childhood before her original arrival at Green Gables. Anne was never orphaned, but rather abandoned by her father, Walter Shirley, after a devastating accident which killed Anne's mother, Bertha. Living in several harsh situations, Anne spent much of her time post-abandonment at the home of Amelia Thomas, the mother-in-law of Louisa Thomas, Bertha's widowed best friend. Amelia was a stern businesswoman - she owned a series of mills - who was in constant battles with the bank, her workers many who wanted to unionize, and other business owners who wanted to take over her business. Anne was torn between blood loyalty and the loyalty to Mrs. Thomas. Both the discovery at Green Gables and her reminiscences make Anne try to reconnect physically with her past, some of which she is only now discovering.

