A Lahore-born London Police Commander deals with personal issues and investigates the shooting death of a fellow-Muslim.
Tariq Ali, a Muslim police officer of Scotland Yard, is asked to hunt-down suspected suicide-bombers against the backdrop of July 7 bombings in London. Tariq's task gets complicated as an innocent Muslim is killed by the commando shooters of Scotland Yard. On the other hand, Tariq - a British citizen is himself a suspect in the eyes of his boss, despite his long service in the Scotland Yard.
Lahore-born Tariq Ali is a Commander in the London Police Department and lives with his Caucasian wife, Susan, and two children, Zara, and Imran. He is much respected, and hopes to be promoted as Deputy Assistant Commissioner. After the 7/7 bombings in the city, a Muslim male student, Baqir Hassan, is shot dead by a uniformed police officer at Charing Cross Underground Station. Amidst media frenzy that the killing was racially motivated, he is assigned this investigation along with a subordinate, Ruby. While attempting to deal with his truant, nearly six-foot tall daughter, Zara, and welcoming his nephew, Zaheer Khan, from Pakistan, Tariq opens the investigation, meets with the victim's mother and sister as well as their lawyer, Fiona Munroe. Tariq will find his life changing after photographs appear in leading newspapers of his meeting with Imam Junaid, his childhood friend from Lahore. It is this information that will not only create tensions at home but he will also be sidelined for the promotion; removed from the investigation as well as asked to go on leave. He will also find that people who had known him all their lives now shun and look at him with suspicion.
Shoot On Sight is a fictional story based on London Police order to shoot suspected terrorists after the July 7th 2005 London bombings, that resulted in racial profiling. The Film is a thrilling and riveting drama that unfolds the turmoil in the life of Tariq Ali, a Muslim police officer at Scotland Yard. Commander Ali, born in Lahore and tasked to investigate the police shooting of a suspected Muslim terrorist on the London Underground. Distrusted by both his superiors in the police, and his fellow Muslims, he finds his inquiry hampered from all sides. When evidence surfaces pointing to the slain man's innocence, as well as the existence of a terrorist cell operating in his own backyard, Tariq must face the realization that sometimes, the right decision is the hardest one to make.
