Two lowly earthworms, Gloria and Barry, decide to make the world's greatest disco band which helps them rise from the bottom of the food chain to stardom proving that earthworms can boogie too.
A lonely worm helps his girlfriend and friends to make the world's greatest disco band. So they can prove other worms that they can do better than others. But Dennis: there archnemesis is most known for being sexy with the worms. But Bjarne now must beat Dennis at being good. But his friend isn't up to a boogie band he just want piece. But when they continue theyr'e practicing they need more work to beat Dennis and his friends.
A lonely and lowly worm called Sunshine Barry doesn't have a fun life while he is working in his office. But then when he looks in a box that he is gonna get to his friend that is not much in a sense of humor. He found a disco LP record where it says ''Disco''. But when he listens to that record he begins to groove with the music. But when his mom sees what is doing he basically tricks her that he is getting a clipper. But when afterwards after he hates his work he begins to be a boogie dancer.But sincerly Tonni Dennis: There arch-rival wants Sunshine Barry's girlfriend Gloria so he can join her for dinner and trick her for losing the contest. Then Barry and his friend teams up in their boogie band to win a competition where the ones that wins get $ 10,000. Gloria and a dude helps to team up aswell to the contest. Barry will sing, Gloria will sing. The dude will play the rock guitar, Barry's business woman plays also the drums instead of Barry.But when they continue they get sended in trouble by a hunter that try'es to kill lowly earthworms so Barry and friends gets stuck and gets sended into his hat. Then the contest has started. They will compete with Tonni Dennis and Barry's manager to win the money. But sadly they loose the money because Tonni Dennis sings better and sexier. Now he's rich and Barry and friends are sad. But they recognize all the fans that likes them are actually there. So they go there and sing for all the fans.
