Evicted from his home, a pleasant gay teen finds support and acceptance as a hired caregiver for a professional photographer's father after his latest stroke.
Meet Mark Anderson, a recent stroke victim who is frail and weak. Also, his best friend Thomas, a classic over-the-hill drag queen desperate for love and happiness. Mark and Thomas have a master plan, to find Mark's son, James Anderson, the love of his life once and for all. Meanwhile, Billy Houston, a young gay teenager who has just turned 18, gets his first country kiss from his best friend Rick and is immediately caught and thrown out of his house by his abusive father. With no place to turn, no cash and no contacts, Billy hitchhikes to the big city. Confused, lost and running scared, he soon finds a help wanted ad posted in a local city gay café by James. Billy interviews for the job and soon accepts the challenge as the role of caretaker on the spot. He quickly learns about full responsibility, independence, not to mention real life lessons about being gay. Billy unexpectedly finds himself in love with James and builds a bond with Mark that is unbreakable. "An Angel Named Billy" is a heartwarming, funny and unforgettable story of an abused boy who, in leaving his life of hate and mistrust, is able to come to terms in his own way of being gay in a modern world. Finding new friends, unexpected love and a whole new way of life will never be quite the same again.
Thrown out from his home after his first gay kiss, farm boy Billy heads to the big city where he quickly finds a friend in a waiter named Guy, providing Billy a meal, a place to crash, and guidance toward finding a job. In short order, Billy lands a position as a live-in caregiver to a multiple-stroke victim named Mark. Mark's middle-aged son, James, a professional photographer, is on the verge of national recognition and needs the assist to care for his father. All three are gay and (without a drama queen among them) get along very well. Despite Billy and James' age difference, a romance forms, which is all right with Mark, who'd like to see his lonely son romantically settled ere long.
A very enjoyable coming of age film. The first forty five minutes of it are a treat. The film runs into trouble when it tries to close the characters in the resolution. The age difference between the married couple in the end is not believable but everyone with the exception of the overly sugary Thomas put on a good performance.
