A college student returns with her father to his home country only to discover her family holds a dark secret that involves her.
Stefan invites his daughter, Jennifer, to travel to Romania for the funeral of his mother. His mystic girlfriend Liz travels with them to the cursed village of Pelosoara, where they are welcomed by Stefan's brother Vladimir, and Jennifer finds the locals are very peculiar people. Jennifer learns that she is the only woman from the bloodline of her father. At the funeral a stranger approaches and asks Jennifer to meet him in the square in one hour. When Jennifer arrives at the meeting place, she sees a creature devouring the man she was there to meet and is saved by Thomas. The man tells her that he is the last druid on Earth, protecting the world against the evil ancients. They were defeated by the druids in the past and banished to the spiritual world. That night, there was to be a reclamation ceremony where the evil queen possesses a vessel to open a vortex between the spiritual and the real world to bring the ancients back to Earth. But Jennifer is to find out that things are more complicated and she is more important than she realizes.
The plot of the movie is based in Romania. The movie starts with showing ancient drawing on walls of a vault depicting battle scenes between men &amp; ghouls (in the movie time-line named Ancients). Then it shows an elderly lady (the heroine's Jennifer's grandmother) possessed by the ghouls queen waking up &amp; travelling in a horse-drawn carriage to an ancient ritual place somewhere in the forest. In the ritual place some cloaked guys are already started some demonic ceremony with some ghouls flying around. The ceremony begins with old lady lying on the altar &amp; the ghouls entering her body &amp; thus freeing up the Ghoul Queen (Green Color). One of the guys picks up an strange stone &amp; the Ghoul Queen goes in to stone.Now the scene moves to America, where the heroine Jennifer is taking a morning walk in the park when she stumbles upon her father, who is an Romanian-American. He informs her that her grandmother (who Jennifer had never met) has suddenly passed away &amp; they have to go to Romania for the funeral. However this was part of an greater plan which we see unfolding later.
