A nerdy valedictorian proclaims his love for Beth Cooper--the hottest, most popular girl in school--during his graduation speech. That very night, she shows up at his door offering to show him the best night of his life.
When Dennis Cooverman gives the commencement speech at his graduation, his friend tells him to let it all out. So he proclaims his love for head cheerleader Beth Cooper and says things about everyone in the graduating class as well as some other people. Later Beth confronts him and he invites her to his graduation party; to his surprise she and two of her friends actually do show up. But so do some of the people he offended with his speech, wanting to tear him apart; one of them is Beth's boyfriend, who has just dumped him.
When a geeky high-school valedictorian throws caution to the wind by expressing his love for a popular cheerleader during his graduation speech, life finally starts to get interesting in this coming-of-age comedy adapted from the book by journalist/author/screenwriter Larry Doyle. Dennis Cooverman (Paul Rust) may have brains to spare; it's guts that he lacks -- or at least, he did until today. Stepping up to the podium to deliver an inspirational speech to his graduating class, Dennis decides that the time has finally come to call out his classmates on their peccadilloes and declare his love for the prettiest girl in school - Beth Cooper (Hayden Panettiere). Much to Dennis's surprise, Beth responds by accepting an invitation to a party at his house later that day. But Beth's meathead boyfriend Kevin (Shawn Roberts) is none-too-pleased that his high school prize is mingling with the biggest dweeb in school, and when Kevin shows up at his house and tears the place apart in a fit of rage Dennis, his best friend Rich (Jack Carpenter), Beth, and her friends Cammy (Lauren London) and Treece (Lauren Storm) all pile into Beth's car and flee for their lives. For four long years Dennis sat silently behind Beth in class, pining for a way to make his love known. Now, over the course of one long night, Dennis will finally get to know the girl of his dreams better than he ever thought possible. If he manages to survive until morning, it's sure to be the story of a lifetime. [D-Man2010]
