Ye Xiang Lun, a talented piano player is a new student at the prestigious Tamkang School. On his first day, he meets Lu Xiao Yu, a pretty girl playing a mysterious piece of music.
Ye Xiang Lun is a music student majoring in piano who just transferred to Tamkang, a school famous for its musically talented students, especially those who play piano. On his first day of school, he hears a mysterious melody being played, and following it meets Lu Xiao Yu, another piano major. When he asks her about the song she was playing, she tells him that it is a secret that cannot be told. The two form a friendship that quickly evolves into a romantic relationship. However unbeknownst to Xiang Lun, there is more to Xiao Yu than initially meets the eye.
Bu Neng Shuo De Mi Mi (Secret) ( Taiwan) Jay Chou's directorial debut. This is the first day Le(Jay Chou) admitted to Tamkang Secondary School. After Sky (Kai-xuan Tseng) gives Le (Jay Chou) a tour, he enters a piano building and hears a mysterious piano solo. He follows the song and finds that an ethereal girl is playing piano in the old music room. The piano girl is Yu (Guey Lun-Mei), one of Luns classmates. The two become intimate friends and spend a lot of time together. What's the melody you played the first day we met? asked Le, Thats my secret. Yu whispered in his ear.
Later in the story, the two become ever closer and confides some of their secrets to each other. One example includes Le gives Yu what seems like the original copy of "The Swan" after Le had won it from a piano duel/battle.
Despite the Yu and Le's intimate relations, Sky falls in love with Le, presumably when she first saw him on the school campus or when she saw Le's piano duel the "Prince of Piano". Soon after, Yu becomes suspicious of Sky's affection toward Le and confides in Le. For example, in another piano room, Yu asks Le not to play in this piano room, where Le replies that she doesn't want him to be with Sky. On accident, Le passes Sky a note, which was actually for Yu, in class to meet in that very same piano room. That night, Yu sees Sky kiss Le, and thinks that Le has feelings for Sky. So she disappears for 5 months. The next time she returns on Graduation Day, she sees Le play in the graduation ceremony. Le undoubtedly chases and catches up to her. Despite this short-lived meeting, Le's father forces Le to come back to the Graduation Ceremony, which has just ended. Later, Le finds out more about Yu when he goes to meet her mother. It turns out that Yu was actually enrolled in that very same school 20 years ago. In addition, she was very popular and very cared for in her school, especially by Le's father, who was a teacher there and still is. Le asks his father more about his and tells him the truth behind the mystery of Yu.Yu was a student attending TamKanng secondary school 20 years ago. She was an talented piano major. One day she was practicing in the old piano room with the picture of Chopin and his wife, in which Chopin was with for 10 years. When she dropped something under the piano, she found a old piece of music hidden in the bottom part of the piano. The piece was entitled "Secret" and essentially said that one who plays it will start a journey, in which the speed of the piece determines where she goes. She plays it at a slow tempo and is 20 years into the future. After returning from seeing Sky kissing Le, she confides in Le's father (in the past) and gives him the music for "Secret". Le's father (in the past) worrying about asks a friend of Yu's to look after her and to keep this matter a secret. However, Yu's friend tells a few people about it and soon everybody starts to make fun of Yu. She soon quits school and starts staying home. Her mother soon gives her medication for a psychological condition that she thinks Yu has. Yet Yu tries to prove that her mother is wrong by drawing a picture of Le. Yet, her mother still thinks that Yu has gone insane, as such Yu takes some of the medication. On graduation day, Le's father (in the past) takes Yu to school to play for the graduation ceremony. Yu soon sneaks away to go play Secret one more time to see Le one last time. Le sees her and catches up with her. But Yu notices that he was wearing a purple bracelet that Sky wore. she misinterprets this and runs back into her time. In the same classroom in which Le saw Yu, she writes something close to "Hello, my name is Rain." I love you. Do you love me?
Le just so happened to be in that very same room, and those words (Chinese Characters) slowly start to appear. However, despite Le responding by replying on the desk, Yu does not receive his reply. Regardless, due to the emotional immensity Yu starts to have trouble breathing because she has asthma and soon dies. On the night of Le's graduation, Le sneaks into the piano building, where he met Yu, right before the destruction of the building commensed. Le quickly plays "Secret" and manages to return back in time. His father who was telling Le about the mystery of Yu looks through the Secret music book. On the last page, Yu addresses Le about her love toward him. Realizing that Yu was telling the truth when she told him about her journey, his father quickly runs to the piano building only to be too late.Le, returning to the past (During Yu's supposedly final year at school), meets Yu in that very same classroom. Le remains with her in that time period.Synopsis:
Lun (Jay Chou) lives with his father, Chiu (Anthony Wong), the music teacher of Tamkang Secondary School. Both of them are very good at music and piano. This is the first day Lun admitted to Tamkang Secondary School. When he walks through the campus with his classmates, a mysterious piano solo draws his attention. He follows the song and finds that an ethereal girl is playing piano in the old music room. The piano girl is Yu (Guey Lun-Mei), one of Luns classmates. She is always late for school and hence sits next to Lun at the back row. The two become intimate friends and spend a lot of time together. submitted by dfwforeignbuff
