3 Police officers got killed. Then Ran saw the murderer killing her best friend and she lost her memory. Now Conan and Inspector Megure are trying to find the murderer.
In 1993, Kazato Kyosuke (29) was titel the youngest surgeon in Tohto University hospital. but one operation destroyed his golden left wrist. Kazato still remember this grudge from Jinno Tomotsu (29), who was same age with Kazato. In 1999, 6 years after, they met again and Kazato cut Jinno's cartoid. Police judged that suicide. Now it is 2000. 2 police, Narasawa(45) and Shiba(31) suddenly got shot off dead in beika Park telephone booth and apartment's car park with police handbook related. Shiratori replied NEED NOT TO KNOW in his sister (younger) Sara's wedding banquet when Mori and Conan keep asking Takagi (Tobias). Until Sato got shot, they told Mori and Conan what happened 7 years ago about his senior Tomonari and his only son Makoto Tomonari(18). Now Makoto is 25. He kept chasing Mori and was being judged as the killer until in Tropical land, Makoto was being proven innocent. Finally who was the killer?
In 1993, Police Officer Tomonari got killed by heart disease in the operation by both Kazato and Jinno Tomotsu (both 29)In 1993, Tohto University Hospital, 29-aged Kazato Kyosuke was the youngest surgeon with golden left wrist, but one day Tomotsu Jinno (29) purposedly pierced his left wrist, made him unable to face himselfIn 1999, 6 yr later, Jinno invited Kazato to drink in home, Kazato used scalpel to pierce Jinno's left cartoid. Jinno was being judged suicide.Now, year 2000.Shinichi used the fountain display to celebrate Rachel's karate champion...Shinichi turn to Conan that night.Rachel was unhappy when Conan said he still got cases to handle and ignore her.img828.imageshack.us/img828/8046/shinichid.jpgWhen the kids are crossing the road, Narasawa blame them for reckless crossing. then he got killed in the phone booth.Next day, Shiba Yoichiro (31) got killed in his car park.Police began to get nervous and get crazy. Same time, Shiratori's younger sister Sara held wedding in 15/F in Sun Plaza inside Tokyo's Beika City. Sato wore prettily and speak with Takagi...Megure ask Sato if she need more guards, Sato refused Megure. then Sato got shot inside toilet with Rachel together.Rachel lose her memory. but could speak USA capital and 5*8 is 40.Conan found that Kazato used left hand to click the phone keys when he need to dial to other side.When Rachel got discharged, Eri said she wish to cook and everyone vomited. Rachel laughed happily and Conan felt that she would recover until that Ginzo Train station accident, Rachel got worse...img839.imageshack.us/img839/9523/rachel.jpgRachel watched TV and wish to visit Tropical land again. Rachel requested not to let Conan know thisConan coincidely met Tamaki Jinno and read her details. he read from Shiba that the police handbook is not taken out from Shiba, because if from Shiba it must be reversed. Tamaki took her notebook out and found Conan's correct. Then Tamaki fetch taxi to Tropicalland(This, you would think Tamaki is killer but actually... haha, even I also think she is killer)Conan then went to Tohto University hospital, the 2 nurses ask him for Mori Kogoro signatures. Conan asked them about Tomotsu jinno.The pretty young nurse said that she got feeling that he is annoying doktor.the fat old one said taht he only cares money, does not really cure patients. Every operation under Jinno...9 out of 10 got troubles, Jinno always got complained.Young nurse suddenly asked fat nurse"did you still remember 7 yr ago...Jinno even pierced the 2nd doctor left wrist..."Conan ask them to speak that 7-yr-ago operation fault to him, Odagiri was listening nearby.Conan called Mori, his office phone claim he was tackle big matters.Conan call Kisaki Eri office. knew that Rachel went tropical land, Conan rush there by skateboard.Makoto told police that a man called him , know how his father died, ask him to go Beika Park Intersection waiting. He did not find that guy, but Narasawa got killed at telephone booth.When Makoto came home, the same man told him to wait under an apartment, but Shiba was killed in car parkMakoto realised that killer wish him to be scapegoat. He can only rent a commercial hotel and stay there that night when Shiba got killed.NExt day he called back his home, listen to the phone voice msg ,and found a Simone(Sato) ... ask him to wait 15/F beika sun plaza, or else if makoto not coming she would arrest Makoto Tomonari for murder.Makoto came there and just see police around and left, but Sato got seriously injured...Police realised that they got wrong suspect. Conan reached Tropicalland, went Ice &amp; Fog Maze Observatory...Conan used telescope and located Kids, Killer, RAchel. He used DB badge (detektiv boys badge) to contact ayumi and told them that the killer is pointing gun towards RAchel, ask them to bring rachel to crowds.Agasa got shot by protect Rachel, Rachel escaped to the neighboring Dream and Fairytales...the pathetic and crazy skateboard show of Conan worths your eyes to watch this filmConan got rachel and plan to escape but Kazato shot the girls' balloon...Conan and Rachel were forced to the Adventure and Frontier...When Conan read watch 8:59:14...Kazato comes in 8:59:15...When Rachel recovered her memory?What would happen?
