A sex-addicted con-man pays for his mother's hospital bills by playing on the sympathies of those who rescue him from choking to death.
Sex addict and colonial theme park worker, Victor Mancini, has devised a complicated scam to pay for his mom's hospital bills while she suffers from an Alzheimer's disease that hides the truth about his childhood. He pretends to choke on food in a restaurant and the person who "saves" him will feel responsible for Victor for the rest of their lives.
Victor Mancini, a sex-addicted med-school dropout, who keeps his increasingly deranged mother, Ida, in an expensive private medical hospital by working days as a historical re-enactor at a Colonial Williamsburg theme park. At night, Victor runs a scam by deliberately choking in upscale restaurants to form parasitic relationships with the wealthy patrons who "save" him. When, in a rare lucid movement, Ida reveals that she has withheld the shocking truth of his father's identity, Victor enlists the aid of his best friend, Denny and his mother's beautiful attending physician, Dr. Paige Marshall, to solve the mystery before the truth of his possibly divine parentage is lost forever.
Victor Mancini (Rockwell) is a sex addict who works as a reenactor of life in Colonial America. He works with his best friend, Denny (Brad William Henke), who is also a reformed sex addict. To support his hospitalized mother (Huston), Victor cons others by intentionally choking at restaurants to get money from his rescuers.When he visits his mother one day he meets Paige Marshall (Kelly Macdonald) taking care of her. She tells Victor that his mother's condition is worsening and that they could try an experimental stem cell technique but for it to work it would require harvesting cells from the umbilical cord of a new born baby with Victor's genes. She convinces Victor to have sex with her so she can have his child and save his mother.Victor never knew his father and is anxious to obtain the information from his mother but she never recognises him when he visits and so he asks Denny to pose as him and ask her questions. Denny agrees and reveals that Victor's mother kept a diary. Victor finds it, but it is in Italian. Paige tells Victor she can read Italian and agrees to translate the diary.Victor and Paige try several times to have sex but Victor cannot maintain an erection and after discussing it with Denny he realizes he loves Paige, Paige reveals to him that his mother may have fled Italy because she stole Jesus' foreskin, and use cells to conceive Victor, making him the second coming. He is reluctant to believe but in the end believes Paige. However his mother finally recognizes him and tells him that she stole him as a baby and she has no idea who his real parents are, as she tells him this he feeds her chocolate pudding and accidentally chokes her. She dies.While Paige is trying to resuscitate Victor's mother, a hidden band around her wrist falls into Victor's view, revealing that she is actually a patient in the hospital, not a doctor. Paige then reveals that she was admitted to the hospital years ago, in a catatonic state, and fell in love with Victor through the stories his mother told her about him. As a former medical student, the nurses allowed her to wear a white coat, as it calmed her down. Paige was a voluntary patient and she checks herself out without saying goodbye to Victor.After his mother's funeral Victor is on a plane, he goes to the bathroom and the door opens to reveal Paige joining him in the bathroom.
