The girl group travel to India to star in a Bollywood movie - but end up competing for the same part.
In this "trequel" to The Cheetah Girls, Chanel, Dorinda, and Aqua, are off to India to star in a Bollywood movie. But when there they discover that they will have to compete against each other to get the role in the movie. Will the Cheetah's break up again? This film stars the basic cast from The Cheetah Girls 2, excluding Raven-Symone's character Galleria Garibaldi.
Chanel (Adrian Balion), Dorinda (Sabrina Bryan), and Aqua (Keily Williams) are back in the trequal of "The Cheetah Girls." In this film, the girls get cast in a Bollywood movie while Galleria is at college in England, so the girls travel to India. Once they're there, they find out that director wants one of the girls to be casted in the Bollywood movie. The girls have to figure out if they are sticking it together, or go alone.With Galleria (Raven-Symoné) at the University of Cambridge in England, Chanel (Adrienne Bailon), Dorinda (Sabrina Bryan), and Aqua (Kiely Williams) are cast in the lavish new Bollywood movie "''Namaste Bombay''". The Cheetah Girls travel across the globe to India. There, they meet Rahim (Rupak Ginn), the man cast as the lead, whom they realize is attractive, yet somewhat clumsy. After meeting the movie's choreographer, Gita (Deepti Daryanani), a dance battle erupts between themselves and Gita with her backup dancers, they discover that the musical's director, Vik (Michael Steger), must choose only one Cheetah for the role as the budget is only enough for one star.When it becomes apparent that they must travel home, they are upset, until realizing they may each try out for the lead. Though they all make a promise to be fair in the competition, situations arise in which each member becomes jealous of the others' specific talents. Chanel befriends Vik, Dorinda befriends Gita, and Aqua befriends a boy she has been in contact with since before leaving America, Amar (Kunal Sharma). Each girl is led to believe the producer of the film, Khamal (Roshan Seth), Vik's uncle, will choose her after the audition. Chanel is told because she is the better singer, she will receive the role, while Dorinda is promised the role as she is the best dancer, while Aqua is convinced the coveted role will be hers as she is the best actress. The three Cheetahs audition against one another with Chanel being awarded the role, which she later refuses realizing, as do the the other Cheetahs, that friendship and unity are more important than furthering their individual or group careers.After refusing the role, they set to convince Khamal to award Gita as the lead, to which he reluctantly agrees, ending in a scene from "''Namaste Bombay''" in which the Cheetahs sing and dance the titular song, "One World (song)|One World".
