Solitary, exhausted, and profoundly melancholic--the anachronistic, Madame Tutli-Putli--waits patiently to board a train, surrounded by a lifetime's worth of personal belongings. Is she running away from a bleak past?
Madame Tutli-Putli boards the Night Train, weighed down with all her earthly possessions and the ghosts of her past. She travels alone, facing both the kindness and menace of strangers. As day descends into dark, she finds herself caught up in a desperate metaphysical adventure. Adrift between real and imagined worlds, Madame Tutli-Putli confronts her demons and is drawn into an undertow of mystery and suspense. The National Film Board of Canada presents a stunning, stop-motion animated film that takes the viewer on an exhilarating existential journey. The film introduces groundbreaking visual techniques and is supported by a haunting and original score. Painstaking care and craftsmanship in form and detail bring to life a fully imagined, tactile world unlike any you have seen. Jungian thriller? Hitchcockian suspense? Artistic tour de force? The Night Train awaits you.
Carrying all her life's baggage in both a literal and figurative sense, Madame Tutli-Putli boards a train to escape from where she's coming. Thoughts of her life are affected by those she sees on board. During the middle of the night, while most others are fast asleep, she has time to reflect, which allows her to face those upcoming demons, either real or imagined. In her search for what lies ahead, she may find that what she will ultimately come across is not what she imagines.
Solitary, exhausted, and profoundly melancholic--the anachronistic, Madame Tutli-Putli--waits patiently to board a train, surrounded by a lifetime's worth of personal belongings. Is she running away from a bleak past? As the hyper-fast and ultra-modern locomotive arrives, the faint promise of a fresh start, and a small--but powerful--spark of a new hope flicker in the sad Madame's heart; however, the journey is long and perilous. What awaits at the end of the line?

