Anne seems to have it all as a driven toy buyer in New York City, but her father's retirement signaling the closing of the town's beloved toy store brings the city girl back to her small-town roots.
Per usual, we start by being introduced to our two leads. Ann Garrison works for a toy company, recommending toy lines, just think of Tom Hank's job from BIG. She gets a call from her father who is retiring and needs her help in closing and selling the family toy store and home. All of this happens over Christmas, of course.Keith McClain is a widower with a 10 year old daughter named Jesse. He is a lumberjack, a manager with some authority apparently, at the lumber mill in the small Maine town that Ann Garrison is from. In a conversation in Keith's kitchen with his sister-in-law, it is revealed that the lumber mill owner is retiring herself and looking to sell the mill. This will remain a potential conflict throughout the movie.Ann shows up at the Garrison Toys and greets her father. It is established through their conversation that Ann's mother is dead (yes, a dead wife or mother is a staple of these movies, but this movie features both), that Ann grew up at the toy store and loves it, and that her father wishes she would take the store over. Ann's childhood love of carving wood is also introduced. Some of her prized carvings are Christmas Santas, which are wooden carvings with different themes and inspirational sayings. The Santas would be a recurring plot device throughout the movie, helping to motivate different characters at different times.The next day Keith is walking Jesse to school when they come across Garrison Toys. Jesse needs a toy for school and talks Keith into entering the store. Ann and her father are there. Keith and Ann briefly talk. He compliments the toy store but errs in ranting about modern toys, which is Ann's current job. She is incredulous but not insulted. Keith is embarrassed. Along with the toy she picked out, Jesse is given a Christmas Santa for free. It is Super Santa, which is supposed to motivate Jesse to audition to be in the Christmas pageant. It later does exactly that.Ann is walking the town and admiring the Christmas decor when she runs into an old friend- Colleen. After catching up some, Colleen invites Ann to a meeting where a Christmas committee will be put together to organize and put on all the town Christmas events. Ann does attend and Keith is there as well. He properly introduces himself to Ann and clearly regrets their first interaction. Ann graciously tells him she'll give him a do-over. Jesse arrives while the meeting is going on and excitedly tells Keith she auditioned and made the Christmas pageant. When he congratulates her, Colleen, who is leading the meeting, mistakes it for Keith volunteering for the post of committee chair. When Ann tries to correct Colleen, she is also chosen. Just like that, Ann and Keith are co-chairs of the Christmas committee and responsible for running all the events. Not sure what the rest of the committee is for because from this point forward it seems everything is to be handled by Kieth and Ann.Keith and Ann have a strategy session at the store. They go over everything and appear to be a good team. They think this is going to be easy and congratulate themselves. Tom, a former boyfriend of Ann's, walks in the store to greet Ann and her dad. Tom is a realtor and is going to help sell the store and the Garrison home. He tells Ann they should catch up over dinner and then leaves. Tom is a nice guy, but Keith is obviously troubled that Tom is in the picture, even this early.Right after bragging that this would be easy, Ann and Keith run into their first obstacle when it is revealed that the tree usually used for the town tree-lighting ceremony has disappeared. The tree was allegedly 40 feet tall and therefore not easily replaced. The next couple scenes involve Keith and Ann looking for a replacement. In those scenes, Jesse talks Ann into coaching her for the pageant since Ann admitted she had sung in it herself. Keith tells Ann that his wife died, and she compliments him on how well he has raised Jesse. Friends of both Ann and Keith talk with them about a possible budding romance between the two. Both insist Ann is going to return to New York once Christmas is over. And lastly, there is a tree decorating scene where Ann helps Jesse and Keith decorate their Christmas tree.At the tree lighting, we see that Ann and Keith went with several large trees instead of the one huge tree. Ann and Keith lead the townspeople in a countdown and Jesse hits the button to light the trees. The entire event is very successful and the Christmas events are off to a great start.Next is the Christmas carnival. To take a break from planning it, Ann and Keith go out to dinner together. Keith asks her about Tom, and she calls him a longtime friend. She also talks about her mother and the fact that she hasn't carved any wood since her mother died.The carnival goes off without hitch. Ann spends some time there with both Keith and Tom. However, the pageant is in trouble when the music teacher running it has a family emergency and has to leave. This is doubly troubling since Jesse is performing in the pageant and really looking forward to it. On top of that, the owner of the lumber mill has decided to sell it, which could potentially ruin Christmas for much of the town. Keith was offered a job at a lumber mill in Vermont and now knows he has to take it, despite the fact that he doesn't want to move Jesse.They solve the pageant problem by convincing Ann to step up and run it herself, with the convincing being done by Jesse, Keith, Colleen, Ann's dad, and finally Musical Santa, which is the final motivation that Ann needed. Ann is asked again about carving new Santas, and she says she would carve one for someone she really loved. We then see her carving one again.With Ann's hard work and direction, the pageant is looking good. However, Keith has to attend the interviews at the mill in Vermont for his current employees that the mill is looking to hire on. The interviews are on Christmas Eve, making him likely to miss most the pageant, though he will not miss Jesse singing.Ann, of course, carved the Christmas Santa for Keith and goes to Keith's house to drop it off for him as a present. He isn't there, but his sister-in-law tells Ann that Keith accepted the job in Vermont. Ann is disappointed and leaves.The final scenes happen at the Christmas pageant where everything is going very well. Nearly all the town showed despite the bad news of the lumber mill closing. After Ann gives her a pep talk, Jesse goes out to sing. As she does, Keith shows up. Jesse sings wonderfully. Keith goes on stage and speaks to everyone. He talks about the Christmas Santa that Ann carved for him and explains that she inspired him to stay in town and do everything he could to keep the mill open. The owner then announces that she decided to give the lumber mill to the town. The town now owns it with Keith basically running it. Everyone is ecstatic at the news.Keith and Ann speak outside in front of the pageant hall to end the movie. Keith last saw Ann with Tom and still isn't sure if they are in a relationship. Ann tells Keith that she would only carve a Santa for someone she loves, and she carved one for HIM. He asks her to stay, and she tells him that she'll take over her dad's store and isn't going back to New York. They embrace and kiss.
