A robot boy and a human boy team up to save their respective parents, who are being held captive by the organization that funded the robot's creator.
The story begins when a scientist is working on an intelligent robot for humanitarian purposes, who discovers the company he works for is intends to use the robots for military purposes. The scientist steals one of the robots which ends up being lost and broken, then is fixed by a lonely 11-year-old boy. A robot boy and a human boy team up to save their respective parents, who are being held captive by the organization that funded the robot's creator. The two become friends and embark on adventures while being pursued by the authorities.
In New Orleans, the scientist Allan Topher of the Kinetech Laboratories develops the robot with artificial intelligence Code 328 programmed to work as rescue and search machine and to learn the human emotions. However, the president and CEO Porter intends to use the robot as a weapon to search and destroy and sells one hundred units to the dealer Esperenza for 75 million dollars. Allan opposes to Porter's intention and is fired. However, before leaving the company, he deletes his files and steals Code 328. Allan and the robot are chased by Porter's security team and in the pursuit, he loses the robot that breaks in parts in a garbage container. Meanwhile, nerdy Henry Montgomery Keller has just wined a prize for his project in the science fair of his school but he is bullied by the school bully and hides in the garbage container where the pieces of Code 328 are. Henry brings the robot home and fixes it. Then he names him as Cody and introduces him to his mother Joanna and his sister Meagan. Cody becomes Henry's best friend and the pride and joy of the Keller family. When Henry seeks out Cody's "father", he does not know that Allan is looked on by Porter's men. When Henry and Cody meet Allan, they are hunted by the security guards. Now, Allan and Henry and his family have to find a way to save Cody and avoid the selling of one hundred robots to Esperenza.

