Radhe is a ruthless gangster who will kill anyone for money. He is attracted towards Jhanvi, a middle class girl, who does not approve of his work and wants him to change.
Mumbai-based middle-classed Jhanvi, who lives with her widowed mother and younger brother, has three suitors. The first is much older and considerably overweight - Sonu Gates. The second is Police Inspector Talpade, who is already married to Nandini, but lusts after Jhanvi so much so that he creates circumstances that will force her to marry him. The third is a male named Radhey - who often comes to her rescue - but breaks her heart when she finds out who is really is - a cold-blooded killer who works for a gangster named Ghanibhai. The later is a ruthless gangster who challenges Police Commissioner Ashraf Taufeeq Khan with impunity, and even abducts his daughter to ensure his personal safety.
A gang war is on before Golden's gang and Datta Pawle's gang. Radhe, an ice cold killer will switch sides if he is given more money. Meanwhile Ashraf Taufeeq Khan takes charge as new Commissioner of Mumbai Police and is successful in taking down many gangs. Gani Bhai, an international criminal who is real boss of Golden's gang returns to Mumbai after he learns of Golden's death. Khan was waiting for a chance like this and kidnaps Gani. Gani's gang in return kidnaps Commissioner's daughter and she blurts an undercover officer is among their gang who will kill them all
Radhe is a gangster who kills people for money.He meets Jhanvi and falls in love with her.But inspector Talpade lusts behind her and warns Radhe but In Talpade starts getting scared of him.Radhe gets hired as sharp shooter in gang of Golden Bhai who is soon murdered.Ghani Bhai an international Don arrives in the city to take care of Golden's gang but gets kidnapped and tortured by Police Commissioner Ashraf.Ghani Bhai's gang kidnaps Ashraf's daughter and drugs who reveals them that a secret officer name Rajveer Shekawat is operating from their gang and eliminating one by one.
Radhe is a ruthless killer working in the gang of Golden Bhai and makes a special place for himself in the gang.He comes across Jhanvi and rescues her many a times specially from a corrupt cop Talpade who woos her.Golden is soon murdered out of rivalry and the leader of the gang Ghanibhai whose operating outside the country arrives to take charge to spread terror.But gets arrested by police commissioner Ashraf Khan who tortures him like hell.Ganibhai is forced to release after he kidnaps commissioner's daughter and he plans a major attack in the city with Radhe.But commissioners daughter revels him that they all are soon going to die as a secret officer in their gang is eliminating them one by one.

