True story of Mary Griffith, gay rights crusader, whose teenage son committed suicide due to her religious intolerance. Based on the book of the same title by Leroy Aarons.
In "Prayers for Bobby," Mary Griffith (Sigourney Weaver) is a devout Christian who raises her children with the conservative teachings of the Presbyterian Church. However, when her son Bobby (Ryan Kelley) confides to his older brother he may be gay, life changes for the entire family after Mary learns about his secret. While Bobby's father (Henry Czerny) and siblings slowly come to terms with his homosexuality, Mary believes God can cure him of what she considers his 'sin' and persuades Bobby to pray harder and seek solace in church activities in hopes of changing him. Desperate for his mother's approval, Bobby does what is asked of him, but through it all, the church's apparent disapproval of homosexuality causes him to grow increasingly withdrawn and depressed. Guilty over the pain he is causing Mary, Bobby moves away, yet hopes that some day his mother will accept him. His subsequent depression and self-loathing intensifies as he blames himself for not being the 'perfect' son and is driven to suicide. Faced with their tragedy, Mary begins to question her faith when she receives no answers from her pastor concerning her devastating loss. Through her long and emotional journey, Mary slowly reaches out to the gay community and discovers unexpected support from a very unlikely source. The film is based on the 1995 Leroy Aarons book of the same name.
At first sight, the devout Presbyterian Griffith family lives idyllically in a small town. But when son Bobby (Ryan Kelley) confides to his older brother Ed (Austin Nichols) he's gay, which Ed tells ma Mary, she bombards him day and night with 'help to heal'. Bobby's school and social life go to pieces, and after a liberating stay with a libertarian cousin (Rebecca Louise Miller) in Portland, where he meets an ideal gay mate, David (Scott Bailey), returning to his self-denial is clearly no longer viable. After David loses patience, Bobby soon breaks and ends up suicide. Only now grief opens Mary's mind up to 'modern Biblical attitudes'.

