At a music camp for gifted teens, a popular teen idol overhears a girl singing and sets out to find who the talented voice belongs to. What he doesn't know is that the girl is actually a camp kitchen worker with a fear of being heard.
"Camp Rock" centers on a teen girl who desperately wants to spend her summer at a prestigious rock camp but can only attend if she works in the kitchen as one of its cooks. When she's overheard singing (but not seen) by a teen pop star at the camp, he is completely taken and sets out to find the girl behind the beautiful voice. But first she must confront her fears, step out of the kitchen and into the spotlight.
Camp Rock is a musical that mostly focuses on a teen girl Mitchie who desperately wants to spend her summer at a rock camp but can only attend if she works in the kitchen as one of the cooks. When she's overheard singing by teen pop star Shane Gray at the camp, he falls head over heals and sets out to find the girl with the beautiful voice.
Camp Rock tells the rock n' roll Cinderella story of Mitchie Torres, a teen with an amazing voice and a driving ambition to be a pop singer who wants to spend her summer at a prestigious rock camp. Unfortunately, an expensive music camp is a bit out of reach for her family, but her mother gets a job as Camp Rock's cook so that Mitchie can attend - as long as she helps out in the kitchen between classes. Befriended by fellow camper Caitlyn but intimidated by the immensely talented and connected Tess Tyler and her entourage (Peggy and Ella), Mitchie lives a double life, hiding that she is the cook's daughter while posing as a well-to-do camper in order to become part of the hottest clique at camp. When she's overheard singing, but not seen, by bad boy teen pop star / celebrity camp instructor / lead singer of Connect Three Shane Gray, he is completely taken and sets out to find the girl behind that beautiful voice. Mitchie will have to learn how to confront her fears, step out of the kitchen and into the spotlight as herself.
Mitchie Torres (Demi Lovato) wakes up on her last day of school before summer. She really wants to go to a summer camp called 'Camp Rock'. Her mom tells her she can't afford it so she can't go. At school she's by her locker and her friend comes and starts speaking in Mandarin. She goes home and her parents say she is going to camp rock. This is because her mom got a job as a cook. Shane Gray (Joe Jonas) along with other band members Nate (Nick Jonas) and Jason (Kevin Jonas) arrive at Camp Rock to make Shane go to the camp and make himself behave, as Shane is a real jerk. At camp, Mitchie meets Caitlyn (Alyson Stoner), who she later befriends. She also meets 'camp diva' Tess Tyler (Meaghan Jette Martin), Peggy (Jasmine Richards) and Ella (Anna Maria Perez de Tagle). Mitchie is caught up in the world of Tess and her drama. During the film, Mitchie started to become a friend to Shane. Tess gets jealous of this friendship and keeps trying to break it up. Shane, while being stalked by fans, falls outside a room where Mitchie is practising a song. Mitchie doesn't know he's there and he doesn't know who is singing but loves it. Tess makes sure that Mitchie doesn't perform her song to Shane and others at the 'Final Jam', as they are a double act. They manage to anyway and then Shane find out that he was trying to find Mitchie all along. The kinda fall for each other but don't kiss.
