The son of a thrifty conman begrudgingly joins his father on the road.
In L.A., Flynn Parker loses his job as a health inspector when his time in prison comes to light, his girlfriend Maggie moves out because of his prevarications, and his ne'er-do-well father, Nat, summons him to Atlantic City with a tale of a malignant cancer. Flynn doesn't like Nat, a small-time hustler and the cause of Flynn's jail time, but Nat cajoles his son into a cross-country trip through family memories toward New Mexico where an experimental treatment awaits. The trip is not just about the past, but whether either can tell the truth - and then what to do with those truths. From time to time, Flynn calls Maggie to leave messages. And what about Flynn's mother?
The road trip movie centers around a terminally-ill con man and his estranged son endeavor to live on $5 a day during a cross country drive.Nat (Walken) is a man who enjoys taking advantage of life. He revels in his ability to win daily prizes from radio station contests, drink complimentary coffee from hotel lobbies, and drive the pink and white Sweet N Low car that he won free use of for a year. Nat is a con man or hustler, and a good one too. Hes able to attain almost everything he wants and needs, all for a measly $5 a day. But as a father to his son Ritchie Flynn Parker (Nivola), he comes up short. The one thing at this point in his life that he wants most of all is a closer relationship with his son, Flynn. Flynn has problems of his own: hes just lost his job as a health inspector and his girlfriend, Maggie, is leaving him because of his secretive personality. And he has just learned that his father has a terminal brain tumor and wants to see him.Believing it's just another con from his dad, he grudgingly leaves Los Angeles and goes to Atlantic City to see his father who explains he has been living on five dollars a day, going to extremes to do so, such as constantly calling various radio station contests with different aliases to win things, like concert tickets he can then scalp. Nat shows Flynn an x-ray of his skull. Nat tells him he has learned of an experimental treatment that could offer him a second chance at life. The problem is that it's all the way on the other side of the country, and in order to make the drive he'll need a wheelman. He asks Flynn to drive him to New Mexico to seek a potential cure. Despite the anger and bitterness he has toward his father, he eventually agrees to go. They hit the road driving a Sweetn Low car free of charge provided they get gas at only Chevron stations along the way. Throughout the trip, Flynn calls his girlfriend to tell her about his life and the trip, using one of Nat's many free cell-phones with promotional minutes.At their first stop to eat at an IHOP restaurant, using a fake drivers license to convince them is his birthday, they get to eat for free. They continue to do this at other IHOPs along the way. They stop at a vacant house that is for sale to spend the night, and narrowly avoid being found out by a realtor and some people looking at the home the following morning. The next day over a stolen room service meal from a motel, Flynn learns that Nat got him fired by informing Flynns boss of an earlier jail sentence. It is later revealed that Flynn took the fall for to keep Nat from going to jail for one of his crimes. This bit of betrayal almost makes Flynn abandon the trip.They proceed to drive to various cities, once staying at an open house for a retirement village. They then go to Amarillo, Texas where they meet up with Flynns old babysitter, Dolores (Stone), who is now a professional model who Nat has a thing for. Father and son both get to have moments of flirtations with the very bubbly and flirtatious, Dolores.Next they head to New Mexico so that Nat can collect a small sum of money from an old rival, Kruger (Coyote), whom Nat lent money to start a used car dealership many years back, and whom Flynns mother later ran off with when he was a boy. Kruger, now owner of a hugely successful chain of car dealerships, and a well established member of the community with wife and family, agrees to give Nat a large sum of quiet money so that he does not ruin Kruger's plans to run for mayor by embarrassing Kruger regarding Ritchie's paternity.Now with some cash, Nat suggests to Flynn that the two of them visit Las Vegas to spend some time together. Flynn soon realizes that Nat is not his actual father and Nat convinces him that his story about being sick was a ruse to get him to travel with him to New Mexico. Upset with this news, Flynn runs off with the hush money and sneaks into Kruger's campaign kick-off party to confront him. Not satisfied with how Kruger responds, Flynn rushes the campaign stage to announce Kruger's paternity and simulates the return of the hush money.
After escaping capture by campaign security, Flynn returns to the hotel where he meets back up with Nat. After some discussion, Nat collapses and winds up in the hospital, actually very ill. Maggie shows up after Flynn calls her to break the news. They sneak Nat out of the hospital, and Nat takes Flynn to a beached boat house near the shore of a desert lake, where the two go skinny dipping together.Later, Flynn and Maggie are shown sitting in a row boat on the lake, scattering Nat's ashes from a makeshift urn consisting of a large Pepsi cup that Nat got for free with a five dollar purchase of gas. The boat begins to sink as they laugh at their circumstance.
