Mr. Jack and Sweet Stephen cruise aimlessly through the streets of LA speculating about life, death, divine will and the force of power that predetermines their existence. Mr. Jack attempts to illustrate to his sidekick the delicate and natural forces of the universe. Sweet Stephen's superficial charm and bloodsucking lifestyle sends him and Mr. Jack on a voyage that is relentless, engaging, and darkly hilarious.
Mr. Jack, who admits he is sporting a fake British accent, a questionable one at that which he will be using this day, and "Sweet" Stephen Miller are spending the day together wandering from place to place in Los Angeles. The nature of their time together is largely to discuss philosophies regarding human life, mostly in the form of Mr. Jack spouting off his pearls of wisdom, while Stephen responds and questions Mr. Jack's pearls. Their discussion is also affected by their experiences of the day, as Mr. Jack provides supporting evidence to his theories from what has just happened to them. Nuggets from their conversation and certain actions indicate that they live on the edge of society in some aspect, they encountering violent or potentially violent acts at almost every stop. What will happen to them this day is also affected by their encounters with a police officer named Tommy, who is not averse to overuse of substances on the job as he investigates a late night noise complaint, the blood curdling screams emanating from the apartment of waitress Stephanie Sinclair, whose current whereabouts is unknown.
FRENEMY/Little Fish, Strange Pond- is a quirky morality play in which Mr.Jack representing balance and Sweet Stephen representing the torn soul vie jibes at each other, in various obtuse Los Angeles situations and locations, while being shadowed by Tommy the Cop representing justice.
A black comedy, featuring some gore, nudity, and intrigue,(although MOSTLY just talk) is nicely crafted, in that most murders are damage to the left jugular, or by gun shot. The television show within the movie, a morality play within a morality play, is representational of the collective conscious, where, lying, cheating, etc are up to.group review of tolerances.
The closing scene, representing the passing of judgement, is interestingly written, but, does it seal the deal? Not siding on any established religious agenda, it steers clear of redemption and forgiveness in favor of individual responsibility.
Alas, this movie is DEEPLY moral, yet with SHALLOW surface banter and lame humor. Finally it is an "Indie film fan" film. Definitely outside the Hollywood blockbuster genre, yet, includes enough fun to wedge it in between the blockbuster home rental choices.
