Jamie Klein is an out-of-work butch lesbian actor willing to try almost anything for a role. Femme, Butch, and Male Jamie all make appearances throughout this quirky, gender-bending comedy about struggling for success in Hollywood.
Jamie Klein is an out-of-work butch lesbian actor willing to try almost anything for a role. Not being a traditionally feminine woman, Jamie dresses up for auditions as "Femme Jamie," but has no success in landing roles. To add insult to injury, her roommate Lola's cat (named Howard) is also an actor, and he gets cast in virtually anything he auditions for. After watching Howard's acting reel, Jamie is ready to rise to the challenge and prove to herself that she can be more successful than a stupid cat. Jamie's best friend David convinces her that the way to do this is to simply be yourself, which in Jamie's case, is what she refers to as "Butch Jamie" -- short hair spiked up with gel, Doc Martin boots, a studded belt, and a neck chain. This unintentionally tips Jamie's perceived gender in the opposite direction, and she gets offered a role in a film as a man - Steve. Offended by the reality that there is little room for butch women in show biz, Jamie is reluctant to take the role, but accepts. Under the producer's requests, she is bound to confidentiality as Male Jamie and cannot reveal her true identity as a woman. On set, Jamie confronts a whole new set of hoops to jump through as a male imposter. "He" meets a flirtatious and alluring straight woman named Jill, and despite Jamie's better judgement, the two begin a hilariously complicated and sexy affair.
Jamie Klein is an out-of-work butch lesbian actor willing to try almost anything for a role. Through her various audition tactics, she lands a part in a film as a man and ends up unintentionally peaking the interests of Jill, a straight woman on set. Despite Jamie's better judgement, "Male Jamie" and Jill begin a hilariously complicated and sexy affair in this quirky, gender-bending comedy about struggling for success in Hollywood.

