The DVD features the complete Brian Regan Comedy Central special along with an encore performance not shown in the original Comedy Central broadcast and Brian's Comedy Central Presents half hour special as a bonus. Standing Up includes the following routines: Driving: Show Horses; California Driver's Handbook; Pinky Thank You; Language Stuff: Van in Miami; Bilingual; Friend Speaks Italian; Flying: Flight Delayed; Tower; Computers; Baggage Claim; Greeting Cards: Too Subdivided; Blank Inside; Encouragement; Just Because; New Baby; Birthday Humorous; Kids: Something Appropriate; Dora the Explorer; Baby Books; Animal Noises; Butterfly Pavilion; Balloon; Dinosaur; TV Shows: Nova; Albert Einstein; Antiques Road Show; Golf on TV; Politics: Voiceovers; Tazer Seven Year Olds; Not Taking Questions; Answer That by Asking This; Billboards; Kennedy's; Fundraisers; News: Arab Americans; News Anchor You Can Trust; News Team That Cares; Brian Regan Spy DVD Extras: Food Labels; Serving Sizes; Lay off Dairy; Cranberries; Pop Tarts; Yoga; Health Clubs; Strong Man Shows; Food Combinations; Peanut Butter and Jelly; Chef Boyardee; Pizza/Pie; IHOP; Eye Exam
23 of 23 people found the following review helpful: Funny and clean, August 25, 2007 By Brian Reaves (Anniston, AL USA) - See all my reviews
Brian Regan is a great comedian for the whole family. My wife and kids love walking through the house yelling "What's the score, Brian?" "Snowcone! Whole snowcone for half game!" He's a great guy, and his humor is something you can enjoy with everyone. If you own his live CD or earlier DVD, you'll find this contains almost all new material. One of the bonus features is his encore in which he does requests from the audience from his material. It's stuff you've heard before, but the funny way he points that out is hilarious ("You're out there going, 'Yep, that's the way I memorized it.'") His first Comedy Central Presents appearance is included and there's no repeats from the "Standing Up" special in it. If this is your first introduction to Brian's comedy, it's a great place to start. Grab his live CD next. The CC Presents half-hour show has some of that material on it, but it's still funny. I wish there were more comedians out there like Brian. He manages to be funny without ever being vulgar. I don't know why he isn't more popular, but with his CC sponsored national tour maybe he'll finally get the exposure he deserves. Keep up the great work, Brian!
