A warrior-assassin is forced to hide in a small town in the American Badlands after refusing a mission.
Yang, the world's finest swordsman, packs it in and leaves Japan to find an old friend in the Wild West rather than kill the infant queen of a rival clan. He carries the baby to his friend's desolate, broken-down town; the friend has died, so Yang reopens a laundry and settles down, hanging wet clothes, growing flowers, raising the infant, and finding himself attracted to Lynne, a red-haired woman with a tragic past. As long as Yang keeps his sword sheathed, his rivals won't find him, but a band of reprobate gunmen terrorize the town and threaten Lynne. Showdowns are inevitable, but once the sword is drawn, can Yang find rest, a home, and a family?
Master Yang's latest sword duel victory allows him to achieve his family's goal, exterminating the rival samurai gang, but he spares an enemy infant 'heiress'. Knowing this exposes him to bloody revenge from his own clan, led by his mentor, who mobilizes for that purpose, Yang flees Asia to a friend in the Wild West. Arrived in the petty Badlands town, he finds his mate deceased, laving no heir but him for his meager income, the only launderette., among a freak population of stranded circus people. Yang decides to stay in that hideout, growing flowers and forming a laundry partnership with shameless red-hair Lynne, who helps raise the baby and is sort of trained for battle. He takes charge, despite considering to leave quietly rather then risk attracting his nemesis's attention, when the region's black band of reprobate gunmen returns, threatening to kill and plunder massively once more.
The Warriors Way, a visually-stunning modern martial arts western starring Korean actor Dong-gun Jang who plays an Asian warrior assassin forced to hide in a small town in the American Badlands. Rounding out the ensemble cast are Kate Bosworth (Superman Returns), Oscar®-winner Geoffrey Rush (Shine), Danny Huston (The Kingdom), and Tony Cox (The Hustle).The fantasy action film was written and directed by newcomer Sngmoo Lee, and is being produced by Barrie M. Osborne (Lord of the Rings), Jooick Lee (Seven Swords) and Michael Peyser (Hackers).After a lifetime of training in martial arts and swordsmanship, Yang (Jang Dong Gun) has eliminated all but one of his clan's enemies - an infant whose smile instantly melts his heart. Unwilling to kill her and unable to protect her from his own deadly tribe, Yang takes the baby girl and flees, planning to seek refuge with an old friend living in Lode, a frontier town in the American West.He arrives to find that his friend has died and the once thriving Gold Rush town is in shambles, inhabited only by a few dozen eccentrics including Lynne (Kate Bosworth), a beautiful, spirited knife thrower-in-training and Ron (Geoffrey Rush), a worn-out drunk. In order to make a safe home for the child, far from the reach of his murderous clansman, Yang decides to stay on as the town's new laundryman, sealing his sword for good.Yang unexpectedly finds a kindred spirit in Lynne. Orphaned by a horrifying act of brutality, Lynne has spent ten years plotting revenge against her attacker, the Colonel (Danny Huston). While teaching Yang to run the laundry and look after the baby, she discovers his talent for swordplay and begs him to tutor her in martial arts.In the midst of Lode's annual Christmas celebration, the Colonel and his renegade gang return and threaten to destroy the town. Knowing the Lynne will do everything in her power to exact revenge on the Colonel, Yang reluctantly unsheathes his sword, fully aware that the ring of its blade will immediately reveal his location to his murderous pack. He leads a fierce and ingenious force of townspeople armed only with improvised weapons and a unique set of skills in an all-out battle. But, as he feared, the sound of his sword bring the ruthless attackers into the fray, leading Yang, Lynne and the town folk to their ultimate destinies.
