Two single adults become caregivers to an orphaned girl when their mutual best friends die in an accident.
Holly and Eric were set up on a blind date by their friends, Peter and Allison who are married. After Peter and Allison are killed in an accident, they learn that they have been named as the guardians to Peter and Allison's daughter, Sophie. So they move into their house and try their best to honor their friends' wishes. But raising a child puts a crimp on their style and they don't exactly get along.
Based in Atlanta, Holly Berenson (Katherine Heigl) is single, and runs a bakery. Her friend, Allison Novak, who is married to Peter, gives birth to Sophie, and makes her and Peter's friend, Eric Messer, godparents. Allison's attempts to get Holly and Eric together ends up in disaster - as both find themselves incompatible. Holly is attracted to Dr. Sam (Josh Lucas), and hopes to date him some day. Before that could happen, Allison and Peter die in an automobile accident. Holly and Eric meet with their lawyer and are told that they are now the legal guardians of Sophie. Watch what impact this news has on the hapless duo.
Holly Berenson (Katherine Heigl) is the owner of a small Atlanta bakery and Eric Messer (Josh Duhamel), known as Messer, is a promising television technical sports director for the Atlanta Hawks. After a disastrous first date set up by their best friends (Peter and Alison), all they have in common are their mutual dislike and their love for their shared goddaughter, Sophie Christina Novak, who is Peter and Alison's child.However, after a car accident kills both Peter and Alison, they are left as the one-year-old Sophie's legal guardians. They try to put their differences aside, since they are advised to both move into Sophie's home in order to minimize her need for adjustment to the new situation. They struggle to learn how to care for Sophie and to get along with each other. This goes on and once Holly leaves Sophie with Messer while she covers an important catering job - the same night that he is given the opportunity to direct a big basketball game. When Messer loses his focus due to Sophie's constant crying during direction the game, he returns home to argue with Holly. Later, he comes back and makes amends with Holly. Holly attends a date with a doctor named Sam (Josh Lucas) (whom Messer nicknames "Doctor Love") who is also Sophie's pediatrician. This date is cut short when Messer calls and explains Sophie is unwell by having a fever then Messer needs to take Sophie to the hospital. Later, Messer sees Holly kissing Sam. Life goes on till they see the monthly bills and realize it's way more than they expected. Holly then admits to Messer that because of finance at home she can't afford the extension on her catering business, so Messer offers to give her the money.She refuses to take it so Messer offers it as an investment, to which Holly accepts. The pair agree to go on a date to celebrate, and when they return to the house they end up having sex together and start to develop feelings for each other. Their Child Protective Services caseworker shows up and tells them that getting involved together is a very bad idea. Messer is offered a director job in Phoenix, Arizona with the Phoenix Suns. Since this has been his career goal for several years, he seriously considers making the move, but does not discuss it with Holly. When Holly learns of the proposed move at a neighborhood block party, she is upset and orders him to go to Phoenix.At Thanksgiving, Messer returns to Atlanta hoping to patch things up with Holly but finds her in a relationship with "Doctor Love." He and Holly exchange heated words which started by because Sam "Doctor Love" tells Messer they are selling the house because its too much to pay for, then Messer tells Holly in the kitchen before he tells her he loves her, and always has. After Holly instructs him to do so, Messer leaves for the airport. While waiting for the airplane to come, hes looking back at his videos that they made of Sophies first walk and he smiles and a woman sitting next to him says that he has a beautiful family...That evening, Sam tells Holly that if he and his ex-wife argued like that they'd still be together now, and with that he leaves. When their Child Protective Services caseworker shows up for the last appointment to see if Holly and Messer are fit parents for Sophie, Holly realizes that she can't take care of Sophie without him that she loves Messer and drives to the airport with the caseworker. Holly finds that the flight has departed and returns to the house disappointed where, to her surprise, she finds Messer sitting on the couch because he tells Holly that Peter and Alison chose them to be parents of Sophie because they are a family and then they share a kiss. Then it's Sophie's second birthday party, neighbors and family and friends are invited. And Holly makes a huge cupcake like cake for Sophie and also made a cake for Messer and herself with the number 1 on it, showing that they made one whole year together. The film ends with Messer filming everyone singing Sophie "Happy Birthday."
