An action-comedy about a simple cook from Chandni Chowk mistaken for the reincarnation of an ancient peasant warrior Liu Shengh by residents of an oppressed Chinese village.
Based in Delhi's Chandni Chowk, orphaned Sidhu is adopted by the owner of Bajrang Bali Parathas, known simply as Dada. Years later Sidhu has grown up and is an expert at slicing vegetables. When his Chinese friend and Philosopher, Chopstick, cons him into believing that he is the reincarnation of Liu Sheung, a slain Chinese revolutionary, Sidhu takes it upon himself to travel to the Zhange district where he will be forced to confront a deadly female assassin by the name of Suzy; be befriended by a semi-crazed beggar; and must face humiliation and possible death at the hands of the virtually indestructible Hojo.
Sidhu(Akshay Kumar) is the lowest on the totem pole, cutting vegetables at road side food stall in Chandni Chowk in Delhi. He longs to escape his dreary existence and looks for shortcuts with astrologers, tarot reader and fake fakirs, basically anything except himself, despite his father figure Dada's (Mithun Chakravorty) best efforts.His redeeming moment arrives when two strangers from China claim him as reincarnation of a war hero in the past and take him to china. Sidhu now dreams of wine, women and princely existence in foreign lands. Thanks to the devious translator, a conman by the name Chopstick(Ranvir Shorey), little does he know that he is being taken to the promised land to rid the Chinese village of the vicious smuggler Hojo(Gordon Liu)!So Sidhu blissfully sets forth to China with Chopstick who instigates dreams of a delicious future and forgets to reveal the perils which await him. Along the way he meets Sakhi(Deepika Padukone), Ms. Tele Shoppers Media (Ms TSM) who has embarked on a journey to pay homage to the land of her birth and her dead father and twin.Initially Sidhu through a series of lucky coincidences manages to sidestep being beaten by Hojo's men but finally Hojo catches up with him and exposes him as the country buffoon that he really is. Sidhu has the fire of revenge in his belly and finds the one man who will make him Kungfu expert and set the village free. Armed with his Sifu(master), faith in himself and the love of the fair Sakhi Sidhu sets forth to conquer all!.
