A young couple on a motorway journey are drawn into a game of cat and mouse with a truck driver following a near accident.
Tired and irritable, Zakes Abbott drives home along the motorway, his girlfriend, Beth, asleep beside him. Failing to spot his exit he speeds across the causeway, cutting up a white van and barely avoiding an accident. Apoplectic with rage, the truck driver gives chase, and as he violently overtakes the tailgate flips up revealing a woman bound and bloodied in the back. But before there is time for a second look, the door is slammed shut and Zakes is left bewildered and wondering if what he saw was real. Later at a service station, Zakes' fears grow when Beth goes missing, and as he begins a frantic search, he is enticed into a deadly game of cat and mouse on the deserted motorway. But being the sole witness to the earlier scene, how does he convince others of his desperate need for help? Playing on our most primal fears, this taut suspense thriller challenges a world where we constantly turn responsibility over to someone else and asks the question: what do you do when there is no one else there?
On a stormy night, a coupleZakes (William Ash - NICHOLAS NICKELBY, MAD ABOUT MAMBO) and Beth (Christine Bottomly THE WAITING ROOM, VENUS) are making their way up the M1 when they are cut off by a maniacal truck driver. For a fleeting moment, the roll door on the back of the truck opens and Zakes glimpses what looks like a half-dressed woman shackled and caged within. Not entirely convinced about what he has seen, Zakes informs the police and tries to forget about the incident. Beth becomes extremely agitated by her boyfriend's indifference and storms off after the couple stop at a motorway service station. Zakes desperately searches the surrounding area but there's no sign of Beth, but he sees a familiar truck leaving the services. Assuming the truck driver has kidnapped his girlfriend Zakes give chase, and so begins a heightened game of cat-and-mouse at full speed along the rain-soaked motorway. [D-Man2010]British thriller. Would-be writer Zakes (William Ash) is driving home along the rain-drenched M1 motorway with his girlfriend Beth (Christine Bottomley) asleep in the passenger seat beside him. When a near-accident causes him to catch a fleeting glimpse into the back of a white lorry just in front of him, he sees to his horror that it contains a woman tied up and covered in blood. The couple stop at the next service station, where Zakes, tired and shaken, carries out his job of posting flyers in the toilets. When he comes out he is horrified to discover that Beth has gone missing. Could she be the next victim of the owner of the white lorry? [D-Man2010]
