To inherit the fortune he made in his previous life a man must become his previous incarnation again.
There is nothing special about Arpad, a twenty-something electrician; he is content with his life. But a company specialized in finding the reincarnations of their wealthy clients claim that Arpad might by a dead billionaire reborn. If it's proven, Arpad will be rich beyond imagining. But is he ready to be another person?
Lives RecurringArpad is an ordinary thirty-something guy; he's got a job, a wife,
a mortgage on his small apartment. All is about to change when a
representative of the Perlay Inc. company rings his doorbell and lays out
an offer. All Arpad has to do is participate in one of the company's
selection programs. The company is searching for a person; and they have
to see whether Arpad is the one.
The Perlay Inc. company deals in souls - their basic pitch is that
they can mark any one person's soul, and track it through death to
reincarnation. It's great news to aging billionaires - as Death is about
to take their earthly possessions all they have to do is trust the Perlay
company with their money, so the company could track down their
reincarnation and hand over the fortune. You can basically inherit money
from your previous life.
Based on the calculations there is a 70-to-1 chance that Arpad is
the reincarnation of Michael Korsos, a wealthy businessman dead for 30
years. All Arpad has to do is endure the increasingly bizarre and
disturbing tests the company submits him to. As more and more of the
other participants fall out the closer Arpad gets to understanding who
Korsos was; and get to understand that Korsos was closer to a monster
than a human being. And he is coming back from the unconscious memories
deep within Arpad's mind to take over Arpad's life.
If it's proven that Arpad is a reincarnation, would it mean that he
is Korsos? Or it's a brand new life that Arpad can claim his own? Is his
life a chain of new possibilities; or a trap that had been set 30 years
ago?
