The Special Investigation Squad, an elite secret police force, hunts down criminals in the streets of Los Angeles.
When LAPD elite cop Billy Beckett is traumatized by his partner's death, Joseph Armstrong recruits him for his secret Special Investigation Squad, an elite quartet which gets a very free hand to hunt down and eliminate some of the worst criminals which would escape justice. Despite colleague Gabriel's suspicion and a reporter who hired a private detective to expose their 'police abuse', he proves his value in the fight against ruthless gangster Vic, who sacrifices even his weakling brother for a major diamond robbery.
S.I.S. follows an elite, covert squad of the L.A.P.D. as they stalk the worst of the worst on the gritty streets of Los Angeles. Billy Beckett (Peter Stebbings) is a cop fighting personal demons who is recruited to work with the Special Investigation Section amongst a team of hardened officers (Matt Nable, Omari Hardwick and Colleen Porch).As an underground arm of the law, the officers of S.I.S. fight the toughest crime with none of the glory. When their dangerous methods come under scrutiny from police brass, their very existence is threatened. Meanwhile, the gunfighters meet their match when they go head to head with a notorious killer who is blasting across the streets of L.A. Written and directed by John Herzfeld (15 Minutes, 2 Days in the Valley), S.I.S. is the story of an unlikely group of heroes who must fight to prove their worth to everyone around them - including themselves. [D-Man2010]An elite police squad tracks a volatile killer through the streets of Los Angeles in this urban thriller featuring Keith David. They are our first line of defense against the most dangerous criminals in the city. If they do their job right, the average citizen never knows that they even exist. But now, a murderous psychopath is on the loose, and in order to stop him the S.I.S. will have to use every trick in the book to catch a killer, and maintain a low-profile. [D-Man2010]
