A vacationing couple in the wilderness learns what happens when they disrespect nature.
Peter and Carla have a wasted marriage and constant friction. Peter buys expensive camping gear and, despite the protests of Carla, insists they travel with their dog Cricket to camp on the isolated Moondah Beach in the North Coast with his friend Luke and his girlfriend during the rainy holiday. Peter stops in a pub at the Eggleston Hotel and leaves a message for Luke with the owner of the pub. When Peter takes what he believes to be shortcut to the beach, he gets lost and the couple spends the night sleeping in their SUV. The next morning, Peter organizes the campsite and their intrusion into and abuse of the natural environment begins. During the two days, the couple's relationship deteriorates while the nature avenges the bad treatment the couple has inflicted upon it.
This film is a remake of Long Weekend (1978) and has since been renamed "Natures Grave".
A married couple barely able to hide their contempt for each other, Peter (James Caviezel) and Carla (Claudia Karvan) embark on a camping vacation over a holiday weekend to make use of the expensive gear Peter purchased, much to his wife's disgust. Heading off into the wilds of Australia, the couple bickers and stews in the hostile mood. While finding the campsite tricky to find, the pair finally arrive and hope to make the most out of the situation through ocean play, sunbathing, and outdoor cooking. Stomping around nature, Peter and Carla's tactless ways raise the ire of the local wildlife, which torture the duo with strange occurrences and vicious attacks. Eager to bolt once the reality of violence sets in, the couple furiously tries to abandon the campsite, but nature has other plans for hapless pair.The original is an environmentally-conscious film about a couple who decide to spend on a long weekend on an isolated beach to repair their relationship. While there, they "encounter nature's revenge." Maybe they'll get pelted with tons of water bottles and buried under piles of littered garbage. The story is once again coming from the pen of Everett De Roche, who wrote the original, but there is no word on how much has been updated. This is actually the second of back-to-back films from Blanks about couples in peril in nature. He just wrapped another film called Storm Warning, where a yuppie couple get lost in a swamp and "drift off course and into a world of pain." Principal photography is set to begin in October, and the movie will probably come out in 2008. In the meantime, I'd like to start up a campaign that keeps the word "suspenser" from ever being used again. [D-Man2010]A suburban couple take a weekend vacation in the hopes of repairing their relationship. What they don't know is that when they mess with nature, Nature will bite them back. They set out to an isolated beach where they encounter nature's revenge. [D-Man2010]A married couple go on a camping trip to heal their savagely difficult relationship, but prove as destructive to the world around them as they are to themselves. [D-Man2010]
