A chronicle of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.'s campaign to secure equal voting rights via an epic march from Selma to Montgomery, Alabama, in 1965.
The unforgettable true story chronicles the tumultuous three-month period in 1965, when Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. led a dangerous campaign to secure equal voting rights in the face of violent opposition. The epic march from Selma to Montgomery culminated in President Johnson signing the Voting Rights Act of 1965, one of the most significant victories for the civil rights movement. Director Ava DuVernay's "Selma" tells the story of how the revered leader and visionary Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr and his brothers and sisters in the movement prompted change that forever altered history.
Alabama, 1965. While black citizens of Alabama constitutionally have the same voting rights as whites, they are hamstrung by racist local registration officers, politicians and lawmen. Dr Martin Luther King and his followers go to Selma, Alabama to attempt to achieve, through non-violent protest, equal voting rights and abilities for black people.
In 1964, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) accepts his Nobel Peace Prize. Four black girls walking down stairs in the Birmingham, Alabama 16th Street Baptist Church are killed by a bomb set by the Ku Klux Klan. Annie Lee Cooper attempts to register to vote in Selma, Alabama but is prevented by the white registrar. King meets with Lyndon B. Johnson and asks for federal legislation to allow black citizens to register to vote unencumbered, but the president responds that, although he understands Dr. King's concerns, he has more important projects. King travels to Selma with Ralph Abernathy, Andrew Young, James Orange, and Diane Nash. James Bevel greets them, and other SCLC activists appear. FBI director J. Edgar Hoover tells Johnson that King is a problem, and suggests they disrupt his marriage. Coretta Scott King has concerns about her husband's upcoming work in Selma. King calls singer Mahalia Jackson to inspire him with a song. King, other SCLC leaders, and black Selma residents march to the registration office to register. After a confrontation in front of the courthouse, a shoving match occurs as the police go into the crowd. Cooper fights back, knocking Sheriff Jim Clark to the ground, leading to the arrest of Cooper, King, and others..
1965. After the end of segregation Dr. Martin Luther King receives Nobel Prize amidst the still heated south of the USA, with the then-recent church bombing that claimed five little girls' lives . Dr. King meets with President Lyndon Johnson, demanding him to act on black peoples' right to vote. When Johnson evades stating his war on poverty needs to take priority, Dr. King goes to Selma, Alabama where blacks are of more than fifty percent of population but are still restricted from voting. The white supremacists are embodied in the sheriff, Jim Clark. Dr. King says the movement needs drama to attract Johnson's attention. First they stand in front of the county registration, which ends in arrests. While Dr. King is in prison, his wife meets with Malcolm X, the leader of the other polar of the black movement. X tells her that his views of Dr. King has changed and he's willing to help, although in a harsh way.When Dr. King gets out of jail and is in Selma, an unofficial gathering happens at night that ends in violence as troopers disperse the crowds. A boy, Jimmy Lee Jackson, is killed in that incident. Soon the group decides to have a march from Selma to Montgomery, Alabama. The march ends in violence where the participants are bludgeoned and beaten and the images are captured on TV and in newspapers. Dr. King did not walk with them as it was expected to end in violence as a Johnson aide told them. He calls out to all people, blacks and whites to join the next march. Many people did come to join, even whites, most of them clergy. But when the march actually begins, despite Johnson's attempt to make a deal with Dr. King, the troopers withdraw from their guard. But Dr. King backs down from his march. That night a clergy member who participated on the march is beaten and killed. And the court grants the legality for the march. At last President Johnson sends the Congress a bill to end the voting restrictions.
