A married construction worker leads a double life as a male prostitute serving rich ladies.
Marco leads a double life. As Marco, he is a construction worker but rich ladies craving sexual excitation know him as Patrick. As Marco he is married to Fanny, an ambitious young woman who has opened her own hairdressing salon in partnership with her friend Rosalie. Marco/Patrick is not a male prostitute at heart: in fact he does the job in order to support his wife's business. Which doesn't prevent Judith, an elegant tele-shopping presenter who buys his services, from falling in love with him. But when Fanny learns what Marco does and with whom, she first gets mad but soon starts interfering in their affair.
A Gaumont release of an LGM Films, Josy Films, Gaumont, France 3 Cinema production, with participation of Canal Plus and CineCinema. (International sales: Gaumont, Paris.) Produced by Cyril Colbeau-Justin, Jean-Baptiste Dupont. Directed by Josiane Balasko. Screenplay, Balasko, Franck Lee Joseph, based on Balasko's novel "Cliente."
With: Nathalie Baye, Eric Caravaca, Isabelle Carre, Josiane Balasko, Catherine Hiegel, Marilou Berry, Felicite Wouassi, George Aguilar.
Adding a fresh new garter strap to Gallic cinema's longstanding fetish for the world's oldest profession, Josiane Balasko's "A French Gigolo" turns one male prostitute's troubled career into a well-tempered dramedy of human sentiments. Bittersweet tale of a tender beau de jour and his sticky affair with an older, cynical divorcee features impressive performances by thesps Eric Caravaca and Nathalie Baye that are all heart with little naked flesh. French release has seen decent action so far, and Gaumont should look to pimp this one overseas.Pic reps a promising comeback for actress-writer-helmer Balasko, best known locally for her gruff onscreen antics in the highly popular "Les Bronzes" comedies. Based on her 2005 novel, the narrative eschews the usual farcical style of her recent, less convincing stage-to-screen adaptations, and offers up a nuanced study of love-for-sale among two distinct classes of French society.When thirtysomething working-class hustler Marco (Caravaca) meets middle-aged infomercial star Judith (Baye) in a public park, what could be mistaken for a typical Parisian pickup turns out to be strictly business. Still getting over a rough divorce, Judith pays Marco for a quick bout of expensive pleasure, exasperating her bachelorette sister, Irene (Balasko).What's supposed to be a one-time job for Marco soon turns into a weekly affair, stretching beyond the confines of the bedroom into more emotional territory. The growing liaison with Judith begins to takes its toll on Marco's marriage to spry hairdresser Fanny (Isabelle Carre), with whom he lives in a cramped public apartment shared by Fanny's single mother (Catherine Hiegel) and goth sister (Marilou Berry, daughter of Balasko).Opening reels, at once comic and melancholic, reveal the deep chasm separating Judith's wealthy but romantically vacuous existence and Marco's troubled but loving relationship with Fanny, who's unaware of his secret profession. When Fanny learns the truth, the script takes several surprising turns, focusing less on the predictable quid pro quo than on the way each woman uses Marco's prostitution to serve her own needs.Caravaca ("Son frere," "Monsieur Ibrahim") works wonders as the charming, simpatico Marco, whose sweet smile and teddy-bear build really seem better suited for cuddling than lovemaking. Baye gives a solid, underhanded perf, bringing out the wounded-animal side beneath her character's hard shell. Balasko and George Aguilar (playing Irene's Native American squeeze) dish out most of the pic's heartfelt laughs.Tech credits are functional, with Robert Alazraki's camera doing little beyond faithfully capturing the all-around fine performances. Booming hip-hop soundtrack by DJ/rapper Kore accompanies exteriors shot in Paris' infamously rough suburbs. [D-Man2010]Josiane Balasko's part farce, part drama centers on Judith (Nathalie Baye), an entrepreneur in her 50s who gets caught in a tangle of emotions with sensitive, money-strapped prostitute Patrick (Eric Caravaca) and his cute wife, Fanny (Isabelle Carré).
While financially supporting relatives in the Paris projects, Patrick begins to despair until Fanny, who has learned of her husband's secret profession, drives him back to Judith's arms and money. [D--Man2010]
