A moody romantic comedy exploring fetishism, addiction and love in the information age.
It's 1999 and lovable computer geek Lewis Henderson is dumped by his longtime girlfriend Sarah. So he does what any young urban slacker would: work less and beat off more to internet porn. But with the added pressures of his buggy Y2K software and repeated romantic rejection, Lewis discovers that the website images no longer turn him on... and thus begins his strangely satisfying sexual relationship with the machine itself. Ah, but all honeymoons must end and Lewis' eye starts to wander from his dependable home desktop. His desire for newer, sexier models grows until he finds himself lovin' neighbors' laptops and copulating with co-worker's CPUs. When his boss, Angela, vows to identify the "computer rapist", Lewis tries to throw off suspicion by dating the company's mousey receptionist, Jane. But there's more to Jane than meets the eye - with the new millennium fast-approaching and a massive motherboard calling, now he has to choose between his freaky fetish and the challenge of real love. Or does he? CONTROL ALT DELETE is a moody romantic comedy exploring fetishism, addiction and love in the information age. As our hero Lewis struggles to integrate his public and private personas, he realizes he may not be the only one harboring a dirty little secret.
CONTROL ALT DELETE is a moody romantic comedy exploring fetishism, addiction and love in the information age. As our hero Lewis struggles to integrate his public and private persona's, he realizes he may not be the only one harboring a dirty little secret.
It's late 1999. Stereotypical computer geek Lewis Henderson is arguably the most skilled programmer at Vancouver-based Millenitech, an upstart computer tech firm whose work for the last few years has been solely in dealing with Y2K issues before the stroke of midnight on January 1, 2000. His current preoccupation is ingesting a vast quantity and wide array of Internet porn, it the only way he can now get himself off. This preoccupation leads to the end of a relationship with his girlfriend, Sarah. No one knows about his need for porn, most of his work colleagues who see him as the "good", straight-laced one and who are open about their own porn predilections, especially Keith Mendelson, Henderson's biggest ally within the office. Mendelson probably watches more porn at the office than he does actual work. With six weeks left in the year, Millenitech receives one last Y2K contract, an important one in converting a large insurance database covering the entire west coast. In part because of the tight time frame, Lewis' ineffectual boss Angela Richardson looks for a project manager to handle this specific contract. Ultimately, she splits the job into two, the hardware half going to Gustafson, the alpha of the office who sweet-talked her into giving him the job and who mistakenly believes he's always right and everyone else is wrong, and the programming half going to Henderson. As Henderson works on the job under Richardson and Gustafson's scrutiny, he finds he's as blocked in this aspect of his life as he is with his sex life. As such, he escalates and modifies what he does to get off sexually. Through it all, he initiates a relationship with the new straight-talking office administrator, Jane Frederickson, he basically using her to deal with the many issues in his life. The roller skate that Frederickson hangs in her office space belies the reality that is her life. Meanwhile, Gustafson and Mendelson get sidetracked and join unlikely forces to discover the unknown male employee behind a series of unusual cases of vandalism in the office, their curiosity more to satiate the porn side than the work side of their lives, and to deflect away from the thoughts that one of them may be the vandal.

