"Beer for My Horses" tells the story of two best friends that work together as deputies in a small town. The two defy the Sheriff and head off on an outrageous road trip to save the protagonist's girlfriend from drug lord kidnappers.
Bill Racklin is a deputy sheriff in Greer County Oklahoma, the crystal meth capital of the region. His girlfriend leaves him because he's inattentive to her, but things look up when his high-school sweetheart, Annie Streets, returns home to care for her ailing mother. Annie's step-father, Buck Baker, is the local heartless rich guy, buying up farmland. On a stakeout, Rack and two other deputies arrest four men stealing fertilizer to make crystal meth; one of the four is the brother of a notorious Mexican drug dealer. The drug lord arranges Annie's kidnapping and holds her to ransom his brother. Rack and the deputies, prisoner in tow, head for Mexico to rescue her.
The movie begins with a man smashing a car and his wife is yelling at him with neighbors looking on. A sheriff truck pulls up and Joe Bill Rack Ranklin (Toby Keith) and his partner Lonnie (Rodney Carrington) try to settle the dispute. The man is convinced his wife is cheating on him with another man (who Lonnie later spots in his underwear and shows Rank, but he ignores it). As punishment, the husband ruins the lovers truck with a baseball bat however Rank tells him the truck he just ruined doesn't belong to the lover, but in fact belongs to Jay Bob Simpson (who later beats him up). Rack arrives home late and his girlfriend Cammie (Gina Gershon) leaves him, running over his lawnmower with her truck. Rack goes to work the next day and Sheriff Landry (Tom Skerritt) assigns Rack, Lonnie, and another deputy named Skunk (Ted Nugent), nightwatchmen duty on two of the fertilizer tanks. Lonnie takes his fat, gassy, lazy dog along for the ride. A truck pulls up and a group of Mexicans attempt to steal the tanks, but the three agents stop him. The gang celebrates by arriving at the local beer tavern, where they join the Sheriff Landy for a toast. The celebratory tradition goes by saying: Whiskey for my men. Beer for my horses. The next day on his way to the local cafe, Rack meets up with bad boy Johnny Franks (Chad Brummett) who informs him that the guy he arrested, whose name is Tito, has a brother who may be out looking for him. Rack rebuffs the threat and walks into the bar. He strikes up a conversation with the waitress, who informs him that his ex-girlfriend Annie Streets is back in town helping out her mother, and that he should go by and see her. He arrives at the house and reunites with Annie (Claire Forlani), but was thrown out by her stepfather Buck Baker (Barry Corbin) who mocked him about his father and the deputy position. He meets with Annie later and asks her out on a date, which she accepts. At the sheriffs office, Rack informs his secretary Mavis to retrieve a fax regarding Tito. District Attorney Levine (Curtis Armstrong) arrives and talks with Sheriff Landry regarding Tito. Landry makes Rack leave his office while they discuss. Levine feels he doesn't have a case against him, for stealing fertilizer tanks won't suit well with the judge. Mavis hands Rack the fax with the rundown: Tito is charged with drug racketeering and is part of a Mexican drug cartel. Rack enters Landry's office again and gives the fax to Levine, who then reconsiders the case. That night Annie and Rack go out on a date. The next morning Rack is talking to the plumber Bob when he gets interrupted by a phone call: Annie was taken by Tito's brother Manuel (Carlos Sanz) and Landry is told by him to bring Tito by noon tomorrow in Mexico or the girl will be killed. Rack calls Lonnie in the middle of the night and the two head down to Mexico (along with Skunk). Tyrone Honeybee (Tracy Morgan) helps the duo get across the border safely and timely. Honeybee is a corrupt border guard and serves primarily as a foil to Rack. They bust Tito out of jail and drive to Mexico. When they arrive, Lonnie tries to "blend in" by listening to a Spanish-speaking tape while Rack talks to a young kid. Rack shows a picture of Manuel and asks if the kid knows where Manuel lives and gives him a token to give to Manuel: a necklace and a cell-phone number. The kid runs over and hands it to Manuel. Manuel calls the number (Lonnies cell) and tells Rack that Annie is alive. Rack decides to meet at Rancho Cantina at noon, to which Manuel accepts. The trio wait at a nearby hotel. Manuel arrives with his men, and Rack and Skunk come face-to-face with Manuel. Rack has Tito tied up with a pillowcase over his head, and Rack is surprised to find out Annie's stepfather Buck is part of Manuel's gang. Manuel begs Rack to let his brother go, only to find out that Lonnie was wearing Titos clothes (while Tito is handcuffed to the car in his tight purple underwear). Manuel's men die in the ensuing gunfight while Buck takes Annie in the back room. Tito escapes from the car. Manuel is about ready to kill Lonnie, only to be knocked out when his brother kicks open the door. Thinking Lonnie killed Manuel, Tito raises the gun on Lonnie. Tito is taken down by the dog Junior. Rack has Buck cornered when Johnny walks in, gun pointed toward Rack. Buck tells Johnny to shoot him. Lonnie turns the gun on Buck, revealing himself to be undercover FBI agent LeVar Spurlock. Annie escapes from Bucks grasp as he aims at Rack. Rack kills Buck dead with a shot to the head. The heroes, celebrating yet another victory, drive back to the tavern where they are warmly greeted by the patrons who watched a news report on the Garza brothers capture. Sheriff Londry arrives and starts grilling Rack, but later joins in the celebration. Rack and Annie get together.
