A short-term memory loss patient sets out on his journey to avenge the death of his beloved girl.
Medical student, Sunita, is driven by curiosity to study the case of Sanjay Singhania, who is afflicted with short-term memory loss. She runs into him, befriends him, and finds out that he is out to kill a seemingly benevolent citizen, Ghajini Dharmatma. After warning the latter of the impending danger, she subsequently comes across a number of diaries written by Sanjay and attempts to put together a jigsaw puzzle as to how a successful and wealthy businessman became a crazed recluse, who re-lives his past through tattoos on his body, notes and Polaroid photographs on the wall of his Hiranandani Complex flat, and his sole obsession of carrying out his deadly mission - little knowing that Ghajini and his goons are out to erase every bit of evidence he has gathered and thus ensure that he ends up remembering nothing.
One of the wealthiest business tycoon Sanjay Singhania (Owner of Singhania group of Industries) who was a very nice businessman and fell in love with a beautiful girl Kalpana who was an ad film actress. His life is ruined by a man called Ghajini who killed his love and also damaged his brain and two years later he is suffering from a mental disease called short-term memory lost he is living his life by writing notes, clicking pictures and sketching tattoos on his body just to take avenge from the man ghajini.
Sanjay Singhania is well known city businessman.But currently his memory last only for 15 minutes.Sunita a medical student and Inspector Arjun comes across his diary and find that.Sanjay was in love with a model Kalpana but he never disclosed about his wealth to her.They both were to get married.But Kalpana got killed by Ghajini Dharmatma another businessman as she found about his human trafficking racket.Sanjay to was attacked in the mishap leaving him badly injured leading to his memory loss.Sanjay's only motive is to find Ghajini and kill him.
Sanjay Singhania (Aamir Khan) is a rich tycoon suffering from short term memory loss due to being hit by a metal pole when trying to intervene on his girlfriend's murder. Because of the severe injury on his head, his memory can only last for fifteen minutes and he doesn't remember events or incidents that have happened before in his life. He can now only live a comprehendible life by tattooing notes on himself and taking pictures of things with a Polaroid camera to remind himself of the incidents that have happened. His story in unraveled by a police officer (Riyaz Khan) who is hunting him due to several murders he has committed while trying to find his girlfriend's murderer through his diary. His story has also piqued the interest of a medical college student, Sunita (Jiah Khan) who is searching for a patient with an "interesting" record for her college project. Sunita comes to know about Sanjay's love with Kalpana (Asin Thottumkal) a model activist. When her activist work for children comes in the way of child racketeers, she is killed by Ghajini when she intervened with his plan of kidnapping 25 young girls to Goa. So, with the help of Sunita, Sanjay sets out on a revenge spree, searching for the murderer of the one love of his life...
