Sokol and Lorna, two Albanian emigrants in Belgium, dream of leaving their dreary jobs to set up a snack bar. They need money, and a permanent resident status. Claudy is a junkie - he needs money to satisfy his addiction. Andrei, the cigarette smuggler, must hold up for a while outside Russia; he has loads of money. Fabio, the Italian taxi driver and aspiring gang boss, elaborates a clever scheme: he will pay Claudy to marry Lorna so that she acquires a Belgian citizenship. Then she is to re-marry Andrei, who will in this way obtain the coveted EU passport - and pay a hefty price to Fabio and Lorna for the service. Like all plans, this one will not survive the contact with reality.
In order to become the owner of a snack bar with her boyfriend, Lorna, a young Albanian woman living in Belgium, becomes an accomplice to a diabolical plan devised by a criminal named Fabio. Fabio works as a taxi driver but his main activities consist of shady deals.Fabio has orchestrated a sham marriage between Lorna and Claudy. The marriage allows her to obtain Belgian citizenship. They chose Claudy because he was a junkie, thus they could kill him off &amp; make it look like an overdose. The police won't suspect foul play. Lorna then will be able to marry a Russian Mafioso who is willing to pay a lot of money to acquire an EU passport quickly.Lorna shares an apartment with Claudy but is very cold towards him. Claudy is a drug addict who grows to be dependent on Lorna. One day he was in really bad shape that he asked Lorna to get in touch with his doctor to have him hospitalized. While Claudy was in the hospital, Lorna intentionnally hit herself to get bruises in order to file for divorce. When the authority demanded a witness, Lorna asked Claudy to hit her but he couldn't bring himself to do it. She, in turn, hit her forehead against a column in Claudy's hospital room. She then rushed to a nurse for help &amp; asked her to be a witness of Claudy's violent act.Discharged from the hospital, Claudy is back to his bad habit, buying drug. Lorna got the divorce paper &amp; told Fabio about it. Fabio later arranged for Claudy to overdose &amp; die.Filled with remorse, Lorna's attitude started to change. First, she yelled at Spirou - Fabio's right-hand man - because he took Claudy's CD player &amp; demanded that Spirou gave that back. She gave Claudy's money to his family but they refused to take it.She &amp; Solko, her boyfriend, then went out looking for a place to turn it into a resto-bar. After deciding on one, she signed the paper &amp; came back one day to check out the place by herself. Suddenly she felt sick while going upstairs. Lorna suspected that she was pregnant. She went to see a doctor &amp; asked for an abortion, but changed her mind &amp; left.She then went to the bank to open an account for the unborn baby under the name Moreau, Claudy's family name.When she mentioned the pregnancy to Fabio, he ordered her to get an abortion. She asked the Russian if it's ok that she's pregnant but he said no.While walking to the car with Fabio, Lorna had a terrible pain so he took her to the hospital. After her exam, a hospital attendant returned her to a waiting room with Fabio. The attendant leaned over Lorna and said, "I know you want to think you are pregnant, but you are not. You need to go through more tests. Can you stay a few days?" Lorna told her she could and the attendant left. Fabio was surprised to learn she wasn't pregnant.They cut to her apartment and Fabio is helping her pack her things. Apparently, the deal had turned sour. The Russian left. Fabio told her he was taking her back to Albania. Later they met up with Spirou, and Lorna got in Spirou's car. Fabio ordered Lorna to give him her cell phone &amp; confiscated the SIM card. He then ordered Lorna to leave with Spirou. She started to suspect they wanted to kill her so she asked Spirou to stop for her to pee. She hid a small rock in her jacket &amp; after she got back into the car, she use it to hit Spirou's head. While Spirou lost consciousness, Lorna made an escape into the woods. She found a small shack, climbed in, checked out the place then climbed out to get some wood to start a fire. All the while she was talking to the unborn baby, saying she let her father die but she will never let that happen to Claudy's child.
