If a clock could count down to the moment you meet your soul mate, would you want to know?
When implanted in a person's wrist, a TiMER counts down to the day the wearer finds true love. But Oona O'Leary faces the rare dilemma of a blank TiMER. Her soul mate - whoever and wherever he is - has yet to have a TiMER implanted. Staring down the barrel of thirty and tired of waiting for her would-be life partner to get off the dime, Oona breaks her own rules and falls for Mikey, a charming and inappropriately young supermarket clerk with a countdown of four months.
In the near future, people can put a timer on their wrist that counts down until they meet their soul mate, as long as that person also has a timer. Step-sisters Oona and Steph, nearly 30, are slaves to their timers: Steph's won't go off for years and Oona's is blank (her soul mate doesn't yet have one). Then Oona meets Mikey and Steph meets Ben. Mikey is younger than Oona, a bit Bohemian, his timer set to go off in four months: he likes Oona and invites her to go with the flow for a change. For his own reasons, Ben doesn't have a timer, but he likes Steph and it's mutual. In this scientific world, is there room for love - and would anyone know it if it stared them in the face?
In a near future, many people wear a timer implanted in their wrists by matchmakers to find their soul mates and true love. The twenty-nine year-old orthodontist Oona O'Leary is worried about her future since she cannot find her true love. When she meets the twenty- two year old supermarket cashier and musician Mikey Evers, his timer shows that they will be together in four months and she falls for him. Oona lives with her stepsister and best friend Steph Depaul that works as receptionist in a nursing home. When Steph meets the widow Dan that does not wear a timer, they start seeing each other. Meanwhile Oona finds that Mikey's timer is fake and she is affected by her discovery. The birthday of Oona and Steph is on the same day and their mother Marion Depaul invites Mikey and Dan to the party. On the eve, Oona and Steph decide to remove the timer, but when Oona is ready to take it of, the timer is activated by someone who has just implanted it. Who could be her soul mate?

