A baby born to a human couple turns out to be a mutant monster with an appetite to kill when scared.
Pregnant college student Lenore Harker leaves college before the end of the semester to move to an isolated house with her boyfriend Frank. When Lenore is ready to deliver the baby, they drive to the hospital. In the surgery room, the two doctors and the two nurses are found slaughtered and Lenore and the baby are found covered of blood. When Lenore is released, the family returns to Frank's house.
It's Alive is a remake of the 1974 film of the same name except that beyond the killer baby motif absolutely nothing is the same as the original.Directed by Josef Rusnak (The Thirteenth Floor) and written by Larry Cohen (Q, It's Alive III, Phonebooth), Paul Sopocy (new Thundercats?!) and James Portolese (JCVD's Until Death) this is a re-imagining of a film that really didn't need to see the light of day. It's Alive would have to work very hard from the off to justify it's existence.Just before the end of her semester at college, Lenore Harker (Bijou Phillips) leaves to have a baby with her architect boyfriend Franck (James Murray) at his remote log cabin in the woods. After discovering the baby has doubled in size in just a month they have to extract the baby by caesarian section, without Franck being present. As the doctor cuts the umbilical cord all hell breaks loose, with the baby killing every doctor and nurse in the operating room. When we cut back to the new mother, baby is asleep on her stomach and the room is painted a lovely shade of blood red.After questioning by the police Lenore is allowed back home with her baby (after all, a baby killing people would be ridiculous!) and is left to get on with her life while they organise a psychologist to help her try to remember anything. It's not long before Death Baby bites Lenore when she's feeding him and his taste for blood is revealed.Gradually the baby gets the taste for rats, cats and penguins* before progressing to killing fully-grown people. As Lenore refuses to accept her baby is seriously messed up it comes down to wheelchair bound kid Chris (Raphaël Coleman) and school chum Nicole (Skye Bennett) to save the day. [D-Man2010]
