A romantic comedy about an Indian stuntman who takes Hollywood by storm but cannot find true love.
After Hollywood stuntman, Lucky Doshi, gets married to Kamini Sandhu, his Punjab-born friend and fellow Universal Studio's colleague, Viraj Shergill, chastises him, while Kamini's man-hating surgeon friend, Simrita Rai, coaches her to not be intimate with him. Simrita and Viraj clash verbally several times but things change after he ruptures his intestine while filming a movie and is hospitalized. His life will undergo many changes after he finds out - much to his amazement - that Simrita loves him, without realizes that her feelings for him are temporarily motivated.
Akshay Kumar's latest 2009 flick is "Kambakkht Ishq." In this romantic comedy he teams up with bollywood beauty Kareena Kapoor. Akshay Acts as a Hollywood stuntman while Kareena stars as model with no patience for Kumar's arrogance. The stuntman role should come natural to him since he just finished shooting "8x10" with action sequences as well as "Blue" which features Akshay surrounded by 40 sharks in one scene.
Kareena Kapoor on the other hand will have some experience with a sour relationship as her latest film "Main Aur Mrs. Khanna" shows off a good marriage gone astray. "Kambakkht Ishq" is a film that is bringing together the east and west, a trend becoming more prevalent in Bollywood cinema. Later this year the film "New York" will be released which was filmed in New York and Philadelphia. The Sajid Nadiadwala film ran into some issues when the promo for the film was shown to have offensive language to showcase the hate between Kareena and Akshay.
Expect action sequences from the film and fireworks between Akshay Kumar and Kareena Kapoor. Setting the film in Hollywood gives the viewer something different to look at. And having the two main stars hate each other offers an interesting battle of the sexes. Hollywood also offers a couple of its giants to appear as cameos in the film. Sylvester Stallone, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Brandon Routh, and Denise Richards are confirmed to be part of the film. This isn't the first time that Akhsay will be working with a western icon. He just teamed up with Kylie Minogue for a song in "Blue." With the list of stars, "Kambakkht Ishq" is set to be one the biggest release of 2009 with much hype from the media. Akshay Kumar also has a handful of movies set to be released in 2009 which include, "Blue," "8x10," and "Chandni Chowk to China." [D-Man2010]
