Life is wonderful for the people in the quiet, island town of Port Gamble....until a zombie virus outbreak!
Opening on a beach of the island town of Port Gamble, a blind resident discovers a rotting zombie washed up in the sand.Frida Abbas (Janette Armand) is a teenage Irianian-American girl has returned to Port Gamble, her home town after dropping out of Princeton University. She runs into her neighbor, Joe Miller, at the local gas station which he runs with his wife, Judy, and their teenage son, Brian. The family refers to her as Iraqi, much to Frida' confusion.Meanwhile, the token gay couple, Tom Hunt (Doug Fahl) and Lance Murphy (Cooper Hopkins) arrive in Port Gamble to tell Tom's mother that he is gay. While Tom and Lance explore town, many island residents appear to have been zombified, including a police officer. Frida arrives at her house to find her father, Ali, praying. Ali has a lecturing argument to Frida about being more proud of her Iranian heritage. Frida sneaks out of the house with her boyfriend, Derek (Ryan Barret).Tom and Lance are having dinner with Tom's mother, who reveals that she was bitten earlier by a bystander at the store. She goes into the kitchen to prepare dessert and Tom admits that he is gay at the second his mom becomes a zombie and attacks them. Lance pins her to the wall with a fireplace poker and discovers more zombies walking towards the house. The news reveals that Port Gamble is under attack by a bio-terrorism attack which turns it's victims into zombies.While Frida and Derek are outside, Derek's face is horrifically ripped off and eaten by a zombie. Ali leaves the house to look for his daughter while Frida escapes from a group of zombies and returns to her abandoned and surrounded house. Judy calls for her from her barricaded home. Frida and Judy run and hide in the basement with Brian and Joe. Judy is bitten by a zombie while helping Frida inside.While watching the news on a TV set, Joe sees that the terrorist responsible for the outbreak is wearing the same necklace as Frida. He ties Frida to a chair and asks her questions about U.S. history, much to Brian's disgust. Tom and Lance find Mrs. Hunt (a teacher, mayor candidate, and Mayor Burton's (James Mesher) ex-wife). They run into the local church where Reverend Haggis (Bill Johns), Mayor Burton, Clive, a married couple, and a local senior woman are playing bingo. They immediatley begin to board the windows and chart the food. Reverend Haggis believs that the zombies outside are a part of the apocalypse.Back in the basement, Joe nails Frida's foot to the ground and begins to move a flame of fire toward her face when Brian hits a hole in his father's head with a hammer. Brian is able to lift the nail out of Frida's foot and before they leave, Brian is attacked and eaten by the zombified Judy. The wounded Joe watches in disbelief as his wife devours Brian.As Mayor Burton starts to show obvious signs of infection, Mrs. Hunt suggests quarantining him in a room which causes Mayor Burton to rebel against her. Tom and Lance lecture Mayor Burton which makes Reverend Haggis decide to turn Lance and Tom into straights by drugging them and making them watch gay "erotic" films. Clive and the married couple go downstairs to assist Haggis in the process, locking themsleves in the basement. Mayor Burton reanimates into a zombie and bites the senior woman's jaw off, leaving Mrs. Hunt alone with the zombie. As Lance is being drugged, Tom threatens the group and forces them to let Mrs. Hunt in, Mayor Burton enters with her. Clive and the couple quickly run out of the church with Tom, Lance, and Mrs. Hunt following while Reverend Haggis attempts to talk to Burton, who eats him.Frida makes it home to her father, who turns into a zombie and she is forced to kill him. She prepares to commit suicide with her father's shotgun before she hears a helicopter outside. She runs out of the house into a playground full of zombies and the still-living Joe Miller. In a struggle, Joe tries to handcuff Frida to a slide but Frida breaks loose of his grip and handcuffs him to the slide and runs off. Joe cries that he's sorry and that he was stupid. Frida honestly says that she forgives him but refuses to release him. The zombies attack, rip apart, and devour Joe. Frida soon finds Tom, Lance, and Mrs. Hunt and saves them from a zombie. They leave to find the chopper where U.S. soldiers find them and take them to refuge.Six months later. Port Gamble is off quarantine and begins to be repopulated. Mrs. Hunt is now mayor of the town and Frida is running her father's diner. Tom and Lance visit her and propose that she stay with them in New York. She denies but promises that she will visit them soon. Tom and Lance leave the island while Clive and the married couple enjoy a meal at Frida's diner.The film ends with shots of a wall of rememberance and Mayor Hunt putting a flower next to a picture of Burton.
