A look at the making of the film Troll 2 (1990) and its journey from being crowned the "worst film of all time" to a cherished cult classic.
In 1989, unwitting Utah actors starred in the undisputed Worst Movie in History: TROLL 2. Two decades later, the legendarily inept film's child star unravels the improbable, heartfelt story of an Alabama dentist-turned-cult movie icon and an Italian filmmaker who come to terms with this genuine, internationally revered cinematic failure.
This documentary is about Troll 2 (1990), at one time the #1 worst movie on IMDB's list of 100 worse films (at the time of writing, it is #75). Produced and directed by Michael Paul Stephenson , who as a 12 year old starred in Trolls 2, the film focuses on how a terrible movie became something of a cult hit. The film focuses primarily on dentist George Hardy who answered a casting call for the film. He never saw the final product until HBO began screening it. By his own admission, he was terrible and cast members think the same of their own performances. The movies director, Claudio Fragasso, seems to think quite highly of the final product.
In his small hometown of Alexander City, Alabama, George Hardy is best known as the gregarious local dentist who dresses up as a roller-blading tooth fairy in the town's annual Christmas parade. Until the movie became a cult classic in the mid-2000's and until its then child star Michael Paul Stephenson decided to make this documentary about its cult phenomenon, George hid from most of the town's residents that he was the adult star close to two decades earlier in Troll 2 (1990), which is highly regarded as the worst movie ever made and which at one time held the very bottom ranking of eligible movies on IMDb. In all technical respects, the movie is indeed awful, except in the fact that it entertains its followers in its sheer awfulness. Even most who participated in the making of the film know that it is awful - some who remain in the movie industry and still hide their association with it - except perhaps its Italian husband/wife directing/writing team of Claudio Fragasso and Rossella Drudi, the former who believes he directed a movie that has some emotion and heart. As the movie gains notoriety through special cinema showings worldwide and through fan conventions and other such events, George and others associated with the film gain some renewed recognition, however niche that recognition is. While some of the movie's actors like Connie Young still try to keep it a distant memory not on their resume while others like Margo Prey deal with the personal realities of their current life which doesn't include this movie, George relishes in most - but not all - of the regained fame, and contemplates whether he would like it to be more than just the proverbial fifteen minutes within the context of a full-fledged movie career.

