At the ripe old age of 30, Cameron Day has given up his chances at pro-basketball fame and settled into an aimless life. A chance encounter with a beautiful woman lands him smack in the middle of Southern California's pro beach volleyball scene. A naturally talented true athlete, he seems destined for sports stardom once again until his old demons start creeping in, threatening his chances at success.
"Green Flash" follows the triumphant rise and self-discovery of Cameron Day, a former college basketball star whose once uncanny ability to master the playing fields around him comes at one small price, his sanity. Cameron has never been able to balance his unique gift of greatness with the tormenting mental sacrifice it requires of him. When he's in "the zone" his world is perfect. It slows down for him and a light shines a path on success. But to get there brings out an anger and a fear that tears his outer world apart. Now, after a mysterious ten year disappearance from the athletic world he once dominated, we find Cameron Day desperate to give greatness another go around. He's determined to become an elite athlete once again, but this time Cameron sets his sites on ruling the pro beach volleyball circuit. From Manhattan, New York to Manhattan Beach, California, Cameron's journey is inspired by an artistic beach beauty named Mia, who - despite her unwillingness to date jock types - leads Cameron down a path of self awareness and enlightens him on the phenomenon of the Green Flash: a fleeting moment of brilliance in nature. On the tour, Cameron makes new friends, Kenny, and new enemies, Madden, but a cut throat world filled with clamoring to get ahead leaves everybody questioning, who is who and which is which? In his maddening pursuit of victory at the grand daddy of all tournaments, The Manhattan Beach Open, Cameron is forced to determine who he can trust by his tormented side as he sets out to not only win, but to face his demons in his own quest for a fleeting moment of brilliance.

