Six years after KiDULTHOOD, Sam Peel is released from jail for killing Trife, he realizes that life is no easier on the outside than it was on the inside and he's forced to confront the people he hurt the most. Some have moved on, others are stuck with the repercussions of his actions that night, but one thing's for certain - everyone has been forced to grow up. Through his journey Sam struggles to deal with his sorrow and guilt and something else he didn't expect - those seeking revenge. As he's pursued by a new generation of bad boys, Sam sets about trying to get the message across to his pursuers that they should stop the violence, much like Trife tried to tell him all those years ago. Can Sam stop the cycle of violence and make something positive from the destruction he caused or will his journey into Adulthood end here?
Not Straight Outta Compton, but straight out of jail and back on the mean streets of London. A story of retribution that has Sam Peel fighting for more than just his freedom. After a six and a half year stretch for murder, his troubles are just about to begin. This has his past conflicts catching-up with his plans to stay alive for the future.
Six years after he was convicted for killing Trife, Sam Peel is released from jail. After returning home and finding no one in, Sam visits Trife's grave and is confronted by a man who tries to stab him. Sam is able to overpower him, but receives a stab wound in the shoulder. The man tells him that someone is coming for him, and his family. Sam looks up all the people he knew before he went inside and first goes to see Claire who is now with a new boyfriend, Hayden (Danny Dyer). Claire is not happy to see Sam but tells him that Moony goes to Central University. Sam is confronted by Hayden for the abuse he gave Claire when they were younger. The movie then turns to Jay, after the death of Trife. Jay has gone on a downward spiral and is now dealing drugs and suffering from violent outbursts. Sam seeks out Moony who is not pleased to see him and tells him he doesn't know who is after him but he deserves all that he gets. After following a trail of information leading him from one old face to the next, Sam befriends Lexi, a local drug addict. Their friendship grows closer as she aids Sam in finding those that seek out his family. Meanwhile both Jay and a group of young youths (one of which being rapper Plan B) hunt down Sam for revenge over the tragedy occurring 6 years prior. As Sam's desperation grows, it is unclear whether he will be able to protect his family and whether he will find who he is looking for before he is found by those looking for him.
