Jannicke wakes up in the hospital. All of her friends are dead. As she walks through the dark corridors, she thinks she is left alone. But the nightmare isn't over yet.
Jannicke is found wandering, shocked, in the snow in Stehotinn by Ole who takes her to the Otta Sjukehus Hospital where his girlfriend Dr. Camilla works. Jannicke reveals the location of where the bodies of her friends Eirik, Mikail and Ingunn and the psychopath killer are to the skeptical police officers. When they investigate the location, they find the corpses and take them to the morgue of the same hospital. Dr. Herman revives the psychopath while the Chief of Police Einar investigates many missing persons in the spot.
After all her friends and the Mountain Man are killed, Jannicke struggles her way back to civilization. Meanwhile, at the local hospital in Otta, Camilla, a newly educated physician, examines the frostbites on an elderly woman who made it to the cold outside after failing to find the toilet. The hospital is also scheduled to be shut down. Ole, Camilla's boyfriend, calls for her to get into his car outside the hospital. As they talk, he responds to a radio message about a deserted car near Stehøtind. He decides to check it out while Camilla heads back to work. He concludes with that it had been left there for 3 days. While heading back to Otta, he encounters Jannicke standing in the road with a pickaxe (the same as the one used by the Mountain Man) and Ole crashes into the snow in the attempt to avoid a collision. After Jannicke collapses, Ole takes her into his car and transport her to the hospital. At the hospital, Daniel, a young boy that has been treated for a broken arm, is allowed to stay overnight, despite that Hermann, the hospital chief, unregistered him the previous day. There, Jannicke wakes up and are questioned by police about what had happened in the mountains. After Jannicke tells and verifies her story, police immediately launches an investigation and they and Ole head out to the ravine where they find the bodies of Jannickes deceased friends and the Mountain Man. After the bodies are recovered, Einar, the sheriff in Otta, orders officers Kim and Johan to remain at the site and secure it before going to the hotel, while he and Ole returns to Otta. As the bodies are brought into the hospital's morgue, Einar soon discovers the birthmark covering one of the Mountain Man's eyes. Einar then thinks that the Mountain Man could be the boy having a similar birthmark who disappeared under mysterious circumstances 30 years earlier, and Einar starts to investigate his background, as well as a number of disappearances that was never solved. Hermann then instructs Audhild on how to undress the corpses and putting their clothes and belongings into bags, as well as stating that someone should inform Jannicke about the finding of her friends.At the Sheriff's office, Einar opens a cold case archive where he retrieves a file containing a videotape cassette as well as news articles about the boy's disappearance. Back in the morgue, Audhild is working on undressing the bodies while Sverre, who has a crush on Audhild, shows up. After taking a look at the Mountain Man's body, Audhild tells Sverre that this man is not the average Norwegian Easter tourist, in which Sverre replies that it is more like a Dane taking the Mountain code 5 literally on dressing for all kinds of bad weather, including on short trips. Audhild then tells Sverre that shortly after moving to Otta, someone tried to convince her that mountain code 4 was "lie with experienced mountaineers". when Audhild asks Sverre if he wanted to do something special, he tells her that he is just making sure that everything is in order. Camilla then talks with Ole about how to break to Jannicke about the arrival of her dead friends. Camilla then informs Jannicke that police have transported the bodies to the hospital. She then asks Jannicke if she wants to see them, and takes her to the morgue. After seeing the Mountain Man's body, she gets an emotional outburst and attacks the Mountain Man in the morgue, while Camilla tries to calm her down. At the hotel, Kim and Johan has just arrived. As Kim discovers traces of blood at the floor, a wind gust causes the door to shut, startling both officers. Then Einar contacts them on radio, ordering them back to the ravine. Einar looks at archived news articles on unresolved disappearances of hikers in the area near Stehøe, where the hotel is located. At the hospital, Janicke tries to apologize to Camilla about the incident in the morgue. Hermann asks to talk to Camilla about the incident in the morgue, and orders her to give Jannicke drugs that will calm her and that she should tell Jannicke that it is vitamins, despite Camilla disagreeing to Hermann's decision. Batk in the ravine, Johan descends into it, and after searching he discovers several bodies that appear to have been there for a long time. As Audhild starts undressing the Mountai Man, he suddenly appears to be alive. They then transfer him to a room where they try to bring him back to life. Jannicke tries to stop the revival attempt, however, Sverre manages to restrain her, while Audhild drugs her in a second attempt to calm her down before bringing her back to her room. Sverre then finds some bandage inside a closet in Jannicke's room.
Back at the room where the Mountain Man is being brought back to life, Sverre asks if someone can fix his nose bleeding, which Audhild does. He then handcuffs the Mountain man, now connected to a respirator, to the bed. Audhild, Camilla and Hermann leaves, leaving Sverre to watch the Mountain man. Shortly afterwards. the Mountain man grabs surgical equipment and slits Sverre's throat, killing him. Audhild, on her way to the wardrobe, hears noise from the room where Sverre and the Mountain Man is, but does not return to investigate. After Sverre dies from the injuries inflicted by the Mountain Man, the Mountain Man breaks free. Audhild takes off her clothes in the wardrobe and then goes to take a shower while Camilla goes to talk with Hermann, who convinces her that she will make an excellent physician, despite that Camilla is felling that Hermann is not all satisfied with her. After Audhild finishes showering and prepares to leave, she discover that the corridor is dark. She goes into the corridor and turns on the lights again just as the Mountain Man appears behind her and knocks her unconscious with a fire extinguisher. Audhild then wakes up inside the shower, having a wound on her head. She then notices the Mountain Man standing over her. As she screams for help, the Mountain Man hits Audhild with a fire extinguisher a second time, this time, she is beaten to death.Unaware about what has happened to Audhild and Sverre, Camilla and Herman are having a pleasant conversation in the lunch room when the lights suddenly goes out, causing the emergency lights to go on. Meanwhile, Einar, who is investigating the background of the Mountain Man, is watching a videotaped interview with the boy's parents where they tell that "he went out to play as usual, and then he never came back". He then goes through old news articles from the same era as when the boy disappeared: One is about a hunter, who stayed at Stehøe hotel, who found their dog skinned after it disappeared. Another tells about a sheep farmer who found his sheep in a trapping pit near Stehøe hotel, with only two of his herd alive. A third article is about grotesque incidents in the area around the Stehøe hotel, which has caused tourists to flee in addition to drive the hotel to the verge of bankruptcy. Einar then comes across an article about a man surviving a deliberately set fire on the abandoned hotel. The man who survived was Haldor Mæland, a district doctor who participated in the search of the missing family. Einar contacts Haldor and they two agrees to meet at a local cafe.Back at the hospital, Hermann and Camilla still tries to figure out the reason for the power cut. As street lights are on, they think this is local and Hermann goes to turn on the generator while Camilla is looking after the patients. Jannicke goes out of the hospital bed after hearing noises. As she exits her room, she sees a hand on the opposite side of a glass door dividing the corridor. After she reaches it, she opens it to see if there are someone there. As she turns back, the mountain man fatally stabs her with a pickaxe. Just then, Jannicke wakes up and realizes that it was all just a dream. But then, she finds herself strapped to the bed and tries to break free. Meanwhile Hermann reaches the basement while Camilla discover Audhild's belongings on the floor just outside the wardrobe, and decides to investigate. She enters and suddenly trips into an object lying on the wardrobe floor. In the basement, Herman discovers that several wires have been disconnected. Herman then starts the emergency generator, and power is restored for a short while, during which Camilla discovers a fire extinguisher with lots of blood on it lying on the floor and Audhild lying dead in the shower, covered in blood, just before power goes off again as a result of the generator stopping. Camilla, frightened by what she have experienced, rushes towards the reception area while Herman, who is attempting to fix the generator hears someone entering the room. He gets back up and grabs a wrench to use as a weapon, then orders the intruder, which is the Mountain Man, to not move. As the Mountain Man begins moving towards Hermann, he shouts a second time to stay away from him and then throws the wrench at his head. However, he continues moving towards Hermann, forcing him to escape through a locked backdoor. As Hermann attempts to flee up the slippery stairs outside, the Mountain Man catches up to him and kills him by bending his neck backwards until it snaps. Camilla reaches to the expedition, only to discover that the phone is out of operation. She then sees the Mountain Man entering, causing her to hide behind the expedition desk while the Mountain Man walks around in the expedition area, eventually retrieving a pickaxe from a box containing disused garden tools.At a local cafe, Haldor tells Einar that most of the search party had been searching for the family without results and that most of them had been searching for the boy the week before his parents disappeared, as well as verifying that he was alone at the room when it caught fire. When the waitress asks if Haldor wants another beer, he thanks no to it. After Einar tells that the police report concluded that the boy's parents were caught by an avalanche while looking for their son, Haldor explains that it was the official explanation to their disappearance. Haldor then proceeds to tell that the boy was never all normal. He then tell that as a baby, the boy was stillborn and officially dead for 4 hours, and that he had finished his death certificate when the boy's heart suddenly started beating again. But despite becoming alive again he never cried and was just quiet. As Jannicke struggles to break free from the restraints, someone enters the room, and Jannicke soon discover it is Daniel, and ask him for help to be freed. They then goes out into the corridor, where Jannicke tells Daniel to be very quiet. They enter a room where Jannicke discovers a pool of blood on the floor and broken handcuffs hanging from the bed and covers Daniel's eyes to prevent him seeing what has happened. When she tells Daniel that the room is empty, they hear someone enter the corridor and Jannicke spots the Mountain Man in a surveillance mirror. She then takes Daniel with her and hide together inside a room as the Mountain Man walks by. Once she sees that the Mountain Man is gone, Jannicke hides Daniel in a closet, where he plays a video game. Jannicke then finds a depot containing chemicals and single-use medical equipment. There, she transfers a poisonous chemical to a syringe to use as a weapon against the Mountain Man. Camilla then discovers that the Mountain Man is gone from the expedition area, and as she leaves it, she retrieves a cell phone and tries to contact Ole, who is not responding as he is spending time inside an Esso gas station, leaving his phone in his car. Camilla leaves a message informing about the situation at the hospital. Camilla then types 112, the emergency number to Norwegian police, on her phone to call the police, but is abrupt when she hears a loud noise. She enters the depot where Jannicke is also hiding, and assuming it is the Mountain Man entering she attacks and sets the syringe, but discover that it was Camilla who entered before injecting any poison, and manages to carefully extract the syringe from her neck. Camilla then tries to reassemble her phone, which broke on impact with the floor. When Jannicke asks Camilla on how many people there are at the hospital, Camilla replies that there are 4 people besides them: Daniel, an old woman, Audhild and a police officer. When Jannicke asks where Hermann went, Camilla replies that he went to check the electric power supply. Then they decide to pick up Daniel and the elderly woman and run away from the hospital. In the corridor, Camilla insists on looking for Hermann, despite Jannicke telling her not to. They then separate, and Camilla heads to the basement while Jannicke runs to pick up Daniel, who has left the closet, which makes Jannicke anxious. In the corridors in the basement, Camilla sees the Mountain Man entering, and she hides inside the morgue. She then hides under a trolley table used to carry corpses as the Mountain Man enters the morgue, where he is able to reclaim his belongings, including the pickaxe he used to murder Jannicke's friends. Due to fear of being killed, Camilla shivers enough to create noise and lose grip on the trolley table, forcing her to escape on foot while the Mountain Man tries to kill her. Eventually Jannicke appears and rams a trolley table into the Mountain Man, causing him to fall. They exit and locks the entrance to the morgue just as Daniel shows up. They then exit the hospital, to find that Ole have brought a police patrol under Einar's leadership to the hospital. Jannicke tells Einar that the Mountain Man is locked up in the morgue in the basement before running to a police car to retrieve a pump-action shotgun. Einar interferes with her actions and tries to take the shotgun from her, and Jannicke tells Einar that he is unaware about what is happening inside the hospital. Einar then claims that he knows more than what Jannicke may think and threaten to arrest her if she does not calm down. When Camilla confronts Einar about detaining Jannicke who saved her life, Einar explains that they cannot let civilians use their weapons. Einar then orders Jannicke to enter and stay inside one of the police vehicles while police enter the hospital. From the back seat, Jannicke watches as Daniel is picked up by his mother. Einar, along with Kim and Ole, enter the hospital armed with a shotgun, pistol and a submachine gun while Johan stays in the car with Jannicke and Camilla. As the group reach the morgue and discovers that the door has fallen inwards as they entered, they decides to pull back and wait for backup forces to arrive. Upon retreating, they discover Sverre's body in the corridor. As Kim gets to the body, despite Einar telling him not to, the corpse appears to be a part of a wire trap, in which Kim is pulled into a room and the door shut. Einar then shoots the door open finding Kim dead inside. Einar then warns Ole, who is next to be attacked. Einar follows Ole and the Mountain Man into a room where Ole is severely injured. Einar tries to shoot the Mountai Man just as he attacks and kills Einar. The gunfire is also visible from outside, and when Johan fails to get contact with Einar, Jannicke offers that she, Camilla and him can enter. In the meantime Ole manages to get up on his feet despite his injuries, just as the old woman comes by on her way from the toilet. Johan eventually agrees, but then the Mountain Man attacks the car they are sitting inside, killing Johan, injuring Jannicke and frightens Camilla, When Camilla attempts to grab Johan's gun, the Mountain Man breaks the window on her side and pulls Camilla out. Jannicke discover that the door is locked and breaks a window to escape. The Mountain Man is ready to strike Camilla with the pickaxe just as Ole exits the hospital and shoots the Mountain Man, who collapses afterwards, just before Ole dies from his injuries. As Camilla rushes to her deceased boyfriend, Jannicke retrieves a handgun from the vehicle she was once inside. She then holds the Mountain Man at gunpoint while approaching Camilla, who is mourning Ole's death. In the meantime, the Mountain Man, who did not die from the gunshot, has walked away, which Jannicke discovers. After yelling out at the Mountain Man, Jannicke picks up Ole's shotgun, retrieving a police jacket and snow googles. Despite Camilla telling her that she will die in the attempt to combat the Mountain Man, she drives on a snowmobile to the hotel, where she barricades entrances to all rooms and corridors, as well as writing an entry in the guest book, dating February 12. - 13., 2006. She then fall asleep while sitting in the lobby. The next morning, Jannicke wakes up by the bells ringing and she discovers that the door is open as well as traces of snow in the lobby. When looking around, she finds that the Mountain Man is right behind her, and she aims her gun towards him, but he grabs it and makes it point upward. In the struggle to get him release the gun, it discharges into the ceiling. He then throws it aside, and begins to move towards Jannicke, who tries to escape, but is kicked into a pendulum clock and takes damage. She rolls away as he hits the pickaxe into the floor. She then tries to get the shotgun, which the Mountain Man sees and he swing the pickaxe towards her leg, causing her to fall into the glass in the reception desk. As she tries to grab the shotgun, the Mountain Man steps on it and sends it to the other end of the lobby. Jannicke then draws a large knife to stab the Mountain Man, but he manages to restrain her, forcing her to drop the knife and being thrown into the wall. He then rise the pickaxe and moves towards Jannicke to kill her just as a gunshot is heard. Jannicke then discovers that Camilla had come to rescue her, and the shot from Camilla's rifle had severed two of the Mountain Man's fingers as well as breaking his pickaxe. As Camilla tries to reload, the Mountain Man charges on her, causing her to drop her rifle and pick up the shotgun Jannicke brought the previous day, but are instead forced out and thrown into the snow. He then attempts to break Camilla's neck as Jannicke rushes out and throws the pickaxe head towards the Mountain Man, impaling the torso. The Mountain Man stands for a few seconds before falling to the snow, dying from the wound inflicted by Jannicke. Jannicke then picks up the pump-action shotgun and Camilla tells Jannicke that he is now dead. Jannicke replies that she has killed him before, and then reloads the shotgun and shoots him in the head at point-blank range to ensure his death.
