Raj is a heartbreaker. His love stories with Mahi, Radhika and Gayatri finally teach him about love and life in their own sweet, sexy and sassy way.
Why do girls always fall for the wrong guy? Their mothers warn them about him. Their friends shake their heads disapprovingly. Their minds tell them to escape while the going is good. But no. oh no. Their hearts are another story. You see, they are sending all the wrong signals. His name alone is enough to scramble their brains and set their hearts racing. Meet Raj (Ranbir Kapoor). He is the stuff of dreams, with the looks of a 'butter wouldn't melt in my mouth' good boy. Who can blame him for falling in love as many times as love is fortunate enough to find him. It's not his fault that he's a heartbreaker, it's in his DNA. Come discover his three love stories; Raj and Mahi (Minissha Lamba, Raj and Radhika (Bipasha Basu), Raj and Gayatri (Deepika Padukone). Different ladyloves at different times in his life. And each of them, teach him a little bit about love and a little bit about life, in their own sweet, sexy or sassy way. Come fall in love - three times.
Why do girls always fall for the wrong guy? Their mothers warn them about him. Their friends shake their heads disapprovingly. Their minds tell them to escape while the going is good. But no! oh no! Their hearts are another story. You see, they are sending all the wrong signals. His name alone is enough to scramble their brains and set their hearts racing. Meet Raj. He is the stuff of dreams, with the looks of a butter wouldnt melt in my mouth good boy. Who can blame him for falling in love as many times as love is fortunate enough to find him. Its not his fault that hes a heartbreaker, its in his DNA. Come discover his three love stories; Raj and Mahi, Raj and Radhika, Raj and Gayatri. Different ladyloves at different times in his life. And each of them, teach him a little bit about love and a little bit about life, in their own sweet, sexy or sassy way. Come fall in love... three times.
