A 1970s-set comedy centered on three young working class friends in a dreary suburb of Reading.
It's 1973 in Cemetery Junction, a Reading suburb. Three working class lads, best friends, are coming of age. Freddie wants to rise above his station, taking a job selling life insurance, wearing a suit and tie. Snork works at the railway station and wants a girlfriend some day. Bruce talks of leaving but seems on track to work at a factory, drink and fight, and become like his dad, in front of the telly with beer on hand; and he's trying the patience of the police officer who gets him out of jams. Freddie's job leads the lads toward a few small changes. He runs across a childhood friend, Julie, his boss's daughter who's engaged to the firm's top seller. Can the lads break out?
It's 1973 in working-class England, and three blue-collar friends spend their days joking, drinking, fighting, and chasing girls. While angry Bruce (Tom Hughes) and lovable loser Snork (Jack Doolan) are happy with life the way it is, Freddie Taylor (Christian Cooke) seeks upward mobility.Toward that end, Freddie lands a job selling insurance and is assigned as his coach his grim, emotionless boss's Mr. Kendricks (Ralph Fiennes) equally grim son-in-law-to-be, Mike (Matthew Goode), whose fiancée (the boss's daughter) Julie (Felicity Jones) Freddy knew years before.Mike is the classic heartless sales associate, feeding on the fears of common folks. After work, Freddy continues to hang with his lowlife pals, who prefer recreational pursuits such as defacing property with lewd graffiti and getting into fights in entertainment venues, which always end with local cops Davies (Steve Speirs) and Renwick (Burn Gorman) rounding them up and taking them into custody overnight.Davies is friends with Bruce's unemployed, passive father, whose wife, Bruce's mother, left him for another man 20 years before, and who suffers constant verbal abuse from Bruce.The socially inept Snork gets a job at the train station, frequenting a sandwich shop where he fancies sweet, long-suffering waitress Louise (Bryony Hannah).When Freddy is summoned to a meeting at the Kendrick home, he observes how little regard Mr. Kendricks has for his lovely, dignified wife, Mrs. Kendrick (Emily Watson). While there, he accidentally stumbles upon Julie, who tells him of her longing to travel and take pictures of the world.Somehow, Freddy wrangles his friends tickets to his company's annual "Winner's Ball", a stolid affair where cracks start to form in Freddy's image of the wealthy world he thought he wanted to enter. There he overhears Mike reassuring Kendricks that he'll "keep Julie in line" and not let her have a career in photography, her passion.The final straw for Freddy in insurance sales occurs when he pays a followup visit to the home of a couple to whom he sold life insurance, only to discover that the husband has died and the newly bought policy is worth next to nothing. He decides to ditch his life in Cemetery Junction and go off and see the world. He convinces his friends to leave with him the following day.That night he invites Julie to go with him and his friends to a club for their "last hurrah" before they depart the next morning. Julie enjoys herself, but Bruce predictably gets into a fight with a fellow clubber who makes a racist remark about Bruce's choice of dance partner.Bruce gets taken to the precinct, where Davies, sick of seeing Bruce waste his life and abuse his father, reads Bruce the riot act, telling him the truth about his mother and why she left.Meanwhile, Freddie takes Julie home and they go inside to her darkroom, where they develop the photos she took of the gang. At an intimate moment, Freddie asks Julie to come with him on his trip, but she refuses. He tries to persuade her by pointing out what lies ahead for her if she stays in town and marries Mike, but she tells him to leave.After he does, Mrs. Kendricks comes in to talk to Julie, confirming what Freddie had observed about her parents' relationship.The next morning Freddie goes to pick up his friends. Bruce has been released from custody and Freddie encounters him going home. Bruce tells Freddie that he can't leave his father, and we see Bruce enter his house and begin the process of reaching out to his father.Freddie continues to where Snork is, but Snork has finally declared his love to Louise, who finds his self-drawn erotic tattoos appealing.Disappointed that he's leaving alone, Freddie nevertheless boards the train. At the last moment, with her mother's encouragement and over her father's protests, Julie, joins Freddie on his adventure.
