A police sniper teams up with a hot-headed rookie to take down his former friend and teammate, who is exacting revenge on the police force.
The opening scene begins in a forested area lashed by heavy rain at night. Amid the thick foliage we see a sniper in camouflage perched in a tree, as he trains his sights at a hut in the forest. Beneath him is another sniper, who sees three men talking outside the hut. The scene shifts to a nearby road where a uniformed police officer, OJ (Edison Chen) was checking some parked vehicles together with his partner. They hear over the radio a description of a suspicious vehicle, and are surprised to discover it at their location. OJ touches the vehicle to see if it is warm, and looks around, spotting a hut in the distance, the same one the snipers are observing. As OJ and his partner approach the hut, the snipers spotted them. One of them, Hartman (Richie Ren) suggests assisting the officers if necessary. His partner, Shan Ge (Bowie Lam) reminds him that they are only on an observation mission and should not reveal themselves. Hartman considers action necessary as the situation has changed unexpectedly.Two men leaves the hut as the two uniformed officers approach from the side unseen. OJ reminds his nervous partner to turn down his radio, as they peer through a hole on the wall of the hut and sees a man welding a large parang as they discuss over a meal. The two officers tense up and OJ instructs his partner to cover another part of the hut. The partner turns and accidental hits his gear against a pillar causing noise. Without hesitation, OJ advances straight into the hut and tells the hut's occupants to freeze with arms drawn. The thugs respond with parangs drawn, as OJ's partner also enters the hut and both instructs them to put down their arms which they refuse. The officer's calls alerts the two thuds who left the hut earlier., and they return to investigate.In the standoff, one of the thugs intercepts OJ's partner and holds him hostage with his parang at his neck while ordering OJ to drop his gun. Another two thugs in the hut threaten OJ from the rear. As the situation deteriorates, Hartman informs Shan Ge that he is going in to help. OJ's partner drops his revolver as instructed, which one of the thugs picks up. OJ refuses to drop his weapon, and the thug responds by slashing OJ's partner in the right thigh. He begins to howl in pain as blood bleeds profusely to the floor. Suddenly, Hartman shoots the head of the thug holding the revolver from outside the hut while Shan Ge shoots one of the returning thugs about to ambush OJ from behind. Both the remaining thugs and OJ react in surprise.Hartman smashes into the hut with a handgun, moves beside OJ and helps to provide all-round cover by aiming at the remaining thug while OJ continues to face the thug holding his partner hostage. Hartman instructs OJ to take a deep breath and to aim for the thug's eye for an instant kill. The two successfully kills their respective targets through shots to the eye, and OJ rushes forward to help his fallen partner. Henceforth, OJ's qualities as a good sniper was discovered and he was enlisted into the Special Duties Unit Sniper Team.Hartman and Shan Ge observes OJ during training and Shan Ge expresses concern that OK may be too self-confident. Still, OJ easily passed basic training, including retaining possession of his weapon, ability to read flashing text from extended distances, and visually estimating distances. OJ notices that the team members have a "Sniper" tattoo on their backs and proceeds to have one too. During shooting practise, Hartman advises OJ to better coordinate his breathing with his shooting, and to relax his grip on his weapon. Hartman demonstrates his skills by penetrating the coin without damaging the apple upon which it is on.OJ looks at a commemorative board listing the Top Shooter Champions of the Sniper Team with Shan Ge. He notes that Hartman has won the competition numerous times, including four times consecutively since 2004 in the 400m. He commented that Shan Ge was the winner once, but Shan Ge humbly says Hartman had a flu that year. OJ then notices an individual named Ling Jing winning the competition in the 500m category for four times consecutively from 2000 to 2003, and asks who he is. Shan Ge replies that he was the only member in the team who could hit a target 500 metres away in high winds, but left four years ago. He was the most talented sniper, but was not well-liked by the team.Hartman watches the two snipers at the commemorative board from his office and reflects on the times when he and Ling Jing were competing for promotion to lead the Sniper Team. Although Ling Jing was the more talented of the two, some of his superiors feel he was too temperamental and that Hartman would be the better leader. Ultimately, the promotion board decided to promote and appoint Ling Jing much to Hartman's disappointment. Back to the present, Hartman picks up his calender and notes Jing's name written on the 20th of April.The scene transits to show Jing in prison clothes wearing a ring just as he is released from prison. Shan Ge meets him at the gate and takes him to an eatery, where he shows him a photo of his four-year-old child. Jing appears disinterested while he busies himself with his food. Shan Ge drives him home, and offers him $20,000 for routine expenses and offers more if he needs. Jing takes a $20 bill and leaves. Later, Hartman contacts Shan Ge, revealing that Shan Ge was acting under the instructions of Hartman. Shan Ge reports that Jing appears to be emotionally stable, and that he took only $20. Hartman reacts with disappointment but asks Shan Ge to continue to watch over himIn a 7-11 convenience store, Jing reaches out to touch a block of chocolates, and has flashbacks of his wife consuming them. However, he shakes with fear when he suddenly sees a man in black jacket staring at him from across the street. He leaves for home, where it was revealed to be fully furnished with an aquarium as a masterpiece. He stares into the aquarium where a ring can be seen suspended on a rock in the water, and the image of his wife appears on the other side of the tank. They embrace and kiss. The wife flips through their marriage photographs and laments that they are finally able to see the photographs together. Jing expresses his remorse for getting into trouble soon after their marriage and forcing her to wait four years for him.Day time. Jing walks into a fish market and dumps a small package into a basket of ice while a stall tender watches. The stall tender pushes the basket to another stall on a trolley, where the package is removed by another man as Jing watches from afar. He follows the man as he walks amongst the tanks of fish and taps a particular tank. Jing fishes an elongated package from the tank.Night time in a street outside a gambling den, a man tends to a booth. OJ walks up to him and hands him his allowance for the month, revealing that the man was his father. But it was clear that they do not have a cordial relationship. OJ advises his father to use the money wisely, but his father reacts in anger and tells him of, accusing his son of looking down on him. OJ's girlfriend appears and tries to calm the man down with a drink, but OJ's father insults her instead. OJ pulls her away. She asks if his father was the leader of a gang, but OJ reveals that his father was once the co-owner of the den, but has since fallen from grace, but could not accept this current position. OJ is determined to prove his father wrong that he can do well as a police officer.Hartman drives his reluctant daughter to his separated wife's residence. When he returns, he receives a distraught call from his daughter and rushes back just in time to save his wife who has attempted suicide by slitting her wrist. At the hospital, he spots Jing watching them from afar, but Jing disappears. However, Jing leaves behind a mobile phone for him through the hospital staff.A gangster called Er Ge stands outside the prison as a fellow gangster, Guan Hua is released. They go for a meal, where Er Ge offers him, but Guan Hua says he wish to be on his own. Guan Hua talks him around and asks him to return to help him. He reveals that Da Ge will be transported to the hospital from prison and asks Guang Hua to help rescue him. Their conversation is observed by Jing.As the two gangsters drive to a construction site, Jing follows behind and observes the surroundings buildings. Back in his residence in an unknown barren location, he opens the package he has retrieved from the fish market which contains a sniper rifle. He proceeds to weight and load his weapon with a cache of ammunition.In Hartman's office, Hartment receives a message "10 am Central Boulevard" in the phone Jing left for him. He drives to the scene. In a nearby building, Jing is perched in a communications tower above a skyscraper with weapon in hand. Inside a prisons transport, Da Ge, heavily guarded by police escort, appears to look apprehensive. The transport is escorted by two traffic police officers in front and a police van in the rear. As the escort turns into Central Boulevard, Da Ge plants both his legs onto the metal cage in front of him, catching the attention of the prisons escort.A tractor appears from the right as the escort passes a junction and smashes into the two traffic officers, while the prisons transport rams into the side of the truck. The force sent the prisons officers flying, but Da Ge remained in his seat having taken precautions earlier. A traffic officer slides into a blockage on the road side before being promptly smashed by his skidding motorcycle. Five gangsters, including Er Ge and Guan Hua emerge hooded and armed with huge weapons. Hartman rushes to the aid of one of the traffic policemen who has ended up slumped against his car, but finding him unconscious, retrieves the officer's weapon as the gangsters begin firing at the four policemen taking cover behind the police van and the driver of the prisons transport was machine gunned to death.As the gunfight ensures between the gangsters and the police and Hartman rushes to help the officers, he hears the distinctive sound of sniper fire as it smashes into a policeman's thigh and incapacitates him. The gangsters were similarly surprised when yet another officer goes down with a similar wound. Hartman looks up but could not find the sniper's location, but rushed forward and fires at the gangsters as they prepare to enter the prisons transport while taking cover behind a postbox. He takes down two of the gangsters, but was kept at bay by Er Ge's fire. Still, he manages to kill the driver of the trailer. Er Ge instructs Guan Hua to take over the trailer, while Hartman attempts to disable the gangster trying to free Da Ge inside the transport. He manages to injure the gangster, but the gangster frees Da Ge as they stumble out of the transport. Da Ge was still tied to a metal chain however, which the injured prisons officer held on to. As the gangster boarded the transport to finish the officer off, a sniper bullet breaks the metal chain to everyone's surprise. The remaining gangsters boarded the trailer, and as Hartman takes aim at them, his weapon was knocked out of his hands by another sniper bullet. The trailer escapes while Jing abseils down undetected from the rooftop as the wails of approaching police vehicles could be heard.(to be continued)
