Kunal Mehra lives a middle-classed lifestyle in Borivali, Mumbai, along with his disapproving dad, Purabi, and supportive mom, Kusum. He has a sweetheart in Mausam, an aspiring Journalist. Ever since he was 8 years of age, Kunal wanted to act in Bollywood movies much to his dad's displeasure. He did play the part of Bhagwan Shri Hanuman in a play in school, but has been not very successful in landing any major part in any movie. He gets a break when his look-alike, Karan Saxena, the leading man of his dad's production 'Super Star' has qualms about heights and is unable to act. Kunal steps into Karan's shoes, and even accompanies the unit to film in Bangkok, Thailand. Shortly thereafter the media explodes with the news that Karan has been injured, and Kunal has been killed in a car accident. Watch what impact this news has on the Mehra family, the Saxenas, Mausam, as well as on the outcome of the movie.
If you have a dream, protect it even from yourself.......!!Superstar is an action drama based on the reality world of entertainment field. Life is essentially about choices. Kunal (Kunal Khemu) defines the youth of today. He dares. Dares to dream of making it big in Bollywood one day.Kunal Mehra a wannabe actor against the wishes of his Dad Mr Purabi Mehra (Sharat Saxena) and unconditional support and love of his mom (Kusum) desperately tries to find a place in Bollywood. He has a very good group of friends who support and admire his talent. His friend Mausam (Tulip Joshi) silently loves him from childhood. Kunal daily drives his ricekting bullet from his home at Borivali to Film city in need of one big role which will change his life. His dreams get shattered on the arrival of debonair Karan Saxena (Kunal Khemu) who is the son of a very big producer of Bollywood M G Saxena (Darshan Jariwala). M G Saxena is launching Karan as an actor in his film "Superstar". Karan is a non performing actor and is only interested in spending money after parties and girls. He fails to act and is not able to perform any of his stunts. Kunal steps into Karan's shoes and performs all his stunts and scenes with grace. Kunal also joins the unit at Bangkok for shooting.The life of Kunal takes a u turn when one day in Bangkok he and Karan meet with an accident. Karan dies in the accident and Kunal survives. But Kunal is mistakened as Karan. The media explodes the news that Kunal dies in the accident and Karan survives. The family and friends of Kunal are shattered by the news. In the meanwhile M G Saxena gets to know that Karan is dead and Kunal survives the accident. However he signs a deal with Kunal to complete the film as Karan and live his life as Karan and enjoy the material world. Kunal who was always craving for this life accepts the offer and he weans away from his loved ones. Whether Kunal is able to live a lavish life without the love of his loved ones, what is the fate of the movie Superstar..This all will be answered in the rollercoaster climax..
