The Cusp is a serial killer who kills his victims and then brings them back to life - over and over, until they beg to die. Psychic, Maya is an investigator who gained her powers after being in a 1 year coma, caused by being the Cusp's first victim. Now the Cusp's is back, and with no time for perpetration, Maya has to enter into the killer's mind, to save his latest victim.
Low budget sequel to Jennifer Lopez film. In this, the Cusp is a serial killer who kills his victims and repeatedly brings them back to life - until they beg to die. Psychic, Maya is an investigator who gained her powers after being in coma. She was the Cusp's first victim, and now, the Cusp's back, and Maya has little time to prepare for what she Just do;, go into the mind of a killer unprotected, and save his latest victim.
Imagine a serial killer who flatlines his victims and then brings them back to life over and over again, until they beg to die. Beautiful psychic investigator Maya Casteneda (Tessie Santiago) was his last victim and swore vengeance on her tormentor before she escaped. Now The Cusp is back, and the FBI taps Maya to help capture the elusive monster. Maya soon discovers the only way she can locate The Cusp is to enter his head. The danger: if Maya dies in the killers brain, she dies in real life. Like The Cell before it, The Cell 2 is a mind-blowing mix of fantasy and reality, science-fiction and thriller that enters a place of fear and power like no other: the thoughts of a psychopath. Chris Bruno (The Dead Zone), Frank Whaley (World Trade Center) and Bart Johnson (High School Musical) co-star. [D-Man2010]Barely escaping death at the hands of a killer who repeatedly revives his victims in order to draw out their agonizing ordeal, a woman uses her newfound psychic powers to get into the maniac's mind before he claims his next victim. Having nearly died at the hands of the sadistic psychopath known as "The Cusp," Maya discovers that she now possesses psychic powers, and vows to use her gift as a psychic investigator. When "The Cusp" strikes again, Maya realizes that she must enter the mind of a madman in order to end his gruesome reign of terror. [D-Man2010]A serial killer continually flatlines his victims and then revives them, until they beg to die. His latest victim, psychic investigator Maya Casteneda (Tessie Santiago), survived and bent on revenge. Tapped by FBI, Maya realizes the only way to locate The Cusp is by entering his mind. But if she dies there, she'll also die in real life. [D-Man2010]
