In a Tex-Mex border town, a man and his wife must face their tortured pasts in order to save their kidnapped daughter.
Set in a Tex-Mex border town, Not Forgotten is a classic psychological thriller about Jack and Amaya Bishop, a couple who must come to terms with their tortured pasts in order to save their kidnapped daughter. It is a tale taut with intrigue and steeped in Latino mysticism, where the line between what's real and what's imagined becomes hopelessly blurred.
In Del Rio, in the border of Texas and Mexico, the female teen-soccer coach Jack Bishop is very popular and he loves his eleven year-old daughter Toby and her stepmother Amaya. When Toby is kidnapped, Amaya's cousin, the rookie Sheriff Casper Navarro, is in charge of the investigation, but sooner the FBI arrives in town to lead the hunt. However, Navarro and Jack travel to Mexico following a lead and the hidden past of Jack returns to haunt him.
Widower and single parent of Toby, Jack Bishop re-marries Amaya, and all three lead a fairly harmonious lifestyle. Then one day Toby does not return home from school; her frantic parents report her missing, leading to the involvement of Amaya's cousin, Sheriff Casper Navarro. Jack and Amaya will find their lives change even more after the police, quite surprisingly, suspect Jack, as they are unable to find any evidence of the cremation of his first wife.
Jack Bishop lives the life of every mans dream with a beautiful wife and a happy, healthy daughter, Toby. He has the career he always wanted and a loving home in a peaceful Texas border town. But it is no coincidence that Jacks life seems perfect. His past hides a black secret, one he hides from his family, one he hides from himself.When Toby goes missing, Jack knows his past has come back to haunt him. He also knows the only way he can find her is to use the powers of his long forgotten faith, La Santa Muerte, protectors of the sinner, the worshippers of the dead.Accompanied by the insecure newly-appointed sheriff and a pair of wary FBI agents, Jacks search takes him deep into his past, to a psychic who visualizes Jacks secret in terrifying detail, to the squalid barrios and seediest brothels in Mexico Citys underbelly. But the power of the La Santa Muerte is stronger then he ever imagined, as it reaches out to touch his family and reveals an even darker and unexpected web of lies and deceit.
