An ice skater (Matt Lanter) and his new partner (Francia Raisa) develop feelings for each other while training to compete in Paris.
Rich, handsome, courteous Seattle golden boy Zack Conroy's figure skating partner Celeste Mercier is disabled for months in a training accident. Like their coach Bryan Hemmings, she insists he takes a temporary partner to go on to the national championship, his ticket to the world championship in Paris. Zach and his temper discard all candidates from the circuit, but after an alteration with an ice hockey amateur team he shares to ice with to train, he sets his mind on their only girl, taco joint daughter-waitress Alejandra 'Alex' Delgado. She's unacceptable to Hemmings, who dumps Zach and starts an affair with Celeste, to whom he finds another partner. Zach and Alex's worlds keep clashing, but determination, her brother and another coach see them trough.
Zach Conroy and Celeste Mercier are the hottest figure skating couple on and off the ice until a nasty spill knocks Celeste out of competition. With their dreams of gold medals put in ice and their romance chilling as a result, Zach has to find another partner for the championship in Paris. And fast.In glides Alejandra 'Alex' Delgado, a beautiful, tough talking female hockey player with fierce moves and a fearless skating style. Zach's willing to give her a chance, but his coach, Bryan quits in a huff to train Zach's biggest rivals, Cindy Halgyord and Jason Bright. That leaves Zach with a newbie partner and no coach until he convinces former figure skating champ Jackie Dorsey to step in. She puts Zach and Alex through their paces, but the hardest trick of all is keeping them focused on practice and not each other as they bicker and struggle with a growing attraction both on and off the ice.Jackie knows these kids are "fire and ice", and sees the chemistry between them. She also knows that if they can't get it together, they'll set the skating world on fire. That is, if the heat between them doesn't cause a total meltdown. With the competition fierce and the stakes higher than ever, the only way Zach and Alex can win is by putting aside their feelings and pulling out a secret weapon: the deadly Pamchecko jump. But is it worth the risk? Can Zach rise above the past and his history of injuring partners? And can Alex prove that shes got the moves to match her passion? It all comes down to the biggest moment of their lives when they learn that sometimes on the ice and in life you've got to risk it all.
