A luckless architect discovers a social activist to be his lucky charm. Unfortunately, she's protecting the community center he's aiming to win a contract to tear down.
Toronto-based social activist Priya meets out-of-work architect Raj Malhotra, and both end up in a series of hilarious misunderstandings. Priya finds out that Raj is attracted to her. She shows interest in him as well, though she is seeing Karan Bahl, to whom all of their friends expect she'll soon be married. What Priya does not know is Raj believes she is lucky for him and may be using her to obtain a contract that would involve tearing down her beloved community center to build a shopping mall in it's place.
Back in architectural college, Raj Malhotra was numero uno in academics, sports, and dramatics and touted by friends as the next cover of Time magazine, but four years after graduating with multiple best-student-of-the-year trophies, he wonders why he - a brilliant architect with designs to set the Canadian landscape on fire - is still struggling to find that one big chance to showcase his mettle. It's as though some negative kismet follows him around, because whenever something good is about to happen, the world kicks in to doom it to failure. Raj meets quirky oracle Haseena Bano Jaan, who tells him his stars will soon change and make everything work in his favor - but for all this to happen, he must first find his lucky charm and never let it go. She says no more, leaving Raj mystified and trying to figure out what this charm could be. Suddenly, upon meeting Priya, his life flips onto the right track. Priya is a tough-talking and decisive girl with a heart of gold. She is an idealist intent upon making the world a better, more humane place (and quite willing to fight a lone battle for it). To keep her, Raj succeeds in persuading pretty Priya that he's the Messiah who can save her beloved yet endangered Community Center from destruction (while also opening her eyes to her philandering fianc&amp;#xE9), but will Raj's new found kismet ultimately lead him to the heights of love or to the pinnacle of practicality and career success?

