A portrait of five men competing in the Miss Gay America pageant.
The Miss Gay America® Pageant has more talent and drama than the Miss America, Miss USA and Miss Universe Pageants combined. To be crowned Miss Gay America is being honored as the most beautiful and fiercely talented female impersonator in the country. The Pageant is entering into its 34th year of competition, celebrating the creativity and passion behind the art form. Miss Gay America is all about the art of illusion, so the contestants are not allowed to have had any cosmetically altering surgeries below the neck and must be female-hormone free.The movie offers a human face to this little know world of illusion and introduces and follows the lives of five everyday men and their families as they strive for one extraordinary goal. Not only will PAGEANT expose the glamour and fantastic talents of each individual in this world, but also introduce the heart and soul of the movie, which are the men behind it all. Life is all about hoping for and achieving your dreams. PAGEANT is a revealing and touching look at the extraordinary lengths these gentlemen will to go to be crowned Miss Gay America.Fifty contestants from across the United States are as unique and varied as the cities they come from. Each competing illusionist has already won a preliminary state or regional pageant, so these contestants are our nations best of the best. The fifty finalists converge on Memphis, TN for three days of preliminary competition and compete in the following categories:Male interview:
Each contestant gets eight minutes in from of the panel of five judges. They come decked out in their finest suits and their honed interview techniques with one goal; to convince the judges why they are the right person to be representing the pageant for the next year. The male interview portion of the competition is conducted in private.Evening gown
In this category of competition, the contestants are judges on the overall grace, beauty and believability of their illusion. They are judged on hair, make-up, the fit and appropriateness of the gown, and jewelry.Solo talent
Contestants are given three minutes on stage by themselves to perform a number of their choice (live or lip synched). The goal of this competition is to find out if the contestant is talented enough entertain an audience without sets, back-up dancers or props.Talent
Contestants are given seven minutes to perform a number of their choice (live or lip synched). There are no restrictions. They may use as many props, sets, and back-up performers as they like.The final night of competition is held at the Cannon Center for the Performing Arts theatre in downtown Memphis. The top ten contestants are announced, and just as in the real Miss America competition, they compete again in evening gown and talent competition, as well as answer an on-stage question.
