A young man's journey across the mythic Indian landscape becomes a life changing odyssey.
VISHNU, a restless young man, itches to escape his father's faltering hair oil business. An old truck beckons, which Vishnu sees as his ticket to freedom. He offers to drive the antique Chevy across the desert to the sea, where it has been sold to a local museum. As he sets off across the harsh terrain, he discovers he's not merely transporting a battered vehicle, but an old touring cinema. Along the way, Vishnu reluctantly picks up a young runaway, a wandering old entertainer and a striking gypsy woman. Together they roam the barren land, searching for water and an elusive fair. The journey turns dire when they are waylaid by corrupt cops and a notorious waterlord. The key to their freedom is the eccentric collection of films and the two forty-year-old film projectors in the back of the truck. As in 1001 Nights, if the films are good, they live and move on. If the films are boring, they face death in the outback. The journey proves transformative for each of the travelers, but especially for Vishnu who discovers life, love and laughter on the Indian highway.
Aatma and his son, Vishnu, attempts to create a market for the former's hair-oil turn out to be in vain, and the latter decides to take a 1942 antique truck, that was at one time a mobile cinema-house, to a museum. He stops at a Dhabha, and decides to let the waiter, a young boy, ride with him. On the latter's insistence, he increases the speed, and the vehicle breaks down in the Rajasthani desert. The boy sets out and returns with a mechanic, Om, who fixes it and asks to be taken along. Enroute, they are stopped by the police and held until and unless they play some movies for them as well as some villagers. Om and Vishnu manage to play quite a few Bollywood movies overnight. After a dramatic reunion, they run out of water, are assisted by a wondering woman, who has never seen a movie before, and permit her to also ride with them while Om gives directions to a mythical fair. The foursome do not realize that soon they will be not only be compelled to set up a fair on their own - but also be abducted by ruthless water bandits.

