A sex comedy centered on a serial womanizer and his jilted lover.
In Los Angeles, Nikki is homeless, car-less and closing in on 30, but he's amoral, good-looking, and adept in the sack, moving from one wealthy woman of 35 or 40 to another, a kept boy-toy. His newest gig, with Samantha, an attorney whose house overlooks L.A., is sweet, although it's unclear how long she'll put up with him. Then Nikki meets Heather, a waitress. Is the player being played, or might this be love? What will Nikki discover?
The Spread world premiere has been announced for Saturday, January 17 at the 2009 Sundance Film Festival.Set in modern day Los Angeles, Spread is a hard biting story about a high-end lothario, Nikki (Ashton Kutcher), who has slept his way into a life of privilege. He shares his secrets with us as he hosts parties and beds scores of women, all while living it up at the Hollywood Hills home of a middle-aged female attorney, Samantha (Anne Heche). Everything is going swimmingly until Nikki meets a gorgeous waitress named Heather (Margarita Levieva), who, unbeknownst to him, is playing the same game that he is. As the truth of their life unravels, they find themselves sexually charged by a game of one-upmanship that has them dining at fine restaurants and crashing posh parties, until the truth of their lives forces them to choose between love and money. Inspired by classics like Shampoo, Breakfast at Tiffany's, and American Gigolo, Spread profiles a sexual grifter and his prey.Los Angeles serves as a character unto its own in this film, providing slick and luxurious backdrops during Nikki's high times, and seedy, fleabag motels when Nikki has nowhere else to turn. Nikki runs the gambit of Hollywood dreams and nightmares. The supporting cast comprises gorgeous women like Emily (Rachel Blanchard), who is drawn in by Nikki's good looks and charm but is left feeling cold and used. Nikki's best friend, Harry (Sebastian Stan), struggles with their co-dependant relationship, always needing to bail Nikki out when he runs out of women to depend on.Directed by David Mackenzie (Hallam Foe, Young Adam), Spread is an iconic look at the lure of sex, money, and access that Hollywood offers to the beautiful people, and the karmic price that Nikki must ultimately pay to live that lifestyle.
