Awaiting their inevitable deaths at one of the worst concentration camps, a group of Jews make a rabbinical court to decide whether God has gone against the Holy Covenant and if He is the one guilty for their suffering.
Wondering about the meaning and modalities of their triage, presumably to live or burn, Jewish Auschwitz barrack mates start to debate on how or why God can allow (his) people to suffer such fatal misery, which even further divides a devout father and his liberal son. They eventually form a Thora court, which hears theological argumentation as well as practical considerations.
In current day, a tour group is at Auschwitz, the group's wandering through the ex-WWII concentration camp which brings up many stories of the plight of the former prisoners, including... It's at the height of the war, with Jews and non-Jewish convicts largely making up the population at Auschwitz. The latest what seems largely to be the random selection process to determine those next to be exterminated is done, in part to make way for the new arrivals to the camp. As the Jews discuss what is happening, they decide to hold court over who some believe is at fault, God, the belief being that God has broken his covenant with the Jewish peoples. For some, their Jewish faith has shaped their experience. For others, their experience has shaped their faith. In addition, their life prior to being imprisoned, what has happened to their time in Auschwitz so far, and what they expect their fate to be - for them as individuals, as a collective camp population and the entire Jewish community globally - also factor in what they individually believe in association with the case. A large segment of the testimony delves into the role of free will, both their own and that of their captors. A verdict will be rendered at the end of the proceedings, however it is uncertain if their verdict and whatever sentence passed will affect their individual futures. The court is quietly presided over by Baumgarten, who has a unique background compared to the others which he has not divulged, that difference which could affect the outcome.

