When the US gov't tests a highly secret nerve gas on the residents of Hagerstown, MD the side effects bring down a world of horrors for 6 strangers trapped inside a movie theater.
The United States Government has developed a highly effective nerve gas that is unleashed upon the residents of a small Maryland City. During the top secret exercise the infected citizens begin to convert each resident into a sort of living zombie, until the remaining town residents, 6 total strangers, are trapped inside a movie theater cineplex.
The second entry into the Deadlands Zombie movie series follows 6 strangers seeking refuge inside a local movie theater when the US government purposely releases a powerful bio-weapon on the residents of Hagerstown, MD USA in hopes of creating a super soldier that never tires, never stops, and is an unstoppable killing machine. This $6,000.00 low budget indie is the gore soaked follow up to the 2006 micro-budget indie hit, Deadlands: The Rising (2006)
An evil and corrupt U.S. government agency accidentally unleashes a virus on a small town while attempting to perfect a top-secret biological weapon designed to create the perfect army. The experiment goes horrifically wrong, when the advanced biological weapon transforms the residents of a sleepy Maryland town into ravenous flesh-eating Monsters - Zombies so bloodthirsty for human flesh that nothing can stop the carnage. A handful of citizens who have remained uninfected seek sanctuary in a local movie theater, holed up together preparing to make a last stand against the undead. This gore-soaked shocker is not for the squeamish, Zombie Massacre: Army of the Dead will rattle you to your core.
When the US government opts to test a new highly contains nerve toxin for its effectiveness they release it upon the unsuspecting citizens of Hagerstown, MD. The toxin turns each person it infects into a blood crazed zombie like killer. During the outbreak 6 strangers seek refuge in the towns movie theater cinema while they formulate a plan of escape.
