Goofy tries to set up his new home theater in time for the big game, with disastrous results.
The short begins with a football game, modeled on the short, "How to Play Football". The teams are named the "Dawgs" and the "Geefs". After a moment, the scene fades to gray and turns out to be a scene on a very small, antiquated TV as the narrator explains the national pastime as "watching the big game". The TV is in Goofy's living room. He goes into a panic when the TV's reception breaks up. Then the narrator calls his attention outside, where across the street a neighbor is getting a new home theater delivered. The narrator claims that watching football on a new home theater is almost like being there, Goofy then imagines himself on his couch in the middle of a football field, catching the ball and getting carried down the field for a touchdown.Goofy heads to a home electronics store. While at first mesmerized by the electronics utopia, the narrator explains the laundry list of gadgets he will need to get his home theater working. Goofy then shops for TVs, stopping in front of a large one taller than he is. As the narrator explains the virtue of choosing a "conservatively-sized model", Goofy turns and sees an even larger TV, which he selects.Next is delivery day. Goofy gets his living room cleared out and waits for the delivery truck. It arrives a day late. The truck picks Goofy's house up and deposits a gigantic stack of boxes inside. Goofy gets the TV unpacked, and tackles the cables. After considerable difficulty, a drop of sweat makes the cable package burst. He uses a chainsaw to open a hole in the house to reach the back of the TV and connect the cables.Next the narrator explains the positioning of the sound system's speakers. After he's done, Goofy starts randomly attaching speakers to any free space he can find. By the time he's done, the game's about to start. He reaches for a remote, only to find a littany of remotes for all his different devices. The narrator reminds him of the "universal remote", which looks like a missile launcher.Indeed, when he presses the button, he's launched in the air with his TV, and is set perfectly before it, watching the big game as the players run toward him. Suddenly, the players jump out of the screen, and he's on the field. He catches the ball, and is slammed several times by players, then dogpiled. When he emerges, with the ball jammed in his mouth, the referee throws a penalty flag on him. But he smiles, agreeing it's "almost like being there" before "turning off" the short with his universal remote.
