Prison guard Vince tells Molly from acting class, that one inmate is his 24 y.o. love child. Vince takes him home to stay with his family - straight A son with fat girl fetish, college dropout/stripper daughter and cute wife.
The Rizzos, a family who doesn't share their habits, aspirations, and careers with one another, find their delicate web of lies disturbed by the arrival of a young ex-con (Strait) brought home by Vince (Garcia), the patriarch of the family, who is a corrections officer in real life, and a hopeful actor in private.
Vince Rizzo (Andy Garcia), a lifelong resident of the tiny Bronx enclave of City Island, is a family man who makes his living as a corrections officer, but secretly longs to become an actor. Ashamed to admit his aspirations to his family, Vince would rather let his fiery wife Joyce (Julianna Margulies) believe his weekly poker games are a cover for an affair than admit he s taking acting classes. When Vince is asked to reveal his biggest secret in class, he sets off a chain of events that turns his mundane suburban life upside down. Inspired by the exercise, he decides to bring his long-lost ex-con son Tony (Steven Strait) home to meet his family, and it soon becomes clear that everyone - including his college student daughter (Dominik García-Lorido), teenaged son Vinnie, Jr. (Ezra Miller), charismatic acting partner (Emily Mortimer) and drama coach (Alan Arkin) - has something to hide. A perfect storm of deception and half truths makes Vince and his family members realize that the truth may not set them free, but it is easier to keep track of than all their well-intentioned lies.
Meet the Rizzos, a family that might get along a lot better if only they could tell each other the truth. Dad Vince is the worst offender. But since the prison guard won't even admit that poker night is in fact acting class, how's he ever going to explain about his illegitimate son? His daughter works as a stripper when she's supposed to be in college, while young Vinnie Jr has a secret sexual fetish that involves a 24-hour webcam and the family's 300-pound neighbour. Vince's wife Joyce is the family's rock, but it's been a year since she enjoyed intimacy with her husband, and it's no surprise she thinks poker night spells A-F-F-A-I-R. When former prisoner Tony enters the Rizzos' lives, Joyce begins to suspect that the handsome young Tony isn't who Vince says he is. City Island is a funny, touching and smart family tale about the secrets of the past catching up with the lies of the present, and accepting that nobody's perfect - least of all your loved ones.
