A horror film that depicts St. Nicholas as a murderous bishop who kidnaps and murders children when there is a full moon on December 5.
December 5 will never be the same.PremiseSaint Nicholas is not the good-hearted children's friend as people think he is. In reality he is a cruel bloodthirsty bishop who, whenever there's a full moon on december 5, will try to slaughter as many children as possible.SynopsisSt. Niklas, a bishop fallen out of grace, travels in the middle ages with his gang of robbers and thieves through the countryside, raping, plundering and killing. When villagers take the law into their own hands and murder the bloodthirsty bishop and his thugs by setting the ship on which they travel ablaze, Niklas vows revenge.Now every time there is a full moon on december 5, the date he died, something that on average takes place every 36 years, St. Niklas and his helpers will rise from the dead and take revenge in a horrible way.The story takes place in Amsterdam, Holland, on a misty and snowy december night.Frank, a nice boy of 17, is, together with some friends, confronted on that dreadful night, by Niklas and his helpers. He is the only one who manages to escape death. All of his friends are murdered. The police doesn't believe his story and arrest him as the main suspect.When Frank is driven to prison, the police car gets involved in a chase with Niklas, who tries to escape on his fiery white horse over the roofs of the Amsterdam canal houses.Frank manages to escape from the police and Niklas, and teams up with Goert, a suspended detective.Goert was suspended because he had unraveled the Niklas mystery and had warned that he would strike again this year. No one of course believed him and everyone thought he was going crazy.Frank and Goert team up to confront Niklas. In Goert's mind there is only one solution to get rid of Niklas: Blowing up his boat that must be moored in a remote part of the Amsterdam Harbor...NoteSINT is a spooky thriller with lots of action and horror.Even those who are not familiar with the Saint Nicholas legend (A celebration in Holland every year on dec 5, similar to Santa Claus) will relate to the fight between good and evil which is a common emotion all over the world.
