A mercenary-for-hire accepts a mission from a billionaire to capture a dangerous snake that could possibly help cure a terminal illness.
Cancer-terminal tycoon Peter Murdoch's secret Wexel Hall Pharmaceuticals lab has developed a blood orchid extract cure. To examine why it works optimally in snakes, they also bread a super-anaconda strain. But the original pair escapes, leaving a bloody trail of corpses. Murdoch runs, instructing his staff to clean up. They keep failing and being eaten like unsuspecting locals, some alive, even after enlisting ruthless big game hunter Hammett. The fast-growing pregnant monster sheds its skin, thus disabling the only tracking device.
The film begins with a hunter of rare animals, Hammett hunting large anacondas in a forest. A member of his group is sprayed by bloody vomit by a snake who Hammett shoots and then teases the man. Billionaire Murdoch, dying of a terminal illness arrives at a secret science facility where scientists are working on a genetically modified snake influenced in power by Blood Orchids. They hope to fix Murdoch's condition with the snake's DNA. However, when Murdoch foolishly points a flashlight at the snake it becomes angry and breaks out of the holding tank, killing every scientist in the facility except for Dr. Amanda Hayes. With the snake on the loose, Murdoch makes Hayes join a group of mercenaries to find and capture the snake upon learning that it is pregnant and is moving into populated area.At a farm, the snake eats the farmer and takes refuge in his barn. The group of mercenaries go to the barn following after the snake where it distracts them by vomiting out a goat it ate at the barn. It then bites off the head of their gunman who releases rapid fire into their surrounding cars, disabling them. The snake then spears the leader with his tail. It attempts to eat Hayes but Hammett arrives and the team chases the snake through the woods, then becoming chased by the snake who kills more of the mercenaries, swallowing some of them whole. It tries once more to eat Hayes but she falls into the mud puddles and her thermal heat is clouded from the snake's vision. The snake slithers off and the remaining group continues their hunt the next day.The snake gives birth to scores upon scores of more snakes in an abandoned building in a forest. It kills the rest of the mercenaries except for Hayes and Hammett who turns on Hayes, revealing that he has been working for Murdoch the whole time, hoping to get a snake for experimentation. Hayes fights back and stabs Hammett with his own knife before setting a set of C-4 to blow up the place. She escapes as the building with the snakes and Hammett inside explodes. She burns up her research of the snake's biology as a second mercenary scours the wreck and grabs a surviving baby snake. He escapes with the animal to begin experimentation on it for Murdoch.
