Starring Vincent Regan (Clash of the Titans, 300), Michael Ironside (TV's Cold Case, Wolverine and the X-Men, Patrick Bergen (Patriot Games) and Amy Hayes ((TV's Doctor Who).
Eva meets Tudor on the day of her 16th birthday. It is Tudor who is to make her feel whole as a woman. He becomes for her a source of both love and suffering through his constant mysterious departures and reappearances. When he is gone, Eva keeps a special place for him in her heart. During Tudor's absences, Eva lives through many terrible ordeals, including her shooting of her uncle Alfonse as he tries to rape her. With Tudor away, she meets Baron Oswald Von Seele. They marry and Eva finds her peace.
When Tudor returns, Evas love for him is rekindled and they spend an unforgettable summer together at the seaside. Eva is now pregnant. Oswald wants a divorce. Soon Tudor leaves again, called away on business, though without saying where he is going. Evas child dies during childbirth. War is bringing the world to its knees and Europe's borders are collapsing. Tudor returns to Eva to find tragedy at every turn: political assassinations, raids and Iron Guard rebellions that culminate in massacres of the Jews.
Romania's entry into the War sees Eva on her own again. She volunteers to work at the Military Hospital, where she meets Lucian, a medical student. They begin a warm, affectionate relationship. Lucian proposes to Eva, but she is unable to give him an answer, still in shock from the news of Oswald's death in an attack in Istanbul. Returning home one day, Eva finds Tudor, unshaven and confused, waiting for her. Tudor tells her he is wanted by the Gestapo and asks her to help him acquire fake documents to leave the country. Lucian learns of Tudor's return, leaves for the front and dies in action. Eva now realizes there must be a different explanation for Tudor's many mysterious encounters with a strange man at important moments in the past. It is the end of spring before Eva manages to obtain Tudor's new documents. A day before his departure, Eva finds out she is pregnant again but chooses not to tell Tudor for fear he might change his mind. She accompanies him to the railway station, but they lose each other amid the American bombardment of April 4th, 1944. Eva searches for Tudor, but he is not to be found, either among the living or the dead. The strange man of Tudor's acquaintance tells Eva to flee the country to live with Tudor's mother in America. While on board a ship heading for America, she learns that Tudor had been running a network of American spies in Romania.
