A wounded man searches for his sweetheart in the Mexican desert while on the run from the police, bounty hunters, and others.
In the harsh terrain of the Mexican desert, a mortally wounded man is left for dead in the heat of the desert sun. This is J. Once a street smart, carefree young guy. Now, a wanted man. As death looms, the only thing that keeps him alive is the quest to find the love of his life, Natasha. A woman betrothed to another man, but surely destined for J. A woman who comes into his life like a bolt of lightning and changes it forever.
Las Vegas-based Jay Ray, after being shot, searches for his sweetheart, Linda, in the Mexican desert. He reflects on the events that led him to sell popcorn and pirated DVDs, do daring stunts, and marry eleven women for money in order to get them a green card. He first rejects then woos Gina Grover, the daughter of Bob, a casino owner, with a motive of living a lush life. Everything changes drastically after he meets with Gina's brother, Tony, and his fiancée, Natasha, compelling him to be on the run from the police, bounty hunters and others.
***The remix has a different soundtrack and less narration. Scenes cut from the "remix" are in brackets [ ... ] Contains full spoilers! ***Spanish-speaking workers find a wounded man on freight train. The man is Jay (Hrithik Roshan). After being patched up, he --with a full beard and covered in dust-- stumbles across the barren terrain..."Three months earlier." Flash-back. Jay leads a dance class in Las Vegas. He works a variety of jobs and cons, including a scam in which he marries illegal immigrants. [Back in his apartment, Jay is startled to find one of his dance students: Gina (Kangana Ranaut). "Happy Valentines," she says before revealing she had a copy of his keys made for herself. Jay accuses her of being crazy and throws her out. Outside, Jay tries to apologize for any misunderstanding and Gina says she won't bother him again. As a limo pulls up, Jay realizes he has missed a big opportunity. To reignite the flame, Jay invites Gina to be his partner in a dance competition. They win the contest, set to the song "Fire." ] After winning the dance competition, Jay meets his girlfriend Gina's (Ranaut) parents. Her father, Bob Grover (Kabir Bedi), owns a casino. He invites Jay for a weekend at their beach house.The Grovers live a fabulously wealthy lifestyle.Jay goes swimming and sees a beautiful Hispanic woman. At the Grover's home, he sees the same woman again. He is captivated. The mystery woman is Natasha (Bárbara Mori), the fiancee of Gina's brother Tony (Nicholas Brown). In a restaurant, Tony shares the story of how he met Natasha. The first thing he saw was her "hot sexy legs." Natasha is clearly uncomfortable.  [But despite her limited English, she seems to share a private joke with Jay, while Tony pays the bill.] Jay remembers the real first time he met Natasha. Her true name was Linda and she was the last of his eleven fake marriages. And the only one that left an impression. [Montage set to "Dil Kyun Yeh Mera" of Tony and Natasha's engagement party and the two couples laughing and smiling aboard a yacht. Jay appears more interested in Natasha than Gina.] Tony and Natasha are engaged. Later, Jay witnesses Tony shouting at Natasha, and pushing her around. Jay comforts Natasha by showing her how to make shadow puppets....Flash-forward again to the full-bearded Jay stumbling outside a train station. He searches the ground and finds a cell phone. He asks the station master to help him recharge the phone, before collapsing. The station master finds Jay's wallet; inside: a picture of Natasha and business card for the Plaza....Flash-back. Tony and Jay arrive at the Plaza casino.  [Bob greets them. He has blood on his hands. Inside, two men are being tortured for cheating. One is a man called David, and Jay spares his life.]  Bob shows Jay around his casino and gives him two gifts: a gun and a new car.The night before the wedding, Jay asks Natasha to meet him and "finalize their divorce." Jamaal (Yuri Suri) the Grover's watchful chauffeur cautions Jay not to mess with the family.Natasha meets with Jay for a night of celebration. He asks her if she really loves Tony. She is silent for a moment. [She admits, "I love Tony's money."]  Jay confirms that he has a similar lack of feeling towards Gina.  [They compare all the expensive gifts they have received, but underneath their shared love of money is a shared sadness and longing.]  Natasha says that she wishes their marriage was a real one. "Me too," Jay says.  [Montage set to "Kites in the Sky" They drink champagne and see the sights of Vegas.]  The rain makes Jay sad, but Natasha encourages him to play.Jay returns Natasha to her apartment. They kiss. Tony bursts into the apartment. He is drunk and doesn't catch Jay. Tony begins to abuse Natasha, questioning where she has been all night. Jay puts his gun to Tony's head and holds out his other hand to Natasha. While she hesitates, Tony knocks the gun from Jay's hand and pulls out his own gun. He aims it at Jay...Flash-forward again to the train station. Jay awakes as the station master informs him that his phone is charged and that he called his "friends" for him. Tony and a group of men pull up in vehicles. Jay escapes on a passing freight. He finds a text from Natasha: "I'm going... sorry. Forget me." ["Intermission"] Having escaped on the train, Jay returns to the Vegas strip.  [David supplies him with a gun and Jamaal's phone number.]  On the phone, Jamaal confirms that he knows Natasha's whereabouts and makes plans to meet Jay later that night. Jay breaks into Natasha's abandoned apartment and holds a shattered frame with her photo...Flash-back to the earlier confrontation at the apartment. .... Tony points the gun at Jay. Natasha knocks Tony unconscious. Jay and Natasha flee in the convertible. Using the car's GPS, the police -followed closely by Tony- track the car. But it has been abandoned; the pair has traded watches and jewelry for a different ride. High-speed car chase ensues, but the couple makes a surprising escape. On the news, Bob falsely reports that Jay has stolen 2 million from his casino.Natasha blames their desperate situation on Jay "seducing" her, but she remembers she has a $200 bank account under her "Mrs. Linda Rai" alias. However, the police are one step ahead of her. [A despondent, and possibly unhinged, Gina methodically taps a spoon against a glass, while her father talks to Tony on the phone. Tony wants Jay and Natasha killed.] At the bank, "Linda Rai" raises a red flag, and the pair pull guns on the tellers to get their $200. The pair hi-jack a car. They spend the night at a hotel. They share their dreams for a new life together.  [Jay delights Linda with a Charlie Chaplin impersonation.]  The police burst in and arrest them. Downstairs, others are waiting for the pair. They want the supposed millions that they are in possession of. In the ensuing gun battle between cops and bandits, Jay and Natasha once again escape while utilizing multiple modes of transportation. More high speed chases. They spend the night in the desert. [In the morning, Jay's friend and colleague in the marriage scams, Robin (Anand Tiwari), catches up with the pair. Jay wants Robin to take Natasha away, as it is too dangerous for them to be together. At first he convinces Natasha that they are only separating for an hour, but she soon catches his lie. She wants to spend whatever time they have left together. "Live together. Die together."] Tony receives an anonymous phone call about Jay and Natasha's whereabouts.  [He argues about the price.]  But it's a trap. He is met by Jay and his friend, Robin (Tiwari). Jay says he's sorry for hurting the Grover family, but he takes Tony's 2 million --the amount he was already accused of stealing. Tony predicts that soon Natasha will leave Jay and return to him. ["Zindagi Do Pal Ki" plays over the following (mostly same in both versions) scenes]  Jay, Natasha, and Robin take the money and happily drive away. Robin helps smuggle the pair into Mexico. They make arrangements for fake passports. They meet Linda's family, and bring them gifts. They buy a house of their own. (In a remix-only scene:  Natasha tells Jay a story about her family.) [A different version of a kissing scene is used in the original cut.]  The couple is wed in a Spanish ceremony.Returning to their house, they meet Robin who has their new passports. Robin is gunned down, as Tony and his men arrive. A silent Jamaal lets the couple pass by him. While getting in their truck, Jay is shot in the back. Natasha drives. Jay passes in and out of consciousness; Natasha is panicking. She pulls into the train station. Jay looses his phone, as Natasha dumps him in a freight car. He calls out to her, but she drives away in the truck....Flash forward again. Jamaal pulls up in a car. But before he and Jay can speak, Tony and his men arrive.  [David had betrayed him.]  Jay begs Tony to let him see Natasha one last time, so he can know why she left him. Jamaal hits Tony with the car. Under bullet fire, he and Jay escape for a few minutes. In a no-audio scene, Jamaal tells Jay where Natasha is, before succumbing to a bullet wound. Jay steps out of the car, and opens fire on Tony's men. He then proceeds to beat Tony senseless until a shot rings out. Jay is hit and a shaking and crying Gina holds the smoking gun. Jay gives up and walks away.He drives through the night, while thinking about what Jamaal told him. Flash-back to Natasha's story. Pursued by Tony and his men, she hides Jay in the freight car and then acts as a decoy. She leads Tony away and watches the train pull out, hopefully bringing her love to safety. Tony chases her to a cliff's edge. Not wanting to return with her sadistic pursuer, Natasha sends her last text to Jay, "I'm going... sorry. Forget me," and drives over the cliff.Now standing on the same cliff, a heartbroken, wounded, and exhausted Jay steps over the edge and into the sea. Underwater, the spirits of Jay and Natasha meet --finally together again in the afterlife.
