Adam, a lonely man with Asperger's Syndrome, develops a relationship with his upstairs neighbor, Beth.
Soon after moving in, Beth, a brainy, beautiful writer damaged from a past relationship encounters Adam, the handsome, but odd, fellow in the downstairs apartment whose awkwardness is perplexing. Beth and Adam's ultimate connection leads to a tricky relationship that exemplifies something universal: truly reaching another person means bravely stretching into uncomfortable territory and the resulting shake-up can be liberating.
After a breakup, Beth, a teacher and would-be author of children's books, moves closer to work and meets Adam, a neighbor whose father recently died. He's an electrical engineer, mildly autistic, unable to catch irony or sarcasm, to empathize, or to master simple social situations. He invites Beth into his world, and she's intrigued by his innocence: to her, he's the Fox and she's the Little Prince. Her family faces problems: her dad, an outgoing and gregarious accountant, is under indictment. The trial is imminent, overlapping Adam's search for work. The two events entangle as Beth and Adam's relationship deepens; each must make a difficult decision.
Twenty-nine year old New Yorker Adam Raki suffers from Asperger syndrome, he who rambles on topics he knows when he gets excited or nervous, which is often. His father was his protector, until he passed away six weeks ago, leaving his father's friend, Harlan, as the only person who looks after him now. An electronics and astronomy buff, Adam has just been fired from his job - a job his father got for him - working in the electronics section of a toy company due to Adam not understanding the need to reduce costs in the products as opposed to his own goal of making the best product he can. Changes are overwhelming for Adam, the issue of the estate lawyer suggesting he move from his and his father's large apartment, which has not been paid off, especially traumatic, in combination with all else going on. Into Adam's life comes Beth Buchwald, an elementary school teacher and aspiring children's book writer who moves into the apartment above his. As she is just coming out of a destructive relationship, she finds Adam's somewhat awkward approach to the world intriguing and refreshing. When she finds out that his behavior is a manifestation of Asperger's, she has gotten to a point of wondering if there is a future for the two of them as a couple. What Beth decides to do is based partly on his Asperger's - i.e. if his interest in her is truly romantic or purely his need for someone to be his protector in place of his father - but also partly on her own parents' relationship, and the fact that her father, Marty Buchwald, who she loves, is going through an indictment for his business activities.
Romance can be risky, perplexing and filled with the perils of miscommunication - and that's if you aren't 'Adam,' for whom life itself is this way. In this heartfelt romantic comedy, Hugh Dancy ('The Jane Austen Book Club,' 'Confessions of a Shopaholic') stars as Adam, a handsome but intriguing young man who has all his life led a sheltered existence - until he meets his new neighbor, Beth (Rose Byrne, "Damages," '28 Weeks Later,' 'Knowing'), a beautiful, cosmopolitan young woman who pulls him into the outside world, with funny, touching and entirely unexpected results. Their implausible and enigmatic relationship reveals just how far two people from different realities can stretch in search of an extraordinary connection. [D-Man2010]Adam is a handsome but intriguing young man who has all his life led a sheltered existence -- until he meets his new neighbor, Beth, a beautiful, cosmopolitan young woman who pulls him into the outside world, with funny, touching and entirely unexpected results. Their implausible and enigmatic relationship reveals just how far two people from different realities can stretch in search of an extraordinary connection. [D-Man2010]
