A drama centered on the trials and tribulations of a proud Palestinian Christian immigrant single mother and her teenage son in small town Indiana.
Muna, a single mother in Ramallah, has applied for a visa to the US. When it comes, her son Fadi, an excellent student, convinces her they should go. After an incident at customs begins their exile badly, they join Muna's sister and family in Illinois. Muna needs a job: although she has two degrees and 15 years' experience in banking, she settles for work at White Castle, telling the family her job's at a nearby bank. It's spring, 2003, and the US invades Iraq. While friends come from unlikely places, Fadi meets prejudice at school. How he'll respond to it and to American youth culture and how Muna will sort things out with her family are the rest of the story. Tragedy or hope?
Tired of abuse by Israeli occupation troops, Ramallah model student Fadi Farah jumps at the chance to emigrate and study in the rural US. His fuzzy, mother, simpleton bank clerk Muna, manages to 'hide' all their savings so as to lose everything before they land, thus totally dependent on her sister Raghda and brother in law, Nabeel Halaby MD. Class bully Mike chooses Muslim 'hence terrorist' Fadi as his gang's new whipping boy, which gets totally out of hand at the diner where Muna took a waitress job. Only Fadi's principal Stan Novatski, a Polish Jew's son, truly sympathizes and tries to help.
Amreeka (Dabis, 2009) is the story of a mother, Muna, and her son, Fadi, and their transition from Palestine to America in the early 2000s. Muna, who is recently divorced, is a well educated woman who works hard to make sure she can send her son to a private school. Even though the Iraq war has caused trouble in her hometown, Muna braves the checkpoints and soldiers and drives two hours every day to get her son to school. When the opportunity presents itself, Muna and Fadi move to the United States so that Fadi can get an American education. They move in with Muna's sister, Raghda, and her doctor husband, and even though Muna had 10 years of experience in the banking industry in Palestine, the only job she can find is at the local White Castle. Even though the family are Palestinian Christians, they are often perceived as potential Muslim terrorists. When Fadi is faced with the fear and ignorance of the students around him, he grows bitter toward his new environment. He gets into a fight with one of his classmates after the boy caused his mother to slip at work and hurt her back. This is Fadi's lowest point. His mother brings him home from jail and teaches him that no matter what ignorant things people might say or think about him, he must hold his head high and be proud of his heritage. After this, the mood lightens and things start to look bright for the family as they all enjoy a meal together. Muna is finding success at work, the family is happy and not fighting, and Muna may have found a replacement for her cheating ex-husband.
After her husband divorces her for a slimmer woman, Muna Farah lives with her mother in an unnumbered house in Bethlehem. She applies for immigration to the U.S. while her son, Fadi, is enrolled in a private school. Qualified with 2 degrees, and employed for 10 years at a bank, she drives her son to school everyday. Her commute increases from 15 minutes to 2 hours due to the construction of a wall and stopping at 2 checkpoints. After obtaining Visas, they travel to Illinois to live with her sister, Raghda, her husband, Dr. Nabeel Halaby, &amp; 3 daughters: Salma, Lamis, and Rana. With the $2500 that she hid in a cookie-box confiscated, the duo just have $200, and are financially dependent on the Halabys - who face challenges after the U.S. attacks Iraq. Nabeel's starts losing patients; a written threat is received; they get behind in their mortgage payments; while Fadi and Salma face racial profiling in school. Muna manages to get a job at White Castle but tells everyone that she works at the United Alliance Bank. Things only get worse after Muna has an accident, and Fadi gets arrested for Assault.

