A chronicle of the life of a middle-class French girl's sexual adventures, her then fall into prostitution, and her ultimate redemption.
In Barcelona, Valére is very attached to her French grandmother Marie Tasso and likes to stay with her. While discussing sex with Val, Marie advises her that it would be important to jot her life experience down and Val decides to write a diary. Val recalls her promiscuous love life and her lovers since her first sexual experience when she was 15-years-old. When Val loses her job in a downsizing, she is simultaneously informed that Marie had a heart attack and she visits her granny one last time who dies. Val looks for a job and when she is interviewed by an executive called Jaime, she falls in love for the first time. However Jaime is not good in bed. They move in together to a magnificent apartment and Val believes she has found the man of her life. Val gets a job with a gay Italian called Harry at a fashion house but Jaime becomes jealous and changes his behavior. Val decides to leave Jaime when she gets pregnant and he does not recognize the baby as his own.
To satisfy her sexual curiosity, the attractive twenty-eight-year-old single woman, Valérie, decides to challenge the complexities of modern society in search of total pleasure. Cultivated and independent, Val constantly seeks new experiences to quench her pressing needs, going as far as to considering profiting from her strong addiction. However, in this male-dominated game, there is never a place for true love. Will Valérie ever find what she is looking for?
Valerie, a young Spanish woman, is brought up by her French grandmother Marie. The movie starts off with a discussion about the necessity of keeping memories, and a short discussion about sex. Marie advices Val to keep her acts and memories into a diary. And so she does. It runs off with Val's memories about her first sexual encounters at the ripe age of 15, then rapidly moves to her leaving to Barcelona. At age 29, Val is still ensured that the only way to fulfill her own completion is by having sex. With anyone. One day, her grandmother dies. Afterwords, Val loses her job due to corporate downsizing. Forced to look for a new job, Val goes to some job interviews, one at an Italian fashion house and the other one at a firm with a director called Jaime.Val falls in love, for the first time in her life, with Jaime. They move together to a penthouse overlooking the Mediterranean whilst Val is feeling awkward that Jaime is paying for everything. They do get interested in having kids, whilst Val's friend Cristina thinks it's too quick. Val is gets a new job at the Italian fashion house while her new employer Harry is gay and does not respond to her sexual advances. Suddenly Jaime turns up, turned on, and causes a scene. Val decides to leave and meets the support from her female friends. Then Val returns to be the victim of her sexual desires and falls into prostitution in a "high-level" brothel. It is here where Val she meets some customers that affect her thinking in different ways. Giovanni and Alex among others. Then Val is ordered to take care of a disabled man which appears to attract her feelings. After some woeful scenes, Val decides to pack up and leave. In the final scene, Val quickly visits her best female friend in the midst of pouring rain ready to start her life over again.
