Through the experiences of two amateur Bigfoot researchers in Appalachian Ohio, we see how the power of a dream can bring two men together and provide a source of hope and meaning that transcend the harsh realities of life in a dying steel town.
In NOT YOUR TYPICAL BIGFOOT MOVIE, filmmaker Jay Delaney provides a look at the trials and
triumphs of life in the Appalachian foot hills. Through the experiences of two amateur Bigfoot
researchers in southern Ohio, we see how the power of a dream can bring two men together in
friendship and provide hope and meaning that transcend the harsh realities of life in a dying
steel town.
Dallas Gilbert and Wayne Burton are out to convince the world that Bigfoot exists. They have
amassed a vast library of video footage and still photographs after years of venturing into the
woods and forests surrounding Portsmouth, Ohio, to conduct their Bigfoot research. They hope
this material will prove the creatures existence and catapult them to fame and wealth. Their
appearance on the front page of a 1999 issue of the Portsmouth Daily Times served to spread
the word throughout southern Ohio, but many skeptics remain.
After years of failed attempts to attract national attention to their work, Dallas convinces a
high-profile Bigfoot researcher from California to make a stop in Portsmouth to see his and
Waynes research locations during a national Bigfoot tour. But a misstep by Wayne on an
Internet radio talk show throws the future of their research and the strength of their
friendship in doubt.
The California research team eventually shows up in Portsmouth, but the ensuing events leave
Dallas and Wayne downtrodden. In the aftermath, the two learn more about themselves, their
friendship and the fragile hope that sustains the American dream. [D-Man2010]NOT YOUR TYPICAL BIGFOOT MOVIE tells the story of a quest for the American dream. It shines
a light on the complex struggles facing American working-class people in an area where work
has vanished. While many audience members may not relate directly to Dallas and Waynes
standard of life, nearly all audiences can relate to the universal questions the story explores.
The light moments early in the film exploring Dallas and Waynes research methods transform
into thoughtful reflection as the filmmaker probes more deeply into the experiences that have
shaped Dallas and Wayne. The film becomes not just the story of two friends seeking to prove
to the world that Bigfoot exists, but also their deep need to perpetuate their own faith in
Bigfoots existence. Without this hope they place in achieving their own form of the American
dream, lifes hardships would be nearly unbearable.
As we see Dallas and Wayne carry out their search for Bigfoot and go about living day-to-day
life, we realize that these men have had few breaks, and try as they may, the odds of achieving
social or financial success are greatly stacked against them. While not everyone has the same
opportunities in life, the film explores the sense of responsibility many Americans feel to give it
their all in this life and create opportunities for themselves whatever their circumstances.
Recent headlines decry the growing gap between rich and poor in America, and the U.S.
presidential campaign has focused the nations attention on the plight of the working poor.
NOT YOUR TYPICAL BIGFOOT MOVIE gives us a glimpse into the daily lives and real-world
hardships of the people who are fast becoming the latest ideological battleground. [D-Man2010]
