During the Sarikamis Battle, the Ottoman army runs out of ammunition and appeals to the people of Van for help, who happen to have supplies. However, the First World War is on and all men are fighting at four corners of the empire and therefore can not respond to to the appeal. The young children of Van want to do something. When the Principal of a school, who has lost a son in the war, suggests that the ammunition be transported to Sarikamis, 120 young boys aged 12 to 17 volunteer and take to the road. The movie tells the true story of the 120 boys and their sisters and mothers left behind, who wait for their return. The movie opens with a scene where and Armenian doctor goes to the house of a Turk whose son is sick, as he has done many times before. One of the boys does not like an Armenian doctor providing medical service to Turks, who, he believes are out to destroy the Turks. At the same time, the Armenian members of the Hunchaks in Van, who gather at a church and vow to join the invading Russian armies, threaten the Doctor and kill him as he leaves the sick boy's house.
During the Sarikamis Battle, the Ottoman army runs out of ammunition and appeals to the people of Van for help, who happen to have supplies. However, the First World War is on and all men are fighting at four corners of the empire and therefore can not respond to to the appeal. The young children of Van want to do something. When the Principal of a school, who has lost a son in the war, suggests that the ammunition be transported to Sarikamis, 120 young boys aged 12 to 17 volunteer and take to the road. The movie tells the true story of the 120 boys and their sisters and mothers left behind, who wait for their return. The scenario, . . written by Ozhan Eren (1), who also provides assistance to the director and has composed the music as well, is tragic, but tells the story of a tragic period of the Turkish history, which in the past have been presented to the world in a twisted manner, such as the movie Ararat.. The movie, filmed in Safranbolu and Van, opens with a scene where and Armenian doctor goes to the house of a Turk whose son is sick, as he has done many times before. One of the boys do not like an Armenian doctor providing medical service to Turks, who, he believes are out to destroy the Turks. At the same time, the Armenian members of the Hunchaks in Van, who gather at a church and vow to join the nvading Russian armies, threaten the Doctor and kill him as he leaves the sick boy's house.
