Jóska, a Hungarian immigrant in Los Angeles is sharing an apartment with the Russian Vladislav. In their search for the "American Dream" they get into all kinds of troubles, wild adventures and comical situations. What saves them is their big hearts and loyalty to each-other in this unlikely friendship in a foreign country.
More people immigrate to America than to all other countries in the whole world combined. Why? Is it because they love hot dogs and hamburgers? Or because they want to meet Snoop Dogg or have a close encounter with Pamela Anderson? Maybe. But the real reason is immigrants go to the U.S. to chase the American dream. Immigrants is the story of Vladislav (a Russian), and Joska (a Hungarian). Both are immigrants and best friends, living and chasing the American dream together. Vlad has a daughter, Ana, whos adapting to life in America at the speed of light, while her dad is in complete culture shock. They stay at the Vista del Mar, an apartment complex run by an old failed actress, Greta Knight, who is always after Vlad for sexual favors. The building is home to immigrants from all over the world: Flaco, a friend from Mexico; Mr. Chea, who runs a Chinese family restaurant; Nazim, a former Pakistani nuclear scientist who drives a tour bus; and Mr. Splits, an old black pimp. We follow Vlad and Joska in their adventures through their encounter with the American capitalist company Glut-co, through their attempt to open a Russian/Hungarian restaurant, and as their friendship is put in jeopardy when they hit the L.A. night scene. All the while Vlad is looking for a way to make a life for himself and his daughter; and Joska well, Joska is mainly looking for women. With a story that is comedic and yet poignant, Immigrants is a movie for anyone who ever had a dream. [D-Man2010]Follows two recent arrivals to America, a Hungarian named Joska and a Russian named Vlad. They have their sights set on achieving the American Dream, making tons of money and dating beautiful women. Tinsel town tests Joska and Vlad's friendship,patience and perseverance as they chase all kinds of jobs and ladies in the city of angels. They learn the true meaning of friendship and that immigrants must help other immigrants if they are going to make it in America. [D-Man2010]
