The story of a a young man who has spent his life searching for revenge only to find himself up against a bigger challenge than he originally bargained for.
In a world with no guns, a mysterious drifter, a bartender and a young samurai plot revenge against a ruthless leader and his army of thugs, headed by nine diverse and deadly assassins.
In a hyperreal, hyper-saturated, hyper-driven dystopia, guns are banned upon pain of death and the sword is now king.Nicola the Woodcutter is the most powerful man east of the Atlantic, a shadowy crime boss who rules with an iron fist with the help of his lady Alexandra, a femme fatale with a secret past, and nine diverse assassins and the Red Gang, a force not to be trifled with. His right-hand man is Killer #2, a cold-hearted, smooth-talking, toe-tapping murderer dressed in red and wielding a deadly blade without remorse. The citizens live in fear of this pack of wolves, and wait for the hero who can overthrow the tyrant.One night, a mysterious drifter walks into the Horseless Horseman Saloon of the local insurgent bartender and desires two things: a shot of whisky and to kill Nicola. Soon, another stranger enters the bar, a samurai named Yoshi. Yoshi wants to avenge his father by taking back a talisman that Nicola stole from his clan. Armed with crossed destinies and incredible fighting skills and guided by the wisdom of the bartender, the two eventually join forces to bring down the corrupt and contemptuous reign of Nicola and set out on a journey, breaking bones and cracking heads in search for Nicola. In an amalgam of samurai film, spaghetti western and chop socky and using a stylish blend of neo-noir, German expressionism and Russian futurism, characters in the world of Bunraku spin and ricochet against a backdrop that resembles a pop-up-book made of origami, ever-changing and whirring like a steam driven Victorian theatre set. It is a universe driven by pugilistic force, delivered in a brash style of amazing physical combat sequences.
