Soichi Negishi moved to Tokyo to chase his dream of becoming a musician playing stylish, Swedish-style pop. Instead, he finds himself leading the death metal band Detroit Metal City, or DMC, as the costumed and grotesquely made-up "demon emperor" Johannes Krauser II. Although he hates the role and the things he has to do as a member of the band, he has a definite talent for it. Adapted from the hit Japanese comic book by Kiminori Wakasugi, the movie follows Negishi's antics as he tries to reconcile the two very different sides of his life and find out what it really means to achieve his dream.
The film opens with Soichi Negishi (Kenichi Matsuama) walking along side his mother to a small country train station. Negishi hopes to move to Japan, and realize his musical dreams, as a pop singer. As he rides away in the train, he sees his younger brother wave to him from a field. Now we are taken to a dark alleyway, where many alternative Japanese youths are entering a club called "Hell's Gate." Inside we see a death metal band(in rather flamboyant attire, and black and white make-up) preforming for a large crowd. This band, is Detroit Metal City. The singer, is then revealed to be Negashi, and why crowd surfing he narrates of his dislike of what he has become.The opening credits roll.We now see Negashi removing his makeup with a rag, and talking a fellow band mate, which is his lazy, bloomer obsessed drummer Terumichi Nishida . He begs Nishida to return a video-game he had let him borrow, out of fear of him losing it. Now the band's bassist Masayuki Wada speaks to Negashi about how well he believed the show had done.The dressing room door bursts open, and with a wild laugh the President Of Death Records(who also seems to be the band's manager) enters, and tosses a cigarette into a ash tray that Wada held, but it simply bounced out and went out of frame. She told them of how well they did, but in remorse Negashi played for her a tape of the pop music he wishes to make. Displeased, she kicked him.Now with a swollen mouth, Negashi leaves the dressing room in his normal attire, and pushes his way through the crowd of oblivious screaming fans, hoping to get a look at the band. He is hit, and begins to bleed from the nose.
As he made his way up the stairs, he heard the fans talk of rumors they had heard about the lead singer Krauser, such as his ability to rape many women.Negashi is now on the street, and he is playing his pop music on an acoustic guitar, with people only stoping to glance at him, and then walk away. He stops playing and hears some pop music being played around the corner.
As he goes to investigate he sees that the lead singer of the band was an old college friend, and then that a woman standing near him was his college crush Yuri Aikawa.He reflects on the old days, of them all sitting around playing music together, and of his quote "No music, No dream."He is soon at a record store, looking at the latest fashionable cd covers, when he sees Aikawa, and they began to chat, and make plans to meet later at a cafe. Then a blast of near-by music startles him, and he walks to the next isle to investigate. Several DMC fans had gathered to celebrate the release of a new single with head-banging, and loud music. Negashi dislikes the album cover, and complains about a quote that was in his name, that he never said. Aikawa then tells him of her distaste for metal, and how unfashionable she finds Detroit Metal City.Negashi is now in full attire with his band, doing an interview about the new single. His mind is off daydreaming about Aikawa when he realizes it is time for their date and he runs out of the interview to meet her. Negashi is now constantly going back and forth between the date, and the interview, each time forgetting to remove more and more of his DMC attire. With a feeling that negashi was going into the near-by club, she enters in hopes of finding him, but meets Krauser crowd surfing. Negashi in fear, tries to get the crowd to move him away from her, but the get him closer and closer, until he felt his wig began to slip off. The only thing he could do to cover himself, was to lift up her dress, showing her underwear. She calls him a pig, and walks out.Now Negashi is outside of a cafe, and is banging on the wall in rage, thinking she figured him out, and he was ruined. A family inside was in terror of the metal monster banding on the window at what they thought, was them.
Then Negashi gets a phone call, and it was from Aikawa. She had not found him out, and despite the awkwardness of the day, she asked him to meet her at one of the most fashionable cafes in Japan, for more proper date. So filled with happiness he jumps up at down waving his arms around, and everyone in the cafe screams and runs out, thinking he was telling them to flee or be killed.Now at the fashionable cafe, they talk of old times, and of music, then Aikawa introduces him to a fashionable fashion designer/talent agent. The Agent then asks Negashi to play him a song, so he can judge if Negashi was worthy of a record deal. When he plays, he is laughed at and called a joke. Negashi then runs home in shame.Why at home, he hears a knock at the door, and when he answers, it is his manager. She sees how laid back his apartment is, and in disgust, destroys it with the help of her dogs. Why holding down Negashi, Aikawa gazes in the open door, and thinks they are engaging in some kind of sexual activity, so she runs away.Negashi's apartment is now covered in chains and skulls, most of his valuables are shattered, and the walls covered in vulgar language that she spray painted on them. He was then face down on the floor, and sobbing. A sudden burn of rage fills him, and his personality changes to that of Krauser, and he grabes a red marker and over top a magazine article, writes a song titles "Should I Take Revenge?"We are now back in the club, and DMC is playing the new song, the crowd was screaming and full of love for the band.DMC toured all over Japan, defeating one band after another, and becoming the top in the country.
Out of happiness the Manager returns to her office, and sees a news story on the television. Her inspiration, Jack ill Dark (Gene Simmons), a famous metal guitarist from America, was retiring, but not before destroying all other leading metal bands in the world. It was his last tour, and DMC was on the list of targets.She called a meeting, and told the band of what was to come, that they finally had the chance to become the best. Negashi asked who Jack was, and in displeasure once again told her of his lack of interest, and wish to go into pop music. She kicked him again, but this time below the belt, and the makes his way out of the room.Negashi is now walking the streets, and when he comes to another performance by the pop band, he stops to watch, and then sees Aikawa watching as well. She notices him, and tries to run away, but he tells her that it was his land lady, and she abuses him like that whenever he is late on the rent. She accepts this, and they go on talking of other things. She tells him that the Designer had asked her on a date, and if he thought she should go.
He once again lied, and said he thought it was a great idea.Now following the two on the date, Negashi tried to hide behind objects to keep his trailing them a secret, but the lead singer of the pop band/old college friend of Negashi noticed him hiding, and chased him into the mens restroom.Negashi hid in a stall, and changed into his Krasuer costume. When meeting Krauser, the pop singer was very surprised, but told him of how much he admired his work, and then how nervous these shows made him. Krauser told the pop singer then, to sing before he went on stage, it would ease his nerves. The two began to sing a pop song together, Krauser dancing why singing, and the pop singer playing the tambourine why singing. Other members of the pop band entered the bathroom in search of the singer, and were thrown back at the sight of the two together. They then left. Krauser walked down the street, still in costume, and noticed Aikawa and the Designer holding hand. He charged at them, knocking over the pop singer, and sending his tambourine flying.The two now sat, watching a play version of the Power Rangers, when Krauser angrily entered the stage. The red ranger stared at Krauser in amazement, for he was a fan of DMC that attended every show, and was sure his love and faith in the band had summoned the singer to him. A little boy ran up to Krauser and tried to punch him, thinking he was a villain in the play, but the red ranger grabbed the boy, and told him if he ever touched Krauser again that he'd kill him. The crowd then ran away. As the two tried to leave the scene Krauser ran up to them and grabbed Aikawa by the shoulder. She creamed and The Designer grabbed Krauser and told him to stop. The red ranger ran up to the Designer and head butted him in the skull, causing his collapse. The other rangers cheered, and jumped up and down. Aikawa sopke to Krasuer, telling him she thought his work was pathetic, and took away from society. The wind blew, and a figure of the red ranger fell down towards her. Krauser jumped on top of her, and shielded her from the blow, and looking up, she noticed the man resembled Negashi under the paint. Krauser walked away from her, as she screamed his real name.He now walked home in the rain, drowning in his own sadness.He decided to leave Japan, and go back home, to live on the farm with his family. None of his dreams would ever come true.Aikawa entered his empty apartment, and saw his manager standing at the window. Aikawa asked where he went to, and the manager replied she did know, but that it was a great loss, for he brought so many dreams to the people.Negashi arrived home, and saw his mother wearing a DMC shirt. He thought he had been found out somehow by her as well, but then a blast of an old DMC single came from the back of the house. His younger brother came out, with a drastic new appearance and behavior. His hair was now very long, and he cursed at his mother for wearing his shirt. Negashi was very displeased, that his own brother had become a follower of Detroit Metal City.The brother received a phone call from a stranger, and it told him to come out to the field outside.With a bat in hand, he went into the field, yelling for the stranger to show himself. In a square of light, Krauser emerged from a near by hill. The brother then dropped the bat, and stepped back, for he thought his love of DMC has summoned Krauser from hell. They spoke for a moment, and Krauser told him that good skills at harvesting with a scythe would help him cut off the heads of his foes, and good work in school would help him be like Krauser, who was not only the master of hell, but the master of learning. Their mother came out, and noticed Krauser. She looked closely at him, and smiled, then invited him and her son in for dinner.At the dinner table Krauser pointed out a photo of Negashi, and the brother made a comment about his hair looking like a penis. Krauser was quick to correct him, as he said it was in fact an official death metal hair cut.
He also told the brother that a true demon always respects his parents, and finishes his meal.A following morning Negashi's mother gave him a large package addressed to Krauser, and Negashi told her he must have left it, and she did not question him, but just left with a smile. The package was full of fan letters begging Krauser to come back, because they loved him, and he gave them dreams like no other. In tears he left to find his mother, and they went to a near-by wishing shrine. He noticed his mother make a wish on a piece of paper and when he read it, it said she hoped all of his dreams to come true. He turned to her, and told her that he must return to Japan, for he did not feel his work done there.Now he rushed back through Japan, running to the concert hall where Jack ill Dark awaits. The further he ran, the more of his fans joined his run, until he finally had a mass following ensuring his arrival at the hall.Detroit Metal City opened the battle with a well know song, but Krauser was still no where to be seen. In mid-song Jack burst onto the scene with his anthem "Fuckingham Palace". DMC fell back as Jack released his "Death Metal Bull" and they hid behind the drum set. Krauser then appeared, with his make-up slightly altered to read "kill" on his forehead in english, just for Jack(Which was originally done in a common writing style in Japan).
Krauser jumped onto the stage and tamed the bull, just as he would a cow back at the farm. Unamused Jack began to once again play the riff of his anthem, and Krauser grabbed a microphone and sang the song, his vocals against Jack's guitar. The faster Jack played, the faster Krauser had to say "fuck", until Jack's fingers began to bleed, and Krauser's words became faint gasps. Jack then in one last attempt to overpower Krauser, hit his distortion peddle, but his over working the guitar caused a small explosion, sending both of them flying back. They both stood, barely bale to move, and made their way back to the center of the stage, where a second explosion occurred which sent them both even further back then before. Krauser lay unconscious, with a charm his mother had given him close by.Aikawa was in the crowd, and all in unison as they said "Go to DMC" she joined, and the sound of her voice caused Krauser to open his eyes, clutch the charm and recite to himself "No music No dream" as he stood. he made his way to the front of the stage and everyone cheered, but then Jack stood behind him, and held out his guitar. Krauser flinched, for he though Jack was going to hit him, but instead Jack yelled "take it!" and Krauser removed the guitar from his hands. Jack had admitted defeat, and was going to leave the metal world to DMC.Krauser knew then, that this moment, with more fans then he had ever had before, he could show them the music he loves. So on the death metal guitar he played his favorite original pop song, and everyone just stared at him.
From her high post, the Manager screamed "Fucker!" and through her cigarette across the massive crowd, which struck Krauser directly on the forehead. He let out a massive scream, and the band began to play, he struck his guitar, and the crowd cheered, the entire hall filled with music, and then Aikawa stepped onto the stage and said to Krauser "You're Negishi right?" He glared at her, at threw her dress into the air, once again showing her panties, and as she screaming "Disgusting!" He realized what he had done.Credits
