The son of a courtesan retreats into a fantasy world after being forced to end his relationship with the older woman who educated him in the ways of love.
During France's belle époque before World War I, elegant cars, mansions, and servants defined the lives of les grandes horizontals, the courtesans of kings and millionaires. One of the most successful, Lea de Lonval, is approaching a certain age when an older associate, Charlotte Peloux, asks Lea to take on her 19 year old son, whom Lea has called Chéri since he was a child. They become lovers and, to their surprise, the relationship lasts six years. When it ends abruptly with a marriage his mother arranges to the daughter of another courtesan, Lea finds herself lonely. Has she fallen in love? If so, do she -- and Chéri - have any choices?
In Paris, in the early 20th century, young Fred Peloux, nicknamed Chéri, the handsome son of Charlotte Peloux, a former demimondaine, lives in the small circle of his mother's friends, all high class prostitutes past their best. He has an affair with Léonie Vallon, publicly known as Léa de Lonval, a waning beauty, who loves him both as a mistress and a mother. But, after six years spent together, the age difference takes its toll on their union. To please his mother, Chéri accepts to marry young Edmée, the only of Marie-Laure, a rich courtesan's daughter, without actually caring for her. After a while, the young man tries to return to Léa.
Set in 1900s Belle Époque Paris, Chéri tells the story of the affair between a wealthy, middle-aged retired courtesan, Léa (Michelle Pfeiffer), and the flamboyant spoiled, neglected 19-year-old only son of another even wealthier courtesan, Fred (Rupert Friend), nicknamed "Chéri" ("Dear" or "Darling"). A famous beauty, Léa has been successful at extracting large sums of money from her up-scale clients, never falling in love with any of them.At first Léa takes Chéri off her "friend" (and former rival) Charlotte's hands as a favor, as his dissipated lifestyle is irritating to Charlotte and unhealthy for Chéri. Although Léa only plans on keeping Chéri around for a short while, their affair turns into a six-year relationship, in which Léa pays for Chéri's expenses, (although he has access to considerable wealth from his mother) and Chéri wears Léa's silk pajamas and pearls. Although they satisfy each other both sexually and emotionally, the two convince themselves that their affair is casual, but they are the only real friend the other has. Her status as a former prostitute and his as the son of one make them outsiders who can only be fully honest and relaxed together.Léa learns Chéri's mother has arranged for Chéri to marry the daughter of another courtesan, an innocent barely 18-year-old named Edmée (Felicity Jones), as Charlotte has decided she wants grandchildren, largely to make up for her years of neglecting Chéri. Although Chéri does not wish to marry Edmée, whom he finds boring, he has no choice in the matter, as he stands to inherit a huge fortune from Charlotte. Léa cheerfully kicks him out of her home, but makes Chéri promise to always be gentle and kind with Edmée, and to try to give her a good life. After Chéri agrees, the two part ways, both putting on an air of breezy unconcern, as much to convince themselves as the rest of the world that their affair had just been for amusement.Léa does not attend the wedding, and Chéri and Edmée leave for their honeymoon. It is only after Chéri is on the train to Italy for his honeymoon that both he and Léa realize they are in love with each other. Chéri consummates his marriage with Edmée, but their lovemaking is perfunctory, and even though Edmée is in love with her husband, Chéri can't summon any emotion for her. Léa visits Charlotte one last time before running off on vacation, making up a story in which she is involved in with another suitor, when in fact the only man Léa beds while on vacation is a young bodybuilder whom she has no feelings for and regards as a one-night stand.Meanwhile, Edmée accuses Chéri of not caring about her, and says all he ever does is think of Léa, "that old woman". While out on the town with a friend, Chéri tries opium and cocaine, and on his way back he notices that Léa's apartment is no longer empty and she has returned home. Comforted by the fact that Léa has returned, Chéri runs home to Edmée where he makes love to her properly and kindly, thinking that he can now live in peace with Edmée, juggling both women. He sends Charlotte the next day to investigate Léa's home life, whereupon Léa claims she is madly in love with her new "suitor", and Charlotte tells her that Chéri and Edmée are likewise madly in love and happier than ever. That night, jealous and wanting to confront Léa about her new suitor, Chéri breaks into her home and admits he loves her. They make love with all the pent up passion they have been suppressing for the sake of others, and plan on running away together.In the morning, however, Chéri notices the wrinkles on Léa's face in the harsh light of day, and she sees his doubt. She apologizes to Chéri for "ruining him" and making life too easy on him when they first begun their affair. Léa tells Chéri to go back to Edmée, for their age difference would always prevent a true relationship blossoming between them. Tentatively, Chéri leaves as Léa watches, breathlessly hoping he will turn back. Both crestfallen and elated by a new sense of freedom, he walks on, as Léa stares into her mirror at her aging face.The narrator reflects on the injustice of fate, that Léa was born two decades before her only true love, Chéri. The narrator also reveals that, while he went through World War I without a scratch, Chéri later realizes that Léa was the only woman he could ever love, and he commits suicide.
