A decent but troubled young man is sent to a psychiatric institution for the criminally insane and soon finds himself in a fight for his life battling ghosts inside his head and very real enemies all around him.
Allen Meneric is committed to a psychiatric institution for the criminally insane because of a brutal revenge murder. There he is forced to deal with the very ill and the dangerous until, as part of a socialization program, he is transferred to minimum security where he meets Mia, a beautiful bipolar female inmate. Ever haunted by his past, Allen seeks his redemption when sudden events demand that he protect Mia from the violence and chaos of the institution.
The disturbed Allen Meneric mistakenly kills an innocent believing that he had raped his girlfriend and is sent to the Northwood Secure Treatment Facility, a psychiatric institution for insane murderers. Allen meets the dangerous inmates Carl Tarses and Ben Marshal but after a period, his mental condition is reassessed by Dr. Lofton (Shohreh Aghdashloo) and sent to the Northwood Department of Correction, a minimum security institution. Allen meets the gorgeous bipolar inmate Mia Conlon and they fall in love with each other. One day, they have a private encounter as part of an experimental program; but they are interrupted by the violent Tarses, who is trying to escape from the institution with Ben.
The disturbed Allen Meneric (Nick Stahl ) mistakenly kills an innocent believing that he had raped his girlfriend and is sent to the Northwood Secure Treatment Facility, a psychiatric institution for insane murderers. Allen meets the dangerous inmates Carl Tarses (Dash Mihok) and Ben Marshal (Pruitt Taylor Vince) but after a period, his mental condition is reassessed by Dr. Lofton and sent to the Northwood Department of Correction, a minimum security institution. Allen meets the gorgeous bipolar inmate Mia Conlon and they fall in love with each other. One day of Mia's birthday, they have a private encounter as part of an experimental program; but they are interrupted by the violent Tarses, who is trying to escape from the institution with Ben.
Allen Meneric (Nick Stahl) is a troubled young man sent to a psychiatric institution for the criminally insane to be evaluated after he brutally murders a man he thought had raped his girlfriend (Hayley Webb). He knows that what he did was wrong and is resigned to his fate. Allen soon finds himself surrounded by psychotics who both amuse and terrify him. He takes the advice of Tom Bogotus, a good guy guard (Tariq Trotter), and tries to do the right thing. His efforts are noticed and lead to his transfer to the minimum security section, enabling him to have interaction with female inmates. He meets Mia (Olivia Wilde) and both of them are immediately attracted to each other. Mrs. Standings (Joanne Baron), a good hearted long time staff member, notices the attraction and thinks that it would be therapeutic for them to have a private rendezvous. Things go tragically wrong when Carl Tarses (Dash Mihok) and his comical, yet violent sidekick, Ben (Pruitt Taylor Vince), attempt an escape that results in a killing rampage. In the melee that follows, Tarses attempts to rape Mia, causing the killer in Allen to awaken. The good voices in Allens head ultimately prevail but, in an ironic twist of fate, he discovers that even though he finally is able to choose right over wrong, he can never really escape his past.
