Every Friday night Shirley invites another "perfect" woman for Shabbat dinner in hopes that her son, Nelson, will marry a nice Jewish girl. Nelson, however, has something to tell them...he's gay.
A romantic comedy featuring a Jewish family who struggles coming to terms with their son's non-Jewish and gay boyfriend. When the gay couple adopts a child and it makes headline news, their families come to defend them and realize how much they love them.
Twenty-five year old real estate agent Nelson Hirsch is having problems telling his overbearing Jewish parents, Martin and Shirley Hirsch, that he's gay, let alone in a loving relationship not only with a man, Angelo Ferraro, but a non-Jewish one at that. It becomes more crucial as Nelson and Angelo have made a time sensitive pact to tell their respective parents about their relationship. It becomes even more complicated as, out of circumstance, Nelson discovers that his mother and thus by association his father believe the new significant other in his life is not Angelo, who they assume is solely his decorator, but rather Nelson and Angelo's neighbor, Playpen Playmate of the month, Sybil Williams. That complication is on top of the difficulty of especially Shirley only hearing and seeing what she wants to believe, which in this situation is coming to terms with Nelson being in love with a shiksa who takes her clothes off in public. When Nelson is finally able to tell his parents the truth, Martin and Shirley, who have their own individual and slightly different preconceived notions concerning everything around homosexuality, have to come to terms with the news, which is difficult. That difficulty includes how they believe their friends and relatives will take the news, such as Martin's hyper-masculine employer, his Uncle Moisha, and Shirley's brother and sister-in-law, Max and Sophie. Equally as difficult is relating to Angelo's Italian parents, Carmine and Terry Ferraro, who have their own issues is dealing with Angelo and Nelson's relationship. Nelson and Angelo's time sensitive issue to move their relationship to the next level has the potential to turn the world of this collective further on its head.

