A woman conceives twins through artificial insemination, only to meet the man of her dreams on the very same day.
Zoe is a woman who has a hard time letting anyone into her life. She has a habit of pushing people away whenever they get close. She wants to have a baby but because she has no man in her life, she decides to be artificially inseminated. Shortly after having the procedure she meets a guy named Stan, and she feels a spark. When she tells him about her pregnancy, she thinks he'll bail but he sticks with her.the baby's are both hers and the sperm donors baby they both have RED HAIR
In New York, the former executive and presently owner of a pet shop Zoe has no boy-friend and only a couple of friends since she has difficulties to let people into her life. She lost her parents when she was a child and her only relative alive is her grandmother who lives in a nursing home, and Zoe is feeling lonely. She decides on artificial insemination to have a baby and to join a supporting group of single mothers. When she leaves the clinic very happy with the successful procedure, she meets the cheese manufacturer and college student Stan and they immediately feel attracted to each other. They date and Zoe believes she has found her prince charming and changes her expectation with the insemination. However the doctor finds that she is pregnant and now she has a dilema; how to tell Stan that she is pregnant.
The Back-up Plan is a comedy that explores dating, love, marriage and family in reverse.After years of dating, Zoe (Jennifer Lopez) has decided waiting for the right one is taking too long. Determined to become a mother, she commits to a plan, makes an appointment and decides to go it alone. That same day, Zoe meets Stan (Alex OLoughlin) a man with real possibilities.Trying to nurture a budding relationship and hide the early signs of pregnancy becomes a comedy of errors for Zoe and creates confusing signals for Stan. When Zoe nervously reveals the reason for her unpredictable behavior, Stan commits fully and says hes in. Never before has love seen a courtship where a wild night of sex involves three in a bed Stan, Zoe and the ever-present massive pregnancy pillow. Or, where date night consists of being the focal point at a near-strangers water birth which does for kiddie pools what Jaws did for swimming in the ocean. The real pregnancy test comes when both of them realize they really dont know each other outside of hormonal chaos and birth preparations. With the nine month clock ticking, both begin to experience cold feet. Anyone can fall in love, get married and have a baby but doing it backwards in hyper-drive could be proof positive that they were made for each other.
