An aging porn star agrees to participate in an "art film" in order to make a clean break from the business, only to discover that he has been drafted into making a pedophilia and necrophilia themed snuff film.
In Serbia, the retired porn star Milos is married with his beloved wife Marija and they have a little son, Peter, that is their pride and joy. The family is facing financial difficulties, but out of the blue, Milos is contacted by the porn actress Lejla who offers him a job opportunity in an art film. Milos is introduced to the director Vukmir who offers a millionaire contract to Milos to act in a film. However, Vukmir neither show the screenplay nor tells the story to Milos. Milos discusses the proposal with Marija and he signs the contract. But soon he finds that Vukmir and his crew are involved in sick snuff films of pedophilia, necrophilia and torture and there is no way back for him and maybe it is too late to protect his family.
Milo (Sran Todorovi) is a semi-retired Serbian porn star with a beautiful wife, Marija (Jelena Gavrilovi), and young son, Petar. Although he is strapped financially and his home life is happy, his biggest problem comes in the form of the jealousies of his brother, Marko (Slobodan Beti), a corrupt police officer who envies Milo' family life.Seeking one last big payday to make a clean break from pornography and secure his family's financial future, Milo is intrigued when one of his former co-stars, Lejla (Katarina uti), approaches him with an offer to star in an "art film" being directed by Vukmir (Sergej Trifunovi), a well-connected, independently wealthy pornographer who wants to cast Milo for his legendary ability to get and maintain an erection with no visual or physical stimuli. When Vukmir offers Milo a large sum of money to star in the film, Milo reluctantly agrees, ambivalent towards Vukmir's insistence that he must remain ignorant as to the plot of the film until shooting begins. As Milos jogs to get himself back in shape for filming, Marko visits Milos' home. He talks suggestively to Marija in the kitchen while Petar eats ice cream. Marko says that he misses female company, then goes to the bathroom, clearly frustrated, and masturbates into the basin. At the next meeting with Vukmir, Milos passes an older bald headed man with two large security guards, and regards them warily.Milo is picked up the next morning and taken to an orphanage where he is supplied an earpiece by Vukmir's driver, Raa (Miodrag Krmarik). A voice speaks to him from the earpiece, giving him instructions. A film crew follows him around with cameras and puts him in various sexual situations to see how he will react. Milo is fellated by a female in a dark room, while two televisions show independently: a teenage girl eating an ice lolly, and the same girl putting make-up on. After this Milo phones Marko to check into police files on Vukmir. During this conversation Marko is also fellated by a female while watching Milo' home movies, and then one of Milo' previous porn films. Milo is then led into a room and instructed to have sex with a physically abused woman while a young girl dressed like Alice from Alice in Wonderland watches. Milo becomes enraged and refuses to continue, but is grabbed from behind. The adult woman threatens Milo by biting on his erection, forcing him to carry on with the 'scene'.Milo meets with Marko to find out what is in the police files on Vukmir: He has been a psychologist, a children's TV producer, and has worked for state security. Marko's opinion in that Vukmir is a well educated man. Later, Vukmir shows Milo another one of his projects: a film of Raa helping a woman give birth to a baby girl; Raa then proceeds to rape the newborn in what the director calls "newborn porn".Milo storms out to his car and drives away. At a road junction, he is approached by Vukmir's doctor, an attractive woman, who begins to seduce him. Milo suddenly wakes up in his bed three days later, bloodied and beaten and with no memory of what has happened. He returns to the set and finds a number of tapes. Viewing them, Milo discovers that over the course of the previous three days, he was fed a mixture of drugs to induce a perpetually aggressive, sexually aroused, and suggestible state. Under the influence of the drugs, and at Vukmir's insistence, Milo brutally beats and rapes a nude woman handcuffed to a bed while Vukmir tells Milo that she deserves it for cheating on her husband, a Serbian war hero. In the climax of this scene, Milo is instructed to beat the woman, and eventually handed a machete with which he chops her head off in order to induce rigor mortis as he continues to have sex with her body. Another tape contains a scene in which Milo is naked and chained to a bed face down. Two men enter the room, one holding a camera. The one without the camera begins sodomizing the unconscious Milo. The final tape depicts Lejla chained and hanging in the middle of the room, all of her teeth having been removed; a masked man enters the room, forces his erect penis down her throat and pinches her nose until she suffocates.Milo follows clues from the tapes he has seen only to remember more horrific details about the three days he cannot remember. Milo was taken into a room and made to sodomize a body hidden under covers. The masked man enters and begins to have sex with another body beside the one Milo is raping. The masked man is revealed to be Milo' brother Marko, and the body he is raping is a drugged Marija. The covers are taken off of the body Milo is raping to reveal his own son, also drugged and bleeding profusely from his rectum. A melee ensues during which Marija regains consciousness and Milo manages to wrest a gun from one of Vukmir's bodyguards. Marija bludgeons Marko to death with a sculpture, while Milo beats Vukmir's head against the concrete floor and manages to shoot all but one of his bodyguards, with one surviving two shots to the chest. As he is dying, Vukmir praises Milo' actions, saying "that's cinema."Confronting the final bodyguard, Raa, who was previously the driver throughout the film, Milo knocks off his sunglasses and discovers that Raa is missing an eye. He tries to shoot him but finds out that the gun is empty. Milo jams his erect penis into Raa's empty eye socket, killing him. He then knocks his wife unconscious and takes her and their son home, locking them in the basement before passing out. After remembering everything, Milo contemplates suicide, but his wife stops him with a mutual understanding that he, his wife, and his child, should all commit suicide together. Milo then gathers his family in his bed, embracing, and using a pistol, fires a fatal shot through him, Petar, and Marija. Sometime later, another director enters, who is the bald headed man from earlier at Vukmirs house, accompanied by another porn star and a crew. The director instructs one of the actors to "start with the little one."
