After hitting something with her car, a bourgeois Argentine woman's life slowly descends into paranoia and isolation, as she fears she may have killed someone.
This film is centered around Vero, an Argentinean bourgeois woman, and how her life slowly twists out of control after she hits something, or someone, with her car. Here comes the incident that changes everything, as Vero is driving, she is distracted by her cell phone and looks down to get to it. By the time she does this, her car hits something but the camera stays in it as we see her car shaking and rattles. Although Vero seems indifferent about the situation, it is clear that it has a toll on it as she acts different from the Vero that we saw briefly at the beginning of the film. She acts clumsy and out of place, barely saying anything, and when she does, it doesn't always make sense or has a lot of substance. This solidifies towards the end of the movie when she is going to retrace her steps to remember her memory, but in the hospital and the Hotel she stayed in, there was no record proving that she was there. This makes the audience wonder if all this really happened or if Vero, for the lack of a better word, is crazy and everything happened in your head.
The film opens with three young boys running across a road into adjacent fields, they shout good natured obcenities at each other. One of the boys begin to climb the ladder of an advertisement sign, as the others chase one another in the dry canal next to the road. One of the boys runs out of the canal, and towards the ladder of the sign, but the other struggles to free himself from the steep walls of the empty canal.
Vero (Maria Onetto) is an older married woman who is driving along a dirt road alone to return home. Her phone rings, and she becomes distracted as she reaches for her purse to get the phone. In these short moments Vero hits an unknown object with her car. She pulls the car over, and glances in her side-view mirrors only to reveal the unsettled dust from the car. Vero composes herself, but does not investigate further. As she pulls away an obscure dark mass is seen laying on the road behind near the canal. Later on down the road she pulls over next to a small bridge and exits the car, and she walks out of view. Rain begins to fall with increasing furosity.
