Four friends reunite to relive their moments of glory as a rock band.
Sakshi Shroff, the lonely and neglected wife of busy banking executive, Aditya, decides to give him a surprise on his birthday on July 22nd, but ends surprising him not once but multiple times. While Aditya is thrilled to know that both are going to be parents, and did appear surprised by the celebration, bitterness creeps in when he notices that Sakshi had also invited some ghosts (Rob Nancy and Kedar Zaveri) from his past. This gives rise to unpleasant memories involving a failed music group 'Magik' that he had associated with about a decade ago. Sakshi will soon find out why Aditya is displeased with her; why the music group broke up, ending in violence and acrimony especially between her husband and his former friend, Joseph Mascarenhas; why they cannot perform together ever again; as well as contemplate moving out and living with her mom.
In 1998, rock music had a shot in the arm with the emergence of Grunge. The voice of teenage angst found an audience across the globe and rock music seemed like it was on the threshold of becoming the leader in mainstream music.Magik was one such band that wished to ride this wave.Aditya Shroff, a bohemian wild boy from Delhi who left the comforts of his parents home to chase his dream of becoming a singer in a rock band. He is the lead singer of MagikJoe Masceranous, an Idealist. He hails from a family of failed musicians and hence feels the pressure of not succumbing to the legacy. A man of few words and lets his guitar do the talking. He is the lead guitarist of the band.Kedar Zaveri, prefers to be known as KD Killer Drummer, On stage it may look like he is slamming those drums with a vengeance but actually, hes only just breathing.
He is the heart of magikRob Nancy, the laid back quiet fence sitter of the band.. Just to experience the moment of his creation was to be in the presence of something truly ethereal.This story about the 4 young friends who put together the greatest band this country had ever seen but never made it.Years later fate conspires to bring them together again and sets them on a journey back to where they left off. A soul searching pilgrimage into their past.Just like an old Indian saying, if one dies without fulfilling a cherished dream he will be re born to have another shot at it.The 4 of them came from different walks of life but when they jammed together they were One.If Aditya was the mind then Joe was the will, Kd the heart and Rob the soulTogether they were Pure Magik
