Venya is a young guy, he has a very unpleasant diagnosis - agoraphobia. He spends almost all his time in a closed space, within the four walls of his apartment. He is frightened by everything outside his cozy home. But he is the same man as everyone, he dreams of a girl, love, sex and relationships. But in such conditions it will be quite difficult to meet someone. He solves the problem simply - he ordered a pizza and a very nice girl Vika arrives for delivery. When she receives the money and is about to leave, she finds out that the door is locked. He tells Vika that from now on she is his prisoner and he intends to do whatever he wished with her. Mostly his desires are of a sexual nature. Such a strange, aggressive and shocking acquaintance could not end with anything good, but Vika is able to discern a pleasant person and interlocutor in the recluse and even begins to feel certain feelings towards him. And Rostik, Venya's best and only friend, his guardian, who does not intend to share the attention of his friend with anyone else appears in the apartment. Between Vika and Rostik there is a rivalry for Venya and it is not known how this can end and what this amazing acquaintance of three people will take.
The first Russian emo-movie, Closed Spaces is a story about the newest generation of Russians. Having grown up in Russia's crazy 1990s, an era filled with constant and drastic change, these teenagers have no solid ground beneath their feet. They are trapped in a strange world in which their money-obsessed parents lead senseless lives and even kill each other.
Vika is twenty years old. She has black fingernail polish, wears pink dresses, and is constantly depressed. While working at a pizza place, she gets an order for a pizza delivery from Venya, a strange twenty year old boy who lives all alone in a deserted apartment in the middle of Moscow. Venya suffers from agarophobia, the fear of open space. When Vika arrives Venya lets her in and locks the door behind her. The story begins.
