Brian and Jack were inseparable; now they barely speak. Their formerly close-knit group has all but disbanded in the wake of encroaching adulthood. But when Jack tries to hang himself from a plant hook while house-sitting, he inadvertently triggers an impromptu reunion that brings the old gang back together and could change everything. Forever. Welcome to DAKOTA: friendship, fistfights, concussions, quarter-life crises, blow-ups, breakdowns, toy guns, telemarketing, love, lies, and breakfast - all in someone else's home. In this dark, offbeat comedy everyone comes together to examine what went wrong. Along the way, they may just remind each other what went right.
Of Tilly's closest group of friends who she's known since public school, Jack, who she considers the least responsible, is her last resort to sit at her sister Melanie and Melanie's boyfriend Teddy's apartment in a converted house in Montréal for the weekend as Tilly drives to New York to audition for a Broadway musical. Tilly's sitting duties are because Melanie and Teddy are on an extended vacation to South America, Melanie in particular who would be angry with Tilly if she knew that Tilly is leaving their apartment with who to Melanie is a total stranger. Tilly is unaware that Jack is feeling a bit vulnerable at this time as he just broke up with his girlfriend, Jessica. An incident at the apartment during Jack's sitting tenure brings this collective group of friends to the apartment one by one to be by Jack's side: Brian, arguably Jack's best friend, who flies back immediately from Vancouver, where he's worked for the past year as a graphic designer and where he moved to without a word and without having had any significant contact with his Montréal friends since; Jane, Brian's sister, who is attending nursing school out of town; Doug, the married one with an infant child, who has just started a new t-shirt business and is a recovering alcoholic; and Alan, a telemarketer, the mysterious one who generally has an inappropriate comment for any situation. Tilly's earlier than expected return from New York eventually leads to the friends being able to hang out as group which they have not been able to do since they were teenagers. Their fun and games and good times take a turn with one specific incident, which makes them delve into the state of their friendships. That expose of their friendship is punctuated by Jack and Brian coming to terms with why Brian left, how they drifted apart, the true nature of their current lives and why Jack did what he did which brought the group back together for this weekend.

