Arjun is a reckless young man with an obsession for making money at card games. A chance meeting with a girl in a mall, Zoya, gives him the reasons he was looking for the move out of his ordinary life. He steps up from playing small-time card games to becoming a bookie. Stuck in a triangle of sorts between the woman he loves and his addiction to make a quick buck, Arjun moves on from being a bookie to a runner for the mafia. He steps into the world of match fixing. Arjun switches on the limelight to bigger, better, faster, more, until his dizzying rise attracts the attention of the police. Arjun has to now choose between the love of his life, Zoya, and this new found success and power. As Arjun struggles to choose between the two, the Don offers the forbidden apple of limitless wealth in exchange for his soul and draws him into his core entourage of money spinners. How far will the horizon of reality stretch as Arjun and Zoya tread a fine, fast-blurring line between right and wrong to find the heaven they have been looking for?
Living in a Chawl in India, Arjun Dixit decides to become rich. He gets involved in gambling, and soon becomes a bookie. His quest takes him to Cape Town, South Africa, where he meets with Zoya and both fall in love. She disapproves of his so-called career, but Arjun disregards her concerns. Arjun does not know that soon he will be arrested, but quickly released with the help of an underworld gangster, Abu Ibrahim, who has plans for Arjun. These plans include cricket match-fixing - and Arjun's greed will make him go to any lengths to make as much money as possible in a very short span of time.
The story revolves around Arjun (Emraan Hashmi), a street-smart young conman with an obsession for making a quick buck. He has a chance meeting with a girl at a mall and falls in love at first sight. Zoya was gazing at a ring placed inside showcase protected by glass and hoping to acquire this ring. He breaks the glass to grab the ring she was looking at, that leads him to be caught by the security guards patrolling in the mall. He is arrested and handed over to the police. Inspector Ajay (Sameer Kochhar) is amused but lets him go with a warning as he knows Arjun's father. Zoya (Sonal Chauhan) gives him the reasons he was looking for to move out of his ordinary life and become rich for this girl. He steps up from playing small-time card games to becoming a bookie and strikes gold.After impressing Zoya with his wealth, he calls his father for lunch in his new house. His father, a simple man who has lived an honest life, is happy to see Arjun's success but is skeptical of his business methods. He has a private talk with Zoya and tells her Arjun was a habitual and a smooth liar while he was growing up. He warns there is no business where a man can make huge amounts of cash in such a short period. Later that day when Zoya questions Arjun, he is offended and blames his father's failure in life for his resentment towards him.Arjun is whisked off to South Africa where he meets Don Abu Ibrahim * (Javed Sheikh) and becomes his key match fixer. Rolling in money and enjoying a fast life with Zoya everything is suddenly interrupted when the South African Police takes notice. Inspector Raina, who is now an ACP with CBI, is summoned for assisting the investigation. He is puzzled to see Arjun with the Don in South Africa. He pays Zoya a visit and informs her of Arjun's shady activities and how the money earned by match fixing is used by Abu Ibrahim to finance terrorism around the world. Zoya is furious and confronts Arjun leading him to walk out of the house. Zoya speaks to Arjuns father who verifies ACP Ajay is an honest man and most probably speaking the truth and requests Zoya to leave Arjun if she can't get him to change his dishonest ways. Arjun is called by Zoya to a restaurant where he is nabbed by ACP Raina as it was a trap to get him to confess his crimes.Arjun is sentenced to 5 years imprisonment. Don Abu Ibrahim uses his influence to get him out of prison as the World Cup is nearing, and he plans to use Arjun's skills to make money out of betting and match fixing. Arjun is released in 6 months and he meets ACP Ajay outside who warns him to mend his ways again. Arjun tries high and low to search for Zoya, but she is nowhere to be found. He finally spots her working as an exotic dancer in a bar where he is discussing match fixing strategies with a known cricket player. Arjun and Zoya are re-united and she pleads with him to take up some honest employment. Arjun relents and starts working as a bar tender.All is good for a while, and Zoya is pregnant. Don Abu Ibrahim visits him and promises him a big villa with 150 acres of land if he will fix matches for Ibrahim in the coming World Cup. Arjun is torn and confused and decides to participate in this last operation so that he has enough money for the future. Zoya overhears him speaking to a bookie and is disgusted. She leaves the house.The next day the coach of a cricket team catches Arjun red handed handing over money to his players for throwing the match. A shoot out ensues and the coach is shot by the dons henchman. Arjun is chased by ACP Raina and the cops and is shot in the shoulder. He calls Zoya and pleads to meet with her one last time before surrendering. Cornered with Zoya, Arjun surrenders with the cops pointing their gun at him. Arjun notices his ring that fell down from his pocket and bends to retrieve it . The cops, assuming he is going for his gun, shoot and Arjun is killed.Zoya and her son are shopping in a supermarket. Zoya is unable to pay the full amount as she is short on cash. Her son knowingly discards the toy enabling her to pay the bill. She hugs and smiles thinking if Arjun wasn't so greedy he would be alive today.
