In an Indian village, a struggling barber sees his luck begin to turn when residents learn that a famous actor he once knew is coming to town.
Based in Budbuda, Uttar Pradesh, Billu Vilas Pardesi barely makes a living as a barber. His wife, Bindiya, looks after the household, and his children, Gunja and Ronak, are on the verge of being expelled from Gyaan Bharti Vidyalay Higher Secondary School due to non-payment of fees. Then everything changes when Bollywood actor Sahir Khan makes an appearance to film a movie in the town. Rumors spread that Billu is Sahir's close friends, and he becomes a celebrity virtually overnight. His shop gets donations and clientèle, and the school decides to educate his children for free. The trouble begins when townsfolk want to meet with Sahir but Billu is unable to contact him.
Billu is a movie about a barber residing in a village who is friends with a well known actor. The thing is Billu is poor and thinks his childhood friend has forgotten him and thus stays away from making any move. When the news of shooting a film at the location where Billu stays comes up, the family of Billu lightens up - but will that stay?
A remake of the hugely successful Malayalam film Kadha Parayumbol, Billu (formerly "Billu Barber") is the story of a small town man, Billu (Irrfan Khan) who mentions to his family that he was once a friend of superstar; Sahir Khan (Shahrukh Khan). Sahir Khan happens to come to the village to shoot a film and Billu's children spread the rumor that their father is his childhood friend. The villagers, on hearing their Billu could be their ticket to meeting the star, shower him with gifts and promises on condition Billu make contact for them. Billu is embarrassed by his poverty and doesn't want to impose, but everyone works themselves up so he's forced to make several ill-fated attempts at contacting the star while he's shooting just outside the village. But it's the school principal who, after threatening to expel Billu's children for non-payment of fees, has a turnaround when she believes Billu is able to get the star to appear at a school function and speak to the children. She goes to Sahir herself and requests his presence at the function for the children. Were Billu and Sahir childhood friends? Will Sahir meet with the villagers?
