Eight of the U.S.'s top high school basketball players compete in the first "Elite 24" tournament at Rucker Park.
In September, 2006, the top 24 high school basketball players in the nation stepped out on this same court that once saw the likes of Wilt Chamberlain, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, and Dr. J to compete in the first annual 'Elite 24' all-star game. GUNNIN' follows eight of these players as they prepare to showcase their skills at the most legendary playground in the world. The film trails these players on the fast track to the NBA, as they are being groomed to be in the spotlight of a multi-million dollar game.
On the corner of 155th Street and Frederick Douglas Boulevard in Harlem, New York, lies Rucker Park. By appearances, the green concrete pavement, anchored on either end by its run down slab bleachers, is no different than any other basketball court in the city. But this is the place where nicknames are earned and basketball legends are made.On September 1, 2006, the top 24 high school basketball players in the nation stepped out on this same court that once saw the likes of Wilt Chamberlain, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, and Dr. J, to compete in the first annual "Boost Mobile Elite 24 Hoops Classic." GUNNIN FOR THAT #1 SPOT documents these athletes' skills on the most legendary court in the world, showing never- before-seen footage of that "Elite 24" game.Directed by Adam Yauch (founding member of the Hip Hop trio the Beastie Boys and director of "Awesome: I Shot That"), the film follows eight of the country's premiere high school basketball players on the fast track to the NBA, as they are adored by fans, wooed by colleges and sneaker companies, and groomed to be in the spotlight of the multi-million dollar game. Blending this next generation of b-ball players with a mix of raw hip-hop, jazz and break beats, and Yauchs unique kinetic filmmaking, GUNNIN is an explosively entertaining look at soon-to-be NBA All Stars.*Since the Elite 24 game 18 months ago, five of these players have become national celebrities and university legends playing for top college basketball programs. The other three are still in high school.
