Documentary that charts the rise of Tim Minchin - comedian, actor, composer, songwriter, pianist, musical director and rock 'n' roll mega-star.
Pieced together from footage taken over a period of three years, Rock N Roll Nerd follows the rise of comedian Tim Minchin's rise from obscurity to celebrity. His funny, personal story is told through behind-the-scenes footage, home footage and interviews.
Rock + Roll Nerd documents over a three year period the rise of musical comedian Tim Minchin - from obscure Melbourne artist to decorated international performer.
The documentary picks up in 2005 just as Tim shapes his new image, conceding that he needs to "look better" if he wants to make anything of his career. Clips of Tim prior to his makeover are barely recognisable, but make for a hilarious diversion. A successful stint at the Melbourne Comedy Festival sees Tim invited to the Edinburgh Fringe Festival, a considerable step up where the venue is enormous and the pressure is on. Additional stress comes from a family angle, as Tim's partner falls pregnant and they face the prospect of having to survive with no income.
Rock + Roll Nerd is as revealing as it is entertaining, and that's where it succeeds most of all. It's by no means all sunshine and rainbows, as the bad reviews are not shied away from in the slightest. The emotional highs and lows of Tim's journey make for an intriguing learning experience and a fascinating insight into the business decisions that face a newcomer to the industry.
While a considerable amount of time is spent as a fly-on-the-wall so to speak, some time is dedicated to Tim's stage performances. It's here that he really shines, in fact it's equally fascinating to gauge his development as a performer through these glimpses into his stage routine. If you're more interested solely in Tim's comedy, then his So Live DVD is probably more up your alley, however, if you're at all interested in the man and his humble beginnings, this documentary is a must. [D-Man2010]Intimate doco about gifted musical comedian Minchin charting his rise from obscurity in Melbourne to breakthrough at the Edinburgh Comedy Festival, and subsequent peaks and troughs of his fledgling professional career.
Charting a not unsimilar path to our own Flight of the Conchords, Minchin wears his neurosis much more on his sleeve, and as a result is just as compelling as an 'off-stage' subject as he is behind a mike and a piano. A satisfying insight into the fragility of ego of a lone performer, the 'business' reality of show business, and the often mutually-exclusive trade-off between artistic and financial satisfaction, this virtually writes a handbook for budding wannabes with their eyes on the bright lights. [D-Man2010]
