A man finds a very unusual way to get rid of his wife.
Tenso (Adrián Suar) doesn't know how to deal with his wife, Tana (Valeria Bertuccelli); how to tell her that he wants to separate because the relationship is a completely mess due to her terrible temper. She constantly lives in a bad mood: if she doesn't complain about the weather she does about the government; if she doesn't complain about the neighbors she does about the teenagers... or whatever. Carlos, a friend of Tenso, suggests him to invert the situation... and cause Tana to leave him. Tenso wonders how, and Carlos has a suggestion: to hire the Cuervo Flores (Gabriel Goity), an old irresistible seducer that will try to charm his wife until she falls in love with him, and so, the Tenso finally finds the solution to his problems...
In Buenos Aires, the smalltime merchant Diego "Tenso" Polsky has a boring life with his unpleasant wife Andrea "Tana" Ferro, who is constantly in a bad mood. Tenso does not have courage to leave his wife, so his friend Carlos suggests him to force his wife to divorce him. They meet the womanizer Cuervo Flores and Tenso hires him to seduce his wife and gets a job for her in a small radio station. Tana changes her behavior and her temper dating Flores and working in the radio station and her show becomes a hit. Meanwhile Tenso fall in love with her again but it is too late to keep their marriage.
El Tenso (Adrián Suar) doesnt know how to deal with his wife, Tana (Valeria Bertuccelli); how to tell her that he wants to separate because the relationship is a completely mess due to her terrible temper. She constantly lives in a bad mood: if she doesnt complain about the weather she does about the government; if she doesnt complain about the neighbors she does about the teenagers... or whatever.Carlos, a friend of Tenso, suggests him to invert the situation ... and cause Tana to leave him. Tenso wonders how, and Carlos has a suggestion: to hire the Cuervo Flores (Gabriel Goity), an old irresistible seducer that will try to charm his wife until she falls in love with him, and so, the Tenso finally finds the solution to his problems ...
