A full concert filmed in late July and early August of 2007 over five of the 11 sold-out nights at the famed Fillmore Auditorium in San Francisco, CA. Features seven all new tracks not available anywhere else, along with new versions of fan favorites and a selection of Pumpkins rarities. From the opening note to the final chord, the documentary If All Goes Wrong showcases a band returning with an "enveloping epic force" (Los Angeles Times) as it traces The Smashing Pumpkins during their 19-show residency, which began with eight shows at Asheville, NC's Orange Peel in late June and continued through 11 sold-out nights at San Francisco's famed Fillmore Auditorium. Interviews with band members, fans, journalists and fellow musicians reveal the fears, excitement, determination, exhaustion and tension inherent in main singer-songwriter and lead guitarist Billy Corgan and his newly revitalized musical unit. The documentary also includes Voices Of The Ghost Children, a featurette about the band's fans, and an interview with The Who's legendary guitarist and songwriter Pete Townshend as bonus material. The band explore the freedom afforded to them in a live setting, including the 30+ minute opus "Gossamer". The Fillmore Residency also includes five songs recorded live from the floor of The Fillmore that gives fans an intimate glimpse of the band as a performing entity.
In June of 2007, the re-united and re-vamped Smashing Pumpkins eschewed a traditional US tour and opted to play two residencies in Asheville, NC and San Francisco, CA. If All Goes Wrong captures the band at a moment of unprecedented creativity, crushing uncertainty and undeniable gravity. Culled from hundreds of hours of footage and featuring a two hour concert full of rarities from throughout the bands entire career to date along with a number of new compositions not available anywhere else, If All Goes Wrong is the Smashing Pumpkins warts-and-all, a band at its creative nadir striving for what comes next, but not quite sure what it is that that future holds.
