The German U-Boat, U-234, from the Port of Kiel is trading cargo with the Japanese. USS Seaviper must locate and stop this dangerous exchange. The Captain of USS Seaviper must go ashore to conduct reconnaissance on an island near Sumatra, but the ship is left in the hands of Mister Cutter, after the Executive Officer is injured in battle. A conflict between Cutter and the Chief of the Boat puts the submarine in jeopardy. Seaviper is trapped below the surface, with decreasing oxygen, and a Japanese destroyer hunting them from above. Damage to the boat also leave her survival in question. They must fight the Japanese destroyer and get the information about U-235 back to Pearl Harbor.
September, 1944. Fresh from liberty on the island of Hawaii, Horatio Culpepper, Captain of the U.S.S. SEAVIPER - one of the Navy's diesel-electric submarines, receives an order from Vice Admiral Stallerman, along with top-secret information from President Roosevelt, to rescue a downed American airplane near Sumatra. The downed pilot, an American Navy airman, is rescued with two escaped prisoners-of-war (POW) from a nearby island. But the Japanese and Germans are also discovered to be on this island together, and the submarine's landing party needs to separate. They discover that the Germans have converted U-234, a mine laying U-Boat, into a long-range submarine. They also find that the Germans have transported a deadly cargo across the Pacific to deliver to the Japanese. Why then, is this cargo so important? Forced to return to the boat while the Captain stays behind, the Chief of the Boat, Chief Keenan, realizes that he must deal with unexpected changes in command. The Executive Officer, Roitman, suffers a head injury during a depth charge attack and is relieved of duty. His rival, another officer named Cutter, rises to command. A stuck torpedo, a flooded compartment, and structural damage to the boat from a Japanese destroyer all become life-threatening, and the boat's survival is in question. Under the direct order from the boat's Captain to maintain position and meet the landing party at a scheduled rendezvous time, Chief Keenan finds himself in a power struggle against Cutter, whose defiance of the Slipper's direct order threaten their survival. With only enough high-pressure air to ballast Seaviper to 100 feet, decreasing oxygen, and a Japanese destroyer in wait, will she be able to return to the and foil the enemy's plan before it's too late?
September, 1944. Fresh from liberty on the island of Hawaii, Horatio Culpepper, Captain of the U.S.S. SEAVIPER - one of the Navys wolf pack submarines, receives an order from Vice Admiral Stallerman, along with top-secret information from President Roosevelt, to rescue a downed-American airplane near Sumatra. The downed pilot, an American Navy airman, is rescued with two escaped prisoners-of-war (POW) from a nearby island. But the Japanese and Germans are also discovered to be on this island together, and the submarines landing party needs to separate. They discover that the Germans have converted a mine laying U-234 into a long-range submarine. And that the Germans have transported a deadly cargo across the Pacific to deliver to the Japanese. Why then is U-235 so important?Forced to return to the boat while the Captain stays behind, the Chief Petty Officer, Keenan, realizes that he must deal with unexpected changes in command; the Executive Officer, Roitman, suffers a head injury during a depth charge attack and is relieved of duty, and his rival, Officer Cutter, rises to power. A stuck torpedo, a flooded compartment, and structural damage to the boat from a Japanese destroyer all become life-threatening, and the boats survival is questioned. Under the direct order from the boats Captain to maintain position and meet the landing party at its scheduled rendezvous, the Chief finds himself in a power struggle against Cutters defiance of the Captains direct order. With only enough high-compressed air to get the boat to 100 feet, low oxygen, and a Japanese destroyer in-waiting, will SEAVIPER be able to return to the surface? Can SEAVIPER abort the enemys plan before its too late?
