Nicholas has every reason to keep things in life unchanged; however, when he accidentally overhears mum and dad talking about a new baby brother, his world will turn upside down. Will they abandon him to make room for the little stranger?
Nicolas has a happy existence, parents who love him, a great group of friends with whom he has great fun, and all he wants is that nothing changes. However, one day, he overhears a conversation that leads him to believe that his life might change forever, his mother is pregnant! He panics and envisions the worst.
Leading a happy and peaceful life--enjoying his parents' love and attention, and having the best friends in school--young Nicholas has every reason to keep things unchanged. However, his world will soon turn upside down, when the imaginative boy inadvertently overhears mum and dad talking about something that can only mean one thing: the coming of a new baby brother. As a result, Nicholas fears the worst--will his parents cruelly abandon him to allow room for the little stranger? Now, Nicholas and his team will have to take matters into their own hands; nevertheless, could they be wrong? After all, being a big brother is simply great.
In a suburb in France, Nicolas does not know what he wants to be when he grows up but he lives a happy life with his mother, his father and his schoolmates. When his friend Joachim has a baby brother but then later on vanishes from school. Nicolas partially overhears a conversation between his parents about a dinner party for his father's boss. He mis-understands, believing that his mother is pregnant and his parents want to get rid of him.
Nicolas overheares a conversesion and thinks that his mother is pregnant. He doesn't want a sibling so he tells his friends. A pall of Nicolas says that, when his brother was born, he had to share his room with the baby. Nicolas thinks that he will have to stay to the garege. So, with his friends does some work for his mother. Mean,while, the boss of Nicolas father visit's his house.
