A Montreal high school student who believes he is the reincarnation of Leon Trotsky starts a revolution against apathy among his fellow students.
Leon Bronstein is not your average Montreal West high school student. For one thing, none of his peers can claim to be the reincarnation of early 20th century Soviet iconoclast and Red Army hero, Leon Trotsky. When his father sends Leon to public school as punishment for starting a hunger strike at Papa's clothing factory, Leon quickly lends new meaning to the term 'student union', determined as he is to live out his pre-ordained destiny to the fullest and change the world.
Seventeen and three-quarter year old Montréaler Leon Bronstein, who is entering his senior year of high school, believes he is the reincarnation of Leon Trotsky based on events that have happened to him throughout his life that mirrors Trotsky's. Beyond those events, he tries to emulate Trotsky's life as much as possible, and looks - sometimes to the point of actively searching - for signs as to that similar life path. His views exasperate his businessman father, David Bronstein, against whose non-unionized business Leon demonstrates. To teach Leon a lesson, David decides to remove him from his cushy private school and send him to a public school - such a school where Trotsky was educated - for his final year of high school. There, Leon enters into class warfare against the Principal and Vice-Principal, Mr. Henry Berkhoff and Miss Jeanne Davis, who treat their jobs like a joint dictatorship in enforcing their strict rules. In protest, Leon tries to unionize the students, who he isn't sure are just bored or apathetic in allowing school authority to run roughshod over them. Another person also exasperated by Leon is twenty-seven year old doctoral law student Alexandra Leith, who, again based on Trotsky's life, he believes he is destined to marry solely because of who she is as opposed to because of her as a person.
A high school senior is convinced that he is the reincarnation of Leon Trotsky. When his father sends Leon to public school as punishment for starting a hunger strike at Papa's clothing factory, Leon quickly lends new meaning to the term 'student union', determined as he is to live out his pre-ordained destiny to the fullest and change the world.

