Snow White must prevent her father from marrying a scheming witch who wants to rule Fairytale Land. Animated.
Fairy tales collide when Mambo and Munk tip the scales of good and evil once again. This time Princess Snow White is a misguided teenager who'd rather have fun with friends Red Riding Hood, Goldilocks and Little Bo Peep than help peasants. When Snow White's father is matched up with Lady Vain - a scheming witch brewing to rule the kingdom - Snow White becomes a thorn in Lady Vain's side. Snow White is soon tricked by Lady Vain (with Rumpelstiltskin's help) into spreading vicious gossip about the townspeople, forcing her to flee. Through rebuilding the three little pigs' houses with the seven dwarves leading the way, Snow White learns the value of helping others. Only Snow White can foil her dad's wedding to stop Lady Vain. With Mambo and Munk in tow, Snow White proves she can rule the kingdom, while bringing balance back to the scales of good and evil.
In the Fairytale Land, King Cole is married with his beloved Queen Grace, who is loved by everyone in the kingdom due to her altruism and goodness. Their daughter Snow White mirrors in the example and moral values of her mother, promising to become a fair queen when she grows up. When Queen Grace is seriously ill and finally dies, the widower King Cole raises Snow White alone. The spoiled Snow White becomes a selfish and snobbish teenager for the disappointment of her father. When she goes to an opening party a club with her three best girlfriends Red Riding Hood, Goldilocks and Little Bo Peep, King Cole recommends her to return before the rooster crow. Snow White meets and has a crush on Sir Pete, a handsome young man that was raised in an orphanage supported by Queen Grace that worships her, and arrives in the castle late in the morning. When her father reads in the news that she had cut line in the club, he decides to get married to have assistance in her education and he joins a dating service looking for a wife. Meanwhile, Mambo and Munk accidentally touch the scale of good and evil affecting the fairy tale. The evil Lady Vain teams up with Rumpelstiltskin and using the power a magic mirror, she becomes a replica of Queen Grace. Then she gives an apple with a hex to Snow White, and when she bites the fruit, she tells gossips about her friends and peasants raising hatred by everyone in the realm. Snow White runs away to the woods where she meets the seven dwarfs, who also loved Queen Grace, and they decide to help Snow White to retrieve her mother's values and receive gratitude in return. But the evil Lady Vain is preparing to the luxury wedding in Fairy Tale Land.

