Trapped in a forgotten amusement park, a young woman (Kristy) finds herself terrorized by the living memories of the park. She must break free from the park's grasp before she becomes its next victim.
The movie opens with a kid throwing a stone at a mirror, the mirror smashes and he runs off to a condemned big dipper rollercoaster. A man is combat clothing shouts at him asking what is he doing before the boy runs into a carny. A carny Joe Unger tells the kid that the park is closing but he will run the rollercoaster one last time for him. The carny then makes a quip about the boy begin too scared. The kid tells him that before when the ride was open, he was too small to ride. The carny tells him that he isn't too small now and makes a chicken noise. The kid sees a wheelchair behind the carny which turns into a rollercoaster cart when he sits in it. The kid is barred in the coaster and hears the man who was shouting at him earlier ask him how is his seat. The kid clearly scared says nothing back. The ride starts off (in a poor valued CGI state) and climbs the huge incline. As the ride is going, the man behind the kid, gets out of his seat and pulls up the bar on the kid's before throwing him to his death. The kid lands on the ground, only to find himself impaled on a small tree. The carny runs over concerned and tells the kid that he will get help. The kid tells him that a man threw him off the rollercoaster. The carny tells the kid that HE was the only one riding the coasterand no-one else. The carny tells the kid there was no man. The kid looks up and sees his guts on the branches of the tall tree. The carny tells the kid not to move. Just as he walks away, the man returns to tell the kid that he will live. The movie then cuts to the same man, awakening from a dream while fishing. A sign closed for the season is seen on a gate. A family are waiting by the gate talking to another carny about their daughter losing a stuffed bear. While the parents are talking to the carny, the daughter whose name is Kristy sneaks into the carnival. She begins looking for her bear. She encounters the carny and tells him that she is looking for her bear. The carny tells her the real bears in the forest she should be worried about and offers her a hiding place in a rusty train. She is then seen running out of the gate with the closed for the season sign on it. The girl gets into her car (which is a Voltswagen Beetle, yellow in colour) and the carny dressed in a clown suit waves goodbye to her and that he hopes to see her next time. The scene then moves to a much older Kristy Aimee Brooks waking up inside the park and laying in a flattened car. She looks around the park and finds the kid earlier in the film, now a man and still impaled on the tree, covered in blood. The man asks her for help and Kristy runs off to get help. He shouts out after her that is dangerous in the park at night. She walks under the rollercoaster and finds that it is splattered with blood. A car chases her through the park, terrorizing her. Then she finds herself in the barn like structure. A sign reading Lake Monster is lying on the floor. Suddenly the lake monster begins to chase after her too. She encounters a man dressed in a ciil war outfit and watches as he places a skeleton on a tree. Terrfied by this she runs into a small shed and is terrorized by hands coming through the wall trying to get her. She screams and the hands disappear. Just as she comes out, she is terrorized by a bulldozer. The bulldozer crushes the shed and she flees for her life. A man gets out and shouts at her holding a sign that says DANGER! unsafe ground. Suddenly the bulldozer comes to lfe and squashes the poor man to death.She runs to a house where she meets James Damian Maffei and begs him to help her with the man impaled on the tree. They go back to the spot and then man is no longer lying on the ground impaled by the tree. Kristy swears blind to James that the man was right there. He says he believes her cause he heard a guy screaming for help too. Suddenly they hear the sound of the rollercoaster working as they walk to the shed where she was terrorized by the hands. James looks at her head and sees a wound on the back of her head. As they walk away, they don't notice the crushed remains of the worker who was killed by the bulldozer. Kristy looks in her sock and finds keys to a car. James tells her that her car which this time is a grey/silver Nissan is sitting in the parking lot. James tells her to go home and sleep it off. As he does this Kristy tells him a story about a woman who burnt her with a cigarette while waiting for a ride. All of a sudden, the woman she is speaking about appears and freaks out Kristy, then she disappears. James prys open a hole in the fense and squeezes through. As he does this, he is attacked by a Crocodile which bites his leg and rips it off. It then escapes into the bushes with it while James screams in agony. Then Kristy pulls him out of the fence and finds that he returns unharmed. James then speaks about some gangsters used the ground as a body dump and just as he says that, the gangsters arrive and blow Kristy's brains out (literally!). It seems like reality has no place in the park, they just keep dying and returning back with whatever they think about. James finds part of the lake monster's costume in the old barn like structure where Kristy found the sign. He begins to tell a story about himself when he was a kid and it turns out that Kirsty knew James and his friend Dyrk while she was younger. Dyrk is seen in a wheelchair with a piece of paper and a young James helps to lite it on fire for Dyrk. It is soon apparent that Dyrk was the one impaled on the tree. They meet the carny who tells them off or trying to burn the park. He then tells Kirsty that both their houses were burnt down and Dyrk's parents were killed. Kirsty thinks that the park was protecting itself and maybe the carny torched their houses and killed Dyrk's parent for revenge of burning the park. James tells Kristy that his parents moved here and became caretakers of the park. James feels responsible for Dyrk's parents demise and feels like he owes the park some penance. James tells her that the car she founds herself in was that of the carny who has been terrorizing her. He tells her how the carny practically lived in his car. As he tells the story, the car returns to chase James and Kristy through the park. They come to the entrance of an old steamer boat ride. The carny invies them in and reads a creepy poem about the fair and James and Kristy see visions of fairground rides and happy people. The carny appears and squirts Kristy and James with water. They don't find it remotely amusing. The carny tells them that it is humankind's fault that the park closed down, cause no-one came but people burnt down and destroyed the fun of the park for others. He also tells them that the stories that they remember never really happened that way. That they had fabricated their stories from the real truth. James gets upset by this and says the park was never worth any memories. This upsets the carny who turns nasty. He appears briefly with a nail through his head and blood running down his face. He tells them the boat doesn't exist either and Kristy and James fall into the lake. Frantically looking for a way out, they come across an old diner inside the park. Kristy tells James that her parents would never let her go to the diner cause unsavoury characters went there and James remembers that Bikers went there. Kristy then freeze with terror to find her missing bear on the floor of the diner. Just as she reaches it, she is dragged inside by two people. It turns out that the Bikers who dragged her in a copies of James, Kristy and even the carny who proceeds to degrade her and hold her down on a bench. The scene then flashes back to when Kristy first won the bear from the carny when she was younger but it wasn't her who won it, it was young James (whih she finds out later) and he told the carny to give it to her. When she turns to thank James but he is gone. The bikers proceeds to rape her (this is done off screen). Then Kristy is seen back in the doorway, looking in fear at the bear. James picks up the bear and tells her that there was loads of them and tells her to keep the bear she found just now. Just as he is about to give it to her, the bikers snatch it and drive off on their motorcycles. The bikers doubles of themselves chase them to the old crazy golf hut where James and Kristy try to hide. The double of Kristy throws her bear into the lake where it lands head first and upside down. The carny then appears and proceeds to play golf while dressed in a golf outfit and yet he has no golf ball. He takes a swing and a golfball appears to roll into the lake. He gets James and Kristy to play with him who relucantly participate. As James is about to take his swing, he tries to swing the club at the carny who disappears just as the club is about to hit. Then Kristy tries to do the same and misses. The golf clubs go missing from their hands and the carny gets upset about them not playing fair. He tells Kristy to go to her friend, meaning her bear that is in the lake. Kristy and James walk over and see that the bear is breathing and drowning in the water. James goes to ruscue it and James is attacked and has his throat ripped out by the lake monster. Kristy runs off and the carny gets her and drags her to the car that was chasing her in the first place. Time seems to rewind for James who returns back to life again to find that the monster that killed him was in fact the carny. James goes to hit the carny with a brick, much like something he did when he was much younger but steps on the bear which oozes blood. James finds Kristy and Kristy is shocked to see him alive. He tells her the monster was just the carny in a cheesy rubber suit which seems to set her mind at ease. James and Kristy goes back to the fence to find the grey/silver Nissan still waiting in the parking lot. James tells her not to go for the car as he believes it is a trap. Kristy tells him how is that different than being in here where the memories of the park are haunting them. He tells her that together they are stronger and have survived what the carny has thrown at them for now. Kristy believes that their fate lies inside the park. James tells her that it is best to play out the twisted games that the carny has in store for them and somehow have fun with it. She agrees and they walk back to the rides. They visit the wild mouse and argue over the name of the ride. Kristy climbs the track , only to fall down and land on James. After an engage of glances at each other, they proceed to the big wheel. The carny calls to them and entices them to the ball toss. After challenging the candy James wins the game, earning Kristy a box of something. The carny opens the box while James and Kristy are holding it and the box contains the same bear Kristy lost. It proceeds to chew off James' hand. He screams as the carny evilly laughs. Again time reverses and the carny places the box down for kristy. James goes to open it and kristy stops him, afraid of what will happen. She opens it herself and there is nothing in the box. The carny teases her about the bear and she decides the next attraction she wants to try is the dunking tank. She turns around to find the carny dressed as a clown sitting on top of the dunking tank. Kristy plans to get her revenge on the carny for his games and feels that the dunking tank is the perfect attraction to do it on. The carny winds her up even more trying to make her lose her concentration. She misses but the ball ricochets off of a tree and hits the carny, knocking him into the water. Satisfied that she finally got her revenge, she grabs a metal rod and jams it into the carny's eye. She then rams it into his throat. The carny makes night come early and the two drag the carny and hang him in a tree. As he dies the carny drops a key to the gate. Kristy and James sprint for the Nissan as the car comes back to terrorize them. They succeed to escape and get into the Nissan and drive of as the car passes the gate and bursts into flames. Kristy and James return to his house and Kristy makes out with him on the bed before passing out. Morning comes and kristy and James awake to find themselves back in the park. Shocked, James and Krsity hear the carny tell them to come to the funhouse. They find some mystery holes that they have to put their hands in. James goes first and finds nothing. Kristy takes her turn and feels nothing but there is a broken bottle in there. Kristy and James feels in the next two holes and find rats in there. The monster chases them and shes breaks a mirror to escape. But there is no escape and James is attacked again by the monster. Kristy reaches into a hole again and pulls out a lot of entrails and above written in paint is guts. The hole then pours blood as Kristy panics. Dyrk peels of the wooden wall and tells her if she can't help herself, how could she help him. It turns out the guts she pulledout was his. Screaming in terror, Kristy runs back into the house and sees time repeat itself as she sees herself and James coming in from the night before. Then she sees the smoking woman again and she gets burnt (off camera) by the woman's cigar. Kristy then awakes back in the car to ind a skeleton on the seat she was sleeping on. Running away, she encounters her double again who proceeds to tease her again about her bear. She squishs the bear in her hand and bloody guts drop out of it. James seaches the funhouse for Kristy and again is attacked by the monster. He pushes it away and runs into a room full of mirrors and finds a kid version of himself. He finds a version of himself talking to him telling him now that the carny is dead, the monster is real. James hears Kristy and scours the mirrors trying to find her. James proceeds to do what he did a long time ago as a kid and he sets fire to the funhouse. He finds Kristy after the palce burns and leaves a burnt corpse behind. James and Kristy make it out of the funhouse,only to came in contact with another version of themselves. They chase after them and are lead back to the gate. They watch themselves leaving again in the Nissan, only this time the alligator gets them. seeing themselves die over and over again, they begin to believe that they are dead. They finds a memorial plaque to the carny, only the carny is not the carny that has been terrorizing them. It turns out the carny that has been terrorizing them was in fact a delivery driver of the big wheel. Krsity pays the driver to fix up the real big wheel ride right next to the old big wheel which is still standing. James and Kristy ride the new wheel and have a good time. Meanwhile on the ground, Dyrk William Waters is seen riding in his wheelchair looking up at the wheel. Kristy points out to James that his friend Dyrk is down there. James tells Kristy that Dyrk was never really a friend because he made him do things he never wanted to do. He then tells Kristy that he gave her the bear when he was younger and then Dyrk dared him to take it away when she wasn't looking. Kristy shouts down to Dyrk that he sucks and James stiffles a laugh. james always thought that he would find her again and give her back the bear. The ride comes to an end and Kristy gets off but as she turns around, James is nowhere to be seen. When Kristy quizzes the driver about where James is, the driver tells her that she was the only one on the ride. There was no James. She encounters Dyrk and he tells her James died years ago. He died in the fire his house burnt down in. Mortified, she tells the driver to keep the wheel running and goes to look for James. Kristy demands to know the truth of how Dyrk was injured and he tells her that he pushed the bar up on the coaster and jumped out himself. She tells him she prefered the story about the evil carny who threw him out of the coaster. She chooses that they can make up any story they want. As she walks off down the road, she sees kids with balloons and people walking towards her. She sees the park is re-opened and people are having a great time. She sees that families are flocking to the park and the driver/carny tells her he doesn't know where they are coming from. She smiles and giggles saying that she does. The film ends with people walking into and out of the park as the rides are running with the sound of laughter and screams of joy.
