Anna Brady plans to travel to Dublin, Ireland to propose marriage to her boyfriend Jeremy on Leap Day, because, according to Irish tradition, a man who receives a marriage proposal on a leap day must accept it.
A woman who has an elaborate scheme to propose to her boyfriend on Leap Day, an Irish tradition which occurs every time the date February 29 rolls around, faces a major setback when bad weather threatens to derail her planned trip to Dublin. With the help of an innkeeper, however, her cross-country odyssey just might result in her getting engaged.
Much as she has to do as a Boston stager, Anna Brady likes to control all aspects of her life. One of the few things she has not been able to control is getting married as her boyfriend, cardiologist Dr. Jeremy Sloane, has not yet proposed to her after four years of dating, marriage to Jeremy what she wants. She hates the story told often to her by her father Jack Brady that there is an Irish tradition that allows women to propose to their loved one on February 29, which is what purportedly got her paternal grandparents together. Regardless, Anna, despite hating surprises, decides to surprise Jeremy by showing up in Dublin where he is attending a conference and proposing to him on leap day. But Anna's trek from Boston to Dublin is anything but smooth. Anna gets stranded in Dingle, what ends up being her unexpected point of entry in Ireland, a few days before leap day. Despite their antagonistic meeting, struggling pub and innkeeper Declan O'Callaghan agrees to drive Anna to Dublin... for a price, as the agreed to fare would cover much of his debt which would allow him to keep the pub/inn. Largely because of their antagonism, Anna, Declan and their third Louis (what Declan calls her Louis Vuitton suitcase) get into one misadventure after another, which threatens Anna's arrival into Dublin by February 29 and her planned romantic fairytale proposal. Through their time together, Anna and Declan may find that there are more important things in life to them than having that fairytale February 29 proposal and saving the pub/inn through extortion of Anna respectively.
Anna Brady from Boston is a planner that stages apartments for Realtors. Anna has been dating cardiologist, Jeremy, for four years and they are buying a high standard apartment in Davenport together. Anna expects Jeremy to propose to her on a dinner date but he gives her a gift instead, after which he travels to Dublin for a congress. Anna decides to meet him in Dublin on the February 29th and propose to him in accordance with an old Irish folklore tradition from the Fifth Century of leap-year proposals by women. However, her airplane is forced to land in Wales due to bad weather and she is not able to find a connection since the Dublin airport is closed. She decides to travel on a supply vessel but is forced to disembark in Dingle due to a storm. Anna walks to the only restaurant and inn and hires the unfriendly owner Declan to drive her to Dublin. Declan agrees to drive her as he needs the money to pay of his debts but their journey is fraught with many incidents.
Successful real estate agent Anna Brady is frustrated that her cardiologist boyfriend Jeremy Sloane still has not proposed to her after four years. She decides to travel from Boston to Dublin, to propose to him on February 29, leap day, while he is there at a conference. Anna wishes to invoke an Irish tradition that a man who is proposed to on leap day must accept the proposal.During the flight, a storm diverts the plane to Wales, where Anna hires a boat to take her to Cork. The severity of the storm, however, forces her to be put ashore at a small seaside village called Dingle, where she makes her way to a local tavern. Anna tries to enlist the help of Declan O'Callaghan, the surly Irish innkeeper. She requests him to taxi her across the country to Dublin. At first he refuses, but after his tavern is threatened with foreclosure, he agrees to drive her for EUR500. The two set out in his old beat-up car. Along the way, he makes fun of her fancy Louis Vuitton luggage, which he calls "Louie". He also mocks her belief in a leap year "tradition" of women proposing to men.Their travel is interrupted by a herd of cows blocking the road. Anna steps in cow-dung while attempting to move the animals, and tries to clean her expensive shoes while leaning on Declan's car which causes it to roll downhill into a stream. Continuing on foot, Anna flags down a van with three travellers who offer her a lift. Ignoring Declan's warning, Anna accepts the ride and hands them her luggage. Before she can enter the van, they drive off without her. Anna and Declan eventually make their way on foot to a roadside pub, where they discover the three van thieves going through Anna's luggage. Declan fights them, displaying unexpected strength for a man of his size, and retrieves Anna's bag. Anna and Declan are ejected from the pub by the owner for fighting on the premises.Anna and Declan reach a railway station and decide to wait for the next train. While waiting, they hike up a hill to the ruins of a nearby castle. They ask each other what they would grab if their homes were on fire and they had only 60 seconds to flee. In doing so, Declan also tells Anna of an old Irish legend about a young woman engaged to an elderly lord that she did not love. So the woman gave her wedding guests a sleeping potion so she could run away with a young Celtic warrior she did love. During the story, they lose track of time and miss the train. That night, Anna and Declan are forced to stay at a local bed &amp; breakfast in Tipperary, where they pretend to be married, taking the name "O'Brady-Callaghan" so that their conservative hosts will allow them to stay. During dinner, when other couples kiss to show their love for each other, Anna and Declan are "forced" to kiss as well. This stirs feelings that neither had expected. That night, they sleep in the same bed, but do not admit their new feelings for each other.The next day while hitch-hiking down the road, Anna and Declan are caught in a hail-storm and take shelter in a nearby church, where a wedding is taking place. They are invited to the reception. But during the reception, Anna drinks too much. Anna begins to question her own intentions with Jeremy and realizes that she has feelings for Declan. Just as the two are about to kiss, Anna vomits and passes out. The following day they arrive in Dublin, as they make their way on foot from the bus terminal to the hotel, Declan reveals that he was once engaged but his fiancee ran off to Dublin with his mother's claddagh ring and his best friend. Anna suggests to Declan, now that he is in Dublin, that he should ask for his mother's ring back. When they arrive at the hotel where Jeremy is staying, Jeremy surprises Anna by proposing to her right in the lobby. Anna turns around to look at Declan just to see that he had already walked out of the hotel, and she accepts Jeremy's proposal.At their engagement party in Boston, Anna learns that Jeremy decided to propose because he thought it was the only way to appease the co-op board of the apartment building the couple had wanted to move into at the beginning of the film. Dismayed, Anna pulls the fire alarm and waits, testing the 60-second concept she had discussed with Declan earlier. When the alarm sounds, Jeremy's instinct is to retrieve all of their electronic materials such as mobile phones, laptops, etc and shows no concern for Anna's well-being. At that moment, Anna fully realizes that there is nothing in the apartment that means anything to her, including Jeremy. Meanwhile, back in Dublin, Declan retrieves his mother's claddagh ring from his ex-fiancee.Sometime later, Anna arrives back at Caragh's Tavern in Dingle, where Declan is running his seemingly successful business, having pulled together the balance he owed to his property owner with the help of the community. Anna reveals to him that she has broken off her engagement to Jeremy and tells Declan that she has come to believe that all she needs/wants is right in Dingle. When she proposes that they get together, ignoring her controlling nature and saying they should not make plans, Declan leaves the room. Thinking that she had been rejected, Anna rushes outside and makes her way to the edge of a nearby cliff overlooking the sea.Declan emerges, revealing that he went out simply to retrieve his mother's claddagh ring so that he could give it to her. Taking her offer even further, Declan says he wants to make plans with her, and proposes on the cliffside. Anna happily accepts, and they are later seen in Declan's car, leaving their destination open to fate.
