A mother desperately searches for the killer who framed her son for a girl's horrific murder.
A mother lives quietly with her twenty-eight-year-old son, Do-joon, providing herbs and acupuncture to neighbors. One day, a girl is brutally murdered, and Do-joon is charged with the killing. Now, it's his mother's call whether to prove him innocent or to leave him imprisoned.
In a province in Pusan, South Korea, the slow Yoon Do-joon is a young man overprotected by his mother that works with acupuncture and herbs and does not like his worthless and reckless friend Jin-tae. When a Mercedes runs over Do-joon, Jin-tae follows the hit-and-run driver with Do-joon and find the car parked in a golf club. Jin-tae breaks the side mirror of the car and Do-joon collects golf balls lost in a lake. When they see the cart with the driver and passengers of the Mercedes, there is a fight and they end in the police station. During the night, Do-joon walks to the bar Manhattan to meet Jin-tae that does not arrive; when Do-joon returns home, he sees the easy Moon Ah-jung walking alone in an alley and entering in an abandoned house. On the next morning, Ah-jung is found dead on the terrace of the house. The incompetent detectives find a golf ball near her body and they conclude that Do-joon is the killer. Doo- joon is arrested; signs a confession and is charged of murder. However, his mother follows her instincts believing that her son is innocent and the scapegoat of the incompetent police department and seeks the truth disclosing a dreadful reality.
When Do-jun, a young man who is mentally handicapped, is falsely accused of murder, there is nothing his mother will not do to save him. This is the story of the movie Mother, starring Won Bin (Do-jun) and Kim Hye-ja (the mother). Do-jun has beautiful deer-like eyes and is happy just running around with a stick. Even though everyone else might dismiss him, Do-jun is the center of his mothers world, and she never stops worrying about him. Then one day, her worst nightmare comes true, and Do-jun is arrested. Through the mothers unrelenting fight to prove her sons innocence, Bong Jun-hos beautiful and moving film shows that a mothers love has no bounds.
