Sex, Drugs, and Rock N Roll with a side dish of lawsuits and in-band turmoil, Busted Circuits and Ringing Ears chronicles the band's rise and eventual disintegration. It contains archival footage spanning the band's entire career, from the club days to the arenas. The documentary also utilizes insightful interviews from some of Seattle's most respected musicians including Krist Novoselic (Nirvana), Chad Channing (Nirvana), Kim Thayil (Soundgarden), Mark Arm (Mudhoney), Mark Felchtone (Zeke), and many others.
Sex, Drugs, and Rock N Roll with a side dish of lawsuits and in-band turmoil, Busted Circuits and Ringing Ears chronicles the bands rise and eventual disintegration. It contains archival footage spanning the band's entire career, from the club days to the arenas. The documentary also utilizes insightful interviews from some of Seattle's most respected musicians including Krist Novoselic (Nirvana), Chad Channing (Nirvana), Kim Thayil (Soundgarden), Mark Arm (Mudhoney), Mark Felchtone (Zeke), and many others.The audience will be taken on a musical journey from the highest of the highs, to the bands all time lows. Its truly a frustrating story of the band's repeated bad luck juxtaposed with a close-up look at their influential musical approach. As Charles Cross (author/writer) states in the movie, this is a story of, What could have been as opposed to what was."TAD took the idea of playing LIVE very seriously; it was a life or death matter. This DVD not only stands as testimony to that claim, but it's also a cinematic document of the world's HEAVIEST band EVER (as Bruce Pavitt so incisively puts it) bodily stretching that assertion beyond any previously known limitations. Better than a tattoo, it's an open scar that roars, a broken alarm bell ringing from the lost event horizon of a long-dead star, one we could never see--that is, until this DVD clipped it back onto the light box of the silver screen, where it can be deciphered and viewed anew. This documentary telescopes the musical pathology of TAD down into the image of an electrocardiograph recording the minor-mode melody of a final infarct, a demented soundtrack that is neither tame nor de-clawed. It was never meant to be. Dare to feel it, and, like me, risk bleeding internally." - Kurt Danielson, Halloween 2007
