A Hollywood-set romantic tale of a guy who is content to live his life without a job yet with the love of his life, a young actress.
Since his parents died in a train crash, Will Donner refused to grow up and became an unemployed drifter, aimless except for one obsession: his undeclared love for neighborhood girl Emma Twist, whom he stalked at a distance throughout the country. When she, now an actress, returns to their home town for her terminally ill, grossly cynical father, Will stays with his unsympathetic, conventional brother Jim, whose wife and kid adore the free-spirited silly uncle, whom neighboring friend Joe and his family cheerfully put up. Now it's time to face Emma.
Growing up, Emma (Bilson) and Will (Sturridge) were inseparable. When Emma moved out to Hollywood she forgot about Will. But Will never forgot Emma; as far as he's concerned, they're just two soul mates separated by distance. These days, Will just drifts though life while trying to be as close to Emma as possible, earning enough money to stay well fed by performing on the streets. When Emma's father falls ill, she turns her back on Hollywood and returns home to take care of him while reevaluating her hectic love life, rediscovering a kindred spirit in the process.
Who decides what is normal? A unique story of love, friendship and a view of the world from different perspectives, WAITING FOR FOREVER explores the connections people make in the face of life's changes. Best friends while they were growing up, Emma (Rachel Bilson) and Will (Tom Sturridge) lost touch a long time ago as far as she knows. To Will, Emma never stopped being the most important person in his life. Believing them to be forever linked, he goes wherever she goes. Will doesn't have a home, a car, or a real job. He survives on his talent as a juggler and entertainer talents honed through years of showing off for Emma. When her father gets sick, Emma returns to their hometown, trying to leave behind her complicated love life and failing career as a TV actress. As its characters face love, death and their own preconceptions, WAITING FOR FOREVER questions the realities of life.
