Shows how the classic board game has become a worldwide cultural phenomenon, and follows the colorful players who come together to compete for the coveted title of Monopoly World Champion.
Ever since the 1930s, no board game has had the lasting worldwide success of Monopoly. Although it started as a protest simulation, the game evolved to be a welcome wish fulfilling fantasy of being a financial high roller in the Great Depression. In this film, the history of the game is retold with its tremendous popular culture influence and the little idiosyncrasies that grown around it. In addition, we are introduced to various players who are compete around the world for the real cash prizes that go far beyond $200.
The classic board game that has been played by over a billion people in the last 75 years, MONOPOLY® is a worldwide cultural phenomenon. Under the Boardwalk: The MONOPOLY Story is a feature-length documentary that captures fascinating stories about the game and those who play it, with narration provided by Zachary Levi, star of NBCs Chuck and the Disney animated film, Tangled. "Under the Boardwalk" focuses on the MONOPOLY national and world championships that are held around the world every four years. Leading up to the exciting coronation of a new champion at the most recent World Championship in Las Vegas, the filmmakers follow some of the most colorful players in the game.In addition to the competitive arena, the game of MONOPOLY provides a wealth of other interesting stories. Few people realize that the game began as an anti-capitalist political platform thirty years before it evolved into a game about getting rich and took the world by storm in the depths of the Great Depression. This documentary looks at how MONOPOLY was transformed and why it has become so popular, investigates the psychology of the game, and lets viewers in on the best strategies for winning.As a cultural phenomenon, MONOPOLY has a colorful history of secretly helping WWII POWs escape, influencing movies and television since its inception, and being part of all kinds of interesting world records and trivia. And no film about this classic board game would be complete without meeting a few of the quirky collectors of all things MONOPOLY.MONOPOLY began by bringing friends and families together, and now, through its universal language and World Championships, helps bring the whole world together.
