A working mother puts herself through law school in an effort to represent her brother, who has been wrongfully convicted of murder and has exhausted his chances to appeal his conviction through public defenders.
Betty Anne Waters (Swank) is a high school dropout who spent nearly two decades working as a single mother while putting herself through law school, tirelessly trying to beat the system and overturn her brother's (Rockwell) unjust murder conviction.
In Ayer, Massachusetts, the siblings Betty Anne and Kenneth 'Kenny' Waters are very close to each other and they are neglected by their single mother and prostitute Elizabeth Waters. In their come of age, Kenny is a troublemaker with a baby daughter hated by the local police department and Betty Anne gets married and has two sons. When their neighbor is stabbed to death, the police officer Nancy Taylor that has hatred for Kenny, arrests him and he is sent to court for trial. Kenny and Betty Anne can not afford to hire a lawyer and Kenny is defended by a public defender. He is sentenced to life without probation, based on the evidence of his blood type and the testimony of his girlfriends Brenda Marsh and Roseanna Perry. When Kenny tries to commit suicide in prison, his sister tells him that she will complete her elementary school and high-school to go to law school to reopen his case and overturn his sentence.
This film tells how Betty Ann Waters (Hilary Swank), an unemployed single mother of two boys, saw her brother begin serving a life sentence in 1983 for murder and robbery of a woman living in a trailer next door to him in Ayer, Massachusetts. Kenneth's ability to appeal his conviction using public defenders was exhausted and without a lawyer, he would have died in prison. That is when Betty Anne, a high school dropout, decided to dedicate her life to save her brother. Convinced that he was innocent, she spent the next 12 years taking steps to earn a law degree. In 1995 with a law degree in hand, she began focusing on her brother's case. Challenging the conviction with DNA evidence, with the help of the Innocence Project, she proved her brother's innocence, and Kenneth Waters walked out a free man in March 2001 after 18 years in prison. The estate of the late Kenneth Waters settled a civil rights lawsuit against the town of Ayer for $3.4 million in 2009. Douglas Young (the-movie-guy) &amp;
(www.themovieinsider.com)
