A former boxer gets involved with a club hostess trying to escape the clutches of her gangster employer.
Jôji is a boxer barred from the ring; Saeko is a singer whose voice is gone. Lost souls, they meet one night by a quay; she may be thinking of suicide. He invites her to his café, and perhaps he will rescue her from the cabaret where she's under contract to a vicious mob leader. When the boss insists on her return, Jôji is bitter. He also despairs over lost dreams. His brother has gone to Brazil to purchase a farm; Jôji planned to join him but now believes his brother abandoned him. When Jôji discovers a clue about his brother, he needs Saeko's help. Like a fighter in the ring, he pursues the truth relentlessly, without regard for his own safety. Will it cost his life?
She believes she may have just killed someone. He is a restaurateur who will soon be leaving Japan to join his brother in Brazil, the brother who is in the process of buying a farm there. He is leaving Japan since there is no longer anything holding him there. These few pieces of information are about all each will tell the other during their first evening together after Saeko and Jôji have a chance meeting one rain soaked late night outside Jôji's port-side restaurant. Both are broken souls, Jôji who reaches out in an effort to help someone who was contemplating suicide. When she learns that he going to Brazil, the only dream he has left, is in an effort to escape his troubles, she reaches out in return. In spending more time together, they will learn more about what troubles the other. Saeko is a classically trained opera singer who lost the ability to sing opera due to damaged vocal cords, she running away from that past which has some difficult emotional connotations beyond the singing. She now is reduced to singing under the stage name Reiko in a sleazy cabaret owned by a lowlife named Shibata, who believes he owns her as well. The man she thinks she may have killed is Shibata's brother, one of his strong arms, who tried to have his way with her. Jôji is a former boxer who killed a man in a bar fight, which resulted in his boxing license being revoked. Regardless, he vowed never to fight again out of emotional guilt. Despite the other man starting the fight, he wants to go to Brazil to run away from that guilt. As Saeko and Jôji get more entwined in helping the other, they will find that their troubles are more connected than they could have ever imagined, especially as Jôji waits to hear from his brother about the farm purchase, his brother who he has not heard from in a year.
Joji, a boxer in a world of feather and welter weights intimidates the underworld with his presence. He actually disarms a thug by asking for the gangster's gun. The gun is handed over to Joji who delivers a punch to the gun owner. Fight scenes are enacted with minimal if any music but hyper-real sound effects are used at times. It seems as if the fighters are performing on sand covered wooden floors. Very amateur fight moves compared to today's imports which gives it a nice innocent charm.
Poetically shot scenes of reverie by an ocean embankment ( great diagonal shots) or in an empty restaurant lends a European feel to the movie, very French.
The singer, Saeko, is revealed to have been an opera singer with an impeccable french accent who lost her talent due to illness.
The spoiler revolves around Joji's brother.....Nice twist.
