Ten years have passed, and Sidney Prescott, who has put herself back together thanks in part to her writing, is visited by the Ghostface Killer.
Sidney Prescott, now the author of a self-help book, returns home to Woodsboro on the last stop of her book tour. There she reconnects with Sheriff Dewey and Gale, who are now married, as well as her cousin Jill and her Aunt Kate. Unfortunately, Sidney's appearance also brings about the return of Ghostface, putting Sidney, Gale, and Dewey, along with Jill, her friends, and the whole town of Woodsboro in danger.
Sidney Prescott returns home to Woodsboro on her last book tour stop. But, when she arrives, everything is not all great reuniting with Gale and Dewey as Ghostface lurks in town as well. When Sidney's cousin Jill's life is threatened, and her friends are being picked off one by one, Sidney, Gale and Dewey need to figure out who's reinventing the deadly game before it becomes too late.
After 10 years, Sidney Prescott returns to Woodsboro for her book tour "OUT OF DARKNESS" a self help book about life before and after the murders, Dewey is now Sheriff of the town with Deputy Judy Hicks. Since the year 2000 when the murders ended in Hollywood Gale has got writers block as Woodsboro has become boring. Sidney also reconnects with her cousin, Jill and her aunt Kate. But Sidney's appearance also brings back the ghost of her past.
Sherrie and Trudie (Lucy Hale and Shenae Grimes), two high schools girls, are stalked and then brutally killed by Ghostface, but this is the opening scene to "Stab 6", which Rachel and Chloe (Anna Paquin and Kristen Bell) are watching. Rachel nags on about horror movie cliches, then Chloe gets out a knife and stabs her, twice. This is the opening to "Stab 7", which Jenny and Marnie (Aimee Teegarden and Britt Robertson) are watching. After Jenny pranks Marnie, she is killed. Jenny is threatened over the phone by a voice, and then chased through the house by Ghostface himself, leading to her demise in the garage.Ten years since the events known as "The Woodsboro Massacre," Sidney Prescott (Neve Campbell) returns to her hometown as one of the stops on her book-signing tour. However, things do not go well when Dewey Riley (David Arquette, who is now the town's Sheriff) interrupts the signing, claiming that the murder of Jenny and Marnie are linked to a cellular phone somewhere in the bookstore's vicinity. Everyone is surprised when the phone is found in the trunk of Sidney's rental car, along with bloody handprints.While Dewey intends to find out what is going on, the incident quickly spreads across the town like wildfire. Gale Weathers-Riley (Courteney Cox, who is Dewey's wife), gets her old spark back and in an effort to be in the spotlight again, intends to investigate what happened.Dewey assigns a police detail to patrol the place where Sidney will be staying, which happens to be the residence of her aunt Kate (Mary McDonnell), and cousin Jill (Emma Roberts). It is here that Sidney has a deja vu moment, in going to her cousin's room, only to see her cousin's ex-boyfriend Trevor (Nico Tortorella) sneaking out a nearby window after Jill has asked him to leave.Later on that evening, Jill and her friend Kirby (Hayden Panettiere) are watching a movie, when Kirby gets a call from someone sounding like 'Ghostface.' The voice claims he's hiding in the closet, which Kirby checks, but finds no one. The voice then claims that he isn't standing in Jill's closet. In the house next door, their friend Olivia (Marielle Jaffe) is shocked when the killer bursts from HER closet and gruesomely kills her. Sidney hears what's going on, and breaks into Olivia's place, attempting to stop the killer. However, he escapes just as the police arrive.Sidney is taken to the local hospital to be checked over, but is upset when her book-signing's publicist Rebecca (Alison Brie) claims that these new killings can help the sales of Sidney's self-help book. Sidney fires Rebecca on the spot, who heads to the facility's parking garage, only to be menaced and then killed, before her body is thrown off the top of the garage onto the roof of a nearby news van.Gale is still trying to get to the bottom of the mystery, and convinces Sidney to come with her to the local 'Cinema Club' at the high school, run by Charlie Walker (Rory Culkin) and Robbie Mercer (Erik Knudsen). The two claim that if the killer is attempting to kill people in a 'remake' fashion. While some things may be similar, the killer's style is not going to be exactly like the first time, and that to make the situation even more intense, they may even be recording the murders to post them on the internet.When someone brings up that the end of the murder-spree the first time was at a house party, Charlie and Robbie immediately assume that the killer may strike at their upcoming 'Stab-a-Thon,' where they'll run all the movies in the 'Stab' series (based on the original murders). Some question why hold the 'Stab-a-Thon' in the first place, but the guys assume that they aren't the only party in town, as teenagers on a Friday night have plenty of other party options.Gale manages to find the party, and disguising herself, sets up cameras to view what's going on in the party. However, as she watches from her car, the cameras start to get covered up. Gale places a call to Dewey, before sneaking back into the party. While attempting to fix the camera in the rafters, she comes across a remote webcam, before being stabbed by the killer. Dewey shows up just as Gale collapses to the ground floor, but the killer has once again eluded capture. She survives and it taken to the local hospital.Meanwhile, two police officiers, Ross and Perkins, (Adam Brody and Anthony Anderson) who are on watch outside Kate's house, are both killed by Ghostface. Sidney finds out the Jill snuck out and went to Kirby's. When Kate gets back from shopping Sidney tells her that Jill went to Kirby's. Kate attempts to call her, she does not answer. As the two attempt to go over and get her, the killer appears and kills Kate. Sidney manages to escape, and rushes over to Kirby's place. The killer manages to get to Kirby's house before she arrives.Jill, Kirby, Charlie, and Robbie are relaxing at Kirby's place when Trevor shows up. Jill claims he wasn't invited, but Trevor claims he got a message from Jill's phone. Jill explains this to be impossible, as her phone has been missing recently. Kirby suggests that Jill should go to her room to look for it, and Trevor follows her.Robbie indulges in some alcohol, and ends up going outside, where he is killed. Back inside, Kirby reveals to Charlie her penchant for horror movies, and that she finds him attractive. However, the moment is interrupted when Trevor reappears. Charlie and Trevor leave the living room, leaving Kirby alone. Jill comes from downstairs, and Sidney comes into the house, telling Jill and Kirby of Kate's death. Ghostface appears, and chases them through the house, where Jill hides under a bed and Kirby hides in the basement.When Sidney comes down to the basement to find Kirby, they both find Charlie on the porch, covered in blood. Ghostface appears and ties him to a chair. Kirby's phone rings, and the killer claims he wants to play a game with her, testing her horror movie knowledge. With the killer busy, Sidney runs up the stairs to try to find Jill, to find her missing. When the voice on the phone stops, Kirby rushes out, and attempts to untie Charlie...only to have him stab her, upset that it took til' now for her to find him attractive, which leaves her for dead.Sidney is then attacked by Charlie with the knife, but manages to escape and she starts running to the front door and is then stabbed by Ghostface, confirming that there is a second killer. Ghostface removes his mask...and it is revealed that Jill is also in on it! Jill then lets loose a torrid of hatred at Sidney, claiming that her cousin's fame was always rubbed in her face, and how sick she was of it. Jill now claims that soon, Sidney will die, and in the wake of the killer's spree, she'll become famous instead. Charlie also assumes he's going to be part of the plan, but is shocked when Jill kills him as well. She then kills Trevor with a gun, and supposedly kills Sidney.Jill then sets up the situation as if her ex-boyfriend Trevor was the true killer, planting the knife, mutilating herself, leaving bits of her hair in his hand, and smashing and breaking things around the room. Dewey and the other officers eventually reach Kirby's place, and immediately, when it seems that Jill is still alive, the press descend and peg her as a 'survivor.'In the hospital, Dewey visits with Jill, who claims that maybe one day she can write a book with Gale, since they have the same injuries. Dewey also explains to Jill that Sidney will recover,revealing that she is still alive, and everything will be fine.However, once he leaves, Jill gets out of her bed, and rushes to Sidney's room, intending to kill her cousin once and for all. Dewey manages to show up (having realized that Jill slipped up mentioning similar injuries to Gale...something she shouldn't have been able to know!), but is knocked out by Jill's use of a bedpan. Gale and Deputy Officer Judy Hicks (Marley Shelton) are right behind him, but Jill manages to take Dewey's gun, and corner them behind a bed. Jill demands Judy's gun, and gets it, before shooting the her. Jill then threatens Gale, only to have Gale buy time before Sidney manages to charge up a defibrillator and use the paddles to 'shock' her cousin into submission. Everything seems to be OK, until Jill rises for 'one last scare,' and Sidney kills her cousin with a bullet to the chest.
