A group of 30-year-olds who have been friends since high school attempt to throw an end-of-summer orgy.
Eric Keppler (Jason Sudeikis) is a 30-something, perpetual overgrown adolescent who lives to party, holding lavish theme-events with his friends using his father's large house in the Hamptons on Long Island. On July 3, Eric throws a "White trash bash party" attended by his old school friends; Eric's ex-girlfriend Sue Plummer (Michelle Borth), nebish workaholic Adam Richman (Nick Kroll), overweight slacker Mike McCrubber (Tyler Labine), shy school teacher Laura LaCarubba (Lindsay Sloane), swinging Kate (Lucy Punch), and her fiancee Glenn (Will Forte), couples therapist Alison Lobel (Lake Bell), law student and wannabe musician Doug Duquez (Martin Starr) and his photographer/artist girlfriend Willow (Angela Sarafyan), and Alison's boyfriend Marcus (Rhys Coiro). Eric meets Kelly (Leslie Bibb) at the party who appears to be pregnant.The following morning, Eric's father Jerry (Don Johnson) arrives and informs him that he is selling the house. The next weekend, the group arrive back at the house and find it for sale by Dody (Lin Shaye) and Kelly whom are the real estate agents hired by Jerry to sell the house.Eric and Mike decide to throw a last ultimate party at the house on Labor Day weekend. Lamenting the more liberal sex attitude of the younger generation that passed over his own, Eric suggests having an orgy; a small gathering of just themselves. When they present the idea to their friends, they are all reluctant, but when Mike and Eric argue that afterwards everyone will be moving away from each other and that this might be their last real time all together, Sue agrees to join. Laura joins the plan to improve her self esteem, and is later joined by Alison after she breaks up with Marcus.A little later, Sue reveals to Alison and Laura that has feelings for Eric from high school, but Eric pursues a relationship with Kelly, to attempt to interfere with her selling the house. Doug and Willow join the orgy, hoping it will make him more confident.At Kate and Glenn's wedding, a drunken Adam reveals he has lost his job because Eric destroyed his phone at the White Trash bash, and agrees to join the orgy out of frustration. During the reception, Glenn finds out about the orgy and informs Kate, causing the pair to fall out with the group for not including them.Two weeks before Labor Day, Eric and Mike go to an underground sex club, located in the back room of a local furniture store called 'Fred's Beds' to research orgies, and gain advice from Mike's swinging uncle Vic (David Koechner). Eric also sees Dody at the orgy as an S&amp;M leather queen.Later, during a date with Kelly, she asks Eric to meet with her friends on Labor Day, to which he reluctantly agrees. Eric admits to Mike that he is developing feelings for Kelly and is no longer sure about taking part in the orgy.The week before Labor Day, Kate and Glenn ask to join the orgy but the group refuses again because the couple have a newborn child. Kelly tells Eric that she has asked Dody to slow the house sale down until the end of the summer so he and his friends can have it for Labor Day.The Labor Day weekend arrives and the group prepare for the orgy. Doug decides to back out at the last minute, causing the group to descend into arguments, culminating when Alison publicly reveals Sue's feelings for Eric, and Doug accuses Mike of being Eric's "pet". Glenn and Kate arrive uninvited, intending to gatecrash the orgy, but they end up having sex in their car. Eric decides to leave and go to Kelly's home, but discovers she is on a date. Eric returns to the party where the group reconcile, and the orgy finally begins.Everyone has sex with one another with Eric hooking up with Sue, Mike hooking up with Alison, Doug and Laura hooking up with each other, and Adam and Laura hooking up and lasting the longest. The four couples take turns swapping and taking their group sex thing through the house, into the backyard swimming pool, and back to the house again. They drink copious amounts of liquor that Mike serves frequently.On Labor Day, everyone is hung over from all the excessive drinking and they are all in a groggy mood... except for Mike who gives everyone free T-shirts with the iron-on logo of 'I was at the Hampton's Orgy' stamped on the front. Doug gives Mike a copy of his finished album, having finally found the confidence to pursue his music career. Sue gets over her feelings for Eric. Alison decides to get back together with Marcus. Adam and Laura enter into a relationship, and Eric reconciles with Kelly whom he meets on the beach. Kelly tells Eric that the house deal fell through and it will now take longer to sell. Eric begins planning a party for Memorial Day.
