When a scam goes horribly wrong and leaves the neighborhood kids furious, the Eds embark on a journey to find Eddy's brother in the "Ed, Edd, n Eddy" series finale.
Most of the Cul-De-Sac has become desecrated after an unexplained scam from the Eds has gone wrong. And as a result, the rest of the kids are out for them. Leaving the Eds to make a run for it. Ed frenziedly packs anything he can find in a makeshift suitcase, Double D tries to write an apologetic letter to his parents before he runs away, but is overwhelmed to tears over the guilt. Eddy prepares a suitcase as well, only to become alerted by someone trying to break down his door. The door bursts in and it turns out to be Ed and Double D. Double D tries to admonish Eddy about their circumstances, only to find that the kids are coming nearer. Eddy leads them to his brother's room for a hideout, covering the door with a poster matching the walls of the hallway. Eddy secures the doors shut and he starts to chastise Double D for the scheme. They argue for a brief moment until Double D decides to listen in to see if any of the kids can hear them in the room. Ed subsequently bites a slice of buttered toast giving them all away. The kids begin trying to break down the door, as the Eds look for an exit. Eddy uncovers a peanut from a glass emergency class that inadvertently ends up lodged in Ed's mouth. Upon breaking it in half with his teeth, a key to Eddy's Brother's Car comes out of it. Unable to start it, Ed uses his feet to move the car. [Flintstones Style] Rolf and Kevin immediately chases after them, catching the attention of Sarah and Jimmy who were busy "filming" their own movie. A chase ensues following through the neighborhood where Rolf attempts to drag Ed out with his teeth. Only to have the Eds outrun Rolf. The chase leads through the forest and into the dump, where Kevin is waiting on his bike. Kevin attempts to crash the car, managing severe damage. Kevin leaps for the car where the rest of the kids catch up and pry the roof off the car. Double D grabs for a playground merry go round, wherein he spins the remaining kids off. Launching the Eds away from the Cul-De-Sac. Kevin declares his rage to Nazz and Rolf. Crying over if the Eds wont come back, Nazz is assured by Rolf that he will punish the Eds for their scam. Rolf goes alone with his pig Wilfred, Kevin and Nazz team up, Johnny sneaks off with his wooden friend Plank, and Sarah, upon realizing the others plan to maim the Eds, she offers to Jimmy to have a picnic with Jimmy and watch the beating in person.The Eds crash the car into a lone desert rock. Eddy suggests to Ed and Double D that they go to his brother's house. Affirming that if the other kids were to find them there, his brother would maul them. Before leaving Double D places an "Out of Order" sticker on the wrecked car. Meanwhile Johnny and Plank enter the secret lair of Johnny's super hero alias "Captain Melonhead." In his attempt to find the Eds. Kev
in and Nazz ride off on Kevin's Bike, being splattered by small bugs on their way. They derail and crash Kevin's Bike. Kevin alarmed by the damage of his bike, as opposed to Nazz. Kevin asks where they would run off to, he realizes that they are running to Eddy's Brother's place. Terrified by the idea of being attacked by Eddy's Brother, they take off on the mangled bike. Rolf makes his way into the desert where the Eds last were. He investigates the car wreck. After being tossed by Wilfred, he finds the "Out of Order" label Double D left behind. Rolf uses this to get the scent from Wilfred.The Eds end up in a private area where they encounter a plethora of smelly cows. Much to Ed's pleasure. Eddy continues to brag about his brother until Double D asks where Eddy's Brother lives. Only to find that Eddy doesn't know where he lives. Eddy unveils a postcard of a theme park called "Mondo-A-Go Go," that Double D tries to use to find Eddy's Brother's address. Unfortunately for them, the address is scribbled out. Double D then uses a marker Ed was using to draw a picture of Eddy's Brother to distinguish Eddy's Brother's whereabouts based on his traits. Coming to the conclusion that Eddy's Brother is a jokester, Ed concurs that Eddy works at a gag factory. Jimmy and Sarah giddily prance with a picnic basket to Eddy's Brother's house , only to arrive in the Trailer Park the Kanker Sisters live in. May discovers Jimmy and they begin to harass him. Out of fright, Jimmy reveals that he was planning on seeing The Eds getting beaten up. Sarah steps in and is interrogated by Lee via wet Willy. Jimmy spares Sarah by revealing that The Eds were going to be beaten up by the other kids for a scam they did. The Kankers Decide to track down the kids and prevent The Eds from being attacked. Using Jimmy and Sarah as a guide. The Eds get into a field of sunflowers, where Ed and Eddy fool around. Double D mentions to The Eds that they had nearly broken the Sextant Double D was using. Ed and Eddy have a good laugh over the name leaving Double D embarrassed. The Eds navigate through the sunflowers and make their way to the Gag Factory. Rolf enters the meadow the Eds crossed into. He stops to take a drink of milk from a cow, only to discover the drawing that Ed made on one of the cow's udders. Rolf continues his search, but cant go far after losing track of Wilfred. The Eds break into the Gag Factory only to find that the Gag Factory has been closed for over a decade. Double D makes his way to a second story whilst Ed and Eddy play with the prank items. Double D is unable to find anything in the filing cabinets and he marks the office with more advisory stickers. He exits the office to find the factory is empty. But out from the shades come Eddy and Ed with utensils lodged through their heads. Double D is horrified only to fid out it's a cruel prank from Eddy and Ed. As an apology, Ed offers a can of jelly beans. Double D uncovers the lid, and fake snakes explode from the canister. Raining all over Nazz and Kevin. Kevin finds the snakes lead to the Gag Factory and makes his way there.Wilfred is peacefully snacking on sausages until he is called by Rolf. Rolf tries to lure him out, shoe at the ready, putting Wilfred into a frenzy. Wilfred attacks Rolf and runs off free. Rolf emerges from his supplies with his head stuck in a meat grinder. The Eds hike through the woods surrounded by the gag snakes. Until they hear a distress call from Double D dangling over a waterfall. Ed throws Eddy at Double D causing them both to fall into the water. Eddy fished Double D out using his upper lip. Mentioning that his brother is a whaler and showed him how to harpoon. With this in mind, Double D decides to navigate down the lake hoping to lead to Eddy's Brother.Sarah and Jimmy are put to work pulling the wagon of The Kankers. Planning to defect, Sarah compliments Lee's toenail polish. Sarah is given the bucket of red paint Lee uses for her toenail. Sarah smashes Lee's hand with the bucket and she escapes with Jimmy.Johnny and Plank sprint through the city still searching for the Eds. Plank drags Johnny to a bus stop where they decide to take a bus to the Eds. Kevin and Nazz enter the Gag Factory, and Nazz points out the lights of the office. He and Nazz burst in where they find a label that reads "Dusty, Dusty, Dusty." Nazz falls through the floor and turns on the lever of a generator. Nazz attempts to retrieve Kevin's bike which was snagged by a a machine. Only to be taken up with the machine. At the last second Kevin grabs the bike, only to fall in with Nazz. The Eds have constructed a duck resembling a duck. Double D begins the christening ceremony for the "S.S Mutant Almost a Chicken Duck." The bottle doesn't manage to break on the boat however, and they sail down the lake. The Kankers go into the Sunflower Field where Jimmy and Sarah are hiding under two big leaves. Sarah distracts the Kankers by flicking a Ladybug and they climb down. Jimmy and Sarah crawl their way back, only to encounter Wilfred itching himself on a sunflower. Using a caramel apple, they ride Wilfred and exit the field. A bus finally arrives for Johnny and he boards the bus. He quickly loses Plank however and begins to fret. He maneuvers to the front of the bus where he sees that Plank is somehow driving the bus.The Ed's ship has crashed into a tree in the middle of the swamp. Double D argues about Eddy and Ed's immaturity only to be interrupted by more of Ed's horseplay. Double D struggles to find Eddy and Ed, discovering that they are sinking in quicksand. Double D desperately makes an attempt to rescue them, coming back to the pit to find they have already sunk. Double D mourns for them, only to soon find they haven't truly sank. Double D walks back home furious, further complaining about Eddy's carelessness. Double D and Eddy fight each other, resulting in Double D storming home and facing the consequences. Eddy breaks down acceptant of the fact that he had caused this whole hardship. Double D returns with a light hearted gag, and they officially become friends again. Double D leads them back to the direction of Eddy's Brother and they continue until sunset. Nazz and Kevin are dumped into the swamp where Kevin cleans the mud off of his bike. Nazz becomes fed up with Kevin not paying any attention to her and she prepares a fire. nazz distances herself from Kevin until he sweetens her up again. Only to make her furious again by Kevin bringing his bike into the warmth. Nazz throws Kevin's bike into a tree out of rage and she ends up in trouble from The Kankers.Rolf blindly goes around the streets and the swamp defending himself from trees. He is then run over by The Kanker's wagon, bursting the meat grinder open. The Kankers then kidnap Rolf. Double D gathers some fireflies into a glass jar, lighting up their nightly walk. They each start getting sleepy, and they rest in a roadside ditch decorated with Tiki heads and palm trees. Double D begins labeling the area and the two get to sleep. The next day, Kevin walks his bike to a grass area where he finds a silhouette of what looks like Eddy. This turns out to be a foil from Marie, and he speeds into their ambush. The bike crashes and it falls into disrepair. The Eds awake and Ed suggests they get breakfast. Ed and Eddy run for breakfast over a cliff and they all fall into a dormant Ferris Wheel. They are propelled from the Ferris Wheel into the sign of "Mondo-A -Go Go." The Eds run around the park frantically in search of Eddy's Brother.Their search leads to a Whale shaped Trailer. Double D points out that Eddy's Brother was once a whailer and they find out this is his home. Jimmy and Sarah use Wilfred as transport downtown, and Wilfred leads them to Mondo-a- Go Go. Before the Eds could go inside, The Kankers show up and uncover all the kids tied up. Jimmy and Sarah arrive with Wilfred right as Kevin attempts to beat them up. Eddy knocks on the door of the trailer, wherein Eddy mentions the kids's intentions to beat them up. Eddy's Brother steps out and Eddy introduces him to Double D. From here Eddy's Brother begins harassing Eddy. This gets Lee and the others upset, leading to Ed giving a blow to Eddy's Brother with his own front door. Revealing that Eddy's Brother can't hold his own in a fight after all. Eddy admits that he exaggerated everything he had said about his brother in order to come off as cool. Double D accepts Eddy's confession and the others honor Eddy. Johnny steps out of the bus and beats up the Eds. Resulting in the kids maiming Johnny. Kevin treats the Eds to free Jawbreakers, Jimmy sings the Friend Song, and The Kankers begin kissing Eddy's Brother.After the Credits, Johnny turns to the dark side as "The Gourd." Exacting revenge on the Cul-De-Sac for beating him up. But Plank informs him that the movie has already ended leaving Johnny confused saying "What Movie!?"The End.
