When a college student witnesses the alleged suicide of her roommate, it sets into motion a series of horrific events that cause her to fear the supernatural entity. As she tries to convince the rest of her dorm that the Boogeyman does exist, the evil force grows stronger and her friends begin to pay the price. Now she must stop this ultimate evil before the entire campus falls prey.
When the grieving Audrey reads the private journal of his deceased father, who was a renowned psychologist of a clinic, she is attacked by the boogeyman. She has a nervous breakdown and goes to the Hammond Halls in the Wolfbridge University in Northern California to sleep in the dorm of her friend Sarah Morris. Sarah is a student of psychology that feels guilty for the death of her mother and presents a show in the WZXB radio in the campus to give support to the audience with her professor Dr. Kane. However Audrey is hanged by the boogeyman while Sarah glances at her and dies. Sarah reads the diary of Audrey's dad and discovers his theory that the boogeyman would be a physical manifestation of the innermost darkest fear of a person. Sarah believes on the illogical theory and tells to her boyfriend David and their common friends Lukas, Jeremy, Lindsay and Ben. As far as they also believe in the boogeyman, the legend becomes stronger and reborns, killing his victim.
Sarah (Erin Cahill) was a psychology student who hosted a late night radio show with her lecturer. Her life undergone a drastic change after she witnessed a horrific sight of her best friend, Audrey (Nikki Sanderson) been strangled to death by a monster a.k.a The Boogeyman.With everyone assuming that Audrey had killed herself, only Sarah knew what happened exactly. She realized the legend of Boogeyman as told by Audrey before her death might be real after all, but none of her friends believed the myth. When those with suspicious minds of the possible existence of Boogeyman went missing from their dorms, Sarah knew she had to do something! In her vivid nightmares, they were murdered in the most horrific ways possible, but their bodies were never been found. Everyone thought Sarah was paranoid: neither her best friend, Lindsey (Mimi Michaels) nor boyfriend, David (Chuck Hittinger) buy her 'Boogeyman Killed Them All!' remarks.The story progressed until everyone in the dorm started talking about it. Only when Sarah's lecturer and David, ended up been murdered after believing her stories, she began to realize the evil plan that Boogeyman had for her: she was used as a vessel to spread the legend as widely as possible! The more people fearing about the legend, the more stronger and powerful Boogeyman over its victims. Standing by David's corpse, with the policemen barged in the room and the students staring with horror, murmurring "Boogeyman did it??", Sarah knew she had to make a sacrifice. By admitting herself as the killer, Sarah hoped the myth would stop once and for all, and Boogeyman wouldn't be able to hurt anyone else ever again.Just as we all thought Sarah's plan was working, Boogeyman came back and snatched the policemen from the lift, while they were escorting her down to the station. Sarah screamed helplessly...And the myth still continues with a bunch of freshman in the dorm..
