In a village where girls don't play cricket, Veera puts on a turban and beard and becomes Veer to fulfill her dreams and meets Rohan. And fun begins.
Veera (Rani Mukerji) is a fire-cracker of a girl who lives in a small village but dreams in 70mm. She works in a local theatre group but dreams of playing cricket in the big league. Yes, believe it or not, she wants to play with Tendulkar and Dhoni for India. While Veera dreams on in India, Rohan (Shahid Kapoor) is an accomplished captain of a county cricket team in England. Rohan returns to India to captain his fathers cricket team which has been losing consecutively for the last 8 years. In a village where girls don't play cricket, Veera has to put on a turban and beard and become a man to fulfill her dreams. Her brilliance on the field earns her a place in Rohans team and Veera Kaur becomes Veer Pratap Singh. And then begins a roller-coaster journey of Veera, Rohan and Veer filled with colour, vibrant music, romance and comedy through Punjab and beyond. This tale of turbans, twists and tricks will make your heart go Hadippa.
DIL BOLE HADIPPA is a celebration of the never say die spirit of India. Here, for the first time, the dynamic duo of Shahid Kapoor &amp; Rani Mukherjee, take you on a hide and seek game of romance, passion and dreams. Veera (Rani Mukherjee) is a fire-cracker of a girl who lives in a small village but dreams in 70mm. She works in a local theatre group but dreams of playing cricket in the big league. Yes, believe it or not, she wants to play with Tendulkar and Dhoni for India. While Veera dreams on in India, Rohan (Shahid Kapoor) is an accomplished captain of a county cricket team in England. Rohan returns to India to captain his fathers cricket team which has been losing consecutively for the last 8 years. In a village where girls dont play cricket, Veera has to put on a turban and beard and become a man to fulfill her dreams. Her brilliance on the field earns her a place in Rohans team and Veera Kaur becomes Veer Pratap Singh. And then begins a roller-coaster journey of Veera, Rohan and Veer filled with music, romance and comedy through Punjab and beyond. This tale of turbans, twists and tricks will make your heart go Hadippa!
