Two friends spend all their free time building flame-throwers and weapons of mass destruction in hopes that a global apocalypse will occur and clear the runway for their imaginary gang "Mother Medusa".
Bellflower follows two friends as they venture out into the world to begin their adult lives. Literally all their free time is spent building flame-throwers and weapons of mass destruction in hopes that a global apocalypse will occur and clear the runway for their imaginary gang "Mother Medusa". While waiting for the world to end, their call to excitement comes unexpectedly when one of them meets a charismatic young woman and falls hard in love. Quickly integrated into a new group of friends, they set off on a journey of betrayal, love, hate, infidelity and extreme violence more devastating and fiery than any of their apocalyptic fantasies. Often life's simplest and most obvious truths are the hardest to see, but once you've burned everything to the ground it may be the only thing left standing.
Now living in California, twenty-something slacker dudes Woodrow and Aiden, who have frat boy mentalities in liking to blow up stuff, have been best friends since they were kids growing up in Wisconsin. After years of talking about it, they finally decide to build a flame thrower to emulate their favorite movie Mad Max (1979) where they would be able to rule the wasteland after an apocalypse. The flame thrower is only the first piece of the Mad Max paraphernalia they want to obtain. One night during the process of building the flame thrower, they meet friends Milly and Courtney at a bar, Woodrow ending up with Milly and Aiden ending up with Courtney. Although each pair becomes friends, there is a stronger connection between Woodrow and Milly as witnessed by what happens on their first real date the next day. Woodrow, either being in Milly's life or just because of who he is, does not seem to sit well with Milly's roommate, Mike. The eventual interrelationships between the five players potentially results in an apocalypse of a more personal nature.

