When Rodney Baze mysteriously disappears and law enforcement doesn't follow through fast enough, his older brother, Russell, takes matters into his own hands to find justice.
Russell and his younger brother Rodney live in the economically-depressed Rust Belt, and have always dreamed of escaping and finding better lives. But when a cruel twist of fate lands Russell in prison, his brother becomes involved with one of the most violent and ruthless crime rings in the Northeast - a mistake that will cost him everything. Once released, Russell must choose between his own freedom, or risk it all to seek justice for his brother.
It seems like everything is coming apart around the earnest steel mill worker, Russell Baze, who sees his father slowly dying, and his hometown Braddock in Pennsylvania's Rust Belt disintegrate little by little. Furthermore, Russell's combat veteran brother, Rodney, who struggles to readjust to the civilian life and to pay off a gambling bet that keeps getting bigger, gets sucked into a cruel world of bare-knuckle fighting, exploited by the psychotic drug dealer, Harlan DeGroat. And then, Rodney disappears inexplicably. Can big brother Russell face DeGroat in his own territory?
With the dream of a better life always just out of reach, Russell (Christian Bale) and his younger brother Rodney (Casey Affleck) find their futures taking a grim turn when Russell ends up in jail. Meanwhile, on the outside, Rodney falls in with a notorious group of criminals who threaten to destroy any hope for a better tomorrow. Later, when Russell is released from prison the temptation to cut his ties with the past clashes with his sense of duty to his brother, who is headed down the road to ruin..
From the critically acclaimed writer and director of Crazy Heart, Scott Cooper, comes a gripping and gritty drama about family, fate, circumstance, and justice. Russell Baze (Christian Bale) and his younger brother Rodney (Casey Affleck) live in the economically-depressed Rust Belt in western Pennsylvania, and have always dreamed of escaping and finding better lives.Russell's life isn't easy, but he's doing his best to get by. He has a dead-end blue collar job at the local steel mill, he's taking care of his terminally ill father, and looking out for Rodney, who's struggling to adapt to normal life following a tour of duty in Iraq. His one comfort is his relationship with the beautiful Lena Warren (Zoe Saldana).
However, one fateful evening changes everything for Russell. When he returns to town, years later, his father has passed away, he's lost Lena to local sheriff Wesley Barnes (Forest Whitaker), and he discovers his war hero brother has been lured into a brutal, underground world of street fighting, run by one of the most violent and ruthless crime rings in the Northeast.When Rodney mysteriously disappears, and law enforcement fails to follow through, Russell is determined to seek justice for his brother. With nothing left to lose he takes matters into his own hands, risking everything in this intense and explosive thriller.
