A hard-core New York Giants fan struggles to deal with the consequences when he is beaten up by his favorite player.
Paul Aufiero, a hardcore New York Giants football fan, struggles to deal with the consequences when he is beaten up by his favorite player.
To most who know him or even merely see him in his life, thirty-six year old Paul Aufiero is a sad sack of a man. He still lives at home on Staten Island with his mother who basically supports him, he works a dead end job as a parking garage attendant, and as his mother states his only ever girlfriend has been his overworked hand. But Paul staunchly defends his life to others who rail against or try to help him, especially in being what he considers the biggest New York Giants fan there is. He and his only true friend Sal attend every home game - although only as tailgaters who watch the game on a battery powered TV in the stadium parking lot while the other tailgaters have tickets to see the game live inside the stadium - and he spends most of his time writing what he will ultimately say on Sport Dogg's post-game call-in radio show as well-known fan caller "Paul from Staten Island", making his fan ravings sound as unscripted as possible. Most of those ravings are against his Philadelphia caller counterpart "Philadelphia Phil"'s anti-Giants ravings, especially as the Giants and Eagles battle for the division title. Paul and Sal believe they've died and gone to heaven when they spot their favorite Giant, quarterback Quantrell Bishop, a five-time Pro Bowler, out one evening. The elation of the night to this point changes after they finally decide to approach Bishop. That encounter may make Paul reevaluate his devotion to the Giants - whose seemingly easy march to the post-season has now become a little more difficult - and by association everything that he has held true to his heart his entire life.
Paul Aufiero, a 35-year-old parking-garage attendant from Staten Island, is the self-described "world's biggest New York Giants fan". He lives at home with his mother, spending his off hours calling in to local sports-radio station 760 The Zone, where he rants in support of his beloved team, often against his mysterious on-air rival, Eagles fan Philadelphia Phil. His family berates him for doing nothing with his life, but they don't understand the depth of his love of the Giants or the responsibility his fandom carries.One night, Paul and his best friend Sal spot Giants star linebacker Quantrell Bishop at a gas station in their neighborhood. They impulsively follow his limo into Manhattan, to a strip club, where they hang in the background, agog at their hero. Paul cautiously decides to approach him, stepping into the rarefied air of football stardom--and things do not go as planned.The fallout of this chance encounter brings Paul's world crashing down around him as his family, the team, the media and the authorities engage in a tug of war over Paul, testing his allegiances and calling into question everything he believes in. Meanwhile, the Giants march toward a late-season showdown with the Eagles, unaware that sometimes the most brutal struggles take place far from the field of play.Following up his first filmed screenplay, THE WRESTLER, writer-director Robert Siegel once again demonstrates a unique and potent vision of the human experience, in all of it its harsh truths and hopeful humanity [D-Man2010]
