A subversive tale that interlaces five stories set in Los Angeles, where no taboo is left unexplored as each character careens toward a dark and often comic fate.
In Santa Monica, a woman becomes alarmingly concerned over her fiancé's unnaturally close relationship with his teenage daughter. In Westwood, a sexual act turns into a psychological obsession for a young woman. In West Hollywood, a gay couple buys a young daughter and attempts to mold her to fit their lifestyle. In Holmby Hills, maladjusted kids and their equally maladjusted nanny play murderous games. In Sherman Oaks, a rape victim faces her violator. In these five stories, one thing is clear, everything is taken to extremes in California.
Five tales of madness set in L.A. In "Green-Eyed Monster," a foul-mouthed 15-year-old comes home from private school to meet Dedra, the woman her dad plans to marry. Father-daughter antics creep Dedra out. In "Little Piggy," a woman can't get the stink off a finger she's used to stimulate her boyfriend during sex. "Buyer's Remorse" presents Tom and Gerry, a West Hollywood couple, who buy a child on the black market; she takes weeks to say her first word. In "Kangaroo Court," a nasty kid torments a maid in his household by stealing the placenta of her dead baby. In "Man Eater," a woman tracks down a rapist who has left his wallet at her house. When she finds him, what will she do?
The Green Eyed Monster
Dedra Davenport (Rosamund Pike) meets the 15 year old daughter (Emily Meade) of her fiance (Dylan McDermott) for the very first time. However, she is soon disturbed by how unhealthy and bordering on incestuous the relationship between the two is.This Little Piggy
Ginny Bai (Jamie Chung) agrees to participate in an unconventional sex act with her boyfriend Chad Bower (Robert Hoffman). Soon after she begins to slowly lose her mind when she cannot seem to get rid of an odd smell from her finger.Buyers Remorse
A rich and well recognized West Hollywood gay couple (Peter Macdissi and Anson Mount) decide to adopt a 7 year old African girl (Tiara McKinney). They prove to be mentally unprepared for the challenges and risks involved in parenthood, especially so, as their adopted daughter is a decided mute who refuses to speak to them.Kangaroo Court
A nanny (Lake Bell) for a group of neglected children comes to find some dangerous secrets about the live- in staff at their mansion home.Maneater
An unidentified man (Nick Stahl) breaks into the apartment of meek woman Sarah Cotton (Zoe Saldana), whom he proceeds to rape. Sometime later she finds the mans wallet and is able to track him down. Rather than seek justice or revenge the woman invites him on a date, then back to her apartment. Once there the man becomes suspicious of her motives, and is shocked when she begs him to rape her again, though he does as she asks. As he begins to leave Sarah cries and begs him to stay, but he leaves all the same.
