A doctor of Indian origin returning to Mumbai from London is forced to participate in a terrorist plot.
Aamir Ali lives a middle-classed lifestyle in Mumbai along with his dad, Rashid; mom, Taranum; three sisters: Nargis, Shabana, and Falak; and a brother, Jameel. After his dad passes away, Aamir re-locates to Britain, studies, obtains a medical degree, and returns home. Upon arrival at Mumbai Airport, he is hassled by the Customs Officer and his baggage is searched several times. Finally, he is permitted to leave. Outside the airport he is approached by two men on a motorbike, and one of them hands him a cellphone. Aamir accepts the cellphone and thus begins his nightmare that will propel him all the way to Dongri, then to Bhendi Bazar, where he will be given a red suitcase containing cash. He will be told that he must deliver this suitcase at another location within a specified time or else his family will all be killed. Aamir agrees to do so but before he could even arrive at the location, the suitcase gets stolen. The question remains: will Aamir be able to locate it and deliver it within the stipulated time?
Aamir is a perfect movie depicting the story of Aamir who currently arrives in India after spending three years in London, studying medicine. He is made to dance with the help of various hints laid down by terrorists with the help of a mobile phone via which terrorist communicate. He cannot contact police or other officials, as his family is taken control of by terrorists. Unfortunately he is made to deliver a red suitcase. Later it is confirmed to him, to place the bag in the bus he is traveling. It is also confirmed to him that bag carries bomb which will explode in 3 minutes. He with a lot of complex mind and in lot of turbulence carries the bag towards a road construction site away from people and gets killed himself but saving others.
Dr Aamir Ali (Rajeev Khandelwal) a London based NRI is returning to India. On his arrival at Mumbai airport, he finds that he is not being attended by his family but by Trouble.. The trouble comes in the form of a mobile phone he is forced to accept by two unknown bikers. After a series of forced conversations with an unknown face, he comes to know that his family is in captivity of the callers and he has been the "chosen one" by the fundamentalists to plant a bomb in a bus. He has five hours to save his family. Aamir (the name means "Commander") is reduced to be a puppet in the hands of terrorists.. Next five hours, minute after minute, instructions after instructions, Aamir comes to terms with life and signifies the meaning of "Aamir"
