During a stormy night in the past century, the one named "the witch" is about to give birth. Mrs. Gelinas and Toussaint Brodeur are assisting her in the process.
Babin French With English subtitles During a stormy night in the past century, the one named "the witch is about to give birth. Mrs. Gelinas and Toussaint Brodeur are assisting her in the process. Babine will be born in ugliness, and his smile will be mistaken for his "butt-crack". The simple minded child will live burdened by suspicion, as everyone seems to think that all the misfortune that is dawning on the village has something to do with his mother's influence in witchcraft. Even though his life is surrounded by the poetry of nature, and that his harmonica makes the weathercock dance, the boy is condemned to be ignored by the community despite the support from Toussaint Brodeur (mentor and friend), and the Old parish priest. When the church burns down leaving the Old priest lifeless, the villagers seek for the guilty and of course Babine will be accused. A New priest arrive, determined to punish the culprit. And by all means he will use his power to sentence Babine to death. However, the wise Toussaint will manage to save his young friend.
Broadcast In: French During a stormy night in the past century, the one named "the witch is about to give birth. Mrs. Gelinas and Toussaint Brodeur are assisting her in the process. Babine will be born in ugliness, and his smile will be mistaken for his "butt-crack". The simple minded child will live burdened by suspicion. Everyone seems to think that all the misfortune that is dawning on the village has something to do with his mother's influence in witchcraft. Even though his life is surrounded by the poetry of nature and that his harmonica makes the weatherclock dance, the boy is condemned to be ignored by the community despite the support from Toussaint Brodeur(merchant), and the Old parish priest. When the church burns down leaving the Old priest lifeless, the villagers seek for the guilty and of course Babine will be accused. A New priest arrive determined to punish the culprit and by all means he will use his power to sentence Babine to death. However, the wise Toussaint will manage to save his young friend. In French with English subtitles. Run Time: 02:00:00

