After a school shooting leaves 14 people dead, survivor Sean Ryan is forced to come to terms with loss.
A look inside a tragedy through the eyes of a survivor. Based on actual events, April Showers is about picking up the pieces in the direct aftermath of school violence. Set in a middle class suburban neighborhood, April Showers focuses on the lives of a handful of teachers and students as they attempt to make sense of a world that has just been turned upside down by one of their own. With the community and an entire nation caught up in the 'story', the students of Jefferson High must turn to one another for answers. In the wake atrocity, the rifts caused by misinformation and a frenzied media prove difficult to overcome. Lost and lonely under the international spotlight, one young man navigates his way through his almost indiscernible home. From quaint suburban town to battlefield turned media circus, Jefferson High provides the backdrop for Sean's struggle to cope with the loss of his friend April.
From writer/director Andrew Robinson, comes a tremendously personal and exceptionally intimate look inside one of our nation's great tragedies through the eyes of a survivor. Based on actual events, April Showers is about picking up the pieces in the direct aftermath of one of Americas growing epidemics...school violence.
Set in a middle class suburban neighborhood, April Showers focuses on the lives of a handful of teachers and students as they attempt to make sense of a world that has just been turned upside down by one of their own. With the community and an entire nation caught up in the 'story', the students of Jefferson High must turn to one another for answers.
In the wake of such atrocities, the rifts caused by misinformation and a frenzied media prove difficult to overcome. Lost and lonely under the international spotlight, one young man navigates his way through his almost indiscernible home. From quaint suburban town to battlefield turned media circus, Jefferson High provides the backdrop for Sean's struggle to cope with the loss of his friend April.From writer/director, Andrew Robinson, a survivor of the Columbine High School tragedy, comes April Showers a dramatized retelling of what it was like to be a survivor in the midst of the nations largest school shootings. Based largely on actual events, April Showers follows the story of Sean Ryan (Kelly Blatz, Prom Night) as he and fellow survivors attempt to make sense of the horrors theyve just witnessed and, for Sean, coping with the loss of his friend April (Ellen Woglom, Viva Laughlin). April Showers features a budding cast lead by Blatz, Daryl Sabara (Spy Kids, A Christmas Carol), Janel Parrish (Bratz), Ellen Woglom with Illeana Douglas (To Die For, Stir of Echoes) and Tom Arnold (Happy Endings, Gardens of the Night) rounding out the cast. Featuring breathtaking cinematography by Independent Spirit Award Nominee, Aaron Platt (Wild Tigers Ive Known). [D-Man2010]
