A young groom and his best man lost on the road trip to the wedding, run into a young English doctor.
Elvis, a loyal, committed, very decent bridegroom-to-be, leaves Johannesburg to pick up his best friend and best man Tumi in Durban. The two then begin the journey to Capetown to start rehearsing for Elvis' wedding to the beautiful Ayandawill then journey on to Cape Town to begin rehearsals for Elvis's wedding to the beautiful Ayanda. An appealing, feel-good movie about love, commitment, intimacy, friendship, and the host of maddening obstacles that can get in the way of a happy ending.
Set against South Africas breathtaking landscapes, WHITE WEDDING is a high-spirited modern day road comedy about love, commitment, intimacy, friendship, and the unbelievable obstacles that can get in the way of a fairy-tale ending. Ayanda (Zandie Msutwana) is just days away from her lifelong dream of a modern white wedding, complete with a dazzling dress, dozens of bridesmaids, a flamboyant wedding planner and large reception at a fancy hotel. The only problem is that her husband-to-be, the sweet, committed Elvis (Kenneth Nkosi), is 1,000 miles away with his childhood friend and best-man Tumi (Rapulana Seiphemo). What should be a simple, straightforward journey gets seriously derailed, forcing Elvis, Tumi and Rose (Jodie Whittaker), a footloose English doctor they meet along the way to tackle directional mishaps, car accidents, a tag-along goat, and a potentially dangerous encounter with a bar full of redneck Afrikaners seemingly stuck in the era of Apartheid. Ultimately charmed by Elvis infectious spirit, everyone surrounding him becomes determined to get him to his destination. Meanwhile, poor Ayanda is watching her dream unravel as she wrestles with problems of her own -- from questioning whether theres any truth to Elvis preposterous excuses of why he might not get to the church on time, being caught between European and African traditions as her mother (Sylvia Mngxekeza) has a very different idea about how the wedding should be orchestrated, and dealing with the unexpected arrival of Tony (Mbulelo Grootboom), a slick old boyfriend with a questionable agenda. WHITE WEDDING subtly interweaves South Africas history as bride, groom, friends and lovers are forced to look at the meaning of marriage, fidelity, honesty and the two sides to every story.
