A rebellious girl is sent to a Southern beach town for the summer to stay with her father. Through their mutual love of music, the estranged duo learn to reconnect.
Ronnie's (Miley Cyrus) and her younger brother, Jonah's, parents are divorced. They live with their mother until this summer when they are sent to live with their father (Greg Kinnear) in a small town on the beach. Ronnie resents her father and has no intention of being friendly or even talking to him for the summer. But after meeting a handsome guy and beginning to fall in love, Ronnie starts rediscovering her love for music, something she shares with her father. Reconnecting with music revives a kinship with her father which proves to be the most important relationship she may ever experience.
Set in the beach town of Tybee Island, Georgia, where Steve (Greg Kinnear), a divorced father, gets a chance to spend the summer with his teenage daughter Ronnie (Miley Cyrus) and his young son Jonah (Bobby Coleman). Ronnie would rather be in New York City than be with her father, who she believes abandoned her three years earlier. Steve, a concert pianist, tries to reconnect with Ronnie through their love of music.
Musician Steve Miller had to leave his children in New York when his marriage failed. Now he gets them for a summer at his beach house in the sleepy town of Tybee Island, Georgia, to the younger, girl crazy Jonah's immense delight. Steve lives there as a recluse since the locals assume he caused the fire that burnt down the church and works on restoring stained glass. Rebel daughter Veronica 'Ronnie' surpasses her hostility by refusing a Juliard scholarship just to spite her parents. She pretends to care only for the survival of hatching sea turtles. Just that brings her in contact with handsome local Will Blakelee, who works as mechanic and volunteers in the aquarium as well. Only after they fall in love, Ronnie learns Will is the heir to the town's only fortune and still keeps him at a distance. Only after the reason for this summer stay is tragically revealed can father Steve can mend the rifts.
Miley Cyrus stars as a teenager who reconnects with her father years after her parents go through a nasty divorce in this adaptation of the Nicholas Sparks novel. The novelist also provides the screenplay for the production, which is directed by Julie Ann Robinson.
Seventeen-year-old Veronica 'Ronnie' Miller's life was turned upside-down when her parents divorced and her father moved from New York City to Tybee Island, Georgia. Three years later, she remains angry and alienated from her parents, especially her father ...until her mother decides it would be in everyone's best interest if she spent the summer on Tybee Island with him. Ronnie's father, a former concert pianist and teacher, is living a quiet life in the beach town, immersed in creating a work of art that will become the centerpiece of a local church. The tale that unfolds is an unforgettable story about love in its myriad forms - first love, the love between parents and children - that demonstrates, as only a Nicholas Sparks novel can, the many ways that deeply felt relationships can break our hearts ...and heal them.
