When the attempt to kill a professor goes wrong, a series of violent events are triggered which force a taxi driver to run for his life.
In this fast paced action thriller, a taxi driver living in the Yanbian Province of China goes to South Korea when a local gangster offers him to carry out a hit on a professor in return for repaying his debt. In the meanwhile, he also searches for his wife who had come here but had not responded since 6 months. His suspicion of her betrayal makes his tension rise, before something unexpected happens that night on which he is prepared to kill the professor. Soon, he finds himself running for his life from police and the mob, resulting in a lot of violent fights and intense car chases.
In northeastern Chinese city of Yanji in Yanbian Prefecture, Gu-nam (Ha Jung-woo), an ethnic Korean, or Joseonjok, toils away as a taxi driver. When not working, he is often found at gambling halls. Gu-nam is now in serious debt. His wife left to work in South Korea and promised to send money back. He has yet to hear from her and is tormented by nightmares of her having an extra-marital affair. To make matters worse, Gu-nam is fired from his job and debt collectors take most of his severance pay.Local gangster, Myun Jung-hak (Kim Yoon-seok), offers him a deal: if Gu-nam goes to South Korea to kill a businessman, he will get CN¥57,000 (US$10,000). Gu-nam, thinking of his young daughter apart from his wife, accepts and leaves for South Korea by train and a rickety fishing boat, with US$500 for expenses.When Gu-nam arrives in South Korea, he carefully scopes out his target for days, while also searching for his wife. Things only keep getting worse for him as time passes. When the time arrives for Gu-nam to take out his target, a string of unexpected events occurs, leaving him desperately looking for a way out. Meanwhile, the police, the South Korean mob, as well as the ethnic Korean Chinese mafia all frantically search for Gu-nam in this South Korean action thriller by Na Hong-jin, the director of another action thriller titled The Chaser which also starred Ha Jung-woo and Kim Yoon-seok, with the only difference being that in The Chaser, Ha Jung-woo played the villain and Kim Yoon-seok played the hero, while in this one it's vice versa.
