A group of friends must confront their most terrifying fears when they awaken the dark powers of an ancient spirit board.
A girl is mysteriously killed after recording herself playing with an ancient Ouija Board, which leads to a close group of friends to investigate this board. They later find out that some things aren't meant to be played with, especially the 'other side'.
The film opens with a young Laine Morris &amp; Debbie Galardi playing with a Ouija board while in Laine's room, only to be interrupted by Laine's sister Sarah. The scene then fast forwards to present day, where Debbie is playing with the board by herself &amp; is so unnerved by what she experiences that she tries to burn the board &amp; planchette before calling Laine. Concerned, Laine comes over to check up on her friend but is sent away by Debbie, who promptly goes upstairs only to find the board sitting on her bed. She looks through the board's planchette, her eyes then turn white and Debbie hangs herself. The following day Laine is spending time with her boyfriend Trevor at a diner, where they meet up with their friend Isabelle. Before long Laine receives a text message stating that she should return home, where she finds her family waiting to tell her about Debbie's death. Laine manages to make it through the funeral &amp; afterwards Debbie's mother asks her if Laine can watch the house for them while they're away, as they cannot bring themselves to remain in the house, to which Laine agrees. While house-sitting, Laine finds Debbie's Ouija board &amp; decides to gather Sarah, Trevor, Isabelle, &amp; Debbie's boyfriend Pete to hold a seance with the board. They manage to make contact with someone who is identified initially as D, which Laine immediately convinces herself and the rest of the group that it must mean Debbie is the one they are communicating with. After which, they receive the message "hi friend". Despite believing that this is Debbie, the group is too frightened to continue playing with the board. They're drawn back to the board however a couple of nights later after each person finds this message in various locations in their daily life. Upon further interaction with the board the group discovers that the spirit is not Debbie but someone identifying as DZ. Laine looks through the planchette in the hopes of seeing the ghost and sees a young girl with her mouth stitched closed, who then uses the planchette to warn the group to run from her mother, whose ghost Laine also sees while looking through the planchette. The group disbands and each heads home, only for a malicious spirit to follow Isabelle home and murder her. This causes strife between Trevor and Laine, as he believes that if she'd never held the seance then Isabelle would still be alive. They decide to research Debbie's house and finds that a young girl was placed in a mental institution after killing her mother, who she claims killed her sister, Doris, at that same location. The two travel to the institution &amp; meet Paulina Zander, who states that their mother killed Doris and sewed her mouth shut because she believed that spirits were trying to communicate through her. Trevor and Laine quickly head home &amp; unleash the spirits of Doris &amp; Mrs Zander. Doris manages to overcome her mother and the group believes that everything has been resolved. Unfortunately, this proves to be far from the case as Pete is later killed by Doris. Laine confronts Paulina about this, only to realize that Doris &amp; Paulina were the evil ones &amp; that Mrs Zander was trying to stop them. They manage to gain assistance through Laine's grandmother, who tells them that the only way to stop the ghost is to burn Doris's body &amp; the Ouija board set. This proves easier said than done and Trevor is also killed before Sarah manages to locate the corpse. Both Sarah &amp; Laine are attacked by Doris &amp; it is only through the intervention of Debbie's spirit that the girls survive &amp; manage to burn Doris's corpse &amp; the Ouija board set, destroying Doris. The two sisters return home, only for Laine to find the planchette waiting for her in her room.
After the death of her best friend Debbie who committed suicide, Laine brings her sister Sarah and convinces her friends Trevor, Isabelle and Pete (Douglas Smith) to perform a séance using a Ouija board. However they unleash evil spirits that threatens them.
How far would you go to talk to your loved ones? After the death of a friend, a group of teens begin to play the legendary ouija board in order to communicate with their friend. However they accidentally release an evil spirit, a spirit that wants all of them dead, they must find a way to put this spirit back to sleep before they all end up dead.
Debbie Galardi recalls playing Ouija with her best friend Laine Morris as children. In present day, Debbie throws her Ouija board into the fire, burning it. Debbie implies to Laine that something strange happened with the Ouija board. After Laine leaves, the Ouija board reappears in Debbie's bedroom. Debbie becomes possessed and hangs herself with Christmas lights inside her home. Laine attends Debbie's wake with her boyfriend Trevor, younger sister Sarah, friend Isabelle, and Debbie's boyfriend Pete. The five friends meet at Debbie's house and use her Ouija board to try communicating with her. Strange things happen, and a presence smashes Pete's hand and face into a mirror. Later, the friends start finding the phrase "hi friend" (a message communicated during the Ouija board session) written in different places, like Isabelle's car window, a tunnel wall, Pete's desk, and Laine's computer. Thinking Deb is trying to communicate with them, the group has another Ouija session. They then discover that they are actually in contact not with Debbie but with a spirit calling itself "DZ." Laine sees the image of a little girl with her mouth sewn shut. The girl warns them to run because her mother is coming. Laine sees an old woman, and everyone flees. Laine later learns that Deb found the Ouija board in her attic and played alone..
Laine losses her best friend in a very mysterious way. She is then challenged with a point of view to look into the dark side of things and understand why her best friend died. During this event, Laine is then challenged with unknown forces to uncover a deep dark secret about her best friend. Something in the house may have a part in the mystery of her best friends death. Or is it something else.....
In the opening scene, two young girls, named Laine and Debbie, are sitting in Laine's room playing with a Ouija board. Debbie tells Laine how to play and how to use the planchette to see any spirits. They say the mantra, "As friends we gathered, hearts are true; spirits near, we call to you." Laine looks through the planchette to spot a spirit, and is frightened when she sees someone, only it's her younger sister Sarah. She yells at Sarah to leave.In the present day, the adult Debbie (Shelley Hennig) is playing with the Ouija board by herself. She appears distressed, and she tosses the board and planchette into the furnace. She then speaks on the phone with the adult Laine (Olivia Cooke). Laine goes over to her house, and Debbie says she is not up to hanging out with her and their friends that night. Debbie mentions playing the Ouija board and feeling odd, though Laine dismisses this as her being a spaz. After Laine leaves, Debbie goes back upstairs and sees the Ouija board and planchette on her bed. She looks through the planchette, and her eyes turn white. Debbie then grabs some Christmas lights and hangs herself.The next morning, Laine is with her boyfriend Trevor (Daren Kagasoff) at a diner. They are met by their waitress friend Isabelle (Bianca A. Santos). Laine gets a text from her dad saying to go home immediately. When she gets there, Laine finds her dad, her grandmother, and Sarah (Ana Coto) gathered to inform her of what happened to Debbie.All of Debbie's loved ones gather for the wake. Laine is too shaken to be there, but she holds it together. Debbie's boyfriend Pete (Douglas Smith) arrives with some flowers. Laine goes into Debbie's room where Debbie's mother finds her. Laine breaks down and hugs her. She asks Laine to housesit for them while they are gone. Laine agrees.Laine discovers the Ouija board that Debbie was playing with. Since she cannot shake the feeling that Debbie's presence is still in the house, she gathers Sarah, Trevor, Pete, and Isabelle to Debbie's house to play with the board. They get together and say the mantra as they put their hands together on the planchette. It starts to move, which everyone thinks is Sarah moving it. The spirit implies that it is Debbie and it spells out "Hi Friend" on the board. The friends are freaked out and stop playing.Each friend is followed by the spirit. Trevor encounters it on a bike ride, leading him under a bridge where he sees "Hi Friend" written on the wall in chalk. Isabelle sees it spelled out in her car window, along with a hand slamming against it. Pete sees it carved in his desk.Thinking that Debbie is trying to communicate with them, the friends get together to play the board again. They learn that the spirit is not Debbie, but someone that identifies as DZ. Laine looks through the planchette and sees a little girl with stitches on her mouth. The spirit then spells out on the board, "Run. She's coming." Laine asks who is coming, and the spirit spells "Mother." Laine looks through the planchette and sees the girl point to an older female spirit screaming and running in her direction.In her home, Isabelle is flossing her teeth and drawing herself a bath. She then has stitches form on her mouth, and she is levitated in the air. The spirit drops her, leaving her to slam her head against the sink, killing her.Trevor is angry at Laine because she made them play the game, which led to Isabelle's death. Laine investigates Debbie's house and finds some pictures of two little girls and their mother. Trevor looks up on the internet an article on a missing girl from the same address as Debbie's home, as well as the girl's sister being taken into custody after murdering her mother.Laine goes to a mental asylum to meet Paulina Zander (Lin Shaye), the sister of Doris, the girl with the stitches on her mouth. She tells Laine that their mother believed she heard voices and saw spirits that were trying to communicate through Doris, so she sewed her mouth shut. Paulina asks Laine to find Doris's body in the house and to cut the stitches open.Laine finds Doris's corpse in Debbie's home, with her mouth still sewed shut. She cuts the stitches open, bringing Doris's spirit out, along with Mother. Doris lets out a blood-curdling scream and vanquishes Mother's spirit.Just when it seems that everything is over...IT'S NOT. Pete gets killed in his home by Doris's spirit. Laine returns to the asylum to tell Paulina that she did what she told her. Paulina smiles and says Doris is now totally free, and Laine realizes with horror that she lied and Doris's mother had been trying to stop the girls from causing harm with the spirits, which had taken over their lives. Pauline begins yelling that Laine will hear the voices too and is taken away by medics.Laine's grandmother tells Laine and Sarah that the only way to defeat the spirit is the destroy not only the Ouija board, but Doris's corpse.The girls and Trevor go to Debbie's house to finish this. Trevor gets pulled into the pool and is killed by Doris. Sarah finds Doris's corpse and is attacked by her spirit. Laine gets out the Ouija board and beckons Doris to play with her. Doris grabs Laine's arm and almost kills her, until Debbie's spirit shows up to intervene. Sarah brings Doris's corpse and throws it into the furnace. Laine throws the Ouija board and planchette, and Doris's spirit is destroyed.Laine and Sarah return home, relieved that everything is over. Laine flosses her teeth and gets ready for bed, and then finds the planchette on her desk. She picks it up and looks through it one more time.
