A true-life drama, centering on British explorer Major Percival Fawcett, who disappeared whilst searching for a mysterious city in the Amazon in the 1920s.
The Lost City of Z tells the incredible true story of British explorer Percy Fawcett, who journeys into the Amazon at the dawn of the 20th century and discovers evidence of a previously unknown, advanced civilization that may have once inhabited the region. Despite being ridiculed by the scientific establishment who regard indigenous populations as "savages," the determined Fawcett - supported by his devoted wife, son and aide de camp returns time and again to his beloved jungle in an attempt to prove his case, culminating in his mysterious disappearance in 1925.
In 1905, British Army Major Percy Fawcett is ordered by the Royal Geographical Society to venture out to a grand adventure at the uncharted and dense Bolivian jungles to act as a referee and map out the borders with Brazil. Anxiously, Fawcett, resting his reputation entirely on the venture's success as the son of a disgraced ex-military man, together with aide-de-camp Henry Costin, will set off on a dangerous mission to Amazonia, where apart from the starvation, the infernal heat, the hostile indigenous Indian tribes and the wild animals, they will also find evidence of advanced, non-white civilizations. Determined to find the impossible and the ultimate missing piece of the human puzzle, the Lost City of Z, the ambitious Fawcett will visit the lush Amazonian jungles again and again in hopes of getting closer to his dream up until his equally mysterious and ungracious disappearance near 1925.
Ireland, 1905: Percy Fawcett is a young British officer participating in a stag hunt on an Irish baronial estate for the benefit of the visiting Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria. A skilled horseman and marksman, he brings down the stag swiftly but is snubbed at the after-hunt party. A year later, Fawcett is sent to London to meet with officials of the Royal Geographical Society (RGS). The governments of Bolivia and Brazil are nearly at war over the location of their mutual boundary and its direct effect on the region's extremely lucrative rubber trade, and have asked the British government to survey it. Fawcett agrees to lead the survey party to restore his family's good name. Aboard a ship to Brazil, Fawcett meets Corporal Henry Costin, who has knowledge of the Amazon rain-forest. At a large rubber plantation in the jungle owned by the Portuguese nobleman Baron DE Gondoris, the two meet Corporal Arthur Manley, who tells them that the British government advises against further exploration. Fawcett, with several guides and the Amazonian scout Tadjui, completes the mission. Tadjui tells Fawcett stories about a jungle city covered in gold and full of people. Fawcett dismisses such stories as insane ravings, but discovers highly advanced broken pottery and some small stone statues in the jungle that convince him of the veracity of Tadjui's story..

