Superpower illustrates how the United States has leveraged its position to ensure unilateral world domination through absolute economic and military superiority and government deception.
Superpower is a well-executed and comprehensive film that asks tough questions and goes behind the scenes of America's national security apparatus and military actions. Far from a conspiracy film about the dangers of government secrets and regime change, this well-balanced film straddles the philosophical divide and allows viewers to understand the US quest for global dominance through economic and military strategy that is exposed through review of historical events, personal interviews, and analysis of US foreign policy.
The United States emerged from World War II with its industrial base still intact and the only nation with the atomic bomb. It was without question the most powerful country on earth. What was done with this unprecedented power and how it has affected the world, is the central theme of Superpower.
Superpower is controversial film that examines the US military-industrial complex about which President Dwight D. Eisenhower warned the public during his 1961 Farewell Address. This political and historical documentary film presents motives for the US foreign policy decisions since World War II, from military actions for regime change, to current legislation that is eroding American civil liberties. Viewers of this film will be informed why people in other countries see the US as an aggressor in a quest for global dominance through economic global expansion and military strategy through a review of key moments in America's history; analysis of US foreign policy; interviews with William Blum, Chalmers Johnson, Michel Chossudovsky, Noam Chomsky, Executive Producer of The Unit, Command Sergeant (Ret.) Eric Haney, former Chief Economist for the US Department of Labor, Morgan Reynolds, three-time Noble Peace Prize nominee, Kathy Kelly, Lt. Col. (Ret) Karen Kwiatkowski, and others.
