A family allows their young daughter's exorcism to be recorded secretly.
Fifteen year-old Emma Evans has an argument with her mother Lucy since she wants to go to a concert in London with her friends Rose and Alex. Emma immediately has a convulsion and her family takes her to the hospital, but the doctors do not find any physical problem. Then her father John tries to convince his wife to send Emma to school, instead of homeschooling, but she prefers to keep Emma in the family-based education. Lucy sends her daughter to the psychoanalyst believing that she has psychological problems and Emma asks her friend Rose to record her session of hypnosis though the cellular but the doctor dies during the session. When Emma listens to the tape, she believes she is possessed by the devil and asks her parents to be submitted to an exorcism with her uncle, Priest Christopher Taylor. However her skeptical mother is against the ritual and recalls that Chris was responsible for the death of a teenager, Ana, in the past in an unsuccessful exorcism. But when Emma levitates in the kitchen in front of her family, her parents call Chris.
Fifteen-year-old Emma Evans seemed like a pretty typical teenager until recently. She was restless, tired of the demands of her overprotective parents, sick of having to watch her younger brother all the time, hoping to get away somehow and have a life of her own. Suddenly, Emma's life changes in an unexpected way. She starts having frightening fits. Although her parents attribute her behavior to psychological problems, Emma senses that something much darker is hiding inside her, waiting for its time to break into the world. Desperate for answers, her parents have tried every medical test they can, but no real answers have surfaced.In the Evans' housing complex, the residents are getting frightened. Strange things have been happening that they don't understand. The source of the horror is in the Evans family. Their daughter Emma is getting sicker by the day. Desperately reaching for help, the family relies on a priest who begins to visit Emma every day. He begins hypnosis sessions with her in order to help her relax so she can better express what is troubling her. Although he wants to reassure the family that all is well, he too is getting more and more frightened. There is something dark and terrible inside Emma that won't be hiding for much longer.
