A man experiences a supernatural occurrence at his newly purchased apartment; a soap opera being telecast exclusively on his TV, which shows the future of his family.
In today's world, the major source of relief, information and entertainment is the TV. So much so, that it has moved up from its modest position of being just another 'household appliance' to actually determining the power equation in a family. It is easy to identify the hierarchy in the family depending on who controls the remote control. So what happens when the TV realizes this power and begins to take control? What happens when instead of showing you the facts, the TV, begins to show you what it wants you to see? What happens when Manohar, to his great horror, realizes that this is exactly what is happening with his wonderful family, who has just moved into their sweet new home at 13B.
Manohar shifts to a new apartment with his family.But strange incidents keep on occurring in the house such as milk getting spoil frequently which is considered a bad omen and lift not functioning only for Manohar.The female members in the family spend their afternoon by watching a family show Sab Kehriyat Hai.Manohar notices that things happening in the show are almost similar to whats happening in his house.Such has his sister graduating and his wife Priya becoming pregnant and suffering a miscarriage.When things get worst in the serial Manohar gets worried as same might happen to his family.
Manohar was enjoying his life after moving into new apartment. But little did he know that the apartment 13B has most frightening secrets to share..., and they unfold in the strangest way, a new television soap serial. Will he be too late to save his family from what the television is foretelling?
Manohar and his family, including his pretty wife, Priya; widowed mom, Sushma; sister, Kavita; brother Manoj, his wife and two children, all move into Flat 13B on the 13th floor of Chhabra Villa in Kailash Nagar. The women in the family are obsessed with Eye TV's soap 'Sab Khairiyat' and never miss a show. Manohar does not approve, but soon, too, becomes obsessed when he finds out that the soap not only mirrors their very own lives but the entire family is in danger from an unknown assailant who is determined to kill them mercilessly.
Manohar's dream condominium transforms into a house of horrors when a show on his brand-new television starts depicting his demise. A series of strange events plagues Manohar's family, with a remote control hell bent on being just that -- in control.
