A gang of bank robbers fight their way out of a zombie-infested London.
This British movie is about a group of inept criminals who decide to rob a bank so they can save their grandfather's retirement home from being demolished by developers. Meanwhile on another building site some workers dig up an old graveyard and they get bitten by the "undead" which sets off a chain reaction. Then the bank robbers are cornered by the police while in the process of the robbery, but when they exit they find that they are all dead as a result of the horde of zombies. They have to get to the retirement home before the zombies do!
In a building site in London's East End, two construction workers discover a 17th Century graveyard condemned by Charles II. After some debate, they decide to open the sealed door in search for gold or other treasure, and discover a mass grave. Shortly afterward, they are attacked and bitten by zombies, setting off a zombie outbreak in the area.Terry (Rasmus Hardiker) and his younger brother Andy (Harry Treadaway) are planning a bank robbery so they can save their grandfather Ray (Alan Ford)'s retirement home from being demolished by property developers, forcing him to move from his beloved East End to a new facility outside of London. They go to visit him, bringing along "meals on wheels" for the residents. An inspector is there, taking notes about the building. Ray tells him to leave, because he's upsetting everyone who's eating dinner by reminding them that they will be forced to leave.Along with the assistance of their cousin Katy (Michelle Ryan), hopelessly inept criminal Davey "Tuppence" (Jack Doolan) and "Mental" Mickey (Ashley Bashy Thomas) (a psychotic ex-soldier turned gun runner), the two boys head to the bank, counting on a system re-boot of the banks security cameras to cover their actions. During the robbery, the bank manager presses an emergency button and the police are alerted. Mickey forces the gang to take Emma (Georgia King) and Clive (Tony Gardner) hostage in order to escape. Upon leaving the bank, however, they find that the police have been killed by a growing horde of zombies. They quickly escape to their van, bringing a survivor with them, who quickly turns into a zombie and is thrown from the vehicle. The gang decide to go somehwere and hole up, and try to find out what's going on. Meanwhile, at the retirement home, the zombies attack the facility, killing the groundskeepers. Ray and residents Peggy (Honor Blackman), Daryl (Tony Selby), Doreen (Georgina Hale) and Eric (Dudley Sutton) take refuge in the kitchen, and begin looking for a way to either escape or hold the zombies off, believing that no one will come to rescue a bunch of old pensioners in a soon to be forclosed retirement home. He and Peggy exchange promises to kill one another if they are bitten, as neither want to be zombies.Terry's group arrive at an abandoned warehouse, where they are approached by a slow moving zombie. Mickey shoots at it while it advances on him, to no effect. Katy tells Mickey to shoot it in the head just as he is bitten by the zombie. Katie shoots it, and Mickey is left with the zombie's mouth clamped tightly to his arm. Later on, Katy tells Terry that sooner or later Mickey will turn and they will have to kill him. Meanwhile, at the retirement home, resident Hamish (Richard Briers) naps in the garden, unaware of the events that have happened. Ray yells to him to wake up, and Hamish gets to his feet and slowly heads to the door, walking with his walker...and still outpacing the pursuing zombies. Ray heads outside, kills a few zombies, and gets Hamish into the building.At their hideout, Emma pleads with Mickey and Davey to let her and Clive go, saying she does not care about their 'selfish' plans, in which Katy tells her that they are not robbing the bank for themselves, but to save the retirement home. Clive, however, continues to say he will identify them all to the police, angering Mickey. In response to Katy's revelation about their plans for the money, Mickey decides to leave the group, and takes Emma and Clive with him and ties them up. Mickey passes out and turns, after which he is promptly blown up with a hand grenade by Terry, who rescues Emma and Clive. Whilst arguing, Clive picks up Mickey's gun and threatens the group. Andy tells Clive there are zombies approaching him from behind, which he does not believe, and is promptly eaten, shooting Davey dead in the process. The rest of the group escape with plans to go to the retirement home to rescue Ray, getting away on a double-decker bus hotwired by Katy. Terry gives a gun to Emma, telling her they're all on one team now and she'll need it. She agrees, and asks if they can stop on the way they stop to look for her younger sister. Terry and Emma go to the house, but find her sister is now a zombie. Emma decides not to kill her in case a cure is found. The group decide they need more guns, so they go to Mickey's storage container and load up on assault rifles, pistols, shotguns, grenades, and ammunition.Meanwhile, at the retirement home, the zombies are close to breaking into the kitchen. Ray is angry with himself for letting he and his freinds be trapped, but they ensure him that they will all go out fighting. Terry and Andy's group arrive at the retirement home in the double decker bus. Whilst Emma distracts the zombies surrounding the building, Terry, Andy and Katy sneak up to the roof, and break in through a skylight...where they are almost stabbed by Ray, who heard the noice and thought they were zombies. Ray asks them how they will escape, the show him the huge bag of guns they brought from Mickey's store-house. He is elated, and everyone takes their weapon of choice, fighting their way free of the building to the bus, now returned to the site with Emma at the wheel. They drive off in the bus, considering where to go to get out of the zombie-held territory.On the way however, the bus breaks down and the group are forced to abandon it. They find a tour boat on the Thames which Peggy can drive. However it is still chained up. Ray decides to sacrifice himself to save the others, leaving the boat to unmoor it while telling his grandsons to get a job and make something of themselves. He unchains the boat, but is overcome by zombies. His grandchildren rush the zombies, killing them in droves, and Ray miraculously appears; he's not been bitten, and he begins killing zombies with his assault rifle. They clear the area, including killing the now zombified builiding inspector from earlier. Ray gets onto the boat with the others and escapes. On the boat, the group wonder what will happen next, and Ray tells them that they can take East London back for themselves as he shoots at zombies on the banks of the river.In this movie appears Wolf Kahler who played Ludendorff, chemist and close friend of Fritz Shimon Haber's in Haber (2008).
