A loner, Karthik achieves success, and even wins the heart of his gorgeous co-worker, after getting early morning mysterious phone calls from someone claiming to be him.
Born in Delhi, but now living in Mumbai, Karthik Narayan is a much abused employee with ACL Construction, secretly in love with leggy Architect, Shonali Mukherjee, who has been going steady with yet another co-worker, Ashish. After purchasing a new telephone, Karthik gets a call from a male voice that resembles his, who instructs him to follow directions; tell no one about this phone call, and he will achieve success. He follows these instructions, is soon promoted, as well as befriends Shonali, and continues following instructions from this caller. After Shonali makes it clear that she loves him, he breaks his promise, and is urged to seek counseling by her. He reluctantly does so with a Pyschiatrist, Dr. Shweta Kapadia, who hopes to cure him by visiting him early morning in his flat - not realizing the shock and trauma that await the duo.
Karthik is a very intelligent man but is too timid and hence taken advantage of everywhere. The only trait he lacks is self confidence. One morning onwards he receives a phone call offering him advices which really improve his life. It gets him a promotion, the respect from his colleagues and the love of the woman he had a crush on since years. The man on the phone claims to be karthik himself, he even gives him intricate details that karthik himself would've known. Who is this man? Are the phone calls real or a fiction of Karthik's imagination? Only time will tell.
Karthik has a horrific past where he was tortured by his brother as a kid even his parents didn't pay heed to it. When his brother tried to kill him he met with the faith and Karthik blames himself for it. Shonali works in the same office as Karthik and he secretly loves her. When he is bullied by his boss, he decides to commit suicide but gets a call from another end of the voice resembling him and calling himself Karthik. The caller starts helping Karthik in solving his problems and winning Shonali's love and becomes part of his life. But Karthik decides to tell about the caller to others and problems start arising in his life.

