A chambermaid and an ex-cop meet at a speed dating event and a romance develops. But during a romantic getaway things suddenly take a dark turn.
Guido (Filippo Timi), a former cop, is a luckless veteran of the speed-dating scene in Turin. But, much to his surprise, he meets Slovenian immigrant Sonia (Ksenia Rappoport), a chambermaid at a high-end hotel. The two hit it off, and a passionate romance develops. After they leave the city for a romantic getaway in the country, things suddenly take a dark turn. As Sonia's murky past resurfaces, her reality starts to crumble. Everything in her life begins to change - - questions arise and answers only arrive through a continuous twist and turn of events keeping viewers on edge until the film's final moments. THE DOUBLE HOUR, winner of Best Actress at the 2009 Venice International Film Festival, is directed by Giuseppe Capotondi.
Sonia, a beautiful Eastern European chambermaid at an upscale hotel in Turin, Italy, becomes infatuated and then begins to fall in love with an Italian ex-cop, Guido, through a speed-dating service run by wordly Marissa. Unlucky in love, recent widower Guido falls for Sonia declaring that he "was not ready for" her. Soon after their affair turns serious, Guido takes Sonia to the site of his job as a security guard for a billionaire's villa in the Italian country-side. Little did Guido know that this trip, and Guido's turning off the grounds-alarm in a selfless attempt to give Sonia a nostalgic romp in the woods, was all part of - and the very point of - Sonia's master plan to - along with her real, and long time, boyfriend - expertly steal everything of value in Guido's employer's villa.Subsequent to the final crate of valuables being loaded into bogus moving vans, Guido heroically makes a play for the robber's gun - and is shot. The bullet passes through his body and imbeds in Sonia's forehead non-fatally injuring her and causing her to go into a coma during which Sonia experiences surrealistic and cathartic experiences and revelations. Upon awakening, Sonia finds that unlike in her comatose dream, Guido is alive and well. Guido is in a hospital looking after her. Sonia is left with the choice of staying with Guido - who "saved" her - or staying with the master plan.Unlike most American "alls-well-that-ends-well" stories. Sonia stiffs Guido, who by that time has snapped to her deceit with the help of his cop buddy Dante's cynicism and with Marissa's final piece of the puzzle. Guido witnesses the calousness of her crime against the billionaire and her worse crime againts him - in betraying his love. But in true European fatalistic fashion, allows her to eascape.and go to Buenos Aires with her long time lover to live happily - if larcenously - ever after.
