A brilliant scientist builds a humanoid robot to protect mankind, but things go awry when human emotions are programmed and inner turmoil causes the robot to act against him.
Dr. Vasi (Rajnikanth) invents a super-powered robot, Chitti, in his own image. The scientific body, AIRD, that must approve the robot, declines it based on its not having emotions and the ability to make rational judgment. A sudden flash of lightning evokes emotions in the robot, and Chitti is seemingly ready for integration into the human world. Then, Chitti falls in love with Dr. Vasi's fiancée Sana (Aishwarya Rai) and turns on his creator.
Chennai-based Dr. K. Vaseegaran spends day and night in constructing a human-android, and after many trials and errors does succeed in creating one in his own image. His girlfriend, Sana, decides to name him Chitti, and is very impressed by the way he not only rescues her from goons on a train, but also a woman from a fiery building; delivers a baby in the maternal ward of a hospital; and instructs mosquito's to keep away from her. Impressed by these turn of events, Vaseegaran decides to make Chitti more human by letting him feel emotions - this results in the latter not only rebelling but also getting obsessed with Sana and embarrassing the couple on the occasion of their formal engagement. Furious at these turn of events, Vaseegaran terminates Chitti and has it disposed off. But Dr. Bohra, who expects to net millions by such an android, reconstructs Chitti with a different chip - with results that will enable it to assist him to re-produce more such androids - as well as give the now malevolent, virtually indestructible and unstoppable Chitti the freedom to pursue Sana and re-populate Earth with a new species - Robo-Sapiens!!
Vaseegaran has spent years on making a human Robot staying away from his family and fiance Sana.When he completes the project he gets him home where his mother names him Chitti.Vaseegaran introduces Sana to Chitti and he helps her in many ways.Proffesor Bohra mentor of Vaseegaran is working on similar project but is unsuccessful.During evaluation he fails Chitti claiming it to just be a machine without any feelings.Vaseegaran then starts to work on Chitti in process of developing feelings towards women.After Chitti starts developing feelings towards human he starts to fall in love with Sana.Vaseegaran sees his project failing and destroys Chitti.Bohra takes advantage of this and re creates Chitti but to cause destruction.
Location Chennai 2010
Mission Creating a andro-humanoid robot Chitti
Purpose to help the society
Development time 10 years
Configurations Speed One terra hz, memory one zeta byte, processor Pentium ultra core millennia V2, FHP 450 motor from Hirata, Japan
Special Features A human who is not born but is created. He can dance, sing, fight, is water and fire resistant. He can do all that a human can and more. He feeds on electricity. He takes instructions literally. Where a human can lie to save himself this andro-humanoid robot Chitti cannot lie.
Troubleshooting Where he has a razor sharp memory and can memorize an entire telephone directory by just running through the pages, he cannot understand human emotions. Dr. Vasi upgrades Chitti's processor and simulates human emotions without realizing the repercussions. Chitti gets transformed. He can now feel, and the first feeling that he discovers is love.
Will this love come in the way of Dr. Vasi's purpose of creating Chitti?
Will Dr. Vasi's own creation destroy him?
