Six years after an affair with the 15-year old daughter of the pastor who was his mentor, a former youth minister, now an ex-con and recovering addict, returns to his hometown seeking a chance to start his life over, only to find that his past will not let him go.
Available on Amazon.comJames is finally set free from prison after 6 years and decides to go back to his hometown. After arriving he pulls down a flier from a light pole and finds a job as a dishwasher in a local restaurant. There he makes friends with the owner who just so happens to know someone at a nearby shelter. After work he drives James to it and drops him off telling him to mention his name to the person there (which he never does). The rent is 100 a week *nearly rent in someplaces* and he seems fine with paying it oddly enough. Later James is woken up and told someone is there to see him *I thought she knew his boss?* His boss gladly drives him to work and tells him to get an alarm clock *he never does from what I can tell* and then things proceed smoothly. He also begins dating one of the waitresses there whom he first encountered when looking for work. She is very cute and lonely due to a mental illness her mother has which we learn of later. James and Lily are slow going but eventually they become a semi-couple. Ironically the very girl he was accused of raping Jessica. Through flashbacks and what we are told Jessica was intimidated into lying during James trial and basically made him sound like a monster. We see the real truth with her instigating things at the start and how the 2 of them become closer naturally. Later when Lily finds out she is furious and upset beyond words, she bangs on his door and demands to know what's going on. James is confused and uncertain how to proceed with his life at this point, she also ends up hitting him violently and he falls down. He lets her get away with it but it just shows everyone has some violence in them which is what the film is about. Whether it's direct or indirect (the registry being used to torment people). Jessica is having dinner with her parents and discussing the past while her very controlling boyfriend begins questioning her about why she was in the city that day. He then excuses himself and Jessica sits with her family while her dad questions her much like a little girl being reprimanded for having a life. When going home the boyfriend questions Jessica if she's seen James at all and she admits to it indirectly. You can get a sense that Jessica is very empty and lonely after her empty life. Later James approaches Lily and tries to convince her he is not that person portrayed on the poster she found in town. Someone had earlier posted on light poles all around town a picture of James saying he's a rapist and to call 911 if any altercations occur. Of course it doesn't say "only if he starts altercations" so basically someone could come up irate and begin messing with him then call 911 saying he started it all! Jessicas boyfriend decides to leave because he doesn't want to be in a loveless relationship which is normal. Meanwhile James goes home to find his parents are the ones posting the rapist fliers all around town and trying to destroy his life or what he's trying to accomplish. His parents clearly in denial that someone could be in a relationship at 15 willingly (high-school, European countries, etc.) show otherwise. Later James boss believes he is stealing and fires him but Lily tries to confess instead but her boss doesn't believe her. James is confused and can't understand who is stealing, is it a ruse to get rid of a known sex offender? With James fired he no longer had money or a reason to go on living, he ends up going home with Lily and she cries uncontrollably for being utterly confused about the entire fiasco. We are then shown Jessica and her dad banging on her door, she doesn't answer because she's thinking of the past. She finally caves in and lets him in, they are actually at his house now weird. Anyways her parents are all urging her to call who I thought was a boyfriend but turns out to be her husband. Jessica really didn't like the guy she married her parents did, meanwhile her dad goes to see and confront James but the truth is he owes him an apology and should go public with the fiasco. With Jessica's dad Paul arrives to James apartment trying to force James to leave town. It is revealed Paul most likely got James parents to post the fliers. James reveals in this instant Jessica and he believed it was gods plan for them to be together. Confronted with this idea Paul collapses and falls down the stairs, he is breaking but not yet broken. Meanwhile Lily is shown packing while James sits drinking a coffee and smoking. She is packing her stuff up and he is packing his too. James has a new visitor, it's Jessica! She is surprised by his homes look and she is going to leave town now too. She has no idea where she'll go neither does James. Jessica sees he has her letters still and she is very upset by it, she knows she still loves James and feels cheated by everyone around her. She asks him if now there is some way they could be together, she is very sad. He hugs her and she realizes so much in that moment, how she missed him, has been living a lie, and she says "I should let you go". She then says "goodbye James." and he tells her "you can have the life you want." This is odd since she walks out and leaves him alone! Lily is shown moving things out of her apartment and Jessica is shown leaving town. Lily sees James sitting there waiting for her and she walks up to talk with him, he looks at her and she looks at him seemingly over her attitude. Jessica boards a bus to Chicago and Lily/James are shown moving out of town together and we see James is ready to move on from the town, his parents, Paul, and Jessica. We see a cityscape and the movie ends.
