Unfortunately, the 14th Dalai Lama and the Tibetan people receive little political support in their drive to put an end to the Chinese brutal regime, as international governments are seemingly motivated by economic interests in China. The lack of progress toward a free, or even a truly autonomous Tibet, urges more and more young Tibetans to consider alternatives to the Dalai Lama's Middle Way Policy, a compromise on Tibet's Independence. The controversial discussion about the right strategy for achieving a free Tibet - non-violent or violent, autonomy or complete independence - is becoming more emotionally charged day by day. Monks have been leading Tibet and Tibetans for generations, not only in religious, but also in worldly matters. But monks have vows that bind them. And often those vows conflict with the needs of politics. The Tibetan movement today is divided and weakened by an ongoing argument whether the Dalai Lama"s Middle Way Policy is the right strategy or not. Tibetans are torn between their religious beliefs and their desire to free their homeland. In November 2008, the Dalai Lama acknowledged for the first time the failure of his policy and that the situation for Tibetans in Tibet has worsened. His unprecedented call for a special meeting upon 500 Tibetan leaders from all over the world led to a discussion about the future of the movement and a way to re-unite all Tibetans behind one goal.
Forty years after the beginning of the Chinese invasion, His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama compromised in the late 80s on the idea of a free Tibet and offered China the option of a genuine autonomy instead. This adjustment in approach was the beginning of a conflict that is tearing apart Tibetans inside and outside Tibet. The Dalai Lama is without question the leader of all Tibetans. However, they also desire freedom and independence more than anything else.Seven years in the making, When The Dragon Swallowed The Sun shows an unprecedented inside perspective on the Tibetan community in exile, its young generation and their struggle to free their homeland Tibet. In full HD quality, this film reveals an internal conflict that has been dividing Tibetans and hindering their movement for decades. It also provides scenes from India, Beijing and Chinese occupied Lhasa (Tibets capital) that have never been filmed before in such quality.Also for the first time, this film introduces the only officially recognized descendant of the Great Religious Kings of Tibet. Continuing a 1400 year old lineage, 18 year old Lhagyari Trichen Namgyal Wangchuk was crowned by His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama in June 2004 in Dharamsala, India. With exclusive footage from the coronation, intimate interviews and access to the familys archive material, When The Dragon Swallowed The Sun explores the struggle of a young Tibetan King alongside the peers of his generation. It reveals for the first time how they try to reflect on their history while they redefine their identities in this new world of shifting politics and changing religious devotion.With the countdown to the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games and the controversy about the Olympic torch route as the backdrop, the film uses exclusive interviews and breathtaking environmental footage. The audience is given a rare experience of being part of a movement that takes place within some of the most spectacular sites in the world.
