John and Molly, a divorced middle aged man and a single mother meet at a friends party and start up a small relationship, all John has to do now is meet Molly's son... Cyrus
With John's social life at a standstill and his ex-wife about to get remarried, a down on his luck divorcé finally meets the woman of his dreams, only to discover she has another man in her life - her son. Still single seven years after the breakup of his marriage, John has all but given up on romance. But at the urging of his ex-wife and best friend Jamie, John grudgingly agrees to join her and her fiancé Tim at a party. To his and everyone else's surprise, he actually manages to meet someone: the gorgeous and spirited Molly. Their chemistry is immediate. The relationship takes off quickly but Molly is oddly reluctant to take the relationship beyond John's house. Perplexed, he follows her home and discovers the other man in Molly's life: her son, Cyrus. A 21-year-old new age musician, Cyrus is his mom's best friend and shares an unconventional relationship with her. Cyrus will go to any lengths to protect Molly and is definitely not ready to share her with anyone, especially John. Before long, the two are locked in a battle of wits for the woman they both love-and it appears only one man can be left standing when it's over.
John is a sad-sack of a man, that state which he wears openly on his sleeve. This phase of his life led to the dissolution of his marriage to Jamie seven years ago, she who left him. That depressed perspective takes another hit when Jamie, who he still treats as his primary confidante, tells him that she is getting remarried to a man named Tim. To get John out of his funk for at least one night, Jamie and Tim invite him along with them to a party where they encourage him to socialize with the plethora of fun women who they promise will be there. Against the odds, John, openly lamenting about his depressed state and the reason why, does make a connection with beautiful Molly. What Molly likes about John is how open and honest he is about himself and what he wants, which leads to John not following the regular social conventions of dating in his pursuit of her. Molly, while seeming to like John, is in full non-disclosure about something about her own what she states complicated life that is making her keep her distance to a degree. John does find out that that complication is Molly's unusual relationship with her twenty-two year old son, Cyrus, who still lives with her and upon who she dotes. Molly's treatment of Cyrus is because of his sensitivity about life in general. However, John finds that Cyrus, truly an adult in many respects, openly welcomes him into their house and into their lives. John eventually finds that what Cyrus portrays on the surface and what he is truly feeling and thus manipulating are two different things, Cyrus whose every action is in an effort to get John out of their lives while making it look like it's all John's fault. As John is truly falling in love with Molly and she for him, John has to decide if Molly is worth the battle with Cyrus, and if so how best to handle the situation in what could easily be Molly needing to take a side, which more than likely would be on her son's.

