After watching their respective partners die, a New Orleans hitman and a Washington, D.C. detective form an alliance in order to bring down their common enemy.
In New Orleans, the hit men James Bonomo, a.k.a. Jimmy Bobo, and Louis Blanchard execute the dirty cop Hank Greely in a hotel room. But they are betrayed and Louis is stabbed in a bar by the mercenary Keegan while waiting for the payment of the contract. Meanwhile the Washington D.C. police detective Taylor Kwon comes to New Orleans to investigate the murder of Greely, who had stolen evidences from the Police Department. Soon he is shot by two dirty detectives but Jimmy saves his life. Jimmy brings Taylor to the shop of his daughter Lisa and she removes the bullet from his shoulder and nurses him. Taylor and Jimmy form the most unlikely partnership to investigate the crimes and after contacting the intermediate Ronnie Earl that had hired Jimmy and Louis, they discover a network of corruption formed by the lawyer Marcus Baptiste and the entrepreneur Robert Nkomo Morel.
Battle-scarred New Orleans hit-man James Bonomo (Stallone) and his longtime partner Louis (Jon Seda) have just executed their latest hit, a cop named Hank Greely (Holt McCallany) when Louis is killed by hulking enforcer Keegan (Jason Momoa) before they can get paid. In the wake of a failed attempt on Bonomo's life as well, Keegan flees the scene, but not before his intended target gets a good look at his face. Meanwhile, Korean NYPD cop Taylor Kwon (Sung Kang) shows up in town determined to find out who killed Greely, his former partner. When Kwon tracks Bonomo down to find out who hired him, both realize that their best hope for catching their respective partners' killers is to team up. Before long, their trail of clues has led them to sleazy lawyer Marcus Baptiste (Christian Slater), who is currently caught up in some shady business dealings with the mysterious and powerful Robert Nkomo Morel (Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje) that could implicate some serious power players in Washington, D.C. Now each new move that Bonomo and Kwon make could be their last, and as the cop does his best to stay on the right side of the law, the killer uses the only tactics he knows to get results. But even if they manage to get their man, that doesn't change the fact that they'll have to deal with one another once they've taken down their target..
After taking down a routine mark, the hardened New Orleans assassin, Jimmy Bobo, witnesses the gruesome death of his partner by the hand of the unstoppable former mercenary, Keegan. As the out-of-town detective, Taylor Kwon, is trying to piece together the scarce information, Jimmy will have no other choice but to team up with the Korean cop to get to the bottom of it--a difficult decision that will drag the unlikely pair deep into the city's criminal underworld. Both men know that, eventually, they will have to come face to face; however, they must first finish the job. Whose name is written on the next bullet?

