A man's affair with his family's housemaid leads to dark consequences.
Eun-yi is a playful young woman, a good match for a job as nanny to a precocious child, Nami, the daughter of a wealthy couple, Hae-ra and Hoon. Hae-ra will soon have twins as well. The majordomo, Mrs. Cho, is the household's cold stone center. Before long, Hoon seduces Eun-yi, and when Mrs. Cho tells Hae-ra's mother about the affair, Eun-yi is up against women with wealth, power, and no conscience. Can Eun-yi maintain her dignity and perhaps even put the family in their place?
Mrs. Cho, the majordomo for wealthy young couple Goh Hoon and Goh Hae-ra, dislikes her job. She treats it in a cold, straightforward fashion, while slyly tries to take whatever advantage she can out of the Goh's lavish lifestyle. Because Hae-ra is pregnant with twins - which would be the Goh's second and third children - Mrs. Goh is tasked with hiring a housemaid whose duties largely would be to take care of the Goh's young daughter, Nami, help Hae-ra with the pregnancy, take care of the twins when born, and cook and serve meals. Mrs. Goh hires Lee Eun-yi, a young woman who works at a street food stall. After being ensconced in the job and the household, Eun-yi, who likes the job, succumbs to Hoon's sexual advances, the two who begin an affair directed solely by Hoon, and which results in Eun-yi getting pregnant. All the adult women of the house - Hae-ra, Hae-ra's mother, and Mrs. Goh - end up finding about the affair and the pregnancy. Each of the three has a slightly different reaction to the news, and what they believe they need to do to restore what was the on the surface family harmony. In turn, Hoon and more importantly Eun-yi, have their own responses to what is happening in the house.
Eun-yi, a middle-aged divorcee, is hired as an upper class family housemaid. But soon enough, master of the house Hoon takes advantage of his social position by slipping into her sheets. Hoon's visits become frequent and Byung-sik, an old housemaid, reports the affair to Hae-ra's mother, Mi-hee, who plots to give Hae-ra the control over her husband. Soon Eun-yi miraculously becomes pregnant and wants to keep the baby. This is discovered by the family and she's forced to have an abortion by Mi-hee despite Eun-yi's plea to let her keep the baby and leave the house. Mi-hee's plot backfires when Hoon scrutinizes her for terminating his child, even if that child is conceived illegitimately. Her forced abortion turns Eun-yi's mental condition for the worst and she decides to take the matter into her own hands.
