A man trapped in a car wreck at the bottom of a ravine must overcome incredible odds to survive.
A man awakens in a mangled car-wreck at the bottom of a steep cliff. Injured and trapped inside, with no memory of how he got there or who he is, he must rely on his most primal instincts to survive. But as he attempts to free himself from the carnage and escape an impossible situation, a darker side is revealed. Even if he manages to survive, the man may have to face the horrible consequences of an earlier, forgotten life.
A man awakes amnesic in a wrecked car in the woods with his leg trapped in the front panel. Sooner he finds that he is in a inhospitable area with wild animals surrounding him and that there is a dead man on the back seat and another one on the land. When he listens to the news on the radio, he learns that three armed and dangerous men had heisted a bank and killed the security guard. The man finally releases his leg from the panel and finds the stolen money in the trunk; then he concludes he is the third thief. He unsuccessfully tries to find a way out of the jungle while he has flashes of recollections of his past.
Man wakes up in a car crash in a ravine and no longer remember anything. His leg is stuck and help isn't on the way. He spends a couple of nights and days alone in the car in which he sees a man on the hill watching him from afar. Eventually he gets out of the car but his leg is severely wounded. He places a splint on his leg and looks around the car he finds a mobile phone - no service and in the boot he finds a duffel bag full of money. He attempts to climb up the hill to freedom. When he is away from the car a man comes and takes the money from the boot our main character calls for help but is rewarded with thief raising his pistol to the man and leaving. The man from the car crash now goes back through the forest to try and escape. In his journey he befriends a dog, at night by the fire he tells the dog about how he used to have a dog called duke when he mentions the name duke the dog immediately turns his head and looks at the man. Through his travels there is a girl watching but she is not in the forest only in his memory after getting swept away trying to cross a river the whole time keeping the mobile phone dry he finds himself back on land and continues trying to get out of the forest.He is back at the car crash. The girl is there and he gets in a fight with her. He shoots her through the head and realises that she was never really there. He begins to have flashbacks of a bank robbery. He starts to climb up the mountain with the dog following him. He gets to the top and finds a road overjoyed he pulls himself to the top of the hill and rests. He recalls that he was, in-fact, held hostage in the bank robbery and that the girl he has been imagining is his girlfriend. He calls for help as his phone now has reception a sheriff is there to pick him up quickly. He asks the sherif to take the dog with them - the sherif simply replies, "there's no dog." As the man buckles up in the sheriff car he remembers that as the bank robbers car drove along the mountain rode with him as hostage he buckled his seatbelt and grabbed the wheel - running them off the road and crashing the car.
