A strange man with otherworldly talents becomes both a friend and a pariah in a small Turkish town in this drama from writer and director Reha Erdem. Yahya is nearly in a panic when his young son falls into the river on a wintry day and looks lifeless when he's pulled from the water. But a stranger appears out of nowhere and takes the boy in his arms, and suddenly the child is breathing and perfectly healthy again. Yahya and his teenage daughter Neptun are grateful to the stranger, who they discover is named Kosmos, and they bring him into town, where they offer to find him a place to stay. But Kosmos, who often prefers to communicate in inarticulate noises, doesn't care for his new accommodations, and he develops a bad reputation for his habit of stealing things, his strange diet (consisting entirely of sweets), and his desire to bed as many women as possible, including Neptun. Kosmos is on the verge of being driven from the village when it's discovered that he can heal himself at will, and others as well; folks eager to have their loved ones made well again struggle to put up with Kosmos's strange ways in exchange for having a man of his talents in the community.
Kosmos is a thief who works miracles. He arrives in this timeless border town from the wilds weeping, as though a fugitive. No sooner is he there than he rescues a small boy from drowning in the river, and is recognized as a man who works miracles. Kosmos, is a rather uncommon person. He never appears to eat nor sleep. His single form of nourishment is the granulated or lump sugar he consumes by the fistful. One of his more striking skills is the ability to scale the tallest trees with uncommon agility. He is also frank in declaring his wish that startles the townspeople: He is looking for love. Soon Kosmos and Neptün, the teenager sister of the rescued boy, grow closer in the most bizarre of ways: imitating the screech of birds in trees and on rooftops.Following Kosmos arrival, theres a sudden rash of robberies among the towns smaller stores. Robberies and miracles follow in quick succession, and in a short time the townspeople learn that Kosmos has a gift of curing people. All the afflicted and the sick troop off after him. Yet a series of unpleasant incidents will lead everyone to fleeing from him. And at the end he will have no other choice but to take flight from the timeless border town, and leave weeping as he did when he arrived.
