The story of Ruby, 13, determined to grow up fast after her mother runs away to become a movie star, leaving Ruby with her hopelessly rural father.
Grown Up Movie Star tells the story of disgraced NHL star Ray and his precocious daughters Ruby and Rose. Once the town hero, Ray has returned home to Newfoundland from the US following a drug conviction, only to have his wife Lillian leave him for another man and aspirations of stardom. With Lillian gone, Ray flails from woman to woman trying to find a replacement for her, while struggling against a growing awareness of his homosexuality. At loose ends for lack of guidance, Ruby is becoming increasingly curious about her own sexuality and, in a desperate plea for attention, putting herself in increasingly risky situations. Ruby begins spending more and more time with Ray's best friend Stuart, confined to a wheelchair following an accident involving Ray. When Stuart finds himself attracted to Ruby, dangerously motivated by fear and anger, he leads the three of them towards a heartbreaking conclusion.
Forty-two year old Ray Fry was once the pride of Pouch Cove, NL as an NHL'er. However, Ray only played one game, before he was fired for being caught smuggling marijuana from the US back into Canada. With this drug conviction, he is not allowed back into the US. He has long returned to Pouch Cove, living with his mid-teen daughter Ruby and pre-teen daughter Rose, his wife Lillian who has just left him and them to move to Hollywood to become an actress. Although he loves his daughters, Ray is an irresponsible father, who would rather spend time with his wheelchair-bound best friend, Stuart Walsh, doing typical guy things. Stuart is trying to eke out a life as a photographer following what was his accidental shooting. Following an incident involving Ray, Ruby, who is just reaching her sexual awakening, decides boldly yet awkwardly to test that sexuality with a variety of people. Ruby's attempts to be what she considers an adult without not really knowing what that means in combination with Ray coming to terms with the many personal relationships in his life leads to issues, which have been bubbling under the surface for quite some time in the Fry family, coming to light.

