When Brent turns down his classmate Lola's invitation to the prom, she concocts a wildly violent plan for revenge.
In order to avoid a ghostly figure in the road, high school senior Brent Mitchell wraps his car around a tree, killing his father. Constantly confronted by his mother's emotional collapse after the accident, Brent escapes into a marijuana fueled world of loud metal music to block the pain and guilt. Dejected and out of sorts, he has a shot at happiness with his girlfriend Holly, a grounded, caring girl with drop dead good looks, a dream date for the high school prom. But his plans are thwarted by a disturbing series of events that take place under a mirrored disco ball, involving pink satin, glitter, syringes, nails, power drills and a secret admirer. Brent has become the prom king at a macabre, sadistic event where he is the entertainment.
On a bright and sunny day, one high school senior's happy life soon changes in a flash. Attempting to avoid a bloody figure in the road, Brent Mitchell swerves his car around a tree, killing his father. Constantly confronted by the guilt of his father's death and his mother's emotional collapse after the accident, Brent escapes into a marijuana-fueled world of loud metal music to block out the pain and guilt from within. Dejected and out of sorts, he has one shot at happiness with his girlfriend Holly, a grounded, caring, and loving girl with good looks that can drop people dead; a perfect dream date for his high school prom. However, his plans are thwarted by an untimely kidnapping leading up to a disturbing series of events that take place under a mirrored disco ball, involving pink satin, glitter, syringes, nails, power drills and an obsessed secret admirer assisted by her father. Brent has become the prom king at a twisted, sadistic event where he is the entertainment. Will he be able to escape, or will he be trapped forever by his deathly admirer's hand?
Brent (Xavier Samuel) is driving with his father in the passenger seat, when a bloodied man appears in the middle of the road. Swerving to avoid hitting the man, Brent's vehicle collides with a tree. Six months later, Brent is planning to attend a high school dance with girlfriend Holly (Victoria Thaine), having refused an offer by Lola Stone (Robin McLeavy). Holly drives the pair on account of the car crash: it is revealed that Brent's father died in the accident. Wracked with guilt, Brent has turned to drug abuse and self-mutilates with a razor blade he keeps on a necklace.While listening to music, Brent is attacked from behind. Bound to a chair, he wakes up at Lola's house sitting at a table with Lola, her father (John Brumpton), and a lobotomized woman they call Bright Eyes (Anne Scott-Pendlebury). Lola's father has turned his house into a dance for his daughter. Lola takes a syringe and fills it with bleach and injects it into Brent's voice box making him unable to scream or talk. She begins torturing Brent by forcing him to suck on her finger and threatening to nail his penis to the chair when he can't urinate. When she makes a threatening comment about Holly, Brent kicks Lola and manages to escape. Lola's father chases Brent up a tree, where he and Lola hurl rocks at Brent, knocking him down. The two bring Brent back inside, and fix his feet to the floor with knives. Lola reveals via a scrap book that she has been abducting many boys throughout her life, including the bloody man Brent saw which made him swerve and kill his father. Lola then "draws" on Brent by carving a heart with "L S" in the middle on his chest, which she liberally throws salt on.After being crowned Queen of her dance, Lola admits to Brent that she is looking for her prince, which isn't Brent as he is "just another frog". However, Lola confides in her father that he himself is her prince. Afterward, Daddy lifts the carpet to reveal a secret trapdoor with the previous abductees still inside. Lola drills a hole through Brent's skull as they intend to lobotomize him like their other captives. But when Lola complains that the hole is too small for her to pour boiling water into, Brent slashes her father with his pendant necklace. Brent then attacks Daddy, stabbing him repeatedly in the neck with the knives Brent pulled out of his feet. Lola jumps on Brent and tries to hit him, but Brent knocks her out. Brent then pushes Lola's dad into the pit, where he watches in horror as the near-starved captives eat Daddy. Lola gets up and throws Brent in, throwing nearby objects at him in anger. Brent finds a flashlight and hammer that Lola had thrown down, and kills the abductees as they advance on him. Lola then goes and smothers Bright Eyes with a pillow, revealing that the woman is her mother.On a hunch, Holly calls a policeman in the neighborhood. When he gets to Lola's house, he sees through a window the bloody floor and chair and breaks in. Brent in an attempt to attract the policeman's attention makes noises by throwing objects at the doors, alerting the policeman of his presence. But when he opens the doors, Lola appears behind the policeman and Brent can't say anything to warn him. Lola drives a meat cleaver into his face and the policeman falls down, dropping his gun. Brent attempts to shoot Lola, but she quickly moves out of the way where she finds Brent's necklace. She then informs Brent that she is going to go to his house and kill mother and Holly for what he did. Brent notices a large pile of bones in the pit. Using them, as well as the bodies, he manages to climb out.Lola begins walking on the road with a knife and her scrap book when she sees a car advance. It's shown to be Holly, so Lola hides and throws her book at the windshield, distracting Holly so she stops. She then attempts to kill Holly, but Holly evades Lola and a chase ensues. Brent is seen driving the police car fast attempting to catch up with Lola. He sees Holly and nearly hits her but swerves and hits Lola instead. Holly clambers into the police car, and is shocked to see Brent. The two embrace tearfully as Lola, severely injured but still not dead, crawls to kill the pair. They hear the noise of Lola's knife as she drags herself and Brent reverses the car, striking Lola in the head.
