Sean Anderson partners with his mom's husband on a mission to find his grandfather, who is thought to be missing on a mythical island.
Ever since his adventure in the center of the Earth, Sean Anderson has been looking for other places mentioned by Verne and other Vernians. He is notified about a coded message, and breaks into a satellite facility to fully receive it. With the help from his stepfather Hank (Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson) he decodes the message leading him to find the map that leads him to Verne's mysterious island. Along with Gabato and Kailani, Sean embarks on a mission to find his grandfather, the legendary Vernian Alexander. But unexpected problems arise as Alexander made a mistake that could change everything.
After travelling to the center of the Earth, Sean Anderson, now seventeen, has been at the usual teen schemes lately. His latest crime lands him to finding something extraordinary, a key to a chunk of land in the Pacific Ocean. Sean teams up with his stepfather, Hank, to get there, and they meet an overeager chopper pilot, and his teenage daughter, to get to Sean's grandfather, Alexander, only to discover the mysterious island.
After going to the center of the Earth, seventeen-year-old Sean Andeson goes on a journey to find The Mysterious Island, a legend discovered by Jules Verne. Assisted by his stepfather, Hank, the pair team up with a helicopter pilot and his beautiful daughter to find Sean's lost grandfather, whom Sean believes is on the island. The team encounters monsters, witty remarks, and a deadly conflict along the way.
Seventeen-year-old Sean Anderson receives a coded distress signal from a mysterious island where no island should exist. Unable to stop tracking the signal, he sets out with a small group on a journey to the mysterious island, a place few people have ever seen or lived to tell about. What they find is an island of stunning beauty, strange and threatening life forms, volcanoes, mountains of gold, and more than one astonishing secret.
17-year-old Sean Anderson receives a coded distress signal from a mysterious island where no island should exist.Unable to stop him from tracking the signal to its source, Sean's new stepfather, Hank, joins the quest that will take them first to the South Pacific, and then to a place few people have ever seen. Or lived to tell about. It's a place of stunning beauty, strange and threatening life forms, volcanoes, mountains of gold and more than one astonishing secret.Together with Gabato, the only helicopter pilot willing to risk the trip, and Gabato's beautiful, strong-willed daughter Kailani, they set out to find the island, rescue its lone human inhabitant and escape before seismic shockwaves force the island underwater and bury its treasures forever.
