A man who stops into a foster home to drop off some donations soon tells the kids a story about two teenage friends who uncover a long-lost medallion that transports them back in time.
Archaeologist Dr. Michael Stone looked for the lost medallion his entire life, and now his son Billy has taken up the search. Amazingly, the medallion ends up in Billy's hands and a spontaneous wish in a precarious situation takes him and his best friend Allie back 200 years to what they realize is a very different Aumakua Island. When Billy and his friends are not jumping off waterfalls, avoiding animal traps, crossing the ocean, sneaking through caves or escaping a prison, they're facing their nemesis Cobra, who wants nothing more than for them all to disappear. With no other way to get home, and the well-being of the entire island resting on his shoulders, Billy must discover the key to reclaiming the medallion and its tremendous power. One way or another, this adventure will change Billy and life on the island forever.
A man visiting a foster home thrills the children who live there with the exciting tale of a young adventurer who embarks on an incredible journey through time. Daniel Anderson (Alex Kendrick) was just dropping off some donations at a local foster home when the wide-eyed youngsters asked to hear a story. Never one to disappoint, Daniel weaves a fantastical yarn centered on the story of young teens Billy (Billy Unger) and Allie (Sammi Hanratty), who are both thrust back in time after happening upon a mythical medallion. Now, in order to defeat the diabolical warlord Cobra (Mark Dacascos) and free the peaceful islanders he has enslaved, Billy and Allie must seek the help of a brash young king (Jansen Panettiere) and an old sage (James Hong). But even if Billy and Allie succeed, getting back home will be the adventure of a lifetime..
The journey of The Lost Medallion begins as Daniel Anderson (Kendrick) visits a foster home to drop off a donation and is quickly roped into telling the kids a story. Daniel tells the tale of Billy Stone (Billy Unger Lab Ratson Disney XD, American Treasure, You Again) and Allie (Sammi Hanratty- American Girl, A Christmas Carol), two 13-year old friends who uncover a long-lost medallion and accidentally wish themselves back in time.
In order for Billy to save Allie's life, he must give up the lost medallion to Cobra (Dacascos), who rules the island and its people. In order to retrieve the medallion and save the island people from slavery, Billie and Allie must work together with a young arrogant king (Jansen Panettiere- The Perfect Game), the king's best friend (William Corkery), and a wise old man (James Hong- Kung Fu Panda, Chinatown, Blade Runner), who guides their way.
The Lost Medallion will hit theaters nationwide on March 1, 2013 and has already started to develop a following through its "Medallion Squads." These groups are being established in local communities across the country to bring the film's positive message to audiences nationwide. For more information about The Lost Medallion and to access the official movie trailer, please visit www.TheLostMedallion.com.
We look forward to talking with you about the vision behind The Lost Medallion and the numerous ways we can work together to help spread the word about this exciting new family-friendly film.
