New love convinces a struggling actor and dancer to enter a talent competition that could make him a superstar.
Delhi-based Mrs. Behl believes her son, Sameer, will make a mark for himself as a Bollywood hero much to the chagrin of her husband. Believing his mother, who subsequently passes away, Sameer relocates to Mumbai, ends up auditioning numerous times, nearly makes it but is replaced at the 11th hour. Despite working as a courier delivery-man, he is unable to pay his rent and is evicted by his landlord's brother. He ends up as Dance Teacher in Model High School, sneaks every morning into the school to use it's facilities and lives in his car while romancing cute choreographer Tina Sharma. Meeting Rajeev Sharma, he is promised a lead role in a movie but later finds he has to compete in a nation-wide contest. Disillusioned at this rejection, he despairs but is encouraged by Tina. It is then he receives bad news about his dad and decides he must return immediately, perhaps never to fulfill his late mother's dream.
Sameer Behl (Shahid Kapoor) comes to Mumbai with Bollywood dreams, struggles through the day as a courier boy, and keeps failing in auditions for advertisements. More stereotypes are stuffed in as he refuses to take help from his dad in Delhi, is thrown out from his rented flat by the landlord, and comes away with his calculative companion. One day, a movie director named Rajeev Sharma (Mohnish Behl) sees Sameer dancing and calls him to his office. Soon, Sameer is signed as the male lead in his film, and his friend Tina (Genelia D'Souza) is selected as the choreographer on the same project. Homeless, Sameer sleeps in his car and works as a dance teacher in a school. Subsequently, Sameer loses his film and is disillusioned. Tina finds this out and asks him how he can spend his life like this. After some time, Tina tells him that she also quit the film and did not want to be the choreographer for that film because she saw him upset. Sameer realizes the love Tina had for him. Tina encourages him to participate in a television talent-hunt show, the winner of which will win the same role that Sameer was to play. After some time, he agrees to participate in it. After filling up the contest form, he also says "I love you" to Tina. In his screen-test, Sameer dedicates his monologue to his mother. After his monologue, during the interview, he comes to know that his father's shop in Delhi has been demolished. He promises Tina that he will come back for her and leaves to meet his father, heart-broken about the whole thing. After watching Sameer's performance on TV, his father convinces him to go back to Mumbai and participate in the show.After coming back to the show, he is initially denied entry into the show for being late. However, he is given a chance to perform on the show after Sameer convinces the director. He wins the show and is later shown to be the hero of the movie "Chance Pe Dance" walking the Red Carpet a year later with Tina.
