A band of samurai set out to avenge the death and dishonor of their master at the hands of a ruthless shogun.
While hunting in the forest, Lord Asano of Ako and his samurai find a young half-breed and take him with them to live in the castle. Several years later, Lord Asano holds a tournament to welcome the Shogun to Ako. The night after the tournament, Lord Asano is bewitched into hurting Lord Kira of Nagato, and is punished into committing seppuku by the Shogun. Realizing that it was a Lord Kira's evil plot, the samurais and the half-breed sets out for revenge against the Shogun's order.
In Ako, Lord Asano and his samurai Ôishi are hunting in the forest and they find a half-breed boy. Lord Asano brings him to Ako and the boy that is named Kai is raised with his daughter Mika. Years later, Mika and Kai are secretly in love with each other. Lord Asano welcomes the Shogun Tsunayoshi (Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa) and the Lord Kira at home. However, Kira's Witch casts a spell on Lord Asano and he tries to kill Kira. The Shogun sentences Lord Asano to death and offers the option of committing Harakiri to die with honor. Ôishi and his samurais become ronin and he is arrested in a hole; and Kai is sold as a slave in another village. One year later, Ôishi is released from the imprisonment and he plots a scheme to revenge Lord Asano with Kai and the other ronin.
In ancient Japan, a small kid named Kai is found in a ditch in the woods. As a man living in the kingdom of Ako, he enters a tournament when the original fighter is blinded. His chances for success fail when he is knocked down, and he is banished from Ako. Now, he teams up with 46 other banished ronin in order to not only save Ako, but also Kai's girlfriend, Mika, from a tyrant and his spy.
Rescued from certain death by the compassionate ruler, Lord Asano, the unprotected young outcast, Kai, grows up alongside with his benefactor's beloved daughter, Mika, in eighteenth-century Japan. Having sworn eternal devotion to his benevolent protector, Kai's world will turn upside down when a seemingly innocent visit by the supreme monarch, Shogun Tsunayoshi, and the leader of the neighbouring province, Lord Kira, leads to a shameful act of treason, and Lord Asano's dishonourable death. Now, Asano's loyal men, his high-ranking samurai, Oishi, and Kai are rendered ronin--or masterless samurai--forever banished into the unforgiving wilderness, leaving Mika in the clutches of her father's arch-rival, Kira. However, there's a Tengu-raised fighter in their midst who craves justice. Will the 47 Ronin save Mika and clear their disgraced commander's name?
see the original 1941 movie from Japan for more information
