The ancient war between humans and a race of giants is reignited when Jack, a young farmhand fighting for a kingdom and the love of a princess, opens a gateway between the two worlds.
Sent to the market by his uncle to sell their horse and buy thatch for their roof, Jack meets the beautiful Princess Isabelle, whom he rescues from ruffians. He returns home with only a handful of beans given to him by a monk who claimed they were sacred, but that does little to impress his uncle, who tosses them away. In the night, the Princess arrives, having run off to keep herself from marrying Roderick, who is clearly only interested in becoming king. Soon, the beans take root with a giant stalk carrying away the princess and Jack's house. He soon sets off on an adventure with the king's guards to rescue the princess, only to find that a mythical land filled with giants really exists.
It begins with a young Jack who is captivated by the tale of a race of Giants who come from a land in the sky and came through giant stalks which were sprouted from magic beans. And the giants devoured everyone so Erik the king had a crown made that makes whoever wears it control the giants and he used it to make them leave and he had the giant stalks chopped. Upon his death, he was buried with the crown along with the beans that grew the giant stalks. When Jack turns 18 he is sent to sell their horse and cart. When he goes to the cloister, he runs into a girl who is being harassed. He tells the ones harassing to leave her alone. Later the king's soldiers show up and take the girl away, it seems she's the Princess Isabelle who ran away because her father is telling she has to marry Roderick, one of the his trusted advisers. But what the king doesn't know is that Roderick is up to something. He goes to his chamber and sees a monk leave. He discovers something is missing so he tries to find the monk. When the monk sees he's surrounded, he runs into Jack and asks for his horse and offers a pouch of beans in exchange. He tells Jack not to get them wet. Later the monk is caught and Jack leaves. When he goes home, his uncle is infuriated that he allowed the monk to con him. He throws the beans to the floor. Jacks picks most of them up but one falls through a crack in the floor. That evening it begins to rain. That evening the Princess runs away again and seeks shelter at Jack's. They talk about how they're intrigued by the story of the Giants and the beanstalk. Suddenly a giant stalk sprouts taking Jack's house with the Princess to the heavens. Jack tries to save her but falls and is knocked out. When he wakes up he sees the king standing over him and asking where hi s daughter is. Jack shows the beanstalk, so the king sends soldiers to climb the stalk and search for his daughter. Jack offers to go which the soldier doesn't think is a good idea. Roderick offers to go too but he has other plans. Along the way, Roderick cuts the rope getting rid of some of the soldiers. When they make it to the top they discover that the tale about the giants might not be a myth. Roderick also tells Jack to give him the beans.
Ever since they were children, Princess Isabelle of Cloister and a young farmer named Jack, one of the kingdom's subjects, have been fascinated by the tale of magic beans possessed by monks made to grow a pathway to find their God, only to find that pathway led to a place between heaven and Earth home to race of giants who had a taste for human flesh and bone. King Erik the Great, one of Isabelle's true ancestors, had fashioned a magic gold crown to rule and thus control the giants, who he banished back to their prison between heaven and Earth, with the pathway destroyed for them never to return. So when Jack is offered a bag of beans by a monk as collateral payment for Jack's horse, Jack is forced to take the beans as the monk absconds with his horse. In Jack's presence, one of the stray beans sprouts, sweeping Isabelle up into the sky with the giant beanstalk. Isabelle had always wanted adventure outside the castle walls, this adventure is arguably too much even for her. King Brahmwell issues his head guardian, Elmont, to assemble a party of men to search for Isabelle. Two volunteers for the party are Lord Roderick, Isabelle's betrothed, one of the King's trusted advisors but a man she does not love, and Jack himself, the latter who is allowed to go as he saw what happened. What the King, the Lord and Elmont do not know is that Jack is in love with Isabelle from their two chance encounters and will do anything to save her. And what the King, Elmont and Jack do not know is that the Lord originally stole the beans and King Erik's crown from the monks, he, believing in the tale of the giants, planning on using them - the crown which he still possesses - and his marriage to Isabelle to rule Cloister with a heavy hand. They will all soon discover that the legend of the giants is true, the giants who have captured Isabelle. What they all also do not anticipate is that if they can make their way up the beanstalk to the giants, the giants can make their way down to Cloister. What happens between them all is largely dependent on who is in possession of King Erik's crown.
When Jack (Nicholas Hoult) inadvertently opens a passageway that allows giants to cross into our reality, the towering titans stake their claim on the world of humans. Should they succeed, Jack's kingdom will be but the first of many to fall. Now, in order to save his people and rescue a noble princess, Jack must summon every ounce of bravery to drive out the invading giants..
In the Kingdom of Cloister, Jack, a young farm boy, is fascinated by the legend of Erik, an ancient king who defeated an army of invading giants from a realm in the sky by controlling them with a magical crown. At the same time, Princess Isabelle becomes fascinated with the same legend.Ten years later, Jack goes into town to sell his horse to support his uncle's farm. There, Jack spots Isabelle and develops a crush on her, after defending her honor from a group of thugs. Meanwhile, Lord Roderick returns to his study, only to find that a monk has robbed him. The monk offers Jack some magic beans he stole from Roderick as collateral for Jack's horse. Back at the castle, Isabelle quarrels with her father, King Brahmwell, as she wants to explore the kingdom, but he wants her to stay and marry Roderick. Likewise, Jack's uncle scolds him for being foolish before throwing the beans on the floor and leaving the house.Determined to be free, Isabelle sneaks out of the castle and seeks shelter from the rain in Jack's house. As it rains, one of the beans takes root and grows into a massive beanstalk that carries the house and Isabelle into the sky as Jack falls to the ground.Jack, Roderick, and Roderick's attendant, Wicke, volunteer to join the king's knights, led by Elmont and his second in-command, Crawe, and climb the beanstalk in search of Isabelle. As they climb, Roderick and Wicke cut the safety rope, intentionally killing some of the knights. At the top, they discover the giants' realm and decide to split into two groups; one with Jack, Elmont, and Crawe, and the other including Roderick and Wicke, but not before Roderick forcibly takes the remaining beans from Jack (although Jack manages to save one for himself).Jack's group is trapped by a giant, who takes everyone prisoner except Jack. Meanwhile, Roderick's group encounters two other giants; one eats Wicke, but before they can do the same to Roderick, Roderick dons the magic crown.Jack follows the giant to their stronghold, where the two-headed giant leader, Fallon, has killed Crawe. There, Jack finds the imprisoned Isabelle and Elmont. As the giants prepare to kill their remaining prisoners, Roderick walks in and enslaves the giants with the crown. He tells the giants they will attack Cloister at dawn and allows them to eat Isabelle and Elmont. Jack rescues Isabelle and Elmont as one of the giants prepares to cook Elmont as a pig-in-a-blanket. The trio makes for the beanstalk, where Jack causes the giant guarding the beanstalk to fall off the realm's edge. Seeing the giant's body, Brahmwell orders the beanstalk cut down to avoid an invasion by the giants.Jack and Isabelle head down the beanstalk, while Elmont stays to confront Roderick. Elmont kills Roderick, but Fallon takes the crown before Elmont can claim it, and Elmont is forced to escape down the beanstalk. Jack, Isabelle, and Elmont all survive the fall after the beanstalk is cut down. As everyone returns home, Jack warns that the giants are using Roderick's beans to create beanstalks to descend down to Earth and attack Cloister.The giants chase Jack, Isabelle, and Brahmwell into the castle, where Elmont fills the moat with oil and sets it on fire. Fallon falls in the moat and breaks into the castle from below. As the siege continues, Fallon captures Jack and Isabelle, but Jack throws the final bean down Fallon's throat, causing a beanstalk to rip apart his body. Jack takes the crown and sends the giants back to their realm.Jack and Isabelle marry and tell the story of the giants to their children. As time passes, the magic crown is crafted into St Edward's Crown and is secured in the Tower of London.
