Test pilot Hal Jordan finds himself recruited as the newest member of the intergalactic police force, The Green Lantern Corps.
When pilot Hal Jordan accepts a mysterious, powerful ring from a dying alien creature, it transforms him into a Green Lantern - one of an elite force of heroes. These heroes patrol the universe to ensure peace and justice under the leadership of the Guardians of the Universe. Unsure of their newest recruit, the Guardians assign Hal to their most-honored Green Lantern Sinestro for training, unaware that Sinestro wants to overthrow the Guardians and create a new order he'll control. It's a battle of might and willpower as Hall must prove his worth by defeating Sinestro to save the Green Lantern Corps.
After chosen by a dying space patrolman Abin Sur, test pilot Hal Jordan becomes Earth's Green Lantern and member of an intergalactic police force, enduring batism of fire and trials in a battle to maintain order and justice throughtout the universe. -neo_93612Christopher Meloni (TV's Law &amp; Order: Special Victims Unit) leads the cast as the voice of Hal Jordan aka Green Lantern. The cast includes Emmy Award nominee Victor Garber (Milk, Titanic), Tricia Helfer (Battlestar Galactica) and Michael Madsen (Reservoir Dogs, Species). Produced by animation legend Bruce Timm, Green Lantern: First Flight is directed by Lauren Montgomery (Wonder Woman, Superman Doomsday) and scripted by four-time Emmy Award-winning writer Alan Burnett (The Batman).
Green Lantern: First Flight finds test pilot Hal Jordan (Christopher Meloni) recruited to join the Green Lantern Corps after the death of his predecessor Abin Sur and placed under the supervision of respected senior officer Sinestro (Victor Garber). The newly recruited officer of sector 2814 soon discovers his mentor is actually the central figure in a secret conspiracy that threatens the philosophies, traditions and hierarchy of the entire Green Lantern Corps. Hal must quickly hone his newfound powers and combat the treasonous Lanterns within the ranks to maintain order in the universe.
According to director Montgomery, the film will not focus on Jordan's origin story as that was previously covered in the Justice League: The New Frontier film: "...we really didn't want to spend a whole lot of time telling that same story over again. So in Green Lantern: First Flight, the origin story is over and done before the opening credits. [D-Man2010]
