A rich man's daughter is held captive in an abandoned apartment by two former convicts who abducted her and hold her ransom in exchange for her father's money.
Two criminals, Vic and Danny, kidnap Alice Creed. They fastidiously set-up an apartment building and handcuff Alice to the bed, all in a careful attempt to make sure that she won't escape and they won't get caught. But what do Vic and Danny really want with Alice? And is Alice cunning enough to foil their plans and escape?
Vic and Danny kidnap Alice, the daughter of a rich man, for the ransom money. Unknown to Vic, Danny and Alice are in a relationship and Danny plans to keep all the ransom money for Alice and himself. Alice hates her father for cutting her out of her inheritance, therefore Danny assumes that she will be happy with his plan. She must not be informed about the plan, nor about Danny's identity; she has to be genuinely frightened, otherwise Vic would become suspicious.While Vic is away, and Danny is guarding the imprisoned Alice, she manages to grab his gun, which she fires into the wall. When she points the gun at Danny, he is forced to reveal his identity to her, and explain the plan. She is angry, but agrees to play along, for fear of Vic killing them both. Danny finds the empty shell on the floor and has to swallow it to hide it from Vic. Later, while they're having sex, Alice manages to handcuff Danny to the bed and pick up the gun, which Danny eventually manages to take off her. Vic returns and finds a mobile phone on Alice's person showing that she has managed to call the police. He also finds the bullet in the wall and he forces Alice to tell him about Danny's plan.Vic is shocked that Danny has deceived him, even more so because the two of them are lovers, observing that Danny could not have faked his arousal. Vic shoots Danny in the forest where the money was supposed to be handed over. Vic then goes to Alice who has been locked up in a warehouse. He tries to give her an injection but the wounded Danny overcomes him and shoots him instead, taking the ransom money and leaving Alice there alone. Before Vic dies he gives keys to Alice who manages to escape. She then finds Danny outside the warehouse, also dead, and drives off with the money.
