A comedy about a New York City couple (Schreiber and Hunt) in romantic and family crises.
This day really isn't all that different than every other day, except today Ned's gay son Jonah wants to go to a college party, his wife is bringing home her elderly father to live with them, and his outrageous boss seems to have become even more crazy and demanding than would even seem possible. As his wife tries to take care of her father and reconnect with him, Ned tries to reconnect with Jonah, and then without trying, he seems to have formed a connection with his co-worker. If he can get through days like these, he should be able to get through anything else life throws at him.
Ned and Jeannie: married 19 years. Ned has trouble with Garrett, his boss at the cable show he writes, and he's ill-at-ease with his older son Jonah's coming out and wanting to go to a high-school gay student society prom. Jeannie puts work on hold while she attends to Ernie, her sour and mean-spirited father whose ill health forces him to move in with them. While Jeannie taxis the boys, goes to one son's recital, sees to her father's needs, and fixes meals, Garrett assigns Ned to rewrite a script with Robin, an uninhibited, unattached colleague who offers no-strings fun. Can this family hold together while a chicken hawk circles Jonah, Robin inveigles Ned, and death hunts Ernie?
Ned (Liev Schreiber) is in the throes of a mid-life crisis. His work as a writer on an outrageous, semi-pornographic TV show is less than satisfying. His fifteen-year-old son has come out to him, and his 11-year-old is afraid of, well pretty much everything. When his wife, Jeannie (Helen Hunt), moves her ailing and embittered father (Brian Dennehy) from Detroit into their New York home, it puts added stress on an already strained marriage. And when a sexy female co-worker (Carla Gugino) puts the moves on Ned, the temptation sends him spiraling. EVERY DAY is about one family's struggle to survive the unexpected curve-balls that are part of life: aging and death; commitment and freedom; love and acceptance. It's an uncompromising look at an ordinary family making an extraordinary journey toward themselves and each other.
