A private detective is hired to find a missing stripper. A simple job turns complicated when everyone he questions ends up dead.
A private detective is hired to find a missing stripper, but the job turns complicated when everyone he questions ends up dead. From the mean streets of Los Angeles to the desolate desert of New Mexico, Cruz must contend with a brutal Russian boxer, three brash LAPD detectives, an aged billionaire looking for the Big Bang, and the billionaire's stunningly gorgeous wife. The solution to the mystery will cost ten lives, net thirty million dollars and just might explain everything.
SPOILER: The private detective from Los Angeles Ned Cruz is interrogated by LAPD Detectives Poley, Frizer, and Skeres. Cruz is blind after being hit on the face and asks many times whether "she is alive". Cruz explains to the detectives that after a lost case of his client and Hollywood star Adam Nova, he is tired, and returns to his office to rest. Out of the blue, the washed up boxer Anton "The Pro" Protopov comes to his office to hire him to find his missing girlfriend and former stripper Lexie Persimmon. Cruz recalls that five years ago, the Russian mobster Skinny Faddeev gave thirty million dollars in blood diamonds in advance to him to lose a fight against his nephew. However, Anton killed the nephew with one punch, and when Skinny was found dead, he was sentenced to life. While in prison, Lexie writes two hundred sixty letters to him and they fall in love. When a criminal confesses to the murder of Skinny, Anton is released, but he does not find Lexie. Ned Cruz starts the investigation and finds a lead that Lexie might be in San Celeritas, New Mexico. Cruz notes that a black Lincoln is following him, and he believes that the Russian mob is chasing him. However, he heads to the spot, and in the Planck's Constant Coffer, he has an affair with the waitress (Autumn Reeser) that helps him. After reading the letters, Cruz becomes obsessed with Lexie. When Cruz is invited to have dinner with the delusional millionaire Simon Kestral, he is introduced to his wife Julie Kestral and the physicist Niels Geck, and he believes he has resolved the case. However, nothing is what seems to be, and Cruz only discovers the truth when it is too late.
Three police officers, Detectives Poley (William Fichtner), Frizer (Thomas Kretschmann), and Skeres (Delroy Lindo) are interrogating Ned Cruz (Antonio Banderas), a Los Angeles private investigator, who tells them that five years earlier (featured in a series of flashbacks), Russian mobster Skinny Faddeev gave $30 million in blood diamonds as an advance to Anton (Robert Maillet), a boxer, to intentionally lose a fight against his nephew. However, during the fight, Anton unintentionally killed the nephew. When Skinny was found dead, Anton was sentenced to life in prison. While Anton was in prison, he received over 200 letters from a woman named Lexie Persimmon. Anton escaped from prison five years later and is determined to find Lexie.In the present day (in another series of contemporary flashbacks) Anton approaches and gives Ned the job of finding Lexie. Ned is skeptical about his job, since he doesn't have a photo of Lexie. As he starts investigating the various clues, people start dying mysteriously.Ned first interviews actor Adam Nova (James Van Der Beek) whom he had worked for in the past about trying to keep secret Nova's sex life. Nova dies when his house explodes.Next, Ned interviews a certain Zooey Wigner (Rebecca Mader) at a local hospital who is being treated for drug withdrawal about Lexie and who used to work at the strip club where Lexie supposedly worked. Zooey is found dead the next day in her apartment having been drowned in her bath.Ned talks with a porn producer/director named Puss (Snoop Dog) about the women that work for him and about the woman Lexie. Puss is found the next day dead from a broken back.Ned also notices that a black Lincoln is following him, which he assumes is the Russian Mafia. He finds a clue from a discarded letter that Anton had given him that leads him to believe that Lexie might be in San Celeritas, New Mexico.In New Mexico, Ned meets a tattooed waitress named Fay Neman (Autumn Reeser)-a particle physics buff-who helps him. Fay seduces Ned in his motel room for some "organic" function experiment.Ned also meets Simon (Sam Elliott), his wife Julie (Sienna Guillory), and Niels Geck (Jimmi Simpson), a physicist who is conducting an experiment for Simon. Simon is interested only in finding the "God particle" and feels indifferent when Julie tries to warm up to Ned. Ned suspects that Julie might really be Lexie and decides to tell her what is happening.Meanwhile, Anton tracks down Ned to Simon's bungalow. Ned confronts Julie with his suspicions about Lexie's true identity, but Julie has no idea what he is talking about. Ned and Julie hear gunshots, causing Ned to suspect that Anton is at the house.Realizing that he and Anton have both mistaken Julie for Lexie, Ned tries to save her. When the duo head toward the basement, Ned is astonished to find Niels dressed like a woman, and in a blonde wig. A box containing cosmetics has the phrase "Lex Parsimoniae"-a Latin phrase meaning "When all things are equal, the simplest solution is the best"-printed on it. Ned realizes that Niels had written the letters to Anton, who becomes angered when Niels tries to convince Anton to accept him. In a shootout, Ned is injured and passes out.The story cuts back to the present day, where it is revealed that Niels and Anton killed each other while the detectives, who had followed Ned to Simon's house, held Ned and Julie hostage. Julie is kept bound and gagged with duct tape. Ned accuses the trio of following him and killing the people he met, also stating that Skinny was killed for diamonds, which his killer never recovered. Ned proves that Frizer alone killed all the people who could have known about the diamonds. Frizer admits his crimes, for which the other detectives scold him. Ned looks at a glass tank containing a gecko and realizes something; he tells the villains that he knows where Niels stored the diamonds.The detectives take Ned and Julie to the spot where he had confronted Julie after she had shown him a hidden shoe box. While Julie and Ned are in the car, Skeres and Frizer go to get the shoe box. Meanwhile, Poley spots Julie and Ned signaling each other. He attacks them, but they overpower him and manage to drive the car towards Skeres and Frizer. Skeres and Frizer are disappointed when they discover the diamonds are not in the box. When they see the car coming towards them, they realize what is happening and start shooting. Ned shoots them both dead. Meanwhile, Simon the physicist's experiment destroys his lab and creates a giant crevasse. Ned and Julie speed away in the car, and they later pick up Fay, who happens to be their co-accomplice.
