An American mercenary, the sole survivor of a plane crash, has to run the gauntlet across Africa, battling with the living dead.
Lieutenant Brian Murphy, is the sole survivor of the final plane out of Africa, which crashes somewhere off the coast of West Africa. The night before, a zombie horde attacked many villages in that area. Brian gathers supplies from the plane crash and travels by foot until he finds and fixes a broken-down truck in a village. When driving, the truck gets stuck in a pothole as zombies get closer. Daniel Dembele, a local African soldier gone AWOL in search of his son, rescues Brian from certain death. Daniel's wife had been killed in a zombie attack the previous night and a local military unit, heading north to a military base, had rescued his son. Daniel agrees to lead Brian to the nearest airport, a day's drive away, in exchange for his truck upon arrival for Daniel to use to find his son. At the airport, Brian attempts radioing for help using the air traffic tower's radio, but he receives no response. Daniel gets fuel for the truck and the two agree it would be best to stick together and attempt to travel to the military base, with Daniel hoping his son is there and Brian hoping they have a plane he can repair to fly back to the United States. They rest for a night at a village that has been converted to a survival camp by a group of local soldiers. They leave the following morning. While driving through the African plains, the truck hits a tree, breaking the vehicle. Brian and Daniel continue on foot and sleep around a fire for the night. A zombie horde attacks the group in their sleep, leaving Daniel bitten and badly wounded. They manage to shoot their way out of the attack and continue moving forward. Daniel tells Brian of a necklace he wears and that he planned to pass down to his son. Daniel succumbs to his wounds soon thereafter. Brian continues the trek alone to the northern military base. After an eventful journey through dangerous and rough terrain, Brian reaches the base, which has become a survival camp. He repairs an old radio unit in the base and broadcasts his name, managing to reach fellow American military officer Frank Greaves at a U.S. military base in Nevada. It is revealed that the epidemic has reached the United States, which is rapidly failing to hold out. When Brian asks about his family, Frank informs him that "they're gone." Zombies invade the U.S. military base, ending the radio transmission. Brian goes back outside as zombies overwhelm the gates around the camp and begin killing all the survivors. At the last moment, Daniel's son approaches Brian, seeing his father's necklace in his hand. They hold hands and turn to face the overwhelming horde that approaches them.
When the last evacuation flight out of war-torn Africa crashes off the coast, American military engineer, Lieutenant Brian Murphy (ROB FREEMAN), emerges as the sole survivor in a land where the dead are returning to life and attacking the living.On the run in a hostile and inhospitable parched landscape, where sudden death lurks around every sun-burnished corner, Murphy has to use his wits and ingenuity if he is to get home alive to his family.When Murphy's path clashes with that of Sergeant Daniel Dembele (PRINCE DAVID OSEI), whose village has been torn apart by the reanimated dead, they join forces.The two desperate men from two very different cultures fight side by side to survive across the incredible vistas of Africa as the world succumbs to the deadliest of viruses.In the first zombie road movie set against the spectacular vistas of Africa, the Dark Continent becomes a dead zone. A stunningly shot horror fantasy announcing the arrival of the Ford Brothers on the global genre scene, THE DEAD is as much an emotional journey through terror terrain as it is a physically demanding and beautiful-looking one. Shot in life-threatening, never-before-seen locations in Burkina Faso, French-speaking West Africa, and Ghana, including the Sahara Desert, on 35mm film by the award-winning Ford Brothers, THE DEAD is one of the most unique zombie movies of all time.Taken from: thedeaduk.webeden.co.uk/#/synopsis/4554841749
