A middle aged music composer finds himself trapped in the seductive web of a young, sexy vocalist who is looking for her own fifteen seconds of fame. Mikey Taylor, once the very popular lead singer of the hot rock and roll group, THE SAINTS , lived a life of sex, drugs and rock and roll, until he met JOYCE, a real estate broker, now his wife of ten years. Joyce was instrumental in sobering Mike up through various rehabs, and always supportive, but then the real estate market took a dive, and Mike had to go back to writing songs for a new record album deal with his former partners STANLEY and DICKIE. Mikey, now known as MIKE TAYLOR, is in the Studio waiting to lay down the new tracks, when MATTY MCPHERSON, strikingly young and beautiful, introduces herself as the new demo singer. As she begins to sing, there is an immediate attraction between Mike and Matty, who is not only gorgeous and young, but a brilliant artist. Matty follows Mike back to his hotel and seduces him, which is reminiscent of his exciting "groupie" rock and roll days. He immediately becomes smitten with the very young and beautiful Matty, but tells himself this affair will pass as soon as the album is finished. The problem is, Mike can not finish the album without Matty, who truly inspires him, but who also leads him back down the road of destruction by encouraging him to relive his days of alcohol, drugs and sex abuse. Matty tells Mike she is his new addiction and convinces him he cannot succeed without her. As weeks go by, Mike is filled with the expected guilt of a cheating husband, but the more he tries to get away from Matty, the more she tempts him back with a new song she has written. To celebrate, she offers more booze, drugs and erotic sex; taking Mike deeper into the dark side: closer to Matty but further from Joyce. Mike's friends encourage him to go to the police, citing she is a stalker who is out to destroy him, but when he tries, the police take Matty's side, who convinces the police she is pregnant with Mike's child. To retaliate Matty kidnaps Joyce, and invites Mike to "save Joyce, or succumb to me". Will Mike be able to save Joyce from the evil web of Matty, or succumb to his addiction as he has so many times before with the beautiful Matty?

