Jesse meets Ethan, someone she could finally fall in love with, but then she meets Troy, and now she has a dilemma.
Jesse, in a moment of bold self-confidence, introduces herself to Ethan, a struggling writer. And then in walks Troy, and in a moment of bold self-confidence, he introduces himself to Jesse. Jesse falls in love with both men, who happen to have a lot in common but still seem very different. What will happen when Jesse has to tell the truth?
Shy, clumsy but endearing would be-author Ethan Reed, devoted to his sister's family, feels he met his soul-mate in confident, understanding waitress Jesse Young, yet she confides only in her frustrated, unemployed brother David Young why she can't commit to Ethan. In parallel, without them ever meeting, Jesse is accidentally found by and enjoys perfect dates set up by dream prince Troy Parker, a handsome, rich, famous, suave gentleman advertisement agency co-owner, who wants her to come along to start up a Texan branch.
Jesse (Alyssa Milano, Charmed) is a sassy, intelligent woman who has yet to find "Mr. Right"until she bumps into Ethan (Christopher Gorham, Ugly Betty, Harpers Island), a writer pushed to the edge of despair after having another novel rejected by publishers. For Jesse, the encounter offers more than a chance to inspire the artist in Ethan again. It also opens a new, romantic chapter in her life... with one huge complication.Moments after meeting the perfect guy for her, Jesse meets Mr. Perfect Troy (Michael Landes, Possession), a confident and successful advertising executive who makes almost every moment elegant and romantic. Soon Jesse is in over her head and grappling with the ultimate romantic paradox: what does a girl do when she meets "Mr. Right" after already meeting the right guy?Ultimately, what Jesse discovers about love reflects what the audience discovers about the story itself: Things are not always what they seem. My Girlfriends Boyfriend is a classic love story turned upside down, a romantic comedy that blends a warm sincerity with fresh, stylized storytelling and some very big surprises.
