When a young woman realizes her brother is about to marry the girl who bullied her in high school, she sets out to expose the fiancée's true colors.
As a teenager Marni was the kind of girl no guy would go near and would be tormented by the mean girls, and no one was meaner to her than Joana the head cheerleader. Years later, she's a successful woman with a good job. When she goes home for her brother's wedding she discovers that her brother is marrying Joana. And he doesn't know what she did to Marni. When they meet she wants Joana to apologize for the way she treated her but Joana feigns ignorance. When Marni tells her mother, Gail about her and Joana, Gail tells her to try and put it behind her. But when Gail meets Joana's aunt Mona, it turns that she's her old friend Ramona who was her friend in high school whom she had falling out with with years ago, and Gail is unaware what caused it. Gail feels like Mona is trying to thumb her success in her face. When Marni learns that Joana does remember her she sets to expose her to her brother.
In Los Angeles, the PR Marni Olivia Olsen is promoted to VP of the RMK Investment office in New York. She travels first to her hometown to the wedding of her big brother Will with his fiancée Joanna. On the flight, Marni freaks out when she learns that Joanna is her arch nemesis JJ, who had bullied her in Ridgefield High School. Marni discovers that her family loves Joanna, and when she meets her, she wants Joanna to apologize for the humiliations she was subjected to in high-school. But Joanna pretends that she has not recognized Marni and promises a fresh start to them. Meanwhile Joanna's aunt Ramona arrives for the wedding and Marni's mother Gail Byer recognizes her as her high-school former friend that has become her enemy. The resented Marni seeks revenge and decides to expose the past of Joanna to Will to protect her brother and force him to call off his wedding while Gail begins a personal dispute with Ramona.
Marni Olivia Olsen was able to overcome being bullied at Ridgefield High School, particularly by the clique led by head cheerleader J.J. Clark, which led to her being insecure and geeky at that time, to blossom into a high powered public relations executive, she just having been promoted to VP at her company's New York office. Between moving from Los Angeles to New York, Marni heads home to Ridgefield in Northern California to attend her older brother Will Olsen's wedding, he who was her primary protector when she was a child, he providing her unconditional love, support and encouragement. She will be meeting Will's fiancée Joanna for the first time, that is until she learns that Joanna is the same J.J. that tormented her in high school. Despite not looking forward to encountering J.J. again, all Marni wants from J.J. is a sincere apology for that torment. What may be worse for Marni is that she not only doesn't get that apology, but Joanna doesn't seem to remember Marni at all. When Marni discovers that Joanna's forgetfulness about high school is all an act, Marni and J.J. go to more subversive means to one up the other, Marni in an attempt to expose Joanna as the J.J. that made her life hell both as revenge and to protect Will, and Joanna to hide that past especially from Will while seemingly continue to torment Marni. What happens is affected by: other hidden relationships between the Olsen and Clark families, namely between Marni's mother Gail Byer Olsen and Joanna's now wealthy and highly successful Aunt Ramona, the two who used to be friends "until"; and the reentry of men in Joanna and Marni's lives, Tim who dated Joanna in college, and Charlie Mason, a popular kid on who Marni had a crush in high school.
Nicknamed 'MOO' (Marni Olivia Olsen) at Rigdefield High School, an unshapely bundle of braces, acne, thick glasses, and barely over five feet in height, Marni (Kristen Bell) recalls being ruthlessly bullied by another female student, shortly before being promoted as the New York Vice-President of her organization. She then returns home to attend her brother's (James Wolk as Will) wedding. She is shocked to find out that his fiancée is none other than Joanna (Odette Yustman), the girl who not only towered over her, but also bullied her. Her entire family, including the dog, find Joanna adorable, and are also taken in by her wealthy aunt Ramona (Sigourney Weaver). Her attempts to warn Will go in vain, and when confronted, Joanna refuses to tender an apology. Things only get worse after Marni falls into an ant-trap, ends up with bite-marks on her face, loses her contacts, is forced to wear thick glasses, and ends up looking like a member of the 'geek squad' - just in time for the wedding. She will soon discover that the the nightmare she experienced at school may well have a sequel at the hands of her seasoned, determined, and sophisticated arch nemesis.
The film opens in 2002 with Marni (Kristen Bell), an acne-riddled high school senior at Ridgefield High School, with glasses and braces, making a video about how much she hates high school, and reveals how she is tormented and bullied by other girls, specifically Joanna (Odette Yustman), who made Marni's high school life miserable. She adds that her protective older brother, Will, (James Wolk), was very popular as a handsome basketball player. However, at a very important basketball game, Joanna pushes the mascot, Marni, who runs into Will, resulting in a loss of the game.Years later, in 2010, however, Marni is a successful public relations executive, recently promoted to a job in New York. She has shed her "ugly duckling" look and is a fairly attractive young woman. When Marni flies home to her older brother's wedding, she discovers Will is about to marry Joanna, the very same cheerleader who bullied and tormented her throughout high school. When Marni meets Joanna for the first time in eight years, Joanna seems to not recognize her. Marni is also upset to see that Joanna fits in very well with the family. The plot thickens when Marni's mother Gail (Jamie Lee Curtis) meets up with Joanna's aunt Ramona (Sigourney Weaver), a woman who pushed Gail into a pool at their senior prom. Ramona is now a successful, wealthy woman who owns several hotels and a private plane.Although Gail seems willing to put the past behind her, she still feels the need to "outdo" Ramona during their interactions. On the other hand, Marni is unwilling to forget the things Joanna did to her in high school, unless she apologizes, and decides to try and let her brother know of Joanna's bullying past. Her attempts to get Will alone for a conversation fail. When Marni tells Joanna that she knows who she really is, it is obvious that Joanna does remember Marni. She refuses to give Marni a meaningful apology, and treats her disrespectfully, leaving Marni convinced that Joanna has not changed. Meanwhile, Gail comes to Ramona's hotel room for "closure" about anything bad between them that happened in the past. They appear to make up, but Ramona still seems not to be too fond of Gail.One day on the street, Will and Marni's flaky grandmother Bunny (Betty White) meets a man named Tim (Kyle Bornheimer). Joanna reveals that they have dated, and Tim appears devastated when he hears that she's marrying Will. Marni decides to bring Tim to the rehearsal dinner as part of her plan to stop the wedding. When it is time for guests to make a toast to the bride and groom, Tim unexpectedly jumps up to give his toast to Joanna. He reveals to a stunned wedding party that Joanna left him at the altar. Later, a video is presented (recovered by Marni) from their old high school timecapsule. The video reveals Joanna as she was in high school: an alpha-female bully, with the footage showing proof of her tormenting Marni. Will unplugs the video projector before the video is complete and walks out, furious.However, Marni is in trouble when everyone discovers that she was responsible for the video at the rehearsal dinner. Marni decides to talk with Joanna, hoping to reconcile, but Joanna is too furious and tells Marni "I thought we could start over." Marni is now convinced that Joanna hasn't changed, and she too walks away. Joanna then starts a fight with Marni, who fights back. Will walks in and witnesses the fight. He tells Joanna that he doesn't care about her past, but is angry that she was not being honest with him. He then tells Marni that he is furious at her for going behind his back to try to demolish Joanna's character. Both Marni and Joanna refuse to apologize to Will as well as each other for their actions.Meanwhile, Ramona and Gail argue after the rehearsal dinner, and Ramona accuses Gail of trying to upstage her as well as ruin her life throughout high school. A cat-fight ensues, with both of them falling into the pool. Ramona reveals that she always hated Gail, even when they were supposedly friends, because she always competed with and outdid her, culminating with Gail taking the guy that Ramona wanted to the senior prom. She sarcastically thanks Gail for what she did, because it motivated her to become successful in life. Gail apologizes for being insensitive, but reveals that she is proud of Ramona, and that her family is her accomplishment. Ramona, remorseful of her actions, tells Gail that she was jealous of Gail's family and feared that she was trying to take Joanna away from her. The two reconcile.Later that night, Marni finds Joanna in the kitchen binging on junk food. She finally admits to Marni that she feels truly awful for bullying and tormenting her and feels like an awful person, and that she loves Will. Marni forgives her and promises to get them back together. The next day, Marni pretends to be injured in order to attract Will's attention, and apologizes to him for her actions, saying she was only trying to protect him from Joanna.Joanna and Will reconcile in Marni's old tree house, but it collapses and injures both of them. They are both forced to stay at a hospital, which delays the wedding. However, Marni puts together a makeshift wedding at the hospital, with the bride and groom bandaged, but properly dressed and able to walk down the aisle. Marni appears to start a relationship with Charlie, her brother's good friend who was always kind to her.However, in a final twist-ending joke, Joanna introduces Marni's grandmother Bunny to her visiting grandmother Helen (Cloris Leachman). It is revealed in another montage of flashbacks that Helen and Bunny were enemies in high school when Helen stole a boy from her. However, Bunny gets her revenge when she cuts in on Helen's dance and takes her dance partner. Helen decides to seek revenge on Bunny... restarting another old freud.
