When their country is invaded and their families are taken, eight unlikely teenagers band together to fight.
In a small Australian town, seven teenage friends go on a camping trip to be with nature. During their trip, they see military aircraft fly overhead. What they don't know is that their country is being invaded. Returning home, they discover that they are at war. With no training, they band together to fight the enemy.
A small group of Australian teens team up to take back their country after an occupying army sweeps in and takes over in this adaptation of John Marsden's best-selling novel. 17 year old Ellie Linton (Caitlin Stasey) and her friends live in the quiet coastal town of Wirrawee. As the holidays draw to a close and school looms on the horizon, Ellie longs for one last adventure before heading back into the classroom. Her wish comes true when her parents agree to let her use the Land Rover for a week camping adventure in Hell, a secluded paradise with a deceptive name. At first, everything is perfect. Ellie and best friends pass their time basking in the sun, and wading in a picturesque waterfall. But the fun comes to a sudden end when the group notices a fleet of unidentified jets cutting through the night sky. Shaken, they return home to find that the entire population of Wirrawee has vanished, and all power has been cut off. The teens' greatest fears are confirmed shortly thereafter, when they discover that the local showgrounds have been transformed into a makeshift prison camp, and that everyone they know has been imprisoned by the invading military. Upon realizing they have been discovered, the teens decide to strike back against the occupiers with everything they've got.
8 friends go camping in a place called Hell... a place not many people have ever found. Ellie and her friends find it, perfectly hidden from view. When the trip is over and they return home, they discover everyone gone and homes empty of people.Something horrible has happened while they were in Hell. It doesn't take long for them to realize that their country has been invaded.Ellie and her friends are now in a state of panic. Do they go back to Hell and stay hidden? Do they wait for the army to come find them? Do they go and help rescue their families?How much courage could you muster if your entire family had been taken and how far would you go to free them?
