A fisheries expert is approached by a consultant to help realize a sheik's vision of bringing the sport of fly-fishing to the desert and embarks on an upstream journey of faith and fish to prove the impossible possible.
A visionary sheik believes his passion for the peaceful pastime of salmon fishing can enrich the lives of his people, and he dreams of bringing the sport to the not so fish-friendly desert. Willing to spare no expense, he instructs his representative to turn the dream into reality, an extraordinary feat that will require the involvement of Britain's leading fisheries expert who happens to think the project both absurd and unachievable. That is, until the Prime Minister's overzealous press secretary latches on to it as a 'good will' story. Now, this unlikely team will put it all on the line and embark on an upstream journey of faith and fish to prove the impossible, possible.
A Scottish ichthyologist gets an inquiry from the financial agent of a Yemeni sheikh who's started an irrigation project in his homeland and wants to stock a river with salmon. The scientist dismisses the idea, but the PM needs a feel-good story out of Arabia and his calculating press secretary sees possibilities in the salmon. The sheikh is charming, his financial rep is beautiful and unflappable (and in love with a soldier posted to Afghanistan), and Fred, the scientist, gets hooked on the possibilities while his wife is on a six-week project in Geneva. Fred's lack of social subtlety, the soldier's fate, and the sheikh's adversaries add complications.
The British government needs to find a good news story about British involvement in the Middle East to counter a bad one. Having her team search for her, Patricia Maxwell, the hard nosed communications director for the PM who tries to place a positive public spin on anything to make her boss look good no matter what it takes, decides on a story on salmon fishing in the Yemen. Without her knowing the specifics, it concerns the want of extremely wealthy Sheikh Muhammed bin Zaidi bani Tihama, the royal head of Yemen, an avid sports fisherman, to introduce salmon into Yemeni rivers for fishing purposes. The Sheikh's British investment consultants, Fitzharris &amp; Price represented by Miss Harriet Chetwode-Talbot, requested the assistance of the British Department of Fisheries and Agriculture, most directly one of their more knowledgeable fisheries experts, the straight-laced and nerdish Dr. Alfred Jones, on the matter, he who in his own right is an avid sports fisherman and fly tying expert. Despite Fred realizing the project is absurd, he is forced into secondment working solely on the project for Fitzharris &amp; Price - at least at double his salary - or else he is fired, but he also realizing at the risk of his good scientific reputation. But after meeting the Sheikh and getting to know his mentality a little better, Fred begins to believe that this project, albeit expensive, may not be complete folly as he first suspected. As Fred, Harriet and the Sheikh work through the known and unforeseen problems and obstacles of the project, both Fred and Harriet have their own personal issues with which they have to deal. Fred's is an unsatisfying marriage, one which he and his equally staid and career focused wife, Mary Jones, have stayed in purely out of inertia and perhaps not knowing that they may want something more out of a spouse. And Harriet's is the uncertain status of her boyfriend of three weeks, Captain Robert Mayers, who has just been deployed into a combat zone somewhere in the Middle East and who she vowed to wait for for however long he will be gone.
A visionary sheik believes his passion for the peaceful pastime of salmon fishing can enrich the lives of his people, and he dreams of bringing the sport to the not so fish-friendly desert. Willing to spare no expense, he instructs his representative to turn the dream into reality, an extraordinary feat that will require the involvement of Britain's leading fisheries expert who happens to think the project both absurd and unachievable. That is, until the Prime Minister's overzealous press secretary latches on to it as a 'good will' story. Fred works to implement the project with Harriet and the sheik. He gradually begins to believe the sheik's quest. Fred begins to fall in love with Harriet, and she must choose between two men. The fish project seems to be a success, but is sabotaged by local militants. However, some fish survive and so Fred continues to fulfill the sheik's vision.
