The sadistic members of a villainous family return to their childhood home to terrorize the new home owners and their guests.
Three brothers on the run from the law head for home, only to discover that their mother lost the house in a foreclosure. Mother ingeniously orchestrates her sons' escape, teaching the house's new owners and their guests a few lessons along the way.
In Stonewall, the couple Beth and Daniel Sohapi are celebrating in their recently bought house with their friends Gina and Treshawn 'Trey' Jackson; Melissa McGuire and George Barnum; Annette Langston and Dave Lowe; and Daniel's partner Julie Ross. Beth and Daniel have lost their son in an accident, and Daniel has a secret affair with Julie. Meanwhile, the thieves and brothers Izaak 'Ike' Koffin, Addley Koffin and Jonathan 'Johnny' Koffin are fleeing to the house of their mother in Stonewall after a heist of the First Omaha Bank. Johnny is seriously wounded by a shot and the gang has been double-crossed by their partner Ethan Poe that robbed the stolen money. When the criminals arrive at home, they discover that their mother Natalie Koffin and their sister Lydia Koffin lost their house two months ago and now Beth and Daniel are the owners of the place. They violently dominate the nine adults and George, who is a doctor, is summoned to help Johnny. Ike calls his mother and sister to join them in the house. The deranged mother calms down the friends and tells them that they will leave the house early in the morning, after the tornado that is threatening the city. However, when she learns that Ike has been sending money for her for two months, she decides to know who has received the letters and kept the money, in the beginning of a night of horror and sadism for Beth, Daniel and their friends.
An unknown woman enters a hospital and goes to the maternity ward dressed as a nurse. She passes a security guard, who asks for identification. She ignores him, and takes the elevator. She then grabs a baby, and tries to leave, only to be stopped by the security guard. He tries to reason with the unknown woman, only to be stabbed in the neck by an unseen man.Earlier...................Beth Sohapi (Jaime King) is having a birthday party for her husband, Daniel Sohapi (Frank Grillo) with the help of their friends, married couple Treshawn (Lyriq Bent) and Gina Jackson (Kandyse McClure).Meanwhile, three brothers, Ike (Patrick Flueger), Addley (Warren Kole), and Johnny Koffin (Matt O'Leary), are on the run from the law after a bank robbery gone wrong. Johnny, the youngest, has been shot, and has his brothers panicking. The brothers decide to head for home, so that their mother can provide them with a getaway.Back at the house, Dave Lowe (Tony Nappo) and his fiancee, Annette Langston (Briana Evigan), George Barnum (Shawn Ashmore) and his girlfriend, Melissa McGuire (Jessie Rusu), and Daniel's co-worker, and friend, Julie Ross (Lisa Marcos) arrive and are also celebrating Daniel's birthday. The news reports a tornado is heading their way, and the basement is tornado proof.The three brothers reach their mother's home, and find that their mother is nowhere to be found, and that their stuff has been replaced. Addley begins to freak out. Daniel, thinking it's his friend, Charlie, who has found a way in, goes upstairs to greet him, only to be attacked by the brothers. They learn that Beth and Daniel now own the house, after their mother lost the house on a foreclosure. As they are ready to flee the home, Beth appears from the basement. Confused, and not knowing what she is seeing, Beth flees but only reaches the front lawn, before Ike drags her back inside. Addley and Ike begin to bicker, and Beth tells them that George is a doctor. Ike makes her bring George upstairs, and threatens to kill Daniel if she tries to trick him. Without alerting her friends, Beth asks George for help, who is quickly forced to help Johnny. Ike gets a phone call from his sister, Lydia (Deborah Ann Woll), who informs him that she and their mother are now living in an RV,and will be on their way to the house. Just as Ike hangs up, Julie emerges from the basement, and is chased back down by Addley, who forces them down on the ground. Julie tries to run out the basement doors, but Addley pulls her, and she knocks herself out. Ike brings Beth and Daniel downstairs, and tells Addley to stay calm. As Ike begins to assist George, Addley stays downstairs harassing the hostages, by pretending to rape Annette, and taking Dave's wig. After a while, Lydia pulls over, and the brothers' "Mother" Natalie Koffin (Rebecca De Mornay) appears and is angry at Ike for losing their emergency phone. She also tells him that she has someone who will cross them across the border to Canada, but it will cost them ten thousand dollars.Natalie is taken to the basement and meets the hostages. Initially, she is nice to the hostages, thanking George for saving her son, and even tells Lydia to assist him. She also apologizes to the hostages for her children's mistake, explaining it is all a misunderstanding and she will be leaving in the morning after Johnny gets better. She learns that her sons have been sending her money every month, since she lost the house. She tries to ask Beth and Daniel, politely, for the money, but after they tell her that they have no idea of what she is talking about, she thinks that they are hiding it, and tries to get them to cave, by forcing Addley and Ike to break Daniel's hand.Afterwards, Natalie robs the hostages, and makes them write down their ATM pin numbers. As she tells Beth to go with Ike to withdraw all the money from their debit cards, Melissa quickly gets up, and runs upstairs, with Addley going after her. as she reaches the door, George attacks Addley, but is hit in the face with the gun. A frightened Melissa runs to the front door, and is shot in the face. After they load Melissa into the trunk, Beth and Ike take off, leaving Natalie and Addley to clean up the mess, while Lydia syphons the hostages' gas. After cleaning the mess, Natalie confronts Addley for hurting Annette. He breaks down, as his Mother punishes him. George wakes up, and is told that his life depends on Johnny, while he threatens to kill Johnny if anything happens to his friends.Meanwhile, Ike and Beth stop at a dumpster, where Ike forces Beth to throw Melissa over, after they find it to be locked. Back at the house, George notices that Lydia seems to have some issues, and has issues with Addley. Downstairs, in the basement, the hostages begin to split into two groups, as one wants to fight back, while the other wants to listen to the family. Lydia then appears and takes Annette upstairs, where she is forced to serve ice cream. She quickly realizes that George is still alive, and that Natalie just wants to protect her children.Beth and Ike pull over at an ATM, where Beth begins to withdraw the money, when two young party girls, Vicky Rice (A.J. Cook) and Jenna Luther (Alexa Vega) pull up in their car and get in line behind them, mocking Beth for taking so long. While Ike tries to get the women to go to another ATM, Beth tries to get Vicky's attention and warns her to leave, but before the two girls can, Ike realizes what is going on, and holds them hostage. Ike then teaches Beth a lesson (as they had an argument earlier that murder is human nature) by giving the girls one knife, and telling them that whoever kills the other, will get to live. Vicky picks the knife up, but quickly drops it after Jenna pleads. Ike then decides to kill them both, so Jenna kills Vicky. Jenna hears an ambulance, and runs towards it, but is shot down by Ike in the process.Back at house, Annette tries to get the others to listen, as Natalie is only helping her sons, only to be ignored by Treshawn. In the dump, two sanitation workers pull over, and find a whimpering Melissa behind the dumpster, and call the police. Lydia is in the restroom, trying to wash off some blood from her shirt, when George walks in. He finds her pills on the floor, and she informs him that she must take them because of her sensitive skin. George tells her that the pills are sugar, and learns she never saw a doctor, and was also home schooled. He then tells her that her mother lied to have Lydia cover herself up, so that boys don't notice her. He gives her his shirt, and she takes it, just as Natalie walks in on them. She warns George to stay away from her. As they hear the news, police officer Skay (Mike O'Brien), pulls over and Natalie forces Daniel to send the officer away, threatening to hurt Beth. Daniel co-operates with the officer, and sends him away. After being sent downstairs, Natalie realizes Daniel is a good liar, and tells Lydia to look for the money downstairs. There, Lydia finds a Valentine's Day card to Julie, from Daniel.Meanwhile, Ike tells Beth that they don't have enough money, so Beth tells him how Treshawn owns a dry cleaner's. Ike gives Beth the phone, and calls Treshawn to ask him for the safe's pass code. Treshawn does so, and also tells Beth he has a gun in the cabinet.As Johnny begins to bleed, he breaks down to his Mother, and tells her he doesn't want to die a virgin, breaking his Mother's heart. George, who asked to get cleaned up, finds Lydia, and asks who Queenie is, a name he heard earlier. A scared Lydia tells him the story of Queenie, a monster who her mother says lives in the woods, and punishes bad kids. Although she doesn't believe the story, she is still traumatized by the sounds she hears outside.Down in the basement, the hostages are trying to keep calm, when Addley comes down the stairs, and tells them that one of the women is getting lucky by popping his younger brother's cherry. As he asks who they choose to send upstairs, everyone turns their back on Julie, so Addley drags her upstairs. An angry Treshawn grabs a pool stick and runs after them, but Mother quickly brings Julie back downstairs, stating she is not worthy of her son, and quickly lays her eyes on Gina, after Treshawn tries to be the "strong man". She finds Gina perfect, and tells Addley to take Gina upstairs, who breaks down, and tells them that Dave works at a bank, and he and Annette are not friends of hers, nor Treshawn's. Mother Natalie, not knowing who to pick, forces Treshawn and Dave to fight, and the loser's woman will be forced upstairs. As the two men decline, she threatens to take both women. As Addley plays the song "Whack-A-Doo", Dave and Treshawn fight, as their women cheer for them not to give up. Treshawn ends up winning, and Annette is dragged upstairs by Addley. Back upstairs, Johnny has stopped breathing, and George is trying to convince Lydia to change her mind, as she is not like her family, but Lydia shows she loves her family, and will not turn against them. As Johnny is revived, Addley walks in with Annette, and calls his mother. Lydia notices what is going on, and warns her Mother that what she plans to do is not right, but Mother tells Lydia that they are lying to them, and are hiding the money.At the dry cleaner's, Beth mixes the combination numbers to buy some time at getting Treshawn's gun. After Ike opens the safe, and gets the money, Beth gets the gun, and points it at Ike. As he gives her the cellphone, Ike reaches for the gun, and Beth hits him in the head with an iron. She runs and hides in the clothes, after finding the doors locked. Ike begins taunting her, while she is on hold with the police. As she reaches the police, Ike catches her.Back at the house, Mother is makes Annette change into something more "decent". While looking through a box which contains pictures of a boy, and various newspaper articles, it is concluded Daniel and Beth have been having problems after their son was run over. Annette pleads that she believed Mother that no one would be hurt, but Mother ignores her pleads, and takes her to Johnny. As George tries to protect Annette, Lydia is forced to take him away, where they try to tune out the screams. Annette is forced to strip for Johnny, as Mother forces Annette to touch Johnny, who seems to feel pity for Annette. As they are about to begin, Johnny wounds begin to bring pain, and Annette is forced downstairs to the basement, after George tells her to go to the "gold box". Downstairs, Treshawn is able to unlock the basement doors, but is forced to retrieve back when Addley bursts downstairs with Annette. He taunts Dave by smacking Annette's butt, which causes Dave to attack Addley. As Gina runs to open the basement doors, Treshawn runs to help Dave, only for Addley to accidentally shoot Dave in the face, causing it to explode. As Addley apologizes, a hysterical Annette runs to her dead boyfriend, while Mother notices Gina is escaping. Mother turns to Daniel, and threatens to kill Beth if he doesn't bring Gina back. Ignoring Treshawn's pleads, Daniel runs after Gina, who has found no help as the tornado is getting closer. Gina hears Daniel, and pleads for him to go with her, as Mother will not let any of them live. Daniel declines, and tries to get Gina to go back with him, who doesn't agree, and tries to run away. Daniel grabs her, but Gina squeezes his broken hand, before fleeing after an ambulance. Daniel takes off after her, and pushes her down.Elsewhere, at the hospital, Melissa is rushed into the ER, but is unable to say what has happened to her, as they have drugged her. The tornado has brought a heavy storm, and Ike and Beth are almost at the house, when Officer Skay pulls them over, citing that he is forced to bring people to a shelter. Beth lets him know that she and her "husband" are on their way home, which is less than a mile away. Beth gives Skay the insurance, which includes her and Daniel's name. Skay sees the insurance, and understands that Beth is being held hostage. He tricks Ike by confusing Beth and Daniel's last name, "Sohapi" and "so happy". Ike falls for the confusion, and Skay makes him turn off the car. Ike, knowing the officer is on to him, gets out of the car, and shoots Skay down. He makes Beth drive, but then makes her run over Skay, as he is wearing a vest, but Beth flips the car over at the last minute.Meanwhile, Gina wakes up in the basement, with Mother standing over her, Addley boiling water, and Lydia pointing a gun at her. Mother lets Gina know that she will have to be punished. Mother gets out of sight, and Treshawn is now tied up in a column, with plastic wrap. Mother informs Gina that she will be punished by punishing Treshawn instead of her. Addley gets the boiling water, and burns Treshawn's ears. The hot water also goes into his eyes. Julie, Annette, and Daniel watch this in horror, as they are also tied up in a column with plastic wrap. Gina also watches in horror, not being able to do anything, as Lydia points a gun at her the whole time.Back at the storm, Skay gets up, being slightly injured, and goes to Beth's aide. Beth is injured, and lets Skay know that Ike is not moving. As Skay approaches to help Beth, Ike opens his eyes, and points the gun at Skay's forehead, before pulling the trigger, as Beth cries. Mother begins to walk around, thinking for a way to make Daniel give up the money, when she finds the box with his son's memories, and takes it to Daniel, where she taunts him with them. Daniel cries, as Mother burns a picture, and asks for the money. Daniel cries that he doesn't have it, angering Mother, who continues to burn all of his stuff. Mother then turns to Julie, and makes Addley drop liquor on her head, before burning her head. Mother then quickly goes to Julie, and puts the fire out, stating that "Marriage is sacred". As she goes upstairs, Mother begins to question whether she was doing wrong, torturing an innocent, so she begins to look around for the money. Gina, now tied up with plastic wrap on the floor, finds a way to get up. She turns on the chimney, and puts her bound hands through it, burning the plastic wrap off. She unties herself, and quickly goes to Treshawn. At the hospital, Melissa is able to wake up during operation, and warns the doctor that Beth is in trouble. The doctors get the police.Meanwhile, Annette remembers the gold box that George told her about, and tells Gina to open it. As Gina opens it and finds knives, Mother finds a painting in the restroom. She grabs it, and finds all the money that her sons have been sending her inside it. She orders Addley to bring Daniel upstairs. Addley goes to the basement and finds Treshawn missing, but before he can react, Daniel attacks him, and Gina puts plastic wrap over his face. Daniel and Annette then take turns stabbing him, as he apologizes for what he has done. Julie is also about to stab him, but drops him, showing remorse. Treshawn, now half deaf and blind, grabs Addley's gun, and goes upstairs to try and kill Mother. Gina goes after him, trying to stop him, but Treshawn does not hear her. She surprises Treshawn, who reacts quickly, and shoots her in the side. As he realizes what he did, Mother shoots him dead. Mother goes to the basement, and finds Addley dead. She calls Ike, and makes Daniel say goodbye to Beth. As he lets Beth know he is sorry, Mother shoots Daniel dead, as Beth listens, and breaks down. Mother then tells Ike that Addley is dead, and to bring Beth home. Ike then begins to grieve his brother's death.Back at the house, Lydia ties Julie and Annette with plastic wrap again. George begins to tell Mother that none of her kids look like one another, and look nothing like her. Mother, enraged, threatens to kill him, but Lydia convinces her that they need George. Ike and Beth then burst through the front door, and Mother lets Ike know Beth and Daniel had the money all along, and makes George and Lydia help Ike take Johnny to the RV. Mother reveals to Julie and Annette that Beth was the one who hid the money and is the one responsible for all their friend's deaths. Beth then reveals that she was hiding the money for the baby that she will have. She also reveals she knew Daniel was cheating, and wanted to leave him. Mother, now enraged, makes her take a pregnancy test.In the RV, Ike tells George he must now shoot George, as they don't need him anymore, but Lydia pleads that he can come with him. Ike agrees, and turns to Johnny. As George is going to thank Lydia, Johnny shoots him dead, stating that he knows George will somehow find a way to tell the police. Lydia exits the RV, and breaks down. Beth takes the pregnancy test, and it comes out positive. Mother tells Beth that she is lucky to have life in her belly. As she turns, Beth grabs the toilet lid, and knocks out Mother, before going to Annette and Julie. She unties Annette, and tells her about a rifle in the garage, while Beth unties Julie. Ike exits the RV, and goes looking for Lydia. After Beth unties Julie, who reveals to Beth she was Daniel's mistress, Annette gets the rifle, but finds it to be empty. Beth runs to the garage, while Julie says they should run for it. She goes to the front door, finds Lydia, and closes the door, before running after Beth. Julie runs into Ike, who is aiming a shotgun at her. She closes the door and tries to run away, but half her face is blown off as Ike shoots her. In the garage, Beth and Annette try looking for bullets, but are forced to hide when they hear Ike coming. Ike begins to look for them, but they attack him. He is able to grab Beth, but Annette shoots him in the face with a nail gun. They make a run for it, but Ike attacks them again. They begin to choke him, before filling his face with Drano, and then dropping a television on his face. The two hear Mother coming. Annette goes looking for help, while Beth faces Mother.Mother, now filled with raged that her oldest son is dead, goes after Beth. The two fight, and Mother is able to knock Beth down. Mother begins filling the house with gasoline, and lights it on fire, just as Beth wakes up. She grabs a cutting board, and knocks out Mother with it. She goes outside, just as the firefighters reach the house. She hugs Annette, just as the firefighters find a survivor. They find Gina, who is severely injured. Beth tells the firefighters that Mother is still inside, but the firefighters find no one, as the house burns down.Months later, Beth's water has broke, and she is taken to the hospital by Annette, Gina, and Melissa. That night, Beth wakes up to the emergency alarms going off. She gets up, and goes to check on her son, who is now missing. Beth screams in horror that her infant son is gone.In the final scene, Mother Natalie is revealed to be alive and well and was in fact the woman at the beginning who broke into the maternity ward, and Johnny was the unseen doctor who killed the security guard. Lydia is driving the RV, while Mother Natalie sings Beth's baby a lullaby and telling Lydia and Johnny that they have a new member to the family... implying that she has gotten her final twisted and cruel back-at-you revenge against Beth by abducting her baby and will raise it as her own... in a life of crime, murder and other debauchery.
