A mind-bending thriller set in Portland, Oregon about an unspoken tragedy and its effects on a house, its temporary caretakers and the owners, a classical music critic and his wife on a recuperative trip to Italy.
When Sarah returns home in Oregon from a mental institution, her husband Alan, who is a critic of classical music, tells that they will travel to watch operas in Italy since he will write articles about them. Sarah does not want to travel but Alan introduces Kelly to her telling that she will be the caretaker of the house. When they leave the house, the small-time criminal Jesse, who is Kelly's boyfriend, unexpectedly arrives at the house. Then Kelly's brother Tim arrives to stay with his sister in the house. Kelly had a love affair with Alan and feels comfortable in the house. Meanwhile Jesse steals Alan's convertible to sell to a dealer but he sees the boy Adam alone in the supermarket and decides to bring him home to ransom him despite the protest of Kelly that seeks out his parents. Adam feels good in the house and soon they learn that the house is haunted but they surprisingly stay there. Meanwhile in Italy, secrets are disclosed about the past of Alan, Sarah and Adam and why Sarah had a mental breakdown.
ALAN (RANDY SCHULMAN) is a successful classical music critic as reflected in his spacious Portland home. His wife SARAH (DIANE DALTON) is an obsessively grieving woman, struggling with an unspoken tragedy, even after months of institutionalized therapy.
Upon Sarah's release, Alan forces Sarah into a trip to Italy. He has already arranged for a house sitter in KELLY (LINDSEY HAUN), young and lonely for commitment and the better things in life. Kelly is quickly joined by her younger brother TIM (RJ MITTE), and her trashy-boyfriend JESSE (BLAKE BERRIS). Its not long before the trio find themselves drawn into a web of disturbing revelations. Jesse suddenly decides to kidnap eight-year-old ADAM (MICAH NELSON) from the supermarket. But not all is what it seems with ADAM. There is nothing of him in the news, and from the moment he arrives, he seems to radiate innocent control over its hapless occupants.
Sarahs depression returns in Italy and Alan suddenly reveals a horrible truth. But that truth about a boy and the freakish accident that claimed his life, proves not to be nearly as disturbing as just who that boy was. Little Adam clearly in control now as Kelly, Jesse and Tim find themselves caught in a netherworld between hallucination and reality. Kelly and Jesse eerily unaware as they lose themselves to the house. Tim's future far less certain in a HOUSE OF LAST THINGS.
