After a tragic accident nearly claims the life Luke Gibson (Gooding Jr.) the Hexx Corporation hardwire an implant into Luke's brain, it saves his life, but Luke soon finds out that this new technology comes at price, advertising.
After a tragic accident claims the lives of Luke Gibson's (Gooding Jr.) wife and unborn child, he is left with critical injuries and complete amnesia. A new technological breakthrough from the Hexx Corporation - a Psi-Comp Implant that's hardwired into Luke's brain - saves his life, but Luke soon finds out that this new technology comes with a price and that the Hexx Corporation harbors sinister plans for the new device. With the help of new allies, Luke tries to recover the memories of his past while uncovering the Hexx Corporation's true motives.
In a future world dominated by the corporations, Luke Gibson is driving his beloved pregnant wife Veronica to her work on the day of his birthday; out of the blue, a truck hits their car. Luke's medical insurance is expired and he is doomed to die; however, the executive of the Hope Corporation Virgil proposes Luke's sister to submit him to an experimental surgery with the implant of a chip in his brain. Luke awakes and soon he discovers that he has visions and he is Subject 373 of a secret project. He is helped by a team of hackers formed by Keyboard that became paraplegic after being shot by a henchman of the Hope Corporation; his father Hal; Punk Blue; and Punk Red. Luke tries to recover his memories and discover the objective of the mysterious project.
After a tragic accident claims the lives of Luke Gibson's (Gooding Jr.) wife and unborn child, he is left with critical injuries and complete amnesia. A new technological breakthrough from the Hexx Corporation - a Psi-Comp implant that's hardwired into Luke's brain, saves his life, but Luke soon finds out that this new technology comes with a price and that the Hexx Corporation harbors sinister plans for the new device. With the help of new allies, Luke tries to recover the memories of his past while uncovering the Hexx Corporation's true motives.After Luke (project 660) had a brain operation he starts seeing Hexx Corporation ads for various products. For this he goes to the doctor who had implanted the Hexx chip in his head. He is about to get the names of those people who are responsible for this. Hexx corporation had activated the termination of Luke, but he gets saved by the team of keyboard. They make a proposition to Luke that he will help them to kill Virgil (Val Kilmer) - the head of Hexx Corporation, and in return they will help Luke regain his memories. Luke agrees.Keyboard informs Luke that Hexx corporation had chosen him for their experiment, and this is why they canceled his insurance and also set up an accident. Luke with the team of keyboard starts to find out who had killed Luke's wife. Luke kills Virgil to overcome his rage, but in this process keyboard and his father are killed. Luke with punkred and punkblue tries to saves others who are part of the experiment.
