A teenager is accused of murdering a classmate and claims that she was framed by her best friend. Her mother must try to find the truth.
An innocent teenage prank plunges three high school girls into a world of chaos after the target of their torment turns up dead, and the police seek the evidence needed to charge them with murder. Bianca is furious. Her boyfriend has been going out with Dory behind her back, and now it's time to make the other girl pay. With the help of her best friends Fallyn and Sarah, Bianca lures Dory far from home, and abandons her in the middle of nowhere. Soon thereafter, the local police discover Dory's body on the outskirts of town, and race to catch her killer. When the time comes for someone to take the fall, growing tensions between the three girls lead to a cover-up that quickly turns deadly.
When 17-year-old Bianca Miller (Nicole Gale Anderson) finds out her boyfriend cheated on her with a classmate (Dory, 17), she's furious. When her best friends Fallyn, 17, and Sarah, 17 suggest they play a prank on Dory to make her pay, Bianca agrees to go along. The three girls lure Dory to a remote location, intending to leave her out there in the dark and make her walk home. But when Dory doesnt show up to school the next day, everyone, including Bianca, start to worry.When Dory's dead body is found by a hiker, Bianca is horrified and wants to go to the police. She confesses to her mother Jacqui (Cynthia Gibb) the details of the prank and the two decide to go to the police and tell them. What Bianca doesn't know is that the girl was murdered by her two best friends! Realizing that Bianca's going to the police could implicate her, Fallyn decides to frame Bianca for Dory's murder.With Bianca facing life in prison for a murder she didn't do, Jacqui does the only thing she can. She appeals to Fallyn's father Richard (William R. Moses) and his strong sense of morality to help her elicit the truth from Fallyn. But will Richard decide to help Jacqui and Bianca or hide Fallyn's dark secret to keep his daughter from going to prison for not one, but two murders?
