A high school love comedy, which authentically depicts the lives of today's ever-evolving and parentally subversive youth culture.
In the final days of her senior year Mandy Meyers is forced to change high schools when her father's business moves the family from Washington, D.C. to Los Angeles, California. As attractive as she is intelligent, Mandy sees McDermott High as a chance to start fresh, have some fun, and try things she's never done before. On Mandy's first day of school, McDermott High's two prettiest yet cruelest seniors befriend Mandy and attempt to show her the wild side of Southern California high school life. Likewise, the entire male senior class has also taken notice of Mandy, and she's soon being chased by both an apathetic yet charismatic stoner, and a star football player.
In the final days of her senior year Mandy Meyers (Gia Mantegna) is forced to change high schools when her father's business moves the family from Washington D.C. to Southern California. As attractive as she is intelligent, Mandy sees McDermott High as a chance to start fresh, have some fun, and try things shes never done before. On Mandys first day of school, Jini Jacobs (Elizabeth Nicole) and Jenna Jeffries (Inbar Lavi), McDermott Highs two prettiest yet cruelest seniors befriend Mandy and attempt to show her the wild side of Southern California high school life. Likewise, the entire male senior class has also taken notice of Mandy, and shes soon being chased by both Andy Wasilewski (Escher Holloway), an apathetic yet charismatic stoner, and Tommy Bush (Drew Gallagher), a star football player. Shocking to many, Mandy falls head over heels for Andy. Although his heart is in the right place, hes rough around the edges and in dire need of parental guidance, spending most school nights in his fathers mansion smoking pot and getting drunk by himself. As Andy and Mandy proclaim their love for each other, Andy gets cold feet; hes never had a long-term girlfriend before. Suffering major commitment issues, he self-destructs and impulsively has sex with freshmen hottie Erika Jacobs (Alexandra Mason), who happens to be Jini Jacobs little sister, in the English Building restroom. Mandy immediately dumps Andy, and he falls into a life-altering depression. Tommy once again pursues Mandy and asks her to the prom. Still furious at Andy, she tells Tommy that shell think about it. To further persuade her, Tommy throws a pre-prom party on Mandys behalf. Thoroughly defeated, Andy decides not to go to Tommys party. But just when he thinks his chances of getting back with Mandy are completely over, his two best friends Ferrat Barrett (Luke Eberl) and Ned Fouler (Will Rothhaar) show up at his house and urge him to come back with them to the party. Mandys still in love with you, they shout at him. Meanwhile, Bill Beauchanon (Daniel Booko), Tommys best friend and Jinis on again/off again boyfriend, drunkenly decides its his turn to pursue Mandy. As Bill forcefully and inappropriately hits on Mandy, she rejects his advances and decides its time to go home. Bill becomes enraged and pushes her to the ground. Luckily, Andy shows up and challenges Bill to a fight. Andy and Bill beat the pulp out of each other, which Andy finally ends by knocking Bill out with a brutal right hook. Andy then looks around, but Mandy is nowhere to be found. Ferrat and Fouler point west, and Andy runs after her. Amidst the streetlights and empty road, Andy catches up to Mandy and proclaims his love for her. Thunder crashes, lightening strikes, and rain falls from the sky... and they kiss.
