Babies both human and animal are created up in the stratosphere, by the clouds themselves. One cloud specializes in "dangerous" babies, creating a challenge for his loyal stork that has to deliver them.
Everyone knows that the stork delivers babies, but where do the storks get the babies from? The answer lies up in the stratosphere, where cloud people sculpt babies from clouds and bring them to life. Gus, a lonely grey cloud, is a master at creating "dangerous" babies. Crocodiles, porcupines, rams and more - Gus's beloved creations are works of art, but more than a handful for his loyal delivery stork partner, Peck. As Gus's creations become more and more rambunctious, Peck's job gets harder and harder. How will Peck manage to handle both his hazardous cargo and his friend's fiery temperament?
Up in the blissful blue sky, storks and clouds work tirelessly and incessantly in unison to deliver to the mothers of the world their precious offspring. There, a cuddly puppy is created, and look, here's a fluffy kitten too, however, on the other side of the sky, Gus, a solitary grey cloud, is dedicated to making less cute creations, such as rams and crocodiles and even porcupines. Undoubtedly, this is far too much to handle for Gus' weary stork, Peck, and when a baby shark is next, enough is enough. Can they find a solution?
Each day, storks deliver babies both human and animal all across the world. The source of their bundles of joy come from a series of cloud people, who sculpt the the young ones and bring them to life.While most of the clouds deal with cute little puppies or chicks, one of them named Gus is tasked with creating some of the more volatile of babies. This begins to take a toll on his friend, a stork named Peck. Over the course of the film, Peck is tasked to deliver a baby crocodile, a baby ram, and a baby porcupine.Each time, Peck returns a little more worse for wear. When he returns to find that Gus is planning to have him deliver a baby shark, Peck flies off to another cloud person. Gus grows angry, and then upset that his friend has abandoned him.Soon after, Peck returns and gives the reason why he left: the other cloud person had helped fashion some protective gear for the plucky stork to continue to assist his friend. Gus is overjoyed that Peck has returned, and produces Peck's next delivery: a baby electric eel.
