Dave is a married man with three kids and a loving wife, and Mitch is a single man who is at the prime of his sexual life. One fateful night while Mitch and Dave are peeing in a fountain, lightning strikes and they switch bodies.
Growing up together, Mitch (Ryan Reynolds) and Dave (Jason Bateman) were inseparable best friends, but as the years have passed they've slowly drifted apart. While Dave is an overworked lawyer, husband and father of three, Mitch has remained a single, quasi-employed man-child who has never met a responsibility he liked. To Mitch, Dave has it all: beautiful wife Jamie (Leslie Mann), kids who adore him and a high-paying job at a prestigious law firm. To Dave, living Mitch's stress-free life without obligation or consequence would be a dream come true. Following a drunken night out together, Mitch and Dave's worlds are turned upside down when they wake up in each other's bodies and proceed to freak out. Despite the freedom from their normal routines and habits, the guys soon discover that each other's lives are nowhere near as rosy as they once seemed. Further complicating matters are Dave's sexy legal associate, Sabrina (Olivia Wilde) and Mitch's estranged father (Alan Arkin). With time not on their side, Mitch and Dave comically struggle to avoid completely destroying each other's lives before they can find a way to get their old ones back.
Friends since third grade, Dave is a driven attorney hoping to make partner, married with kids; Mitch is a slacker enjoying life. After an evening of drinking, they wish for each other's lives in front of a statute in an Atlanta park; the next morning they wake in the other's body. The statue's been moved to who knows where, so until they can find it and re-exchange bodies, they must carry on for each other: it's a crucial week professionally for Dave and Mitch has things lined up involving sex. Mitch gets a shot at responsibility and Dave at relaxing, and they learn secrets about themselves. Plus Mitch's dad is remarrying and Dave live out his attraction to a colleague.
In Atlanta, Dave Lockwood is an efficient and dedicated lawyer that expects to be promoted to partner of the law firm where he has been working for ten years after a merging operation and a family man, married with the gorgeous Jamie Lockwood and father of three children. His best friend is the aspirant actor Mitch Planko, who is single, reckless and unemployed, and a quitter that never concludes what he is doing. One night, Dave and Mitch drink a lot and they go to a fountain to pee and they both simultaneously wish to have the life of the other. On the next morning, they wake up and discover that they had switched bodies. They return to the square and find that the fountain has moved to an unknown place. Therefore, Mitch needs to become responsible to save the job and the promotion of his friend, while Dave feels how complicated is for him to date with his sexy and gorgeous colleague Sabrina McArdle. Sooner they learn more about themselves and also that the life of the other is not as good and they believe it could be.
Mitch and Dave have a completely opposite way of living. Mitch has a free life filled with fun whereas Dave is married and has a monotonous life. Each wishes they switched places, when accidently their lives do get exchanged they begin to value their own lives and realise they always had what they really wanted.
In Atlanta, Dave Lockwood and Mitch Planko have been best friends since they were kids, despite their divergent adult paths. Dave is the model of responsibility and over-achievement, he on the verge of making partner at the law firm where he works, despite largely disagreeing with his overly critical and opinionated direct boss, Flemming Steel. He has been married to his childhood sweetheart Jamie for ten years, they who have three children, the two parenting them using every politically correct theory. Mitch is an untrained struggling actor. In his slacker lifestyle, he is usually stoned or in bed with one of his plethora of casual female sex partners. But neither Dave or Mitch is truly happy, each wanting just a little of what the other has. Dave, while truly loves Jamie, secretly lusts after his newly hired associate, Sabrina McArdle, with who he has a professional "look but don't touch" attitude. Mitch sees Dave's life through the lens of the crazy uncle. He has a distant relationship with his own father, who loves his son but knows he could be so much more in his life. Out drinking together one night, Dave and Mitch are magically switched into the other's body on a simultaneous and impromptu wish at a fountain for the other's life. As they try to figure out how to switch back to their own life, they are both able to see their best friend's life from a different perspective, as well their own life through the eyes of someone else. Through it all, they both have mixed emotions about what is happening to them: they still want a little of what the other has with the mentality of who they truly are as people, while trying to protect the life they've built which the other may easily wipe out with one wrong move.
Mitch and Dave are best friends who have grown up together. Their lives have taken different paths. Dave is a successful but stressed lawyer, husband and father of 3 children. Mitch, on the other hand, is a single man and responsibility-free. One night, after much drinking, they arrive at a fountain to urinate. They remark that they wish they had each others life. Unbeknownst to them, it is a wishing fountain. The next day, they awake to find that they are in each others body. Now living each others life, they soon discover that the grass is not greener. They go back to find the fountain, only to find that it has been moved. Stuck in their situation, Mitch needs to go to Dave's law firm with some important documents. Dave needs to attend a film shoot for Mitch, only to find that it is a softcore porn movie. They try their best to avoid messing up each others lives while they find a way back to their own.
