Nono, a Dutch kid lacking two days being thirteen, runs away from problems at home and, disguised as a girl, takes up with the world's cleverest thief, who unbeknownst to Nono, may hold the bizarre key to his true identity.
Nono wants to be like his father - the best police inspector in the world - but he constantly gets in trouble. Two days before his Bar Mitzvah, he is sent away to his uncle Sjmoel, who is supposed to get him back on track. However, during the train ride Nono gets one last chance to prove himself... Together with master-burglar Felix Glick - an old acquaintance of his father - he stops the train and enters a world of disguises, chases, French chansons and Zohara, a mysterious woman whose secrets will change Nono's life forever.
On a train ride 13-year old Nono meets master-burglar Felix. While they commit a couple of crimes together and the police starts chasing them, Nono discovers the true story about his father and his deceased mother. And also a lot about himself....
Widower Jacob, reputedly the best Dutch police detective, has been preparing his son 'Nono' since age three to succeed him, although the cute, smart brat seems absentminded and accident-prone. Having clumsily caused a family scandal at a cousin's bar mitzvah -Jewish passage to manhood rite, at age 13- shortly before his own, Nono is ordered to spend time with an ancient uncle, dreaded, dreary educational professor Sjmoel but discovers on the train that's a cover story for his real coming of age. He's to devise and execute his own secret mission under the guidance of daredevil criminal mastermind Felix, never arrested except by Jacob. He chooses to investigate Lola, the French singer idol of Jacob's in-living 'assistant' Gaby, and the 'curse' of his own late mother Zuhara.
Nono wants to be like his father the best police inspector in the world but he constantly gets in trouble. Two days before his Bar Mitzvah, he is sent away to his uncle Sjmoel, who is supposed to get him back on track. However, during the train ride Nono gets one last chance to prove himself... Together with master-burglar Felix Glick - an old acquaintance of his father he stops the train and enters a world of disguises, chases, French chansons and Zohara, a mysterious woman whose secrets will change Nonos life forever.
