Two newly weds Adjie and Astrid, along with 3 of their best friends decided to have an interstate road trip as a last attempt to reconcile Adjie with his estranged little sister Ladya. Their trip is however abruptly interrupted when they run into Maya, a strange girl out of nowhere, who wanders aimlessly into their path. "I've been robbed" is all she has to say. The friends unanimously decided to give her a ride to her isolated house by the end of the woods. Maya introduces Adjie and friends to her blue-blooded mother Dara, a woman of ageless enigma and few spoken words. Dara insists that their kindness should be repaid with a dinner feast. This is where the night turns into a crimson-hell for the 6 friends, who find themselves trapped and hunted down by Dara and her cult-like family of her three deadly protégés, born and raised to systematically eliminate unsuspecting passers-by for one nefarious reason. Slaughtered one by one, everybody will bleed, the darkest of nights never looked so red.
During opening credits, we are shown an old video about a woman who was teaching three children about human anatomy and killing. At the end of the video, the three kill a man whose the head is covered. (He is killed off screen).In the present time, we meet Adjie and Astrid, a married couple who are getting ready to travel to Sydney for a new job and to start a new life. They are accompanied by their friends, Alam, Eko, and Jimmy to the airport [Soekarno-Hatta International Airport] in Jimmys car. On the road, they meet up with Adjie's sister Ladya and convince her to go with them. However, Ladya, who still blames Adjie for their parents death, declines. After some accidents at Ladyas workplace, she changes her mind and decides to go with them after all. After they leave Ladyas workplace, they meet a beautiful woman named Maya. She tells them she has been robbed and is unable to get home. Feeling pity for her, they give Maya a ride home.The group travels by car to what seems to be the middle of nowhere where Mayas house is located. There, they meet Maya's family. Mayas mother, Dara, has a very young and beautiful face with an eerie expression and mysterious body language. Adam, Mayas second brother greets them and is very gentlemanly. There is also Arman, Dara's eldest son, who is frumpy and never speak any word. After introductions, Dara secretly drugs Astrid. After much insistence, they agree to stay for dinner. However, Adjie and Astrid, who is pregnant go to the guestroom upstairs so Astrid could rest. Unfortunately, the remainder of our friends, who are having dinner, get drugged (In their food) and they are all knocked out. Arman takes them to a cellar, with Alam still at the dinner table. Alam is seduced by Maya, and is slashed by her and he finds Adam who has a broken arm and has collapsed.Adjie and Astrid saw this and manage to get upstairs, but Adam catches Adjie. Astrid locks herself in the guest room. Dara tells her about the strength of women and that the drug she was given will strength from outside. Dara tells her that the drug she was given, will cause her to go into labor. Then Astrid finds a small window, climbs up and sees a car arriving at the house. Astrid calls for help, but it turns out that woman from the car is Daras friend. She is given several coolers of "meat", revealing the motive for the slaughter to come. They are a family of cannibals, who belong to a secret society attempting to gain immortality. The family searches for victims, providing human flesh for the society. Astrid's water breaks and she delivers her own baby by herself.Astrid gets out of the room with her newborn son and embraces her husband. Meanwhile, Dara sneaks into the room and takes the baby. Dara tells the couple that they could escape by themselves. However, if they try to take the infant back, they will all die that night. Astrid follows Dara to the next room, while Adjie goes to another room to try to find help.Down in the cellar, Arman has slaughtered Adam and now chooses Ladya to be his next victim. However, knocks him out and escapes. She breaks out of the cellar and sets Eko and Jimmy free. After their escape, the trio re-enter the house in attempt to save the married couple. However, Maya, who is armed with a crossbow, sees them and shoots at Eko, hitting his left ear. They run to the forest, with Adam now chasing them. Ladya gets away and goes into the house. Jimmy's neck has broken by Adam, and he dies. Eko manages to walk through forest and find a road, where he is spotted by the light of a car.Back in the house, Adjie enters a room filled by babies cadavers and a one baby that has been preserved. He finds his wife, who has been stabbed in neck by a huge hair pin. After finding Astrid dead,Adjie strangles Dara out of revenge. Dara stabs him and strangles him into unconsciousness. Ladya enters, but Arman grabs her and brings her upstairs to rape her.Dara and Maya go back to front door where Adam is already. A police patrol has found Eko and take him into their car. The four police officers separate; two going upstairs, with the others remaining on the first floor. One of the officers finds a video containing the movie that was seen at the start of this film. Shocked, he drops a small collection of photographs, strangely dated in 1912, but depicting Adam, Arman, and Maya. Dara's photo is dated 1889. Upstairs, Arman is stabbed in the eye while raping Ladya. She escapes while Arman screams loudly, tipping off the police. The police take a defensive posture, but Adam turn off the lights and the family of cannibals kill the police in the dark. However, the leader of the police gets away and runs to front door. He retrieves his shotgun, and fires is at Maya, killing her. Dara, who has just killed the other officers, runs to front door and takes the shotgun away from the police leader and kills him. Dara finds an injured Maya and breaks her neck to ends her daughter's suffering.Arman comes out of the room with a the wooden stick jammed in his eye. He slashes the throat of one of the police officers who had gone upstairs to investigate earlier. They die together. Ladya runs to the room where Adjie lies unconscious. She finds Astrid's body, after which they are attacked by Adam. While Adam fights with Adjie, Eko comes enters and jabs Adam with a sword. Adam, who is quite durable, removes the sword while Adjie pours a liquid over his head. Seeing this, Ladya takes her lighter and tosses it to Adam. Adam goes up in flames and runs to another room. Eko goes downstairs alone and slashed by Dara with a chainsaw. Back upstairs, Ladya and Adjie attack Adam once more. Ladya, who has taken the sword, slices Adams throat. Together with Adjie, they decapitate Adam.Ladya and Adjie take the baby to a part of the house, which is stained in blood. Ladya takes revenge on Dara, the last remaining villain. Ladya goes to dining room, where she finds Eko's body and is attacked by Dara and her chainsaw. Ladya with the sword and Dara with the chainsaw, fight each other. Ladya escapes to the other side of dining table and runs out of the room. But Dara slashes Ladyas foot, causing blood to squirt out. Dara readies to attacks Ladya again, but is knocked in the head by Adjie and Ladya makes it away. Dara is still able to grab the chainsaw, slashing Adjie's shoulder. Adjie finds a gun nest to him and throws it to Ladya. Ladya takes the gun and shoots Dara, then strangles her with her necklace. Dara lays on the floor and is kicked by Ladya. Ladya reunites with Adjie and apologizes to him. Adjie forgives her and dies after he asks Ladya to cares her nephew (his newborn son).Morning has come as Ladya gets away from the house with her nephew in her arms. She puts her nephew in a box in the backseat of police car. She starts the car, but before she can drive away, Dara reappears punches out the cars window grabbing Ladya. Ladya drives the car to the forest road, opens the car door and puts it in reverse and Dara is smashed against a big tree. Ladya looks Daras body and smiles knowing that she is safe after the previous night's bloody "game". She says to nephew, We go home,. As she drives away, we see Daras bloody hand moving slowly moving.
