In order to save his kidnapped daughter, an ex-Marine is forced to take on a gang of killers when an accident leaves the brother of a malicious criminal dead.
Ex-Navy Seal Bobby Kalinowski lives a quiet, peaceful life as a landscape architect in an LA suburb with his wife Dawn and 16 year old daughter Brianna. Tonight they are invited out for an evening on the town by new neighbors clay and Elise Freeman to a happening club downtown. Little did they know that this would be the start of a life or death ordeal for the group. While at the club, Dawn is accosted by one of the club owners, Ethan Bordas. When Bobby intervenes and accidentally kills Ethan defending his wife, his enraged older brother, Seth, puts a one hundred thousand dollar bounty on his head. Now Bobby must escape LA while being pursued by every criminal, wise guy and thug in the city. Bobby decides to separate from his wife and neighbors and revert to his Navy Seal training to survive. To complicate matters, Seth has a corrupt police sergeant preventing Bobby from getting any help from the law! However, they all underestimate the fighting skills and abilities of Bobby Kalinowski who battles through an army of thugs to finally make it back home. But, relentless, Seth doesn't stop there. He targets Bobby's family next and kidnaps his daughter. His plan is successful and he lures Bobby to his seedy warehouse complex for the final showdown.
Bobby Kalinowski (Rob Van Dam), is a former Navy Seal enjoying a peaceful life as a landscape architect in Louisiana with his family. The new neighbors Clay Freeman (Edrick Browne) and Elise Freeman (Ava Santana), invite them for a night out at a famous club. The evening takes a turn for the worse when the club owners reveal themselves to be malicious criminals. Bobby gets into a conflict with one of the club owners, Ethan Bordas (Ross Britz). Ethan accidentally falls and is stabbed by his own knife. Ethan's father, Seth Bordas (Jerry Katz), puts a $100,000 bounty on Bobby's head. Also, Bobby is unable to receive help from the law, for Seth has Clay Freeman, and a corrupt police sergeant, working for him. To protect his family and neighbors, Bobby decides to separate himself from them and he calls on his Navy Seal colleague Big Ronnie (David Bautista) for help. Big Ronnie initially refuses, deciding to take the bounty, but later changes his mind and helps Bobby. Seth kidnaps Bobby's 16 year old daughter Brianna (Brooke Frost). Bobby will risk is life for that of his lovely daughter, fighting against Seth and his small army of henchmen.

