An impoverished farmer's threat to end his life invites attention from politicians and media.
In the lead up to state elections in the Indian village of Peepli, two poor farmers, Natha and Budhia, face losing their land over an unpaid bank loan. Desperate, they seek help from an apathetic local politician, who scornfully suggests they commit suicide to benefit from a government program that aids the families of indebted deceased farmers. When a journalist overhears Budhia urge Natha to "do what needs to be done" for the sake of their families, a media frenzy ignites around whether or not Natha will commit suicide.
Natha a poor farmer from Peepli village in the heart of rural India is about to lose his plot of land due to an unpaid government loan. A quick fix to the problem is the very same government's program that aids the families of indebted farmers who have committed suicide. As a means of survival Farmer Natha can choose to die!!! His brother is happy to push him towards this unique 'honor' but Natha is reluctant. Local elections are around the corner and what might've been another unnoticed event turns into a 'cause celebré' with everyone wanting a piece of the action. Political bigwigs, high-ranking bureaucrats, local henchmen and the ever-zealous media descend upon sleepy Peepli to stake their claim. The question on everyone's lips - "Will he or Won't he?" As the mania escalates what will be the fate of Farmer Natha; nobody seems to care how he really feels?
Nathadas Manikpuri lives an impoverished life in Peepli, Mukhya Pradesh, along with his brother, Budhia; aged mother; wife, Dhaniya, and two young sons. He had taken a loan from a bank, and upon being unable to re-pay it, is now being faced with not only losing the land but also homelessness. He accompanies Budhia to meet with the local politician, Bhai Thakur, who mocks them and tells him to commit suicide as this will ensure his family gets Rs.One Lakh from a special government program. With reports of monies being disbursed to other farmers who had killed themselves all over India, Nathadas makes it known to everyone in the village, and the news leaks out to the media - who descend with all force on the beleaguered family, turning Peepli, that has never seen any progress for over 60 years, into a Mela. Bhai Thakur has the police involved, and even has his goons beat up Nathadas and Budhia, while the District Collector and the Chief Minister present Nathadas with a water pump and a color TV respectively and hope that the Ministry of Agriculture comes with a solution. Amidst media frenzy, Nathadas and his family find their movement curtailed, and he disappears one day - leaving the media to speculate whether it was a conspiracy of Central or State governments; Islamic terrorists; or the Americans.

