A couple is haunted by a supernatural presence that is unleashed during a college experiment.
When frightening events start to occur in their home, young couple Kelly and Ben discover they are being haunted by a presence that was accidentally conjured during a university parapsychology experiment. The horrifying apparition feeds on their fear and torments them no matter where they try to run. Their last hope is an expert in the supernatural, but even with his help they may already be too late to save themselves from this terrifying force.
In 1973, six paranormal psychologists tried to contact a recently deceased colleague named Charles Reamer and the event was known as The Charles Experiment. Decades later, the college student Patrick and his friends Lydia and another one repeat the experiment while a fourth student films them. In the present days, Kelly, who works at a pet shop and her boyfriend Ben, who works as an electronic technician, move together into the house of her mother that is empty. Soon they find that the house haunted by an evil force. When Ben checks his e-mails, he finds several messages from Patrick, including a video of a second experiment. Ben learns that Patrick has opened a gate and brought an evil spirit to our world. Now Kelly and Ben are in danger and their only chance it to meet Patrick and send the fiend back to his world.
On May 21, 1973, six people conduct The Charles Experiment, a para-psychological experiment, in which they stare at a drawing of a deceased man, Charles Reamer, hoping to summon his spirit. Years later, four college students, Patrick (Tom Felton), Lydia (Julianna Guill), Ben (Sebastian Stan) and Greg (Luke Pasqualino) attempt to recreate the Charles Experiment on a larger scale by using modern technology. During the experiment, something attacks the students and pulls Lydia into the wall. Some time later, Ben and his girlfriend Kelly (Ashley Greene) are living together. One evening, they discover strange burn marks on their counters. Kelly finds both doors wide open, even though they had locked them. They decide to change the locks and install surveillance cameras. Later, Kelly finds a large amount of mold and spores on the laundry room floor while Ben finds even more in a crawlspace. Ben gets 36 "urgent" emails from Patrick that first inform him of a new attempt at the Charles Experiment, followed by a warning that "containment failed" and finally "you are in danger".
When frightening events start to occur in their home, young couple Kelly (Ashley Greene) and Ben (Sebastian Stan) discover they are being haunted by a presence that was accidentally conjured during a university parapsychology experiment. The horrifying apparition feeds on their fear and torments them no matter where they try to run. Their last hope is an expert in the supernatural (Tom Felton), but even with his help they may already be too late to save themselves from this terrifying force.
