Wallace, who is burned out from a string of failed relationships, forms an instant bond with Chantry, who lives with her longtime boyfriend. Together, they puzzle out what it means if your best friend is also the love of your life.
WHAT IF is the story of medical school dropout Wallace, who's been repeatedly burned by bad relationships. So while everyone around him, including his roommate Allan seems to be finding the perfect partner, Wallace decides to put his love life on hold. It is then that he meets Chantry an animator who lives with her longtime boyfriend Ben. Wallace and Chantry form an instant connection, striking up a close friendship. Still, there is no denying the chemistry between them, leading the pair to wonder, what if the love of your life is actually your best friend?
Dropout med student Wallace (Daniel Radcliffe) makes the acquaintance of aspiring animator Chantry (Zoe Kazan), and though they quickly take an instant liking to each other, she is committed to her live-in boyfriend Ben (Rafe Spall). They agree just to be friends, but when Ben is forced to live in Europe for work, Wallace and Chantry grow more intimate. Meanwhile, Wallace's best friend Allan (Adam Driver) encourages him to stop dithering and tell Chantry how he really feels about her..
Wallace (Daniel Radcliffe) is a guy who has a miserable job and lives with his sister Ellie (Jemima Rooper) and nephew Felix (Lucius Hoyos). He dropped out of medical school after becoming aware of his girlfriend having an affair with his Anatomy teacher and decided to not be social in the last two years. He is coerced by Allan (Adam Driver) into going to a party where he quickly gets bored and begins to amuse himself by arranging fridge magnets bearing single words into phrases.While playing he is joined by Chantry (Zoe Kazan) and the two fall into conversation. At the same time Allan meets Nicole (Mackenzie Davis) and they begin flirting with each other. Chantry and Wallace leave the party and he walks her home where he finds out that Chantry has a boyfriend. Even so, she gives him her phone number, but he decides against pursuing the idea of going out with her. He soon changes his mind about this when they run into each other in a movie theater, where they had both gone alone, and end up having dinner together.Over time the friendship grows and Wallace is invited to meet Ben (Rafe Spall), Chantry's long time boyfriend, who works for the United Nations. Ben, however, ends up in hospital due to a series of unexpected accidents when Wallace visits their house for the first time, where Wallace and Chantry run into Wallace's ex-girlfriend. Ben later moves to Dublin, Ireland for six months due to requirements of his job. During this time Wallace and Chantry begin to see their relationship develop further and they begin to have deeper feelings for each other. Dalia (Megan Park), Chantry's sister tries to come on to Wallace in her car, but he is unable to reciprocate, because he is worried that it would ruin any chance he would have with Chantry. From then on Dalia only speaks negatively of Wallace to Chantry.Allan and Nicole get married and later invite Wallace and Chantry to have a walk on the beach at night. They decide to go skinny dipping and soon Wallace and Chantry decide to join them, whereupon Allan and Nicole steal their clothes forcing them to sleep naked together on the beach. However, they feel forced into the intimate situation and begrudgingly decide just to share the sleeping bag. The next day they leave the beach angrily.Chantry is called from her job to attend a promotion to direct an animated project in Taiwan. However she feels pressured because of her strained relationship with Ben so she travels to Dublin to join him. On arriving she discovers that Ben has accepted more work commitments that require him to travel frequently and they decide to break off the relationship. Meanwhile Wallace decides to follow Chantry, upon arriving Ben punches him in the face, knocking him down the front stairs. He then checks his voicemail, learning that she has returned to Toronto. They reunite, but soon Chantry learns about Wallace's trip and his feelings for her, which she responds extremely unfavorably to.Wallace considers going back to Medical School and moving on with his life, however he decides to attend Chantry´s farewell party and they have a tearful goodbye. They finally admit to their mutual feelings while giving each other a Fool´s Gold Sandwich, something they had previously discussed while hanging out together. The story resumes 18 months later, it is revealed that Wallace has moved to Taiwan with Chantry to begin a relationship with her and to complete his Medical Training there. Upon returning to Toronto, they are married.
