A paralyzed Magician-turned-Radio Jockey files a Petition in Court seeking permission to end his life.
Ethan Mascarenhas, formerly the world's greatest magician, has been quadriplegic since a performance went wrong 14 years before. For the past 12 years Ethan's health has been relatively stable, largely due to the relentless dedication of his nurse, Mrs Sofia D'Souza. He lives and works at his home, spreading new magic to millions of people with his irrepressible wit and spirit through books he has written and his radio show. But now his internal organs are failing. To avoid permanent hospitalization and machine life-support, Ethan petitions a court to be legally allowed to die. Ethan's request - his 'guzaarish' - shocks everyone in his world, but especially threatens his relationship with Sofia, who is the core of his existence. Will Ethan's petition succeed? How will Sofia respond?
Goa-based dancing Magician becomes paralyzed, losing all bodily functions below his neck, and is bed-ridden. He is looked after by Nurse Sofia D'Souza, a victim of spousal abuse; his mother, Isabel; and two servants, Rosy and Maria; in a dilapidated mansion. With this support he becomes a Radio Jockey, and when his health deteriorates after 14 years, asks Devyani Dutta, to file a Petition in Court, seeking permission to end his life. Devyani accordingly does so, and the petition is opposed by Counsel Vipin Patel on behalf of the Government of India. Then Omar Siddique enters his life, wanting to learn the secrets behind his magic tricks, and Sofia's spouse, Nevil, re-enters her life. Thinking about his past, and the accident, Ethan now awaits the Court's verdict, while his Radio fans and others discourage him from euthanasia.
Ethan Mascarenhas was a top magician of his time. After an accident on his show, he is wheel chaired and can't do anything on his own and aided by nurse Sophia. Ethan is fed up with his suffocating life for depending on others and files a plea for mercy killing.But few politicians action against this by saying he is diverting the youth.
The verdant green landscape, the magnetic blue waters and the warm bright sunshine of beautiful Goa is home to one of the greatest magicians of his time, Ethan Mascarenhas. Presently hosting a Radio Show that spreads magic and hope and laughter through his irrepressible wit and humor to every listener and caller, it is difficult to imagine that this is a man who has been immobilized with a spinal injury for the last fourteen years of his life.Ethan is aided through every moment of his present life by the epicenter of his world - his Nurse, Sofia DSouza. Theirs is a love beautiful in its implicit silence, unwavering in its quiet strength and spirited in their constant verbal sparring.On the fourteenth anniversary of his accident, Ethan decides to seek control over his own life. He makes a petition to the Court that shocks the world and leaves Sofia in an impasse that challenges their relationship and their love. Alongside all the tumult that follows, a young man named Omar Siddiqui bursts into Ethans
world with a single-minded desire to learn magic from the very best. While on one hand Ethan passes on his magical legacy, on the other, he fights tooth-and-nail to demand the most basic right that every human being is entitled to the right to his own life. The ethics, the morality, the kindness and cruelty of this mission creates a storm in all the lives that it envelops and its resolution forms the startling conclusion of Ethans remarkable journey.
