Drizzle/Zeng Jing tries to start a new life after she had betrayed her gang and hid the remains of monk.
Set in ancient China, Zeng Jing is a skilled assassin who finds herself in possession of a mystical Buddhist monk's remains. She begins a quest to return the remains to its rightful resting place, and thus places herself in mortal danger because a team of assassins is in a deadly pursuit to possess the remains which holds an ancient power-wielding secret.
In the Ming Dynasty, there was a legend about the mystical powers of the missing remains of an Indian Buddhist monk that would be capable to heal anything. When the leader of the Dark Stone gang Cao Feng discovers that Prime Minister Zhang possesses half of the powerful remains, he sends a team of assassins to kill the minister and his son Zhang Renfeng. However, the skilled Xi Yu flees with the remains and kills Renfeng, who fall off a bridge in a river. Then Xi Yu meets the monk Wisdom that advises her that she has four flaws fighting with her sword and she might be killed by Cao Feng that has trained her. Xi Yu goes to the renowned plastic surgeon Dr. Li that changes her face and she decides to start a new life in a small village. She assumes the identity of Zeng Jing and poses of merchant, and soon she marries the quiet and clumsy Jiang A-sheng). When there is a robbery in the local bank, Zeng Jing is forced to fight to protect her and her husband from being killed, disclosing her skills to Cao Feng. Now he sends Lei Bin, Lian Sheng and Ye Zhanqing, who are his three best assassins, to retrieve the remains and kill Zeng Jing and her beloved husband.
In ancient China, in a time of non-stop inter-clan warfare, Drizzle is the top assassin of a gang known as The Dark Stone. After a career of robbing and killing, she decides she wants to start a new life. As a gesture of atonement, she returns the remains of a mystical Buddhist monk to his tomb. It is rumored that the remains contain the secret to obtaining absolute power and whoever possesses them can control the martial arts world. In order to escape from The Dark Stone and rid her life of violence and bloodshed, Drizzle decides to undergo a drastic procedure to alter her appearance, to change her name to Zeng Jing (Michelle Yeoh), and to move to the Capital. Keeping a low-profile as a shopkeeper, she falls in love with and marries a messenger named Jiang Ah-Sheng (Jung Woo-Sung). However, their peaceful life is soon disrupted when Zeng's identity as Drizzle is unveiled in a dramatic fight and confrontation with her old gang, The Dark Stone. Amidst all the chaos and fighting, Jiang, her husband, reveals his true identity to her - he is the son of a government official that she murdered when she was still a member of The Dark Stone. Once both their identities are exposed, a lethal triangle in which allegiances are made and broken emerges between Drizzle, Jiang, and The Dark Stone, who will stop at nothing in their efforts to obtain the monk's remains and rule the martial arts world.
The remains of a mystical Bodhisattva become the focus of a titanic struggle between martial arts factions to obtain the secret to heal any injury. Within this battle, one assassin seeks to change her destiny and marry the man she loves, but finds that leaving the martial arts world is not so simple at all.

