When the evil spirit Pitch launches an assault on Earth, the Immortal Guardians team up to protect the innocence of children all around the world.
When an evil spirit known as Pitch lays down the gauntlet to take over the world, the immortal Guardians must join forces for the first time to protect the hopes, beliefs, and imaginations of children all over the world.
When the evil spirit Pitch Black, known by the children of the Earth as the Boogeyman, begins an attack, the Guardians - Santa Clause (North), The Toothfairy, The Easter Bunny, and the Sandman - must invite another new Guardian for help. When they attempt to add Jack Frost, he refuses out of spite that he isn't good enough. As the Guardians fight Pitch Black and convince Jack that he is good, the children slowly stop believing in them. Jack must help the Guardians restore their magic with the children of Earth so they can continue protecting the children from danger.
The mysterious man in the moon chooses carefree and charming Jack Frost to be the next guardian. But he is reluctant until he is promised his memories back of a childhood he has long forgotten. A childhood as a human. Rising against him and the other guardians is Pitch Black, the bogey man who has long been forgotten. Now with his power of fear he will undo all the guardians stand for, above all the ability to believe in them
Jack Frost awakens from a frozen pond with amnesia. Upon realizing no one can see or hear him, he disappears. Three hundred years later, Jack, as the young Spirit of Winter, enjoys delivering snow days to school kids, but resents that they do not believe in him. At the North Pole, the Man in the Moon warns Nicholas St. North that Pitch Black is threatening the children of the world with his nightmares. He calls E. Aster Bunnymund, Sandy, and Tooth, to arms. They are then told that Jack Frost has been chosen to be a new Guardian. Visiting Tooth's world, Jack learns that each and every baby tooth contains childhood memories of the children who lost it, Jack's teeth included. However, Pitch raids Tooth's home, kidnapping all of her subordinate tooth fairies except Baby Tooth and stealing all the teeth, thus preventing Tooth from sharing Jack's memories and weakening children's belief in Tooth. In order to thwart Pitch's plan, the group decides to collect children's teeth.

