Two couples spend a weekend in the country, only to cross paths with a brutal serial killer. As the body count rises, suspicion spirals into paranoia, climaxing in a terrifying battle for survival.
What if you invited a serial killer on holiday? Heading off for a weekend in the country, Paige &amp; Calvin reluctantly allow Calvin's brash younger sister to bring along Tristan, an arrogant city trader she's picked up in a one-night stand; but when the group learn a brutal serial killer is plaguing the area, Paige must confront the disturbing truth about Tristan.
What if you invited a serial killer on holiday?Handsome, charming and arrogant, Tristan has picked up Mandy on a one-night stand. The love- struck girl invites him to a rural getaway with her brother Calvin and his girlfriend Paige, an emergency room nurse.But Tristan has secrets. He needs to get out of the city. And suspicions grow when a local police officer warns the group that a sadistic serial killer is plaguing the area.Dubbed the Tree Surgeon, this brutal psychopath ritualistically slaughters his victims, hanging their severed body parts in the trees as unholy offerings.That night a delirious, half-dead stranger hammers on the door, a deep, bloody gash carved in his stomach. Paige stitches the wound, saving his life. The seemingly innocent strangers name is Shawn, a hitchhiker who claims to have been attacked whilst taking a shortcut through the woods.As the weekend wears on, doubts start to breed amongst the isolated group. Is Shawn telling the truth? What is Tristans real motive for fleeing the city? Why does he keep disappearing? And why are his answers to their questions so evasive?Soon the group discover theyve invited a serial killer on their break. But as the body count rises, a punishing battle for survival climaxes in a shocking revelation, as the Tree Surgeon drags his final, traumatized victim into his lair...DONT LET HIM IN is a blistering, nerve-bludgeoning horror thriller which mixes taut, slow- burning suspense with graphic, visceral shock.The film is the debut feature from Coldwood Productions, a production label formed in 2008 by producer-director Kelly Smith, who recently worked as Script Consultant on FACES IN THE CROWD, a thriller from Forecast Pictures starring Milla Jovovich and Julian McMahon.The cast includes Sophie Linfield (FOOTBALL FACTORY), Sam Hazeldine (THE WOLFMAN) and Gordon Alexander (SUCKER PUNCH).
