A Californian family inherits a castle in Romania. This is especially exciting to the son, who is obsessed with monsters. And he is not disappointed.
A family inherited a castle in Romania they go to see the castle where something weird is going on before she knows it a young woman called Jordan the daughter in the family is turning into a werewolf after this trip the families life changes forever
Clumsy 16 year Jordan, her windowed dad, and her monster loving brother, are sent to Romania to read there great uncle (on there mom's side) in his castle. But one night Jordan and hunter snoop around the castle and find a secret room full of science experiments, and when Jordan looks at a vile of SB-217 Hunter scares causing her to drop the thing and step on it. The next day Jordan begins to act strange including liking meat even though she is a vegetarian, and having great hearing and smell and to make things worse Hunter finds out that Jordan is a werewolf, and a evil group of vampire's want to destroy the castle and destroy the world.
Jordan Sands (Victoria Justice) is an awkward and nerdy 17-year-old girl with a bad case of allergies, who just became the woman of the house after the recent death of her mother. Her father David (Matt Winston) is struggling to make ends meet, while her 14-year-old brother Hunter (Chase Ellison) drives the family crazy with gory pranks. They inherit their deceased mother's Great-Uncle Dragomir's castle in Wolfsberg, Romania after getting a package in the mail. After arriving in Wolfsberg, they meet the strange and steely castle housekeeper, Madame Varcolac (Brooke Shields). Varcolac discourages David from selling the property, but he ends up going on dates with and falling for the real estate agent Paulina Van Eckberg. One day while snooping around Dragomir's lab, Jordan steps on a vial of strange liquid. Hunter manages to pull the pieces out from her foot, but Jordan's behavior changes, such as her allergies disappearing, seeing without glasses, and smelling things very far away. Hunter's friends explain that Jordan's behaviors are akin to those of a werewolf's, and that she is one either because of a bloodline curse, a bite from an infected person, or from getting blood of a werewolf. In Jordan's case, it was revealed to have been LB-217, which is short for "Lycanthrope Blood".

