Javier is crushed after his new bride leaves him. When his psychiatrist has no answers, he turns to the arms of his ex-girlfriends.
Javier (Eugenio Derbez), a cardiac surgeon, and his girlfriend, Maria (Alejandra Barros) decide to leave Mexico and go to Florida for a change of pace. After they decide to get married, Javier buys a pair of fish (calling them Javier and Maria) at a pet shop where he meets Julia (Martina Gonzales). The couple gets married and Maria heads to Miami to get things set up for Javiers arrival. When Javier is on the way to the airport, Maria calls and tells him she doesnt want him to come, telling him that she is with another man, Jorge Rubio. She tells Javier, Its not you, its me. Distraught, Javier moves back to his parents house (having sold his apartment and car) and starts seeing a psychiatrist.Javier returns to work, but he cant concentrate at work, accidently injuring a patient. He is asked not to return to work until he can stop bothering everyone with his problems and concentrate on work.As Javier becomes more depressed, he discovers the fish he named Javier dies. When Maria finally calls to apologize, Javier doesn't handle it well. She tells him that he needs to figure out what came between them, to which Javier only responds Jorge Rubio.Javier goes to the park and sees another man meet a girl through having a puppy. So, he decides to buy a dog. He goes back to the pet shop where he sees Julia again. Julia is a little upset with him because she had seen him at the movies earlier and tried to talk to him, but Javier, not knowing it was her, just snapped at her. Javier is talked into purchasing a Great Dane puppy, not knowing the dog would get big.Javier's mother tells him he can't pick up women using a puppy; he needs to open up his chakra. This gives Javier the idea to open up his little black book to call his ex-girlfriends. He makes a date with an old girlfriend, Gabi Rincon (Shaula Vega), but it turns out she is engaged and just wanted to meet with him to give him a wedding invitation.6 months later, Javier is running through the park with his dog, Pimpton and he meets Lola, a woman with another Great Dane and they have a one night stand. When Javier tries to call the woman, he ends up annoying her with multiple voicemails and she tells him never to call her again.Javier finally finds a job as a plastic surgeon and his life seems to get better. His mother encourages him and tells him she isnt upset about anything except the pet shop no telling him the dog would be so large. When Javier goes back to complain about the dog, Julia discovers that Pimpton is pregnant. The pet shop owner offers to buy Pimpton, but Javier decides to keep her. Julia gives Javier her number just in case he has any problems with the dog.Sometime later, Pimpton is ready to have the puppies. Javier calls Julia who tells him not to worry; however, the last puppy gets stuck so Javier calls Julia again who comes over to help with the last puppy. The experience creates a bond between Javier and Julia.Javier decides to move out of his parents house and he also asks Julia out on a date. Julia shows up for the date with her young son, Pedrito. Javier gets along with Pedrito and the date goes well, so they make plans to see each other again the next day and a relationship develops.Javier moves into his apartment and has a party. Julia comes and gets introduced to Javiers friends and family. During an intimate moment between Javier and Julia, Maria calls to say her dad is in the hospital due to a heart attack. Javier agrees to go see him at the hospital and also offers to pick up Maria at the airport. Julia, overhearing the conversation, leaves the party without telling Javier.Javier is allowed to perform a successful surgery on Marias dad. He goes to meet Maria at the airport and she comes to stay with him at his apartment. Maria gives him a letter she wrote but was afraid to send. She tells Javier she doesnt want to be alone tonight, but Javier says hes not ready and needs time.Javier reads the letter where Maria apologizes for her affair and says wants him back and she loves him with all her heart. After reading the letter, Javier gives Maria the one remaining fish and tells her Its not you, Its me. Afterwards, he runs to go see Julia. Julia asks her what happened, and he tells her nothing that would affect their relationship. She then asks, What happened with your perfect girlfriend? and Javier replies, Shes right here. The movie ends showing Javier living happily with Julia, her son Pedrito, and Pimpton and the puppies.
