A janitor at a small town ski resort, who also happens to be a little person, has his life dramatically change when he finds a stray husky and falls for an exotic dancer.
Harvey Lippe' works as a janitor at a small ski resort in the peculiar Northern community of WhiteFox. Standing three feet four inches and abandoned at an orphanage as a child, he has grown up angry and miserable. Now in his early twenties he lives like a hermit in a small trailer, his only friend being Lucas Harold, the town drug dealer. Lucas attended the orphanage for several months before being adopted and subsequently moved to several fosters homes. He is rough around the edges, but has a big heart and a perspective few people give home credit for. Every evening Harvey walks the same route from his trailer, several miles through farmer's fields and hillside forest to get to work. But on this day he has a run in with a stray husky, which he at first thinks is a wolf. She follows him and that night he reluctantly allows her inside his trailer. Through her he meets Dakota Dixon, a dancer at a bizarre local strip joint. Dakota, Lucas, and Inca (as Harvey names her) develop into something Harvey has never had before, a family. Dakota and himself grow close and their relationship becomes intimate. Just when Harvey thinks his life may be worth living Dakota turns on him and Inca is almost killed in a snowmobile accident. He must pull himself together and decide what is worth fighting for, which is where his true story begins.
A raccoon wiggles in its cage as a group of drunken men sit in a field and prepare to release it. They are dressed in English fox hunting attire, but clearly are no more then small town coon hunters. When they blow their bugle to initiate the hunt it awakens Harvey Lippe, who lives in a trailer several yards from the field. He grumpily gets up revealing his short stature. Harvey stands three feet four inches and is in his early twenties. Abandoned as a child, he grew up at a small orphanage several miles from where he now works, as a janitor at the WhiteFox Ski Resort. His world is one of isolation, his imagination his only constant companion, and one which he utilizes often with bizarre and funny dreams. He chooses to live far away from the small resort and as such must walk several miles each day. This evening like all other evenings, he walks with his old wood snowshoes and his head down, hoping to get to work without incident. When he crosses paths with a stray husky, his world begins to change. She follows him to work and that night when he is finished she follows him back home. Perhaps because she has been abandoned like he once was, he reluctantly takes her in. The next day while buying her food at an upscale pet store in the ski village, he meets Dakota Dixon. A stripper at the bizarre Fox and Fur club in the less upscale town of WhiteFox, she helps him to reach a bag of food on a high shelve. When he leaves the store, she patting the dog. She asks him if he would like some help cleaning the obviously stray husky and although mistrusting, he agrees. That night his boss at the resort arrives drunk and almost shoots Inca (as Harvey has named her), mistaking her for a wolf. Lucas Harold, Harveys only friend, whom he met while at the orphanage, averts disaster when he shows up and stops Harveys boss. In exchange Lucas convinces him to help build an amateur luge course between two of the ski hills. The next day he meets Dakota and they walk through the ski village towards her cabin to clean Inca. Lucas sees them and joins. That night they bond over many drinks and for the first time in his life Harvey feels significant. Over the next two weeks he and Dakotas relationship grows. She is lonely and is able to see past his size, and he is in awe of her, she is in every way the object of his desire. As the season comes to an end their relationship grows, and ultimately culminates in an awkward night of sex, which neither knows how to deal with? As though on cue Harveys world collapses around him when Inca gets hit by a snowmobile, Dakota gets together with another guy, he looses his job, and the heater in his trailer breaks. Unable to cope Harvey runs back to the safety of the church. He gives Inca up for adoption and secludes himself from Lucas and Dakota. It takes several days for Lucas to find him, and when he does so he tells him what he already knows, that if he stays at the church he will stay insignificant. As he is about to leave he opens his car door and Inca jumps out, he has taken her from the vet. Harvey embraces her and the next day finds Dakota, who is leaving for New York to start a new job. They embrace and say goodbye, friends but not lovers. That afternoon Harvey and Lucas ride down the luge, Harvey laughs, happy.
