Mumble's son, Erik, is struggling to realize his talents in the Emperor Penguin world. Meanwhile, Mumble and his family and friends discover a new threat their home -- one that will take everyone working together to save them.
Mumble the penguin has a problem: his son Erik, who is reluctant to dance, encounters The Mighty Sven, a penguin who can fly! Things get worse for Mumble when the world is shaken by powerful forces, causing him to brings together the penguin nations and their allies to set things right.
The sequel to Happy Feet, the Academy Award®-winning animated smash hit, Happy Feet Two returns audiences to the magnificent landscape of Antarctica in superb 3D.
Mumble, The Master of Tap, has a problem because his tiny son, Erik, is choreo-phobic. Reluctant to dance, Erik runs away and encounters The Mighty Svena penguin who can fly! Mumble has no hope of competing with this charismatic new role model. But things get worse when the world is shaken by powerful forces. Erik learns of his fathers guts and grit as Mumble brings together the penguin nations and all manner of fabulous creaturesfrom tiny Krill to giant Elephant Sealsto put things right.
Happy Feet Two is directed by George Miller, who won an Oscar® as the creator of the original Happy Feet. The film features the voices of Elijah Wood, Robin Williams, Hank Azaria, Alecia Moore (P!nk), Brad Pitt, Matt Damon, Sofia Vergara, Common, Hugo Weaving, Magda Szubanski, Anthony LaPaglia, Richard Carter and Benjamin Lil P-Nut Flores, Jr.
George Miller co-wrote the screenplay with Gary Eck, Warren Coleman and Paul Livingston. Miller is also producing the film, along with Doug Mitchell and Bill Miller. Chris deFaria, Graham Burke and Bruce Berman serve as executive producers. Tap phenom Savion Glover rejoins the production to create the dances that will be performed onscreen by the penguin characters. The director of photography is David Peers and the animation director is Rob Coleman. The film features vocals by P!nk, with music by John Powell.
Warner Bros. Pictures presents, in association with Village Roadshow Pictures, a Kennedy Miller Mitchell production, with Dr. D. Studios, a George Miller film, Happy Feet Two. The film will be released in 3D and 2D in select theaters and in IMAX on November 18, 2011.
