Six strangers wake up in cells in an underground facility. Their captive decides their fate with the roll of a die.
Lisa, a gambler who lives for the cards. Robert, a millionaire philanthropist, Mark (Elias Koteas), a cop reaching the end of a gruesome career. Zach, a brilliant psychiatrist. Melody, a teenager battling drug addictions. Diane, a caring nurse whose patients are the only life surrounding her. What do these six people have in common? Something connects them all - each of them is on the road to self-destruction, each is truly lost. And then, something happens: they all wake up in cells in a surreal facility, without knowing how they got there or why. Are they in denial? Are they crazy? What happened? They soon discover they are not alone, when the mysterious Jacob (Pyper-Ferguson) forces them into a disturbing experiment, during which the unwilling participants come to face disturbing truths about themselves and decide each others fate in a nerve racking game of dice.
Six strangers awake in a cell in an underground facility. In flashbacks, their lives are exposed and in common, they are destroyed by their acts. Mark Murdock is a nihilist detective that does not have any hope in his career. Lisa Meridian is an addicted gambler that has destroyed her marriage. Robert Moretti is a self-destructive millionaire that tried to commit suicide. Melody Chambers is a young prostitute addicted in drugs. Zach Emmett is a psychiatrist that has been suffering for two years for a fatal wrong prescription to a patient. Diane Robinson is a nurse that lost her two year-old child and tried to commit suicide. Soon they learn that they have been abducted by the disturbed Jacob Odessa, who saw his father committing suicide when he was a boy. Jacob forces each prisoner to toss a dice in a deadly game of Russian roulette against another participant in a sort of trial. The survivors would have a chance to reborn in a new existence.
Six people, each of them is on the road to self-destruction. They wake up in cells in a surreal facility, without knowing how they got there or why. An insane criminal captures six people that have had problems in the past and makes them play a game to decide the fate of each others lives. Die is basically a PG-13 version of Saw. Die is mainly dialogue that is uninspired and pretty predictable. When I saw that Elias Koteas was one of the stars I had pretty high hopes for this movie. I feel he a great actor who isn't given enough recognition. he played in Skin walkers, Shooter and many others.
The movie introduces the captives one by one until they are apparently killed off. Then eventually they all wake up to find themselves in a glass prison cubes and a guy that informs them they must play a game. A game which will decide their fate. We find out that at some point in each of the six captive's lives they tried to commit suicide. So they are paired up in teams and one has to roll a die (guess this is where the title of the movie comes into play) to decide what kind of chance the opposite captive has to live. For instance one guy was going to kill himself with a gun so he had to roll a die to see how many bullets had to put in the revolver. Once the number of bullets are decided he then had to squeeze the trigger while pointing it at the other captive. This was done a few times while some people lived and some didnt. Not a bad ideal for a horror flick. The back ground stories of the captives was pretty lame and not very interesting. The scenes with the villain and the captors was actually the best part of the movie. The rest of the movie was a couple of FBI agents trying to track down the kidnapped, missing people. Then they had to figure out how to connect the dots that were found.
It's really not too shabby of a horror flick.
