A documentary that faces down the controversies between homosexuality and religion, examining Bible verses quoted as condemnatory and discussing alternative meanings.
Fish out of Water tackles the seven Bible verses used to condemn homosexuality and justify marriage discrimination. This feature documentary uses humor and original animation to make a traditionally complex and controversial topic accessible to those who don't like talking about religion and sexuality. Fish out of Water dives into the underbelly of America, crisscrosses red and blue states and talks to ministers from every denomination to uncover America's impassioned relationship with homosexuality and the Bible. With slapstick animation and quirky interviews taken everywhere from barbershops to mega churches, Fish out of Water delivers a voice to the oppressed and informs to the misled. Most importantly, Fish out of Water sits down with hundreds of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender folks to impart their experiences with faith and sexuality. This unique lens spans across culture, race, religion, age, socio-economic level and puts a relatable face on the themes of Fish out of Water. The result is a cultural cross-stitching that serves as a piece of empowerment for the many Americans that still struggle to defend their identity within their own communities. By capturing the "other side of the debate", Fish out of Water shatters deep-rooted discrimination and challenges those who are spoon-fed information without ever questioning or exploring the legitimacy of it.
In her documentary "Fish Out of Water," Ky Dickens interviewed 170 members of the LGTBQ community and 14 experts on theology and psychology to develop the general idea that the bible never denounces homosexuality and that Christianity should actually embrace the sexual diversity instead of condemning it. The documentary focuses in on 7 biblical verses that are commonly used by Christians to show how homosexuality is an abomination. A variety of denominations were interviewed, including Westboro Baptist, United Methodist, Episcopalian, Jewish, Lutheran, United Church Of Christ. Dickens does present a compelling argument in regards to accepting homosexuality in the church.

