A traumatized boy grows into a shy, determined teenager who patrols the mean streets of New York City, helping those in need and dishing out severe punishment to remorseless thugs.
A young Brooklyn boy witnesses the brutal murder of his mother and grows up obsessed with finding her killer. Thus begins his life as a quiet, straight-A student by day and a self-appointed hero at night. But what is a real hero? And who decides what is right or wrong? As the boundaries blur, Sean's dual life wears on his psyche and his two worlds careen dangerously close to colliding. Like a graphic novel you can't put down, Boy Wonder challenges morality, distorting perceptions of what is right and what is justified, as it races to its shocking conclusion.
The teenager Sean Donovan is a brilliant but shy student that lives with his father Terry Donovan in Brooklyn. Sean has a trauma since he has witnessed the murder of his mother in a carjack nine years ago. Sean frequently goes to the precinct to see criminal photos expecting to identify the killer of his mother and he is an amateurish boxer. During the night, Sean secretly is a vigilante, seeking out brutal criminals based on the police files to eliminate them. The efficient police lieutenant Teresa Ames has been just promoted after capturing the notorious gangster Larry Childs and transferred to work in the Homicide Department in the precinct where Sean uses to go. When Sean helps Teresa to change her flat tire, she befriends Sean and leans his traumatic story. But when she notes that Sean was searching in the computer of the police department the pimp that was murdered, she suspects that the troubled teenager might be the vigilante that is killing in New York City.
In this riveting and gritty psychological-thriller, a young boy witnesses the brutal murder of his mother during a Brooklyn car-jacking leaving him to be raised by his alcoholic father (Bill Sage, Handsome Harry, 2010 Best Picture-nominee Precious, If Lucy Fell). Now a 17-year-old loner, Sean Donovan (Caleb Steinmeyer, HBOs True Blood, ABCs Lost) is relentlessly haunted by his past and obsessed with finding his mothers killer.Drawn into a nocturnal urban underworld, Seans consuming rage is vented one night, defending himself from a chaotic attack by a drug dealer. Thus begins his life as a quiet, straight-A student by day and a self-appointed hero at night.Investigating a series of vigilante murders, hot-shot new homicide detective Teresa Ames (Zulay Henao, Fighting, S. Darko, Feel the Noise) broken by her own troubled life takes an interest in Sean and his case. Yet the closer Teresa gets, the more suspicious she becomes. Engaged in a twisting game of cat and mouse, Sean and Teresa become allies by day and enemies by night.
But what is a real hero? Who decides what is right or wrong? As the boundaries between justice and vengeance blur, Seans dual life wears on his psyche and his two worlds careen dangerously close to colliding.
Like a graphic novel you cant put down, Boy Wonder challenges morality, distorting perceptions of what is right and what is justified, as it races to its shocking conclusion.Written and directed by Michael Morrissey, who makes his feature film debut, Boy Wonder also stars James Russo (Public Enemies, Extremities) and Tracy Middendorf (HBOs Boardwalk Empire, Mission Impossible III).
