A wisecracking mercenary gets experimented on and becomes immortal but ugly, and sets out to track down the man who ruined his looks.
This is the origin story of former Special Forces operative turned mercenary Wade Wilson, who after being subjected to a rogue experiment that leaves him with accelerated healing powers, adopts the alter ego Deadpool. Armed with his new abilities and a dark, twisted sense of humor, Deadpool hunts down the man who nearly destroyed his life.
Wade Wilson is a small-time mercenary. He meets Vanessa and falls in love. Life is idyllic until one day he is diagnosed with terminal cancer. Things look bleak but a man appears who says he can be cured, through a treatment that gives him superhero powers. After initially turning him down, Wilson agrees, and meets the man behind the project, Ajax. While undergoing the treatment he discovers that it will involve him becoming a mutant, and he will need to undergo several painful tests to discover what his mutant abilities are. Plus, Ajax is a sadist. The treatment results in Wilson getting powers of accelerated healing but also leaves him terribly disfigured. Ajax tries to keep him a prisoner but he escapes. He now has two aims: find Vanessa and make Ajax pay for what he did to him. Killing Ajax may not be as easy it seems, as Ajax is also a mutant and the meddling superhero Colossus and his sidekick Negasonic Teenage Warhead keep getting in the way. Oh, and Wade Wilson is now operating under an alias: Deadpool.
After a fast-talking mercenary is diagnosed with terminal cancer, he finds the possibility of healing in a scientific experience of a covert organization. Recovered, with accelerated healing factor and an unusual sense of humor, he adopts the alter-ego Deadpool to seek revenge against the man who destroyed his life (and his face).
After being diagnosed with terminal cancer on the same day his girlfriend (Monica Baccarin) accepts his marriage proposal, former Special Ops agent Wade Wilson (Ryan Reynolds) is approached by a shady organization offering a cure to his cancer. Wade accepts and meets a psychopath, Ajax, actually Francis Freeman, (Ed Skrein) who injects Wade with a strange serum, supposedly the cure to his cancer. Francis, along with his assistant Angel Dust (Gina Cariano) proceed to put Wade through unbearable torture, leaving him with horrible burn-like scars in his entire body and an accelerated healing factor. But Wade doesn't forget, as he's pissed and wants his face back to normal. Armed with two katanas, pistols, and a red suit and mask, Wade becomes Deadpool, and makes it his mission to hunt Francis down and get revenge.
Just when fate smiled upon the dishonourably discharged special forces operative, Wade Wilson, by pairing him up with the love of his life and equally damaged kindred spirit, Vanessa, terminal cancer gets in the way of a happy future. Determined to do anything to get a new lease of life, Wade submits himself to the sadistic experimenter Ajax's highly empirical treatment of excruciating pain, which promises to awaken Wade's dormant mutant genes that will rid him of his incurable disease. Now, the all-powerful, cancer-free, and self-healing anti-hero has to experience firsthand life's cruel irony, and hide his once-impeccable but now forever ruined complexion behind a mask as Deadpool, to seek revenge on Ajax and his henchwoman, Angel Dust, for the wrong that has been done. Will the "Mercenary with a Mouth" ever get his good looks back?
The opening scene shows Wade Wilson, the superhero Deadpool (Ryan Reynolds) in a cab, bored in the backseat. He slides up front to chat with the cabbie, Dopinder (Karan Soni). Deadpool asks Dopinder about a picture of a girl he has in his car, and Dopinder says she was his girlfriend until he lost her to his cousin. Dopinder then takes Deadpool to the middle of a bridge, and Deadpool stiffs the man for cab fare.Deadpool waits on top of a bridge for his targets, but first addresses the audience and jokes about fondling Wolverine's balls to get his own movie. He then spots a group of vans arriving, and he jumps into one of the men before beating up of all the thugs in the van, causing an accident that kills other villains. Deadpool's main target is Ajax (Ed Skrein), the man that gave him his powers and also horribly disfigured him. The vans all come crashing to the end of the bridge, where one thug's head is sliced off with a motorcycle chain, and another one is gorily splattered against a sign on the highway.At Xavier's School For Gifted Youngsters, Colossus (Stefan Kapicic) sees the chaos unfolding on the news and calls Negasonic Teenage Warhead (Brianna Hildebrand) to join him in getting Deadpool.Deadpool is upset because he forgot his bag of weapons and only has 12 rounds in his gun. He counts off how many rounds with each thug he kills, accidentally missing a few shots, but he manages to kill three men with one bullet. One last thug comes at Deadpool with two knives, but Deadpool quickly skewers him. Deadpool then points out that this is a different kind of superhero movie, and that we need to go back for him to tell it properly.Flashback to one year earlier....Wade Wilson was a mercenary-for-hire living in New York City. He takes a job getting a pizza delivery boy to stop stalking a girl by threatening him. Once his job is done, the girl thanks him and calls him her hero, to which Wade quickly points out that that is something he is not.Wade goes to the bar where his friend Weasel (TJ Miller) works. Wade orders a drink called a Blowjob and has the bartender bring it to a big thug and to say it came from another man. The insulting drink prompts a bar fight where people bet on others to die, which is called the "dead pool". At this bar, Wade meets a prostitute named Vanessa (Morena Baccarin). They bond over their weird, messed up lives before starting a sexual relationship, which eventually evolves into a romantic one.Wade is genuinely happy until he is diagnosed with advanced-stage cancer in his liver, lungs, prostate and brain. He fears more for what will happen to Vanessa than to him. At the bar, Weasel tells him that a man sitting in the corner is looking for him. He is The Recruiter (Jed Rees), and he tells Wade that he works for a facility that will not only cure him of his cancer, but also give him incredible powers. Wade is hesitant, but he takes the card that The Recruiter gives him.Back in the present, Deadpool finds Ajax headed to him on a motorcycle and he throws his katana at the bike, causing Ajax to crash. Deadpool impales Ajax with the other blade, but since Ajax is a mutant, the blade doesn't kill him. Deadpool lifts up his mask for to show his scars so that Ajax can recognize him as Wade Wilson. Colossus and Negasonic arrive on the scene. Colossus is displeased with Deadpool causing so much mayhem and tries to get him to join the X-Men. Deadpool again refuses. With his back turned, Ajax escapes. Enraged, Deadpool tries to hit Colossus, but he ends up breaking both wrists and an ankle. Colossus cuffs Deadpool to his wrist, but Deadpool chooses to cut his hand off and hop into a garbage van, leaving his hand behind, giving Colossus the finger.In another flashback, Wade made the choice to be cured for Vanessa, leaving her alone in the middle of the night and never returning. He goes to the facility where he meets Ajax for the first time, along with his cohort Angel Dust (Gina Carano). Ajax says that in order for Wade's cells to heal, they have to subject him to extreme stress for the mutant cells to activate.Wade undergoes torture techniques until Ajax tells him that they are making him into a super slave to be auctioned off somewhere. Wade makes fun of Ajax after learning his real name is Francis. Ajax straps Wade to a barometric chamber unit where his oxygen is is gradually cut off. When Wade begins to lose consciousness, the oxygen is automatically restored. His skin and face start to blotch up, making him disfigured. Ajax opens the chamber and tells Wade his cancer is gone because his mutation has activated itself; his body is fighting his cancer as quickly as it can metastasize which will keep him alive indefinitely. Wade headbutts Angel and takes a match that she kept in her mouth. Ajax tells Wade that he takes a sadistic pleasure in watching his clients being tortured and locks Wade in the chamber to be tortured further. Wade lights the match and throws it near the oxygen vent, causing an explosion in the laboratory. Ajax goes down to see what happened, and Wade starts to fight him. He has gotten increased strength, but Ajax gets the upper hand and impales Wade with a bar, pinning him to the floor. Ajax leaves as the facility crumbles around Wade.Wade wakes up alive, but horrified by his complexion. He walks through the streets with a hood over his head, but the people that see him are creeped out by his appearance. He worries about what Vanessa will think if she sees him, so he stays away from her completely.Wade visits Weasel, who is also disgusted by his appearance and makes a few quips at his expense. Weasel encourages Wade to make a suit and mask to disguise himself as he goes back to hunt for Ajax so that he can fix his face. Wade decides to call himself "Deadpool" and begins his crusade to find Ajax by plowing through his goons until he can find him. He finds The Recruiter, who says what he knows about Ajax's whereabouts before Deadpool kills him. In this time, Wade has decided to stay with a blind woman named Al (Leslie Uggams).Back in the present day, Deadpool rides the garbage truck back to his and Al's place, and his hand starts to slowly grow back.Ajax and Angel go to Weasel's bar to locate Deadpool. Angel grabs Weasel by the throat, but the other bar patrons turn their guns on her and Ajax. They find a picture of Wade and Vanessa together before leaving.After being told to just face Vanessa himself, Wade goes to the strip club where she works (where we see Stan Lee as a DJ), but is still scared to face her. Vanessa's co-worker tells her that an ex-boyfriend is out back looking for her. She goes outside and thinks it's Wade, but it's Ajax. He and Angel take her. Wade goes out back to look for her but only finds her handbag, letting him know that she's been taken.Infuriated, Wade grabs all the guns he owns and goes to the X-Mansion to get Colossus and Negasonic to help him get back Vanessa and stop Ajax. He then quips that the mansion is so big, yet it looks like the studio couldn't afford more than two X-Men.The mutants take a cab driven by Dopinder to Ajax's location. They hit a bump and Deadpool hears a scream from the trunk. Dopinder admits he kidnapped his cousin. Deadpool pretends to be horrified but quietly congratulates Dopinder. The three then track Ajax down to a scrapyard. Deadpool charges toward the goons while Colossus and Negasonic fight Angel. She slams Colossus away, but Negasonic charges at Angel with great power.Deadpool rips through the goons and uses their corpses to spell out Francis's name to mock him. He runs up to the aircraft carrier where Ajax is keeping Vanessa. He puts her in the same barometric chamber where he put Wade, intending to suffocate her. Deadpool duels with Ajax with their blades. Meanwhile, Angel almost strangles Colossus with a bar, but Negasonic creates a powerful blast that throws Angel off and weakens one of the carrier's support columns. It starts to collapse, sending numerous freight containers down. Colossus carries Negasonic and Angel to safety while Deadpool makes sure Vanessa lands safely. The carrier then completely crashes down.Ajax attacks Deadpool once again until the latter has him pinned down. Deadpool holds his gun at Ajax's head and demands that he fix his face, but Ajax laughs and says there was never a cure for that. Deadpool is ready to kill Ajax until Colossus steps in and starts to make a big speech on making the hero's decision to spare his enemy's life. Deadpool gets tired of the speech and he just shoots Ajax in the head, making Colossus puke. Afterwards, Deadpool finally confronts Vanessa and apologizes for abandoning her. She removes his mask to see his face, but he is wearing a cut-out of Hugh Jackman's face. She sees his real face and says she will eventually get used to it. They kiss, and Deadpool signs off as the movie ends.After the end credits, Deadpool appears in his bathrobe telling the audience to leave for the movie is over (a homage to the final shot of 'Ferris Bueller's Day Off'). However, he comes back and says that the studio is trying to get Cable to be in a sequel. Deadpool walks away, but then pops his head out to go "Chicka-chicka!"
