A physical therapist falls for the basketball player she is helping recover from a career-threatening injury.
Leslie Wright is a straight-shooting physical therapist who gets the gig of a lifetime working with NBA All-Star Scott McKnight. All is going well until Leslie finds herself falling for Scott, forcing her to choose between the gig and the tug-of-war inside her heart. Oblivious to her romantic overtures, McKnight is instead drawn to the affections of Leslie's childhood friend Morgan, who has her sights set on being an NBA trophy wife. Is Leslie destined to play the role of "best friend" forever or will Scott finally see that what he always wanted is right in front of him?
Leslie Wright (Queen Latifah) is a straight-shooting physical therapist tired of being a guy's girl. She and her God-sister, Morgan, are living together and Morgan wants to be an NBA trophy wife. After a Nets basketball game, Leslie helps star player, Scott McKnight (Common) at the gas station. He invites her to his birthday party, where she shows up with Morgan. He meets Morgan and suddenly takes an interest in her. After a quick relationship, Scott and Morgan end up being engaged. At the 2009 NBA All-Star Game (which was filmed at the Izod Center even though the game really took place at the US Airways Center in Phoenix.), Scott becomes injured, an injury that could possibly ruin his career. Morgan suggests that he enlist the help of Leslie, since she did not approve of his previous gorgeous physical therapist, so Leslie moves into their home. Rumors circle that Scott's career would end quickly if he did not recover by the playoffs, which causes Morgan to leave Scott through a letter. Scott becomes extremely upset, discouraged to continue recovery. Leslie encourages him and helps him get back in the game, the two of them spending a lot of time together. Scott is able to return to the NBA right before the playoffs, winning his first game back. Leslie and Scott decide to spend a romantic evening together , but Leslie wakes up to Morgan at Scott's door hoping to reconcile. Leslie quickly moves out as Scott and Morgan reunite. Because Leslie helped Scott recover in such a short amount of time, many teams offered her the position as an athletic trainer. Most likely to make the Sixers her new team, Scott quickly stops her when he realizes that he is in love with her. They are shown a year later, with Leslie working as one of the Nets team athletic trainers and she and Scott have wed
