The boss of a major crime syndicate orders his lieutenant to bring a rogue gang of drug traffickers in line, a job that gets passed on to his long-suffering subordinate.
The plot concerns a struggle for power amongst Tokyo's Yakuza clans, today just as likely to be playing the stock market as shaking down pachinko parlors, over which the Sanmo-kai clan holds sway in the face of constant betrayal and ever-changing allegiances. The Sanmo-kai chairman learns that his henchman Ikemoto has struck an alliance with the drug-dealing Murase family, and is not best pleased, to say the least. The ensuing retaliation triggers an orgy of killings, territorial invasions and score settling while law enforcement officers are too corrupt to intervene.
The movie begins with Sekiuchi, chairman of the Sannokai, a huge organized crime syndicate controlling the entire Kanto region, issuing a stern warning to his lieutenant Kato and right-hand man Ikemoto, head of the Ikemoto family. Kato orders Ikemoto to bring the unassociated Murase family in line for their drug trafficking business, as he knows that Ikemoto is Murase's sworn brother. Ikemoto immediately passes the task on to his subordinate Otomo, who runs his own crew. Ikemoto is suspecting that Sekiuchi has lost confidence in him and instructs Otomo to "shake up" Murase as to make it look like that have "a little quarrel". What ensues is series of violent events in between which everybody is trying to trick everyone behind his back for their own benefit.
The film tells about the confrontation of several powerful criminal groups. Members of the Yakuza clans have long departed from the old laws and strict rules, because in the struggle for absolute power all means are good. To move up the "career" ladder, brute force has not been used for a long time, and various oaths are used and a decent game is played. Money has become the most important factor, and the financial market is now much more interesting than racketeering. Otomo is an experienced member of the Yakuza, who, unwittingly, was drawn into the mortal game of bosses.

