Takes place in the 80's where a group of teenagers go to visit an abandoned hotel, only to find themselves hunted by a psychotic killer through the Norwegian woods.
In 1976, in Jotunheimen, an abused boy stabs to death his mother Sigrid and his stepfather Gunnar in an abandoned hotel and the family is considered missing by the local Sheriff Einar and authorities. Twelve years later, the teenagers Hedda and her boyfriend Anders, Siri, Knut, Magne and Simen take a lift with Sheriff Einar telling that they will hike in the woods. However they go to the abandoned hotel expecting to spend the night in the place but they find dust and rats and prefer to stay camping in the woods. In the morning, Siri and Knut fall into a trap of the eremite hunter Jon and Knut is seriously wounded. Siri climbs the hole to seek for help to Knut, but she is captured by Jon while a stranger kills Knut. Soon the teenagers are hunted down by the creepy serial-killer.
Jotunheimen year 1976. The Stehøe Mountain Hotel, located far away from any civilization, is on the verge of bankruptcy due to lack of guests staying away due to recent mysterious and bad incidents in its surroundings. The couple running the hotel are Sigrid and Gunnar. Sigrid is mother to a boy who has a large birthmark covering his left eye, and he is routinely abused by Gunnar, being locked up in the hotel's basement and harassed while Sigrid watches as Gunnar abuses her son, doing nothing to prevent it.
Einar, a police officer serving as sheriff for the Otta sheriff's office, is driving to a house in the woods where his brother Jon lives away from civilization. On his way, news about the boy's disappearance are told on the radio in Einar's car. The host tells on the radio that the parents explained that "he went out to play, as he usually did, but never came back within the time agreed. In reality, as Gunnar entered the room the boy was locked up inside, he manages to escape the basement and outside, during which he falls into a ditch where Gunnar buries him alive and leaves him to die in the cold. As Einar arrives at Jon's house, Jon is in the process of skinning a dog on the kitchen table. Einar asks Jon if the boy somehow was staying at him, during which he discovers a bloody knife lying on the kitchen table, without investigating it further. Jon states he will not have contact with anyone from the civilizations, including Einar. Back at Stehøe, Sigrid is preparing to go to bed when she hears a strange noise in the corridor. Thinking it is Gunnar, she exits her room and attempts to call for Gunnar. She then discovers snowy footprints on the floor before returning to the room where she washes her face in the sink as well as hearing more noises, this time coming from her room. As she turns away from the sink, she notices that her son had survived and is in her room. She then gives the boy a hug, during which the boy stabs her to death. Gunnar hears something is happening inside Sigrid's room. He goes to investigate, and finds Sigrid lying dead on the floor. Distracted by her death, Gunnar is unable to notice the boy he buried alive a few days earlier, and who stabs him in the neck, killing him.12 years later, Einar is now transporting a group of youngsters to a remote location in Jotunheimen. On the car's radio, Kim Wilde's cover version of the song "Keep Me Hangin' On" is being played. The car drives past a dead deer, and not far away, Einar notices Jon having trouble with his car. While talking to Jon, Einar tells him that he now has two boys, and that they are aware they have an uncle. As Einar goes back to his car, he discovers two rifles on the loading platform on Jon's pickup and informs Jon that the area is a national park, which means that hunting is illegal. Jon then takes notice of the youngsters that are inside the police vehicle. While Einar is talking to Jon, the youngsters talk in between them, saying that the sheriff thinks they are just going to the mountains. Einar returns to his car and drives up to an empty plains area where he drops off the youngsters. He informs that the bus driver has an anniversary the next day and no bus will be going. He also says that he can pick them up the next day and that walking the same distance till take 6 hours. From where they were left off, they walked further into the mountains. They stop, and Simen, Knut and Magne takes a look at a map to tell them how far it is to their destination. Magne then comments that their destination, Stehøe mountain hotel, which was abandoned 12 years earlier, is not marked on the map. Simen replies that after the incidents there, the place was taken off the map so that people should not visit the site. Magne then discovers that the map is from 1930. They then talk about what happened, during which Simen makes a joke about that he heard that the boy's parents, who disappeared shortly after the boy, are wandering restlessly in the area. Siri then reaches the top of a hill and tells the rest of the group that she think they are there now after spotting the old hotel in the distance. They reach the hotel, where they open the door and walk in. They notice that most of the interior is covered in dust and cobwebs. Siri is the last one to enter, and a wind gust causes the door to shut behind her. Magne then tells the group that they'll light the fireplace and dust and it will be good. Hedda then opens the guest book where she finds a picture of the boy with his parents. Siri hears a creaking noise and Simen then scares her. When Knut asks Siri to join him in getting firewood, Siri replies that she feel unpleasant about being at the hotel. Magne then opens a closet discovering there are rats there too. This causes the rest of the group to not wanting to stay at the hotel, something Simen disagrees to. Anders then suggest to camp outside. When Knut says they have no tents, Anders convinces them that there is no need for a tent given the good weather.The group head to a camp site next to a river. Simen and Magne plays with a Gameboy Simen brought while Hedda takes off her clothing and goes into the river to bathe, telling Anders to come bathing. Magne then takes his clothes off before going out to bathe. Siri thanks Knut for having the others not staying at the hotel. At the end of the day, they decide to eat, only to find that their food supply is insufficient. Siri, however, has brought six beers with her.That night, Siri and Knut venture into the woods, and Simen makes a joke that Knut and Siri will A: pick mushrooms, B: Climb trees or C: have wild and unrestrained sex, which are not well received by Hedda and Anders. As Siri and Knut venture further into the woods, Simen makes another joke that mountaineering rule #12 is: Remember map and condom, during which Hedda and Anders tells him to shut up. Eventually Siri finds a dead animal hanging from a tree, and calls Knut to come. As they approach, the ground beneath them collapses and they fall into a trapping pit. Knut is impaled by a tipped branch designed to kill animals falling into it. Siri is unharmed, but lying under water, with only her face above the surface. Siri notices Knut's injury and escapes to get help. Shortly after she goes to get help, a hooded man appears, descends into the pit and takes Knut away. Siri, who is unable to find back to her group, calls for help and eventually she reaches a road running through the forest, where she falls asleep. In the shed at Jon's property, the hooded man straps Knut, who appears to be alive, to a bench before killing him by stabbing him multiple times and cutting his body open with a large knife. Siri is eventually found by Jon, and she explains to Jon that Knut is trapped in a trapping pit and injured, and she was unable to find back to the group. Jon promises to help before driving to his property.Upon arrival, Jon orders Siri to stay in the vehicle before entering the shed, where he confronts the hooded man on slaughtering a human and orders him to clean up, before Jon goes to his house. Siri then enters the shed and finds that Knut is dead. She picks up a shovel to use as a weapon against an eventual killer, but is captured by Jon while attempting to exit the shed, despite pleading to let her go.At the camp, Hedda washes her face when she spots a deer on the opposite side of the river. She calls for Anders to come, during which Simen unwraps an AG3 battle rifle and inserts a magazine, which makes mechanical noise, scaring the deer. Anders tells Simen to put the gun away, and tells Simen that on the nachspiel, they decided to go hiking and all the others got home to pack while he went home to get a rifle. Simen tells that it is an AG3, and tells that he was recently transferred to the Norwegian Home Guard. Hedda asks if the Home Guard thinks it is okay if he brings in on hike, he replies that they never know when the Russians will attack. They asks about what S, e and F means, and Simen tells that it means Safe, Lonely and Family, and to kill a bachelor, it would be set to E and to kill mother, father and 1,4 children, it would be set to F. Magne tells Simen that he is insane, which Simen admits.When Anders asks where Knut and Siri went, Simen states that it was alternative C. Hedda, Anders and Magne then goes looking for Siri and Knut while Simen goes to play a war-game on his own. Magne tells that they can now ignore attempts to get to the sheriff they hiked the previous day, who is pitching pennies and listening to radio while waiting for the group where he dropped them off the previous day. While playing his war-game, Simen senses motion in the forest and is hearing branches breaking. Simen aims his gun towards the source of the noise before he hears it a second time. Simen asks if there are someone there, and then spots a hooded, humanoid creature. While aiming at the hooded man, he suddenly charges on Simen, who in fear of being in mortal danger tries to shoot the attacker. The gunfire is audible from a long distance, and is heard by the sheriff waiting for them. Meanwhile, Magne is casually walking through the woods while listening to Kim Wilde's "Keep Me Hangin' On", during which the music dies and he discovers that the tape did not wind up properly and jammed the Walkman. Hedda, who is enraged by Simen's shooting, rushes to Simen's location to reprimand him about the incident, but finds him sitting next to a tree while holding to his gun while being unresponsive. Upon looking closer, Hedda finds traces of blood at Simen's head and when she touches his head, it falls forward, revealing a branch impaling it. Hedda, clearly shocked by finding that someone has killed Simen, then noticing motion in the forest.Meanwhile, Magne has wound up the tape and starts playing it again, only for the music to die a second time. As Magne winds up the tape, Hedda suddenly runs into him, telling him to run. The pair reaches Anders, who is packing stuff to prepare for departure, and tells Anders to run. Anders hesitates until he spots someone moving between the trees before joining Hedda and Magne on the run. They trip in branches as they run to escape the killer. They reaches an abandoned house, where they hide in the basement. When Magne asks what is happening, Hedda tells that she found Simen dead, sitting next to a tree, and that the killer started going after her. They then hear someone enter the house, obviously the killer.Meanwhile, Einar goes to Jon's house to search for the missing youngsters. When he tries to make contact with Jon, he appears to not be at home. Siri, who is imprisoned in Jon's basement, hears the voice calling for Jon and recognize that it is Einar. She calls for help, but Jon, who is just pretending to not be at home, restrains Siri and tells her to shut up. Siri's call for help is not audible enough for Einar, who goes to inspect the shed a second time. There, he finds a dead and skinned deer, hunting equipment and traces of blood. Unable to find Jon and suspecting him of illegal hunting, Einar leaves Jon's property and heads back to the sheriff's office. Jon tells Siri that everything will be okay, while Jon tries to have sex with Siri, clearly against her will. On his way back, Einar calls the sheriff's office, telling that Jon was not at home.Back in the abandoned house, Magne exits the basement, and once out he sees the killer entering. He hides into another room, and the killer goes up to the second floor. Magne then tell Anders and Hedda that escape is safe. As they prepare to escape, Magne accidentally drops the trapdoor, forcing them to rush out with the killer in their heels. The killer breaks through the door and tries to break Magne's neck while Hedda finds a rotten wood plank she uses to hit the killer, forcing him to release Magne. In fear, they run from the house and through the forest. They reach a river, which they are forced to cross.Anders makes an attempt to cross the river while battling the tough water stream. He reaches the other side and tells Magne and Hedda to come, just as Anders is shot with an arrow in the torso, causing him to fall into the water, but he survives. Magne then follows, and the killer attempts to shoot Hedda as well. Another arrow hits Magne in the foot. Hedda then jumps into the water in an attempt to escape. The swim across and along the river while the killer keeps shooting arrows at them. After being dragged in the river, Hedda climbs up to the river bank. Exhausted, she finds Anders lying in the water. She drags him up and he is coughing water, suggesting he was close to drowning. At a different location, Magne has reached the river bank, and tries to pull the arrow out of his foot, despite having great pain. Hedda finds a hiding spot for Anders before looking for Magne.Meanwhile, Einar, who is unaware that two on the group are killed, one is held captive by his hermit brother Jon and the other three are on the run from their killer, searches through the woods to look for the missing youngsters, but finds just a Walkman and an audio cassette. Magne struggles through the woods while Hedda cares for Anders in a hiding location. Hedda then leaves Anders to go look for Magne, promising to be back. Magne, still lost in the woods, finds a car and recognizes it as the Sheriff's car. Inside, he tries to call with the sheriff's mobile phone, but unable to get it to work, he tries to get the car's engine running without keys. However, he end up turning on the lights and then the police siren. The sound of the police siren is heard by Anders and Hedda as well as Einar, who is still looking for them. Magne manages to turn the siren off before trying to turn the lights on again. The first time as the light flashes, Magne sees a man in the woods. He gets the light on once again, and notices that the man is gone. As he tries to start the engine, he attacked by the man he spotted earlier. Simultaniousley, Hedda turns up a,d hides under the car, only to watch Magne being stabbed by the killer.In Jon's basement, Siri manages to ungag herself and break free from her restraints. Einar returns to his car, and finds that someone has tampered with the electrical equipment. He calls the Sheriff's office, telling that he did not find Jon or the youngsters. Just a Walkman. Hedda sees Einar driving off and shouts to him to stop, which is in vain.Back in Jon's basement, Siri finds a matchbox and lights a match to get light. She notices a picture of the boy who went missing 12 years earlier together with his parents, shot outside the Stehøe mountain hotel. In addition, she finds a drawing depicting a man and a woman being brutally killed. She also finds a casket containing just a single wedding ring. She notices electric lights being lit and someone entering the basement. The man entering is dragging a human corpse behind him, who Siri recognize is Magne. Horrified, she watches as the man, who have killed and hunted down her other friends, hangs Magne's body upside down. He exits the room and when Siri attempts to make contact with him, she realizes that he is not alive. The killer enters once again, this time carrying a large knife. Then Jon is heard entering, who confront the killer he is harboring about that he has killed another person. Siri hears that Jon is ordering the killer to find the other two. After Jon leaves, the killer slits Magne open, shocking Siri, who is watching.Hedda and Anders are still hiding in the woods. Hedda finds a hiding place for Anders, however, a stream of water hits Anders' wound, causing him to scream loud. At a secluded location, Hedda manages to extract the arrow tip from Anders' body, despite him screaming in pain. Soon after, they hear the sounds of stones falling down and Anders realizes that the killer is tracking them. Anders tells Hedda to leave, realizing his limited ability to escape, but Hedda tells Anders that she will not leave him and persuades him to leave together with her. The killer approaches Anders, who is still severely injured. Just then Hedda appears behind the killer, who turns to face Hedda, who uses a screwdriver recovered from the sheriff's car to stab the killer in the stomach. But stabbing the killer turns out to be insufficient to immobilize the killer, who now tries to drown Hedda. Meanwhile Anders regains consciousness and uses a rock to strike the killer's head. Thinking that the killer is dead, Hedda and Anders escapes. However, the killer is not dead, and raises his head above the water surface, trying to expel water that has entered his lungs.At his office. Einar is in a phone-call about the missing youngsters, and tells the person in the other end to call again if he hears more news. Then, Einar remembers telling Jon that the area he lived in was a national park and hunting was illegal after discovering guns on the loading area on Jon's pickup truck, as well as Jon looking at Siri and the others inside the police car. He remembers the finding of dead animals and blood in Jon's shed. With that in mind, he opens the the archive containing cases on missing and wanted persons and cold-cases. In one cold-case file, he finds a news article about a team of hunters who found their dog skinned and an article about a farmer who found his sheep killed in a trapping pit, both happened near Stehøe mountain hotel. Einar then remembers seeing a bloody knife on the table in Jon's house when asking Jon if the missing kid was in Jon's house. He also remembers seeing a wet sweater lying on a table, and finds that its pattern is similar to the one of the missing boy after comparing it to a picture of the boy with his family.Meanwhile, Anders and Hedda reaches Jon,s house. Hedda knocks on the door, while Anders enters the driver's cab of Jon's pickup. Jon comes out and Hedda tells him that they must call for help and call the police. Jon tells Hedda that she can come in, but Anders have to remain outside. As Hedda enters, Jon shuts the door behind them. Inside, Hedda tries to call the police, but finds it not working. Jon re-enters and Hedda starts to become suspicious about his true intentions. Jon then attempts to grab a shotgun, but Hedda gets it and holds Jon at gunpoint. She then shouts to Anders to enter, telling him that Jon tried to get the shotgun. Hedda hands the shotgun to Anders and tells him to watch for Jon while Hedda goes down to the basement. After searching the basement, she finds a door. When trying to find out if someone is inside, she is responded by a female voice, which she recognizes as Siri's voice. She unlocks the door and enters the basement.As Siri and Hedda emerges from the basement, the killer suddenly enters the house and stabs Siri to death with the screwdriver Hedda stabbed him with earlier. Jon then takes the shotgun and aims it at the killer, telling him that he can nothing, and that he should instead have left him to freeze to death in the snow 12 years earlier. But before Jon can finish a sentence, the killer grabs the shotgun and shoots Jon in the torso. Hedda and Anders then escapes to the basement while the killer tries to shoot them, but misses. They barricade themselves inside the room Jon used to imprison Siri. As the killer attempts to break in, Anders tries to withhold the door while Hedda tries to open the window. But when trying to impale the door, Hedda pours gasoline next to the door and sets it on fire, causing the killer to back off from the door while screaming in pain. Anders manages to get the window open and climbs out, but the killer appears and impales Anders with a crowbar. As Hedda tries to escape the burning basement, she grabs a shovel to use as a weapon. In the ground floor, Jon is coughing blood, mortally injured from being shot by the man, who was the boy that disappeared 12 years earlier. She goes out and sees the killer standing outside. As she goes in, the killer also enters. She then hits the killer in the torso, causing him to fall. Jon then extracts shells from a box of shotgun shells as he finally dies. Hedda then grabs the shotgun and two shells from Jon's hands, and reloads the shotgun. She then sees someone entering the room, and thinking it is the killer, she aims the shotgun at the man, who turns out to be the sheriff that transported them 3 days earlier, and who aims a rifle at Hedda, telling her to put down the gun. While lowering the shotgun, Hedda tells Einar that the killer has killed everyone. The killer then reappears behind Einar, and Hedda rises the shotgun to shoot the killer. Einar, fearing he might get shot, shoots Hedda dead. As the killer leaves, Einar tries to stop Hedda's wound from bleeding, which is in vain. He then carries the bodies of Hedda, Jon and Siri outside as snow starts to fall. In the wintery mountains, the killer returns to the hotel which his mother and stepfather ran until 1976. Lights are then seen being lit inside the hotel corridors.
