Through Georgi (a juvenile) and Itso (an adult), we take a quick glance (about one and a half hour quick) at what happens in post cold-war Bulgaria.
Georgi (Ovanes Torosian) is a typical schoolboy in search of some identity and--being lack of guide, ends up hanging out with the wrong people. Itso (Christo Christov) was a drug addict now undergoing a therapy who finds himself sinking in beers. Through them, we see post cold-war Bulgaria--its freedom, as well as its confusion.
George is 17 years old and in constant conflict with his parents. In his attempt to look more manly, he joins a skinhead gang. He hasn't seen his older brother Itzo for a while.Itzo is 38, and a sculptor by trade. He is a drug addict who's undergoing methadone treatment. The heroin dependency has driven him to despair and he resorts to alcohol. Itzo's girl friend, Niki, is a student majoring in acting. Young and naïve, she's fallen for Itzo, and cannot imagine her life without, in her eyes, the ultimate artist.Isil is in her late 20's, a Turkish girl from Istanbul. Isil and her parents are on their way to Berlin to visit her brother. After a long drive through Bulgaria, the family decides to take a break and spend the night in Sofia. The night turns into a nightmare. The family becomes the victim of the skinheads attack in which George is also involved. Accidentally, Itzo witnesses the attack, and in an attempt to defend the Turkish family, she suffers a severe beating himself.Isil's father sustains a few injuries and is hospitalized. The hospital becomes a meeting room of intimacy. While Isil and Itzo are spellbound by each other, George and Itzo grow closer for the first time. With the help of his brother, George realizes the insanity and delusion he had got himself into. Izil's parents soon discover the attraction between their daughter and Itzo. Isil's father refuses to accept their relationship. Ethnic intolerance is present in his decision and he takes the family back to Istanbul.Everybody is alone again but they are not the same. In their close relations with one another they have found a part of their own truth.
