Cowboy and Indian's only wish was to come up with a brilliant idea for Mr Horse's birthday, but when their plan ends up in utter disaster, they'll need to travel the world and back to make things right again.
Animated plastic toys like Cowboy, Indian and Horse have problems, too. Cowboy and Indian's plan to surprise Horse with a homemade birthday gift backfires when they destroy his house instead. Surreal adventures take over as the trio travel to the center of the earth, trek across frozen tundra and discover a parallel underwater universe where pointy-headed (and dishonest!) creatures live. With panic a permanent feature of life in this papier mâché town, will Horse and his girlfriend ever be alone?
In a peaceful town called Panic, Mr Horse's birthday is just around the corner and his nincompoop room-mates, Cowboy and Indian, still haven't decided on his gift. But all of a sudden, Indian throws in a splendid idea explaining his simple, yet brilliant plan for something really extraordinary: to actually build a BBQ pit for their friend's anniversary. However, after a tremendous blunder in the brick order, the clumsy duo will end up destroying not only Mr Horse's house but his frail romantic relationship with the untamed and sexy redhead piano teacher, Madame Longrée. Now that Panic's peace is disturbed, the three friends must try to clear the mess up, so without delay, the team will embark on a crazy adventure starting from their green village, to the barren landscapes of the frozen Tundra, and from the Earth's core melted magma to the perilous depths of the ocean with its devious sub-aquatic inhabitants. Will the improbable fellowship ultimately make things right again?
Cowboy and Indian, long-standing best friends and rivals, decide to celebrate the birthday of Horse, their faithful and loyal friend. They want to organize a surprise party for him and build him a wonderful hand-made barbecue. Unfortunately, when ordering the bricks for their construction, a typing error multiplies the number ordered by a billion. At first, they manage to hide away the excess bricks by stashing them on top of their roof. Later in the night though, as the party is in full swing and Horse finally plucks up his courage to approach his beloved Madame Longrée, the bricks suddenly collapse and cause a cataclysm throughout the village. Horse, Indian and Cowboy's house is destroyed. The following day, the three heroes get busy rebuilding but their new walls disappear mysteriously overnight. Horse, Indian and Cowboy start all over again and decide to keep the rebuilt walls under close surveillance. As night falls, the walls start moving and slowly disappear into the distance. The trio start chasing these strange submarine creatures, the Atlanteans, mischievous traitors and wall thieves. During their chase, they encounter an angry bear, three crazy scientists whose ambition is to cover the world in snow, and a disturbed psychopathic matriarch determined to protect her Atlantean offspring thanks to a school of bloodthirsty barracudas. At last, Horse, Indian and Cowboy win their walls back and return home only to discover that the Atlanteans have followed them and are ready to start off the final and most explosive confrontation yet.
