Diyarbakir, in the late nineties: Two young Kurdish children are forced to live on the street after their parents have been murdered by a member of a secret state security force.
Ten-year old Gulistan and her younger brother Firat live happily with their parents in Diyarbakir, the heart of Turkish Kurdistan. Tragedy strikes when their mother and father are shot down by paramilitary gunmen before their eyes. Traumatised and orphaned, Gulistan, Firat and their infant sister are placed in the care of their young, politically-active aunt Yekbun who soon disappears without a trace. As days turn into weeks, the money that their aunt left them runs out. Eventually, the children have to fend for themselves on the streets, where one day, Gulistan is shocked to come across the murderer of her parents.
Of Diyarbakir, Turkey, preteen Gülîstan, adolescent Firat and newborn Dilovan - siblings - become orphaned when their mother and father, the latter a journalist, are killed in a roadside ambush while they are driving home late one night with the children in the backseat. The children become the wards of their maternal aunt, Yekbun, who wants to take them to Stockholm to live with their maternal grandfather. Leaving the children alone with some pocket money, Yekbun takes off for what she says will be two or three days while she makes the arrangements for the trip. Slowly, all other adult figures who they trust leave the children out of circumstance, while Yekbun does not return. The children have to figure out how to fend for themselves, at first waiting for their aunt to return, then coming to the conclusion that she may never return. As the children eventually are forced onto the streets, they quickly learn that there are many others like them, some also orphaned children, who will do anything needed to survive. As they adjust to their new circumstance on the street, both Gülîstan and Firat, in separate incidents, have encounters with two of the men who murdered their parents, the men, in turn, who do not recognize the children from that dark night. Specifically in Gülîstan's case, she learns of the man's identity, his background, and as such that her parent's death and possibly her aunt's disappearance were no random acts. They will have to decide what to do with this information to get at least a little sense of justice.

