When Blu, a domesticated macaw from small-town Minnesota, meets the fiercely independent Jewel, he takes off on an adventure to Rio de Janeiro with the bird of his dreams.
In Rio de Janeiro, baby macaw, Blu, is captured by dealers and smuggled to the USA. While driving through Moose Lake, Minnesota, the truck that is transporting Blu accidentally drops Blu's box on the road. A girl, Linda, finds the bird and raises him with love. Fifteen years later, Blu is a domesticated and intelligent bird that does not fly and lives a comfortable life with bookshop owner Linda. Out of the blue, clumsy Brazilian ornithologist, Tulio, visits Linda and explains that Blu is the last male of his species, and he has a female called Jewel in Rio de Janeiro. He invites Linda to bring Blu to Rio so that he and Jewel can save their species. Linda travels with Blu and Tulio to Rio de Janeiro and they leave Blu and Jewel in a large cage in the institute where Tulio works. While they are having dinner, smugglers break into the institute and steal Blu and Jewel to sell them. Linda and Tulio look everywhere for Blu, who is chained to Jewel and hidden in a slum. Meanwhile, Jewel and Blu escape from their captors and befriend a group of birds that help them to get rid of the chains. It is Carnival and the smugglers and mean cockatoo, Nigel, do not intend to give up Blu and Jewel, and chase the birds through the crowded streets.
When Blu, a baby blue macaw that lives in Brazil, was captured by dealers and was smuggled to USA, a little girl named Linda decided to take care of him and it continues until they were adults. Unfortunately, because Blu was with Linda since he was little, he never learned to fly. And when an ornithologist named Tulio finds Blu and tells Linda that he is the last male of his kind, Tulio decided to bring Blu back to Brazil to breed with a female macaw named Jewel. But in the night Blu was captured again along with Jewel and must find his way back to Linda while trying to overcome his fear to learn how to fly with Jewel and a toucan, Rafael.
By a tragic twist of fate, the bright-coloured blue macaw parrot, Blu, never had the chance to learn how to fly. Far away from sunny Brazil, Blu now lives in snow-covered Minnesota as the pet-friend of his human companion, Linda; however, as the last of his endangered species, the flightless bird will soon find himself in Rio de Janeiro to meet the last female of his kind--the feisty, Jewel. But, when calamity strikes again, and the feathery couple gets kidnapped, Blu must summon up the courage to finally believe in himself, if he wants to save his charming dream-girl. The question is, can he make it in time?

