A western businessman, his Thai wife and son experience a horrible accident while visiting Bangkok. In the aftermath, they find there is a shadow world between life and death where endless darkness lies.
The American Jeff Mathews returns to Bangkok with his beloved wife Kyle Matthews and son Som Mathews to visit Kyle's parents. Jeff is a businessman that met Kyle in a business trip and married her. Jeff stops the car in a red light and a pickup crashes his car. Five weeks later, Jeff awakes from the coma and learns that Kyle and Som died in the accident. The nurse Choi Luang treats Jeff carefully but instead of recovering, he has dreadful visions and nightmares with ghosts and demons.. Choi takes Jeff to the aunt of her cousin Mae Noi and she explains that he is experiencing the World of Shadows, where people suffer their last moments over and over in the darkness. Soon Jeff learns that his connection with the World of Shadows is very strong and Maw Noi tells that they need help. They go to the house of Warren Mills and Jeff learns that his soul is trapped in the World of Shadows, and he need to go there to bring his soul back and be one again.
The American Jeff Mathews returns to Bangkok with his beloved wife Kyle Matthews and son Som Mathews to visit Kyle's parents. Jeff is a businessman that met Kyle in a business trip and married her. Jeff stops the car in a red light and a pickup crashes his car. Five weeks later, Jeff awakes from the coma and learns that Kyle and Som died in the accident. The nurse Choi Luang treats Jeff carefully but instead of recovering, he has dreadful visions and nightmares with ghosts and demons. Choi takes Jeff to the aunt of her cousin Mae Noi and she explains that he is experiencing the World of Shadows, where people suffer their last moments over and over in the darkness. Soon Jeff learns that his connection with the World of Shadows is very strong and Mae Noi tells that they need help. They go to the house of Warren Mills and Jeff learns that his soul is trapped in the World of Shadows, and he need to go there to bring his soul back and be one again.

