Dante is guided by his hero Virgil through each circle of Hell and its subdivisions until they reach the center of the Earth and emerged to the other hemisphere into Purgatory.
Dante's Hell Animated is a real and truthful epic animation film that embarks Dante Alighieri's journey through the first part of the afterlife, Hell. It is a compelling four-quadrant film presented circle by circle in a chronological descent to the center of Hell, and to the exit into Purgatory. Dante's Hell Animated comes in two versions, one recited in primitive Italian in Dante's own words, and another narrated in English better understanding in this non-original language. Dante is guided by his hero Virgil through each circle of Hell and their subdivisions until they reach the center of the Earth and escaped to the other hemisphere into Purgatory. It features over 50 original color illustrations from the upcoming Dante's Hell comic book and magazine series, put together in a series of animation clips that will delight young and mature audiences.
Dante Alighieri goes on a journey through the first part of the afterlife, Inferno. It is presented in a chronological descent circle by circle to the deepest of Hell. Dante is guided by his hero Virgil through each circle of Hell and their subdivisions until they reach the center of the Earth and emerged to the other hemisphere into Purgatory.Dante's Hell Animated is a film created with teenagers in mind to give them the opportunity to learn Dante's teachings about life while they grow up. The images are as compelling as the story itself. This film has two versions, one is historically recited in primitive Italian in Dante's own words and the other one is narrated in English for a better understanding in its non-original language.It features over 50 original color illustrations from the upcoming Dante's Hell book and comic magazine series, put together in a series of animation clips that will delight a young as well as an older audience. All the images used in this animation film were originally created by Dino Di Durante with the help of Avetik Balaian and Riccardo Pratesi. It is worth clarifying that this film is not a cartoon, but an "animation" which is narrated (English version) or recited (Italian version), instead of spoken by the animated characters. In other words, there are no speaking characters, but only their motion with the voice-over that accompanies the action seen in the film.
