Eloise, having been relieved of maid of honor duties after being unceremoniously dumped by the best man via text, decides to attend the wedding anyway, only to find herself seated with five fellow unwanted guests at the dreaded Table 19.
Ex-maid of honor Eloise (Anna Kendrick) - having been relieved of her duties after being unceremoniously dumped by the best man via text - decides to hold her head up high and attend her oldest friend's wedding anyway. She finds herself seated at the 'random' table in the back of the ballroom with a disparate group of strangers, most of whom should have known to just send regrets (but not before sending something nice off the registry). As everyone's secrets are revealed, Eloise learns a thing or two from the denizens of Table 19. Friendships - and even a little romance - can happen under the most unlikely circumstances.
It is with mixed emotions that Eloise McGarry accepts the invitation to attend the wedding of Francie Millner and Douglas Grotsky, the festivities to take place at an upscale resort on an island on a lake, the island accessible only by ferry. The issue is that Francie is her oldest friend and she was to be Francie's maid of honor up until two months ago when Francie's brother, Teddy Millner, her boyfriend at the time and Doug's best man, unceremoniously dumped her via text message after dating for two years. Teddy's current girlfriend, Nikki, who he dated before Eloise, also replaced Eloise as maid of honor after Eloise already organized most of the wedding. Eloise doesn't want her and Teddy's issues to overshadow Francie and Doug's big day, they, who indirectly through Nikki, don't want her to either in moving her to Table 19 of nineteen at the reception, which Eloise knows is the table not only of the misfits, but those who were not smart enough to realize they really weren't wanted to attend the wedding. The others at Table 19 are: Jo Flanagan, Francie and Teddy's first nanny when they were kids; always bickering married couple Bina and Jerry Kepp, diner owners, acquaintances of Doug's father who owns a chain of diners, the Kepps who weren't even seated with other such acquaintances; high schooler Renzo Eckberg, whose mother encouraged him to attend instead of going to his high school prom as a better prospect to lose his virginity as no one at the reception knows him; and Mr. Millner's socially awkward nephew Walter Thimble, his uncle who never expected him to show up "under the circumstances". Once Eloise is able to convince those that were incredulous as to their status at the reception of being at Table 19, they all slowly begin to open up about their misfit status, which leads to some issues which none of those seated at that table thought they would be discussing with anyone at the wedding let alone total strangers they just met. Foremost, they want to help Eloise find true happiness especially in light of her situation, that happiness which may include finding a mysterious white knight in shining armor at the reception that Eloise only knows as Huck, possibly to replace Teddy in her heart and life.
Eloise McGarry attends the wedding of her oldest friend Francie Millner. It's discovered that she was originally maid of honor but "dropped out" two months ago after her ex boyfriend Teddy, the bride's brother and the best man, broke up with her by text after two years together. Teddy is now back with his old girlfriend Nikki, who has replaced Eloise as maid of honor. At the reception, Eloise discovers she has been seated at Table 19. While she considers leaving early, she meets a man named Huck who notices her looking distressed and offers words of advice which are not well received. Eloise decides to stay and meets her table mates: Jerry and Bina Kepp, Facebook friends with the groom's father who own a chain of diners; high-school-er Renzo Eckberg, whose parents are acquaintances of the groom and who came to the wedding in the hopes of meeting a girl; Jo Flanagan, Francie's childhood nanny; and Walter Thimble, the bride's cousin who is currently on parole..

