An entry-level employee at a powerful corporation finds himself occupying a corner office, but at a dangerous price: he must spy on his boss's old mentor to secure for him a multi-billion dollar advantage.
The high stakes thriller Paranoia takes us deep behind the scenes of global success to a deadly world of greed and deception. The two most powerful tech billionaires in the world (Harrison Ford and Gary Oldman) are bitter rivals with a complicated past who will stop at nothing to destroy each other. A young superstar (Liam Hemsworth), seduced by unlimited wealth and power falls between them, and becomes trapped in the middle of the twists and turns of their life-and-death game of corporate espionage. By the time he realizes his life is in danger, he is in far too deep and knows far too much for them to let him walk away.
Director Robert Luketic and screenwriters Jason Dean Hall and Barry Levy team up to adapt author Joseph Finder's novel centering on a tech-savvy twenty-something who becomes a corporate spy for a scheming businessman. Determined to make the most of his new job at Wyatt Telecom, Adam Cassidy (Liam Hemsworth) is horrified when a felonious mistake earns him the wrath of unforgiving CEO Nicholas Wyatt (Gary Oldman). Typically, Wyatt's first response would be to throw a lawbreaking employee under the bus. But this time he's willing to cut a deal: Should Adam agree to infiltrate Wyatt Telecom's chief rival, the CEO will turn a blind eye to his employee's error. In no time Adam is climbing the corporate ladder straight to the top. No one suspects a thing, and Wyatt is gaining a distinct advantage over the competition. Later, upon realizing that his success is a mere illusion and he's become a simple pawn in a much bigger game, Adam hatches an ingenious plan to get out of his situation before it's too late.
The high stakes thriller Paranoia takes us deep behind the scenes of global success to a deadly world of greed and deception.  The two most powerful tech billionaires in the world (Harrison Ford and Gary Oldman) are bitter rivals with a complicated past who will stop at nothing to destroy each other.  A young superstar (Liam Hemsworth), seduced by unlimited wealth and power falls between them, and becomes trapped in the middle of the twists and turns of their life-and-death game of corporate espionage.  By the time he realizes his life is in danger, he is in far too deep and knows far too much for them to let him walk away.
