An ex-con finds his plan to go straight foiled by a loan shark who manipulates his target into taking on one last heist.
After five years in prison for grand theft auto, Vince returns to Toronto. Kranski, his old boss, insists that he repay a large debt (money lost in his arrest) by boosting cars. His cover is a mechanic's job at Kranski's garage. In his spare time, Vince welds pieces of scrap metal into sculptures; a trendy gallery owner spots one and sells it for thousands and commissions more. Art might be Vince's ticket out if he can get Kranski off his back. Meanwhile, Vince's prolix parole officer is circling, and Kristen, the gallery owner's assistant, beguiles Vince.
Just paroled Vince Dorian spent five years behind bars for grand theft auto, it a life to which he does not want to return following his release from prison. However, in the process of the heist that put him in jail, Vince had to ditch the money that he was carrying, money that belonged to his boss, John Kranski. As such, John wants Vince to pay him back in the form of one last car filled shipment for a client, something that Vince feels he cannot refuse. As Vince goes about his work, he meets Belinda Bloome, the owner of her own art gallery and in the words of those that know her, a pitbull of a woman. Belinda wants to represent Vince after she sees what he does in his spare time, which is to create sculptures welding and melding scrap metal. Although he does not consider himself an artist, he doing the sculptures for his own pleasure, Belinda does see him as a full fledged artist, as does Julien, a high end art collector and one of Belinda's patrons. Vince begins to see his art as a means of paying back John without resorting to crime, something with which John does not concur, as he not only wants Vince to continue to steal cars, but wants him to take over the business after he's done. Vince has to figure out a way to reconcile paying off and pleasing John while not stealing cars. Factoring into the already complicated equation are: Dean and Larry, John's two primary slightly dim but ambitious thugs who are looking for a bigger cut; Randall Pogue, Vince's parole officer who may have a slightly different agenda than what is on the surface; and Kristen, Belinda's loyal assistant, with who Vince has fallen in love.
When Vince (Rossif Sutherland), an ex-con trying to go straight, is forced by his murderous former boss (Donald Sutherland) back into stealing cars, he finds solace welding sculptures out of discarded auto parts. But after Belinda (Rebecca Romijn) a calculating and seductive art dealer, discovers his talent, Vince must pull off the ultimate con to stay out of jail long enough to make it big.
When Vince is paroled for five years for a heist gone wrong, his dangerous and controlling former boss, Kranski, forces him back into a life of crime. Working for Kranski as a car thief, Vince finds solace in welding sculptures out of metal and old car parts in Kranskis chop shop. When Vinces raw and evocative sculptures are discovered by the calculating art dealer, Belinda, his chance for a new life as an artist emerges, as well as romantic complications with Belindas gallery assistant, Kristen. Caught between the pressure from Kranski and the demands of the art world, Vince has to cleverly manoeuvre his way out to become his own man and his own artist.
