A chef and a scientist fall in love as an epidemic begins to rob people of their sensory perceptions.
An odd epidemic appears across the globe: people suddenly lose one of their senses. At first, it's an outbreak of loss of smell. It's often presaged by a destructive temper tantrum. In this mix are a scientist and a chef - she's Susan, one of a team trying to understand the epidemic; he's Michael, charming and engaging. Susan and Michael begin a relationship in the middle of increasing chaos, as the loss of other senses plagues more people and as civil authorities try to maintain order. Susan's voice-over reflections provide insight. Is love possible in such a changed world? Can anything make perfect sense?
In Glasgow, Susan, an epidemiologist, is asked by her colleague, Stephen Montgomery, to investigate the case of a just released hospital patient who, on his way home, inexplicably lost his sense of smell. Stephen is aware of many similar cases in Great Britain and Western Europe reported in the past twenty-four hours. The initial findings by Susan and her team is that there is no contagion, such as a virus, which has caused the problem, and as such there is no reason for panic or reporting such to the public in general. Susan becomes emotionally invested in the case when she too loses her sense of smell. Susan working on this case coincides with her meeting Michael, the executive chef at the upscale restaurant which her flat overlooks. Michael is open about his interest in her, despite the baggage that he carries coming out of the nature of how his last relationship ended. She is initially cautious, as she has not had a good history in choosing men. But as subsequently more people on more of a global scale lose their sense of taste and then sense of hearing, each preceded by a similarly global emotional trauma, the focus for Susan and by association Michael turns from the cause of the loss of the senses in the population in general and what seems to be the inevitable loss of the remaining senses, both of who are among the afflicted, to how it will affect their lives, especially how they will relate to each other as people as the two of them begin to fall in love with each other.
A strange disease has afflicted the earth, depriving people of their sense of smell and taste, initially, then spreading further. At this time a chef, Michael (played by Ewan McGregor), and a scientist, Susan (played by Eva Green), start a relationship.

