Director Chris Paine takes his film crew behind the closed doors of Nissan, GM, and the Silicon Valley start-up Tesla Motors to chronicle the story of the global resurgence of electric cars.
Revenge of the Electric Car presents the recent resurgence of electric vehicles as seen through the eyes of four pioneers of the EV revolution. Director Chris Paine (Who Killed the Electric Car? 2006) has had unprecedented access to the electric car research and development programs at General Motors, Nissan, and Tesla Motors, while also following a part time electric car converter who refuses to wait for the international car makers to create the electric cars the public demands. As more models of electric cars than ever before start to arrive in showrooms and driveways across the world, Chris Paine's film offers an inspiring, entertaining and definitive account of this revolutionary moment in human transportation. Revenge of the Electric Car follows these auto makers as they race each other to create the first, best, and most publicly accepted electric cars for the new car market.
Documentarian Chris Paine chronicled General Motors (GM)'s figurative and literal pulling of the plug on the electric car - the EV1 - in his film, Who Killed the Electric Car? (2006). Shortly thereafter, a new revolution of sorts of the fully electric vehicle (EV) has begun. This follow up documentary focuses on four people within that revolution. Elon Musk, who built his fortune as the owner of Paypal, is now the CEO of newly formed California-based Tesla Motors, which only manufactures high end EVs. He is largely financing the company on his own money, the company which is seen as the initiator of the revolution. An unlikely person in the revolution is Bob Lutz, the Vice-Chair of GM, the man who was largely responsible for killing the EV1. Now, he wants to be seen as the man who reinvented GM, perhaps the most important company to the US economy. Carlos Ghosn is the CEO of Nissan/Renault. A pure capitalist, Gosn is betting that the Leaf, Nissan's EV, will be the leader in providing an affordable EV to the mass market. And Greg Abbott aka Reverend Gadget is a leading EV hobbyist who converts existing gas powered vehicles to EVs, a hobby he wants to turn into a viable business. The road for each of the four individuals and their respective organizations to taking the general public by storm with their products may not be a smooth one, from external factors, such as the global economy, to personal issues being many of the bumps along the road.

