Multi-arrow crossbow? Check. Holy water grenade launcher? Ready. Stake-shooting M134? Got that, too. Edgar Frog is locked and loaded for his bloodiest badass battle yet with the undead.
In San Cazador, California, the clumsy vampire hunter Edgar Frog is evicted from his trailer. But the best-seller writer Gwen Lieber offers him a job to destroy the head vampire DJ X that promotes worldwide raves to increase his army of undead. Gwen tells that her brother Peter disappeared in Ibiza two years ago in an X-Party promoted by the alpha-vampire. Now DJ X is coming to San Cazador to promote a sacrifice during a party in the blood moon on the next Friday, and Edgar discovers that the rave will take place in a slaughterhouse on an island. Gwen hires also the Hollywood participant of reality show Lars von Goetz that comes with the cameraman Claus. Edgar invites his brother Alan to join the team but he declines, and he teams up with his friend Zoe. When the group finds DJ X, Edgar discloses a secret about the head-vampire.
The thankless life of a vampire hunter has taken its toll on Edgar Frog. After losing best friend and fellow vamp fighter, Sam, he has started to let himself slide. He's down to selling his prized comic book collection just to pay rent on a decrepit trailer when stunning vampire novelist Gwen approaches with an offer. She needs him to find her brother who has gone missing after getting sucked into a series of underground raves, called The Gathering, held by an enigmatic spinner named DJ Dusk.In a last, frantic message he mentioned being given a new party drug known as The Thirst, which turned out to be a mixture of ecstasy and vampire blood. Gwen shows Edgar a vile of the The Thirst, explaining DJ Dusk must be a head vampire and hes using his parties to raise an undead army. With the last rave, The Final Gathering, only days away Edgar must assemble a vamp-hunting team worthy of crashing the party, and hopes to include his reclusive brother whos dealing with his own dark past. Before the battle is over Edgar will discover there is a greater evil at work and must face his most haunting fear.
