Competition between the maid of honor and a bridesmaid, over who is the bride's best friend, threatens to upend the life of an out-of-work pastry chef.
Annie (Kristen Wiig), is a maid of honor whose life unravels as she leads her best friend, Lillian (Maya Rudolph), and a group of colorful bridesmaids (Rose Byrne, Melissa McCarthy, Wendi McLendon-Covey and Ellie Kemper) on a wild ride down the road to matrimony. Annie's life is a mess. But when she finds out her lifetime best friend is engaged, she simply must serve as Lillian's maid of honor. Though lovelorn and broke, Annie bluffs her way through the expensive and bizarre rituals. With one chance to get it perfect, she'll show Lillian and her bridesmaids just how far you'll go for someone you love.
Annie is hitting bottom: in Milwaukee, her bakery is shuttered, her boyfriend gone, her flatmates hideous, and she puts up with Ted, an uncaring occasional sex partner. But she has Lillian, her best friend since childhood. When Lillian gets engaged, she asks Annie to be her maid of honor and introduces her to the four bridesmaids, an eclectic group that includes Helen, Lillian's wealthy and beautiful new friend. Helen instantly gets under Annie's skin, and competition for Lillian's affection and confidence ensues. Helen undercuts Annie's ideas, and Annie is soon out of control. Even Rhodes, a friendly attentive cop, can't calm her. Will Annie lose Lillian's friendship and more?
In Milwaukee, thirty-something Annie Walker's life is falling apart. Despite her baking acumen, her retail cake store, Cake Baby, failed leaving her finances in rough shape. By strings pulled by her mother, she now works in a low paying job as a jewelry store clerk, which she hates. She is forced to share an apartment with socially inept siblings Gil and Brynn, who don't respect her personal boundaries. And she is in a dysfunctional relationship with misogynistic Ted, who treats her solely as a third string sex partner only whenever it suits his mood. The only bright light in her life is that her BFF Lillian has announced that she's getting married to her boyfriend Doug, and has asked Annie to be her maid of honor. At the engagement party, Annie meets the other bridesmaids for the first time: Lillian's marriage cynical cousin Rita, Lillian's idealistic newlywed friend Becca, Doug's brash sister Megan, and Doug's boss' seemingly perfect and wealthy wife Helen. Immediately, Annie and Helen are in open competition not only to organize Lillian's bridal festivities, but to be Lillian's BFF. As Annie seems to be losing the competition at every turn, another bright light enters her life in the form of police officer Nathan Rhodes, his entry into her life which she resists due in part to the other failures in her life. Officer Rhodes may only be able to take so much before giving up on Annie. As Annie seems to be losing Lillian's friendship to perfect Helen, only truly understanding what each wants may bring all the parties closer together.
Annie is unlucky in love but when her best friend Lillian gets engaged and asks her to be her maid of honor, she's thrilled. At the engagement party however, she realizes she has a rival - Helen, a bridesmaid who also claims Lillian as her BFF. She is also rich, attractive, articulate and someone who is comfortable as the center of attention. Everything Annie touches goes wrong. She arranges for the bridesmaids' lunch at a restaurant in a seedy part of town and everyone - except Helen, who ate a salad - gets food poisoning. She then takes them all to a posh dress shop only to find she needed to make a reservation way ahead of time - but Helen, of course, knows the manager and with her intervention they're whisked right in. It gets to the point where everyone is stressed to the limit and Annie and Lillian have a falling out putting all the plans in doubt.
Annie Walker (Kristen Wiig) is a single woman in her mid 30s, living in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. After her bakery failed, she lost her boyfriend and all of her savings, and now works in a jewelers store selling engagement rings. Although her flaky mother (Jill Clayburgh) encourages her to return home, Annie rents a bedroom from British immigrant Gil (Matt Lucas) and his lazy overweight sister Brynn (Rebel Wilson). She has a sexual no-strings-attached relationship with the self-absorbed Ted (Jon Hamm) but hopes for something more. Only her friendship with Lillian Donovan (Maya Rudolph) keeps her sane.Lillian becomes engaged to a wealthy banker living in Chicago and asks Annie to be her maid of honor. At the engagement party at Lillian's house, Annie meets her fellow bridesmaids: Lillian's cynical cousin Rita (Wendi McLendon-Covey), idealistic friend Becca (Ellie Kemper), raunchy future sister-in-law Megan (Melissa McCarthy) and Helen Harris, III (Rose Byrne), the beautiful but vain wife of Lillian's fiance's boss. Helen and Annie take an instant dislike to each other as they are both become immediately jealous of the other's friendship with Lillian, but Lillian persuades them to spend time together. During a game of doubles tennis, Annie and Helen are both hyper competitive, deliberately hitting each other with their volleys multiple times.A few days later, Annie takes Lillian and the bridesmaids to a Brazilian restaurant for lunch before going to a chic bridal gown studio. While Lillian is in the restroom, Annie suggests a Parisian themed bridal shower, but Helen thinks this is a bad idea. At the bridal gown studio, Helen again uses her influence to gain them access because Annie did not realize that reservations were needed. However, everyone except Helen (who did not eat the meat at the restaurant) becomes ill with food poisoning. While everyone else becomes ill, Helen orders for everyone the bridesmaids dress that she liked the best.Worried about her finances, Annie suggests a bachelorette party at Lillian's parents' beach house. Helen overrules her and books a trip to Las Vegas. Due to her pride and ego, Annie refuses to allow Helen to buy a first class ticket for her and sits in coach. Because Annie is afraid to fly, Helen gives her sedatives and alcohol. This makes Annie inebriated and paranoid, and her outbursts cause the plane to land in Caspar, Wyoming, where she, Lillian and the bridesmaids are escorted off the plane and the bachelorette party plans are thus canceled. On the bus trip back to Milwaukee, Annie tries to apologize but Lillian announces that she wants Helen to take over planning the shower and wedding.Annie continues to hope for a relationship with Ted, but begins flirting with Officer Nathan Rhoads (Chris O'Dowd), a friendly traffic cop who earlier had let her off without a ticket for broken taillights. Nathan encourages her to open a new bakery, but Annie refuses; her business's failure was so painful that she has given up baking entirely. After spending the night together, Nathan buys baking supplies so Annie can make them a delicious breakfast. Offended, Annie leaves. At her apartment, Gil and Brynn tell her she has to move out. With nowhere else to go, she moves back in with her mother.Annie travels back to Chicago for the bridal shower at Helen's house. Helen has created an elaborate version of Annie's Parisian theme, then upstages Annie's heartfelt, handmade shower gift by giving Lillian a trip to Paris to be fitted for her wedding gown by one of the world's top designers. Enraged that Helen has taken credit for the Parisian theme, Annie throws a temper tantrum and is kicked out of the shower. Lillian tells her not to come to the wedding either. On the way home, Annie's car breaks down. Nathan answers the emergency call and tells Annie how much she hurt him and not to contact him again. Ted comes to pick Annie up but, when he expects her to perform oral sex on him on the way home, she breaks off the relationship and walks home.Over the next several days, Annie becomes reclusive, refusing to leave her mother's house and watching television obsessively. Megan finds her and tells her to stop feeling sorry for herself. Annie realizes her errors and tries to make amends with Nathan by baking him a cake. But he appears to leave it on his doorstep for raccoons to eat. On the day of the wedding, which Annie doesn't intend to attend, Helen appears on the doorstep, begging for help in finding Lillian who has gone missing. Helen tearfully explains how lonely she feels and apologizes for all she has done to hurt Annie out of jealousy. They pull up alongside Nathan in his police car and after some persuasion, he begrudgingly helps Annie and Helen find Lillian at her own apartment. Lillian had gone there distressed by the micromanaging Helen had done in planning everything and her fear that Annie will have no one to be with. Annie tells her everything will be fine and helps her get ready for the wedding.Annie resumes her place as maid of honor at the wedding, which Helen has arranged to include neon signs, fireworks and an appearance by Wilson Phillips. After the wedding, Helen again apologizes to Annie and hopes they can be friends in the future. Realizing that Annie and Nathan were falling in love, Helen arranged for him to pick Annie up after the wedding. He takes her home in his squad car, lights flashing and siren wailing.
