Set during the Cold War, American chess prodigy Bobby Fischer finds himself caught between two superpowers and his own struggles as he challenges the Soviet Empire.
During the height of the Cold War, American chess prodigy Bobby Fischer finds himself caught between two superpowers when he challenges the Soviet Empire.
During the Cold War chess grandmaster Bobbie Fischer takes on Boris Spassky, the Soviet world champion. Though Fischer wants a normal match against his rival the United states wants it to be seen as the Cold War played out on the chess board. All of this isn't helping the fact that Fischer is constantly dealing with paranoia. This is the world of chess like you've never seen it before.
A dramatization of the life of Bobby Fischer, one of the greatest chess players of all time. While covering his early life and chess career, focuses largely on the 1972 World Chess Championship match between Fischer and the reigning champion Boris Spassky.
Genius and madness often go hand in hand. This film follows American chess genius Bobby Fischer in his quest to defeat Russian Boris Spassky thus winning the World Chess Championship. 'Pawn Sacrifice' begins by showing some of Fischer's madness at the World Championship in Reykjavík, Iceland but soon flashes back to tell Fischer's backstory starting when he grew up in Brooklyn. This makes for a gripping true story set during the height of the Cold War as American chess prodigy Bobby Fischer (Tobey Maguire) finds himself caught between two superpowers. Also starring Liev Schreiber as Russian Champion Boris Spassky, Michael Stuhlberg as the American lawyer who promotes the championship match, and Peter Sarsgaard as Father Bill Lombardy who accompanies Fischer on his journey. 'Pawn Sacrifice' chronicles Fischer's journey from Brooklyn to capture the imagination of the world. Then told through both titles and historic footage following the story of his championship is the story of Fischer's madness at the end of his life.
