The leader of a drug cartel busts out of a courthouse and speeds to the Mexican border, where the only thing in his path is a sheriff and his inexperienced staff.
Sheriff Owens is a man who has resigned himself to a life of fighting what little crime takes place in sleepy border town Sommerton Junction after leaving his LAPD post following a bungled operation that left him wracked with failure and defeat after his partner was crippled. After a spectacular escape from an FBI prisoner convoy, the most notorious, wanted drug kingpin in the hemisphere is hurtling toward the border at 200 mph in a specially outfitted car with a hostage and a fierce army of gang members. He is headed, it turns out, straight for Summerton Junction, where the whole of U.S. law enforcement will have their last opportunity to make a stand and intercept him before he slips across the border forever. At first reluctant to become involved, and then counted out because of the perceived ineptitude of his small town force, Owens ultimately accepts responsibility for the face off.
Gabriel Cortez, a drug lord, who's in FBI custody is being transported. But suddenly the vehicle he is being transported in, is literally lifted off the ground and he escapes. He takes an agent captive and gets in a fast car and is driving his way to the border. The FBI tries to stop him but he always gets pass every barricade. They deduce that he's probably going to cross the border at Arizona so they decide to place agents at the town near the border. The FBI agent in charge, Bannister calls every town where he can cross or pass through. And among them is Sommerton but he doesn't think he will go there cause the only way he can cross the border is over a canyon and since he's in a car...But in Summerton, the Sheriff, Ray Owens gets a call that one of the residents appears to have dropped out of sight so he sends his deputies to check it out and they find the man dead. So Owens comes out and they check the place out. They find tire tracks so he has the deputies follow it and they find some men putting a bridge over the canyon. The men see the deputies and try to kill them. Owens shows up and tries to save them but one of them is mortally wounded. Owens calls the FBI to tell them what they are doing. But it's uncertain if they'll arrive in time. Owens then decides to stop Cortez. But his deputies remind him there are just a few of them and they have far superior weapons. But one of the residents, Dinkum has an arsenal of his own. So they prepare but Cortez's people whom Owens earlier encountered come to town to shoot it up.
In Sommerton, Arizona, the veteran Sheriff Ray Owens works with his inexperienced deputies Mike Figuerola, Sarah Torrance and Jerry Bailey rescuing cats from the trees and giving parking tickets. When the powerful Mexican drug lord Gabriel Cortez escapes from the convoy of the FBI under the command of Agent John Bannister while being transported to another prison, he heads in a Corvette in the direction of Sommerton expecting to reach Mexico. Ray deputizes the troublemaker Frank Martinez and the fool Lewis Dinkum that collects weapons to help him to stop the criminal on the run.
Semi-retired to the sleepy border town of Sommerton Junction in Arizona where nothing ever happens, former LAPD officer, Ray Owens, is now reduced to a small-town Sheriff. However, in the meantime, the ruthless drug kingpin, Gabriel Cortez, escapes from FBI custody, dashing to the border of Mexico through the peaceful community of Sommerton, as agent John Bannister and his elite crew are trying to gain on him. Suddenly, Ray is back in action, and under those circumstances, the Sheriff and his motley crew of deputies are now the only ones capable of stopping the sadistic criminal. Nevertheless, are they ready for the ultimate confrontation where anything goes?
A border-town sheriff pulls out the heavy artillery to prevent an escaped drug kingpin from blasting his way into Mexico in this sun-scorched action opus starring Arnold Schwarzenegger and directed by Kim Jee-Woon (I Saw the Devil, The Good, the Bad, and the Weird). A former LAPD hot shot who opted for an easier life after becoming the sole survivor of a bloody drug raid, Ray Owens (Schwarzenegger) retreated from the city to become sheriff of Sommerton Junction -- a small town on the U.S./Mexico border. He's just adjusting to life at a more leisurely pace when infamous drug-kingpin Gabriel Cortez (Eduardo Noriega) stages a daring escape from an FBI convoy, and sets his sights on Mexico. With a hostage to guarantee his safe-crossing and a violent mercenary named Burrell (Peter Stormare) clearing him a path to the border, Cortez races south in a custom Corvette ZR1 that can outrun anything on the road. Meanwhile, Agent John Bannister (Forest Whitaker) realizes that should Cortez manage to slip through Sommerton Junction, he may well be lost forever. At first it seems that Sheriff Owens' skeleton crew will be no match for Cortez's speeding juggernaut. But when Owens decides to stand his ground with the help of Sommerton Junction's finest, Cortez comes up against an immovable force with enough firepower to stop him dead in his tracks.
Sheriff Ray Owens (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is a man who has resigned himself to a life of fighting what little crime takes place in sleepy border town Sommerton Junction, Arizona, after leaving his LAPD post following a bungled operation that left him wracked with failure and defeat after his partner was crippled and his team decimated. The crimes experienced in Sommerton range from the Mayor parking his Camaro in the fire lane and vintage arms collector Lewis Dinkum (Johnny Knoxville) firing off guns at slabs of meat with the deputies. One night, international drug lord Gabriel Cortez (Eduardo Noriega) makes a daring escape from FBI custody in Las Vegas and speeds off in a modified Chevrolet Corvette C6 ZR1, taking Agent Ellen Richards (Génesis Rodríguez) as his hostage as he races southbound toward Mexico at speeds over 200 mph. Agent John Bannister (Forrest Whitaker) has a blockade set up in Bullhead City, Arizona, but Cortez's men mow down the police officers on site and clear the road for him to continue his getaway. Cortez also uses his extraordinary driving skills to immobilize two SWAT vehicles headed toward Summerton Junction. Before flying to Arizona, Agent Bannister has his team do a financial background check on all agents involved to find out how Cortez managed to escape so easily.Sometime past 4:00 in the morning, Owens dispatches deputies Jerry Bailey (Zach Gilford) and Sarah Torrance (Jaimie Alexander) to visit the residence of the local farmer Parsons (Harry Dean Stanton), who has suddenly missed his usual milk delivery at the diner. After discovering that Parsons has been murdered, the deputies follow a trail of tire tracks that lead them to Cortez's henchman Thomas Burrell (Peter Stormare) and his mercenary cutthroats, who are planting a mobile assault bridge across the canyon that marks the U.S./Mexico border. Bailey is fatally shot in the middle of a shootout between the deputies and the thugs before Owens rushes in to bring his officers back to his precinct. Shortly after being notified by Agent Bannister of Cortez's presence, Owens gathers Torrance and senior Deputy Mike "Figgy" Figuerola (Luis Guzmán). He also deputizes jailed local Frank Martinez (Rodrigo Santoro), a former Marine with PTSD who developed a streak of never finishing what he started. Because Bailey was his friend, Martinez insists that he will not falter. Finally, Owens recruits Dinkum to protect their town. Dinkum agrees only if he becomes a deputy and if he keeps the gun he used at the beginning of the movie (having gotten in trouble for it previously).At 7:10 AM, Owens and his deputies have the town's main road barricaded with cars when Burrell and his men arrive, prompting a lengthy firefight. Armed only with a Tommy Gun, Figuerola holds off the thugs before being injured by a sniper. Owens and Dinkum mow down a majority of the thugs with a Vickers machine gun dubbed "Nazi-Killer" mounted on the back of a school bus, while Torrance snipes several gunmen on the rooftops. After Owens kills Burrell, Cortez's Corvette eventually arrives in town, veering past the barricade as Owens and the deputies shoot at it. Cortez ejects Agent Richards from the car before speeding through a corn field. Suddenly, he encounters the Mayor's red Chevrolet Camaro ZL1 commandeered by Owens before both cars collide with a tractor. A dazed Cortez continues his escape on foot, but Owens meets him at the bridge. Owens ignores Cortez's bribe offers before both men wrestle each other. Despite sustaining slashes and stab wounds from Cortez's push dagger, Owens defeats the drug lord and handcuffs him before dragging him back into town with the battered Camaro. Agent Bannister arrives to take Cortez back into custody and arrests Agent Richards for taking the drug lord's bribe and aiding in his escape. Deputies Figuerola and Dinkum are taken to the hospital to be treated for their wounds. Martinez turns in the deputy's badge, Bailey's badge, that Owens had given him earlier. Owens tells him to keep it, as he's earned it. As the Mayor sees what is left of his Camaro, Owens warns him about parking in the fire lane before he, Torrance and Martinez walk into the diner.
