Brooklyn, 1975: two brothers looking for a way out of their working-class neighborhood make a pact to rob a local theater on the night of a Rolling Stones concert.
It's early autumn of 1975 in Brooklyn and 18-year-old Brian Leary (Nick Thurston) is killing time, pulling off petty crimes with his street tough older brother Danny (Geoff Wigdor), whom he both idolizes and fears. He doesn't really want to be a criminal, but he doesn't share the dreams of his old friends from their working class neighborhood either. They all yearn for the culturally approved 9-to-5 Civil Service jobs with benefit packages that will carry them through weekends of beer into lazy retirement. Brian doesn't want to end up in a soul-numbing job like his buddies, but he's sure he doesn't want to be like his best friend Todd (Zachary Booth) either. Todd has betrayed their blue-collar roots by accepting a scholarship to college. But Brian has a secret -- he's a talented artist. In the basement of the bagel shop beneath his parent's apartment, he creates impressionistic charcoal and watercolor images of the stifling city that surrounds him. When he puts on his headphones and paints, shouting matches between Brian's longshoreman father Paddy (Stephen Lang) and world-weary mother (Karen Allen) fade into the distance. But even his private world can't block out the brutal beatings a drunken Paddy inflicts on Danny. Though Paddy has never been physically abusive to Brian, every time he sees his brother's suffering, his heart breaks a little more. Besides his art, Brian finds respite in working for Whitey (Peter Riegert), a kindly curmudgeon who runs the failing Lafayette movie theater in Bay Ridge. Brian's been helping Whitey pay his debts to local mobster Jimmy Cheeks (Ken Jennings) by bringing in rock groups to play gigs at the theater. With money problems mounting, Whitey decides to call in a lifelong favor from an old friend, now the tour manager of the Rolling Stones. The Stones will stop to play the Lafayette for one hour only on their way to Madison Square Garden...a plan Whitey hopes will solve his loan shark problems forever. The small Brooklyn neighborhood buzzes with anticipation of the Stones' arrival, which gives Brian the courage to talk to pretty Shauna Friel (Leslie Murphy), the girl he was too shy to approach in high school. Shauna, a travel agent, is awaiting transfer to a glamorous new job in Los Angeles, and dreams of traveling the world before she's 25. She and one of Brian's other friends, the college-bound Todd, begin to plant new seeds of hope in Brian's doubtful mind. Perhaps his art could be a ticket for him out of his dead end life and into a future of possibilities. When one excessively violent beating from Paddy convinces Danny he can't stay at home anymore, he tries to enlist Brian in one last scheme - to rob the Lafayette on the night of the Rolling Stones concert. Danny sees this as their only chance to get enough money to skip town and start them both off in a new life, somewhere far away from Brooklyn. As the theater fills with revelers, Brian is torn between his love and loyalty to Danny and his real fondness for Whitey. In the twists and turns that follow, both brothers must reexamine their dreams, and make decisions that will change their lives forever.
Brooklyn, 1975. Young adult brothers Danny and Brian Leary still live with their working class parents, Patrick and Margaret Leary. Rebelling against alcoholic Patty's inference that he is never good enough including often being Patty's punching bag, Danny has grown up to be a petty thief. The more sensitive Brian, who Patty never lays a hand on, is scared of life in general, hiding his true artistic passion from his parents, working on his paintings in the locked basement where only he and Danny go. Despite their often outward antagonism stemming from their differences, there has always been a special bond between the brothers in surviving against their father. Long suffering and devout Margaret has always tried to protect her sons from their father in the only way she knew how, which was not very effectively. Because his friend Todd has managed to get a need-based scholarship there, Brian, never having thought about pursuing art beyond a hobby, contemplates for the first time showing others his art in possibly getting into the art program at Carnegie-Mellon also on a scholarship, although he would refuse one based on financial need like Todd based solely on Irish pride. Brian earns what little money he has working in Whitey's struggling theater, the Lafayette, Whitey who owes money to Jimmy Cheeks, the local thug who also acts as Danny's fence. Based on an off the cuff comment by Brian, Whitey believes he has a way to turn his fortunes around when he is able to call in an old favor in getting The Rolling Stones to perform a one night only one hour concert at the Lafayette, no advanced official publicity and no advance tickets, which are on a cash only basis. Based on a "final straw" incident, Danny knows he needs to get out of his parents' house for good. As such, he tries to convince Brian to help steal the Stones' show box office take, which should be $30,000 if the house is sold out, from Whitey, who Brian considers the father he never really had. Half that money would allow Brian also to attend college on his own terms. Events from the night of the Stones' show would forever change the brothers' world.

