A young pickpocket in the New York subways, living a fast, free, lifestyle is confronted by a woman with whom he had a one night affair.
A young pickpocket in the New York subways, living a fast, free, lifestyle is confronted by a woman whom he had a one night affair with, she informs him that she is now pregnant with his child, he must now choose between continuing the lifestyle he lead or take responsibility for his actions.
Bobby Corelli, who still lives with his widowed mother Rita, has been a New York-based pickpocket for five years. He got into the business after his father died, leaving behind a $500,000 criminal gambling debt. Bobby does the work for Jax, who threatened to kill him and Rita if he didn't go into the business to pay off the debt. Rita does not know about the debt, the threat to their lives, or what Bobby does, she believing him to be a Wall Street stockbroker. Bobby still has $100,000 left to pay Jax. The police are after Bobby as one of his marks was Lieutenant Nick Sullivan, whose badge Bobby lifted, the badge which Bobby has since used to get himself out of one jam after another. Sullivan's boss, Captain Tom Edwards, has issued Sullivan a "do whatever you need to" directive in getting his badge back. Bobby is approached by Lucy Atwood, an aspiring photographer, part-time waitress and a one night stand he had three months ago, who tells him that she is pregnant with his child. Bobby goes through a range of emotions in dealing with the news, all he really knowing is that he wants to help Lucy, who is wary of who she now considers a deadbeat, not even knowing about his pickpocket life. Bobby contemplates giving up his pickpocket life for Lucy and the baby. Even if he does and Lucy agrees, it may not be as easy for either Jax or Sullivan to forget and forgive their past history with Bobby. Bobby may get a little unwitting help in the entire matter from Carl, Rita's new jeweler boyfriend.
Loosies tells the story of Bobby, a NYC pickpocket who tempts fate with the long arm of the law by lifting the badge of a New York City Detective.While playing this dangerous game of cat and mouse, Bobby runs into an even bigger problem... an old one-night stand named Lucy. Three months after their passionate affair Booby must face reality when Lucy informs him she is pregnant and she is having his baby.SUDDENLY two different worlds collide, forcing Bobby to have to reevaluate a lifetime of missteps. And in a city where he once got by as an invisible man, Bobby is now very much exposed.With a highly motivated police detective waiting for him around every corner, Bobby must come to terms with his past, and his new life as a husband and a father. As this "Midnight Cowboy" meets "Love with a Proper Stranger" style story unfolds, Loosies shows that it is both the classic love story as well as a morality tale for a generation.
