When Max, who is recovering from a traumatic accident, takes a job as a nighttime security guard, he begins to see visions of a young mysterious woman in the store's mirror.
While driving on the road with his fiancée Kayla, Max Matheson has a serious car accident and they both die. However, Max is resuscitated and one year later he is an emotionally disturbed man with the guilty complex for the murder of his beloved fiancée and under psychological treatment with Dr. Beaumont. When his father Jack Matheson reopens the Mayflower Department Store in New Orleans, his security guard Henry Schow has an accident and Jack invites Max to be his replacement to help in his cure. Max accepts the job and his father introduces him to the store manager Keller Landreaux; the buyer Jenna McCarty; and the vice-president of operations Ryan Parker. Max has visions of a dead woman and he foresees the death of Jenna and Ryan in the mirror. Sooner Max finds that he has the ability to see Eleanor Reigns, an employee that is missing, and he contacts her sister Elizabeth Reigns to know details of her disappearance. He finds that Jenna, Ryan and Keller were responsible for a tragedy and now the spirit of Eleanor is seeking revenge.
Max is an emotionally disturbed man one year after he causes the car accident that killed his fiancee Kayla. He has been under going psychological treatment with Dr. Beaumont, and making some progress in dealing with the guilt he feels over the accident. To help his son Max to move forward, Jack Matheson reopens the Mayflower Department Store in New Orleans, and invites his son to replace the security guard who recently quit under mysterious circumstances while "cutting himself up" on duty. Max accepts the job and his father introduces him to the store manager, Keller Landreaux, the buyer, Jenna McCarty and the vice-president of operations, Ryan Parker. While in the break room before his first shift, Max sees a vision of a dead woman in the mirror, and then sees Jenna's reflection, ripping off her head.Meanwhile, Jenna is killed by her reflection as she slips through the glass sliding shower doors, before a shard of glass decapitates her. Max finds out that he foresees the deaths at the mirrors, and seeing the reflection of a woman. That night, Max starts to find the ghost, but instead seeing Ryan's reflection being gutted. He tries to contact Ryan, but he does not respond. Later, Ryan is killed, the same way as his reflection did to him. Max sees his father's face covered in cuts in a puddle then races to his father's house.Jack is almost killed by his reflection, after Max made it to his house. Max later returns to the Mayflower, but he is stopped by Detectives Huston and Piccirilli, explaining about what happend in Ryan and Jenna's deaths. Max explains that it is the mirrors are foreseeing their deaths. The detectives thinks he is crazy, as they let Max get back to his work.Max went to the main mirror, to find out who she is. Suddenly, Max's reflection shows a light, as Max starts following the light in each of the mirrors. He finds a box and opens it, and finds an ID of a woman named Eleanor Reigns, a former employee of the Mayflower who is missing, during the night. The light shines outside as Max goes outside and finds a missing persons flyer of Eleanor. Max reads it as he contacts Eleanor's sister Elizabeth to know details of her disappearance. They discovered that someone had deleted all the files in the computer.Max and Elizabeth later visits Henry, who had his mouth charred by his reflection. He finds that Jenna, Ryan and Keller were responsible for a tragedy and now the spirit of Eleanor is seeking revenge.
