Believing himself to be jinxed, a man attempts to find true love, but instead gets caught in a web of lies.
Housefull is a romantic comedy entertainer which narrates the story of Aarush - the world's unluckiest man. Being jinxed, he believes his bad luck can vanish if he finds true love. In this quest for true love how one lie leads to another and how different people from different walks of life come together adding even more confusion to this hilarious comedy of errors resulting in total chaos and mayhem forms the crux of the story. The line which Deepika tells Akshay in the film "Jis jhooth se kissi ka ghar basta ho, voh jhooth jhooth nahin hota", pretty much sums up the essence of the film.
Aarush born on Friday 13 is considered unlucky and loser by everyone.Aarush faces lot of humiliation and gives up everything to go an live with his friend in London.Bob and his wife Hetal are working for a casino owned Kishore Samthani.Hetal at first is not happy with Aarush's arrival but later things become good.Bob and Hetal introduce Aarush to Samthani's daughter Devika.they get married but she ditches him on the very first night for her boyfriend failed again in life Aarush tries to commit suicide but gets saved by Sandy. After much confusion Sandy and Aarush decide to get married.But more tensions arrive when Hetal's father come and mistakes Aarush as his son in law and Sandy's brother Major Krishna Rao is suspicious on Aarush.
Tagged with being a jinx and bringing bad luck on himself and everyone he comes in contact with, London-based Aarush, employed in the Venetian Casino, Macau, to prevent it's clientèle's winning sprees, gets dumped by his girlfriend, Pooja, and returns home to his pal, Baburao and his wife, Hetal. After a disastrous start, the couple decide to get him hitched to a homely girl, Devika, the daughter of Casino owner, Kishore Samtani. The marriage takes place, and shortly thereafter Devika shows her true colors by ditching Aarush for a Caucasian male, Benny. Heartbroken, he then meets with Sandy and both fall in love. All appears to be well, but Murphy's Law hilariously prevails with the entry of Hetal's estranged Gujarat-based dad, Batuk Patel, and Sandy's suspicious brother, Major Krishna Rao.

