Our three hapless heroes - Igor, Artyom, and Sauna - return for another lesson from St. Valentine. This time they must learn the true value of fatherhood.
The story love in the big city continues as Igor, the Russian-American dentist, invites his friends Artyom, the Russian architect cum student cum tour-bus guide, and Sauna, the Finnish fitness-club management trainee, to his father's ranch. With them are Katya, Artyom's recently reconciled wife, Alisa, the Russian-American fitness instructor whose heart Sauna won, and Nastya, the Russian-American sex-therapist who, we learn, has agreed to marry Igor. In addition to being a fun vacation for all, Igor wants the trip to give Nastya a chance to meet her future father-in-law. On the plane they strike up a conversation with a couple of Americans who tell them about a monastery near the ranch where there is a statue which a legend says has the power to cure barrenness. After arriving at the ranch, they decide out of curiosity to visit the monastery, and while there, despite the warning of a monk, they all touch the statue. According to the legend of the statue, they will each conceive a child the next time they have sex. They are unsure whether to believe this legend, but, having had experiences with St. Valentine and his considerable powers, they decide to refrain from sex for the time being, just in case. All three agree that they are simply not ready for fatherhood. Although at first hurt and confused, when the women discover the real reason for their odd excuses and machinations to avoid sex, they become angry and leave. Left alone by their women, they decide to have a good time and resolve to party both hardy and to the max. At this point St. Valentine once again enters their lives. He is appalled that they cannot understand that children are a blessing and that fatherhood is an honor. He decides they need another lesson and levels a new curse on them. Under this curse, the first of them to have sex will indeed conceive a child, exactly as the legend of the statue foretold. The catch is that when that happens, the other two will then both be doomed to remain childless for the next twenty years. Confronted with the prospect of childlessness, and forced into a zero-sum game from which only one can emerge a father, the three rush headlong into a comedic, and quite Machiavellian, race against each other. St. Valentine, of course, has some twists and turns in store for them, and in the end all three will learn the true value of fatherhood.

