An ensemble film about four everyday people: a store manager, a security guard, a fire fighter and a clerk who struggle in the aftermath of trauma.
All the Wrong Reasons is an ensemble film about four co-workers at a big box department store. Since witnessing a tragic family event, Kate has kept herself as isolated as physically possible, even at work. Her husband James, the store's ambitious manager, does his best to force Kate out of her shell but Kate wants her world to remain exactly as it is. Missing intimacy, James becomes close with Nicole, a cashier who is holding onto what's left of her youth while juggling single motherhood. When a new temp employee is hired, his presence shakes up the whole store, for all the wrong reasons.
James Ascher is the generally well regarded store manager of Fairfax, a big box discount retailer located in eastern Canada, he who is being considered for promotion to regional manager. Nobody wants James to get the promotion more than Radley Weil, who believes he is the heir apparent store manager despite working just a little too hard to be what he considers (wrongly) to be a good leader. The one person who doesn't want James to get the job is his wife, Kate Ascher, especially when they learn the job is located in Toronto. Unknown to most people except those in her immediate section, Kate also works at that Fairfax store as the video surveillance monitor. Why no one knows about Kate is that she has retreated from life, not being able to deal with human interaction, and especially not being able to handle anyone touching her, even James, which means no physical sex. Kate's emotional disability is due to having watched her sister commit suicide a year ago. Kate sees her video monitor in her singularly occupied workspace as her sanctuary. Single mother Nicole Cambria is a cashier/stock clerk at the store, she who blames all her family problems on her deadbeat ex Ben, all the while unwilling to admit that she is not a good mother regardless. New to the store is new security guard, Simon Brunson. He is an ex-firefighter and forearm amputee, the result of fighting a fire. He sees this security guard job as a temporary one as he does whatever is required to get his old firefighting job back. The personal interactions specifically between James and Nicole, and between Kate and Simon have profound effects on their lives, especially in dealing with the professional and personal issues each faces.

