A professional diver tutor returns to deep waters after 1 year, following an almost fatal encounter with a great white shark. The nightmare from the deep is still lurking - more carnivorous and hungry than ever.
Kate is a shark expert whose business has been failing since a shark attack killed a fellow diver under her command. Once dubbed "the shark whisperer," Kate is haunted by the memory of the attack and unable to get back into the water. With bills piling up and the bank about to foreclose on Kate's boat, Kate's ex-boyfriend Jeff presents her with a lucrative opportunity to lead a thrill-seeking millionaire businessman on a dangerous shark dive - outside the cage. Battling her self-doubts and fear, Kate accepts the proposal and sets a course for the world's deadliest feeding ground - Shark Alley.
Off the coast of the shark-infested Cape Town, a terrible tragedy and an untimely death put a premature end to the otherwise brilliant career of the dedicated marine biologist and open-sea diver, Kate Mathieson. Now--almost one year later and with Kate's ever-growing debt to the bank threatening to put her out of business for good--the profitable proposition of her ex-boyfriend, Jeff, to take an adventurous entrepreneur on a dangerous shark dive is the only way to stay afloat. However, this is the realm of the ocean's most feared apex-predator: the great white. Is courage alone enough to stay alive?
Kate Mathieson (Halle Berry) is a diver who is deeply drawn to close encounters with the magnificent White Sharks who rule the primal predator shore of isolated Guadalupe island. When her husband chooses ambition over his wife's safety in a split second encounter with the jaws of death, her marriage nearly breaks apart.A year later, a monsoon season voyage back to the same island becomes an escalating series of terrifying underwater confrontations and gut-wrenching emotional challenges. Testing her courage in the face of nature's ultimate terror, Kate proves herself to be as tough as the men she is attracted to; and perhaps bravest of all she endures and changes the terms of the contest with mankind's most feared underwater predator
