In Italy, a woman becomes involved in a series of unauthorized exorcisms during her mission to discover what happened to her mother, who allegedly murdered three people during her own exorcism.
An American girl, Isabella, sets out to make a documentary to understand what happened to her mother who murdered three clergy people. She was not convicted due to insanity and was sent to a mental hospital in Italy. Isabella meets with some priests in Italy who explain that her mother's condition may not be medical, but could be an extra-human possession.
This film is a 'Found Footage' style movie about a woman (Isabella) who travels to Italy to do a documentary about her mother who in 1989 supposedly killed three clergy who were performing an exorcism on her (the mother) at the time. When she gets there she meets two priests who also perform exorcisms on possessed people, but normally without the permission of the Vatican. Isabella has a camera man with her (Michael) who films and documents everything. They soon find that Isabella's mother is still possessed but when they do the exorcism they realize that the demon (or demons) can jump from one person to another. But who becomes possessed next?
An American girl sets out to make a documentary to understand what happened to her mother, who murdered three clergy people but was not convicted due to insanity and was instead sent to a mental hospital in the Vatican City. She hires a camera man and they attend a seminar on exorcism in the Vatican City. She meets some priests who explain that her mother's condition may not be medical, but could well be demonic possession. She witnesses an exorcism with the priests, which is also caught on tape. The priests and the documentary team then decide to carry out an exorcism on her mother, during which they seek to discover whether her mother is actually possessed. It turns out that she was possessed by at least four demons, and during the exorcism there occurs some transference - the migration of the demon from one body to another. Three of them are possessed and soon after they end up dead. It ends abruptly, with a car crash due to the demonic possession of the cameraman, who was driving at the time.
