Against the backdrop of a missing girl case, lost souls throughout Los Angeles search for meaning and redemption and affect each other in ways they don't always see.
Intertwining stories exploring the bad in the best of us and the good in the worst of us. Against the backdrop of a child abduction case we follow five days in the life of the single parent detective assigned to the case, her best friend whose determination to get pregnant keeps her from confronting her husband's infidelity, a school teacher and his obsession with the missing child that pushes him to the edge of vigilantism, a beat cop grieving over the violent death of his wife, a recovering addict and her wheel chair bound brother preparing for the LA marathon, and a self-loathing African American TV writer's search for love.
Against the backdrop of a child abduction case, this film follows five days in the life of a variety of people living in Los Angeles.Kate (Elizabeth Mitchell) is a lawyer arguing in a custody battle on behalf of Drew (Miranda Bailey) who cares for her completely disabled brother. He was an accomplished marathoner. After celebrating his top 30% finish in the San Francisco marathon, the two had drinks to celebrate, and an accident in the car ride home caused the brother's disability. Her parents want their son put in a home, but Drew's overwhelming guilt compels her to tend to her brother. She is training to run a marathon while pushing her brother in a wheelchair. After losing custody of her brother, she loses heart and drinks some whiskey the night before the race. During the race, memories of the accident overwhelm her, and she crashes her brother's wheelchair into a curb. Her fall dislocates her shoulder, but she decides to finish the race regardless of the fact that all the other runners have gone home.Meanwhile, Kate is struggling to conceive with her husband Ryan (Dane Cook), who is a psychologist. Ryan is having an affair with a singer named Tara (Aja Volkman). At the same time, he struggles to convince his mother (Barbara Hershey) that his father is never returning from France, after nine years away. Ryan grows increasingly conflicted over his affair, and on Tara's birthday, he is unable to climax with her. At a fertility clinic, Kate sees a romantic text message from Tara on Ryan's phone right before she goes under anesthesia. Ryan struggles to produce a sperm sample in the clinic, and he has to call Tara to climax. Finally, when Tara is playing Club Tatou in Westlake, Ryan sits in the parking lot, unsure of what to do. He drives home and calls his father in France. His father refuses to tell his mother the truth, which convinces Ryan of what to do. He goes inside to comfort Kate, who has found out that the IV treatment did not work, but she is relieved that Ryan has come home to her.Elsewhere, one of Ryan's patients is a young, African-American TV writer named Allegra (Kali Hawk), who picks up a young man (Zach Gilford) from her neighborhood, but on their first date, she confesses that she "hates black people". Ryan urges her to work through her identity issues by doing something nice to people who make her uncomfortable.Frankie Graylin (Julie Benz) is the main police detective on the abduction case. She is a single mother and Kate's best friend. She initially suspects the young girl's neighbor, Mr. Beckworth (Greg Germann), of taking her, but when porn is found on the father's computer, he becomes the main person of interest.The media coverage attracts the interest of Carter (Mark Kelly), a lonely school teacher who spends his free time playing Everquest 2. As the days drag on, with the girl still missing, Carter finds himself unable to stay immersed in his game, and he eventually confronts his neighbor Jerry (Erik Palladino), a policeman who everyone knows from around the neighborhood where he walks the beat. Carter urges Jerry to confront the neighbor. When Jerry urges Carter to go back to his apartment and let the police handle it, Carter drives off determined to actually do something.At Mr. Beckworth's house, Carter is trying to get up the nerve to ring the doorbell when Jerry arrives and begs him to leave. Beckworth comes to the door and grows indignant as he realizes what is going on. Carter flies into a rage and attacks Beckworth and accuses him of kidnapping the little girl. After Jerry separates them, Beckworth produces a gun and starts shooting at the intruders. Jerry manages to kill Beckworth with a fire poker but not before getting shot in the neck. As he dies, he tells Carter to flee, and he manages to flip up a rug, exposing a handle to a trap door.In the final scene, Carter watches the news coverage back at home, and learns that Beckworth had kept the girl alive in a soundproof room in his basement.
