Victor is new to Montreal and attempts to make friends with the wheelchair-bound Spencer and the cat-loving Louise, but everybody is on edge with a serial killer terrorizing the neighborhood.
Takes place in 1995, the year of the second referendum on the separation of Quebec. In the dead of winter, a serial killer is on the loose in the small Montreal neighborhood of Notre Dame de Grace. The tenants of an old apartment house must figure out who they can trust and who they can't.
In Notre-Dame-de-Grâce a.k.a. NDG, a residential neighborhood of Montreal, a serial-killer has raped and murdered three victims. In an old apartment building, the new tenant of the fourth floor Victor has just arrived from China with his cat Balthazar and befriends the waitress of a Chinese restaurant Louise that lives on the second floor with her two beloved cats Mozart and Tia Maria and the handicap Spencer that is in a wheelchair and lives on the first floor. Louise is on edge with the news about the murders in her neighborhood and Victor, who is an elementary school teacher, brings her home everyday after the working period and falls in love with her. Meanwhile, their alcoholic neighbor Valérie Langlois hates Louise's cats and on the Christmas night, she poisons the pets. Louise decides to revenge against Valerie simulating an attack of the serial-killer. But when she is returning home, she meets the real killer and Victor also sees him. When the police detective and the smart Behavioral Psychologist Roland Brandt arrive in the building to investigate, all the three neighbors become suspects.
It's late 1995 in the Notre-Dame-de-Grâce (NDG) neighborhood of Montréal. In being a gossip, landlady Mme. Gauthier makes it a point to get to know the business of the tenants in her older four story walk-up apartment building. Third floor tenant Louise, whose life revolves around her two cats, Mozart and Tia Maria, and who has somewhat retreated from life otherwise, works as a waitress in a neighborhood Chinese-Canadian restaurant. Beyond her cats, she is fixated on the yet unsolved serial murders in NDG of young women, who are raped before their throats are slit. Spencer, who lives on the second floor, is at the moment largely confined to his apartment as he has been in a wheelchair ever since the car accident last year that claimed the life of his wife. His doctors believe that he will eventually walk again. He keeps himself busy by tending to the several elaborate aquariums in his apartment. While Louise and Spencer are friends, Mme. Gauthier and Spencer's physical therapist Miss Van Ilen would like to see that friendship blossom into romance. Extremely loud and angry Francophone Valérie, who lives in the building with her often "away-on-'business'" husband in their marital discord, is the bane of everyone else's existence in the building, while they are the bane of hers, Mozart and Tia Maria getting into the garbage cans outside her window on the fire escape which is her most vocal current complaint. Having just moved into a top floor unit after a stint in China, socially awkward Victor, an elementary school teacher, does whatever he can to befriend Spencer and especially Louise, his attempts playing on what he believes is their most basic needs/wants. This combination of people and situations ends up being deadly, which may or may not be related to the serial murders. Individual self-preservation may take over in each person trying to keep his or her own fundamental secret.

