The story of five girls and one epic night. The girls will find love, lust, girl-fights, rock and roll, and a whole lot of stoned sorority girls.
Set during one long night in the LGBT sub-culture of Los Angeles, Daisy and Tyler are two rock and roll musicians who are selected to partake in a battle of the bands contest to claim a prize. But while on their way to the concert, their van breaks down and they are sidetracked by Daisy's younger sister, Colby, a recent college graduate who agrees to drive them to the concert if they help her hook up with her girl-crush; a struggling actress named Misty. Also tagging along is Misty's bisexual best friend Sid, who longs to hook up with a famous celebrity. However, Misty is not interested in hooking up with Colby because she has her sights on Tyler. Meanwhile, Daisy tries to win back her ex-girlfriend, Xan, who is on a date with her latest girlfriend who is competing against Daisy and Tyler's band that very night. Elsewhere, Monique Jones is a violent ex-con recently paroled from prison who comes looking for Daisy and Tyler with a score to settle.
Based on the extremely successful Internet Web series from Showtime, GIRLTRASH: All Night Long, the Movie stars Lisa Rieffel (lead singer of Killola), Gabrielle Christian ('South of Nowhere'), Michelle Lombardo ('Quarterlife'), Mandy Musgrave ('South of Nowhere'), Rose Rollins ('The L Word'), Kate French ('One Tree Hill', The L Word', 'Wicked Wicked Games') and Clementine Ford ('The L Word'). Directed by Alex Kondracke and produced by Angela Robinson ('D.E.B.S.', 'Herbie Fully Loaded', 'The L Word') &amp; Lisa Thrasher ('Itty Bitty Titty Committee'). Stacy Codikow (D.E.B.S., Itty Bitty Titty Committee) the founder of POWER UP is executive producing.In the tradition of "Go" and "Superbad," 'GIRLTRASH: All Night Long' is the story of five girls and one epic night. Daisy and Tyler are two hapless rockers trying to make it to a Battle of the Bands concert on time. They are waylaid by Daisy's sister, Colby, who has her sights set on hooking up with the girl of her dreams, Misty (that is, if she can manage to have a conversation with her first.) As the night spirals out of control, the girls will find lesbian love, lust, girl-fights, rock and roll, and a whole lot of stoned sorority girls. Oh, did we mention it's a musical?Source- girltrashallnightlong.com
