The story of matinee idol Tab Hunter from teenage stable boy to closeted Hollywood star of the 1950s.
In the 1950s, Tab Hunter is number one at the box office and number one on the music charts. He is Hollywood's most sought-after star and America's boy next door. Natalie Wood, Debbie Reynolds and Sophia Loren are just a few of the actresses he is romantically linked to. Nothing, it seems, can damage his skyrocketing career. Nothing, that is, except for the fact that Tab Hunter is secretly gay. Now, Tab Hunter's secret is out. In TAB HUNTER CONFIDENTIAL we will meet, for the first time, the real Tab Hunter as he shares with us the whole story of a happy, healthy survivor of Hollywood's roller coaster.
The life and career of Tab Hunter largely in relation to his homosexual orientation is presented. Although acknowledging that the public knowing of his sexual orientation would have negatively affected his acting career as the heartthrob, he was not in the closet in the early part of his career per se but believed his private life was no one's business but his own, even if he was straight. He was somewhat a reluctant actor in the business never having been his aspiration in being discovered, but knew it provided him more than a comfortable existence. His acting career had four distinct phases, from being one of the most popular young actors of his generation in the late 1950s under the studio system despite none of his movies being particularly memorable, to he making the decision to terminate his studio contract which dried up the high profile acting roles, to the 1970s when dinner theater became his bread and butter, to the resurrection of a more high profile screen career largely in parodies of himself with his role in John Waters's Polyester (1981) as that start. His passion for horses - an equestrian which was his planned career when he was young - and what ended up being his long term relationship with studio executive and movie producer Allan Glaser, a man thirty years his junior, is also presented.

