Told from the male perspective, the story of a couple trying to reclaim the life and love they once knew and pick up the pieces of a past that may be too far gone.
A woman and man seemingly so in love finds their marriage is shaken to the core when life throws them a devastating curve. Now this New York couple must try to understand each other as they cope with loss and attempt to reclaim the life and love they once had.
Connor (James McAvoy) and Eleanor (Jessica Chastain) are on a date a local New York City restaurant. Connor eventually tells Eleanor that he does not have enough money to pay for their meal. The two dine and dash.Years later, Connor runs a pub/restaurant and is married to Eleanor. On a break, he visits Eleanor in their apartment, where she is depressed and confined to her bed after the death of their son. She tells him that she dreamed that he had an affair and she thinks it would be better for them if he did cheat on her. Connor is upset by what she is saying, but dismisses it. The following day, after returning home from work, he finds the apartment empty and receives a phone call that Eleanor has been hospitalized following a suicide attempt. At the hospital, Eleanor tells him she wants to separate and asks him to let her disappear for a while. Shortly after, Eleanor disconnects her phone and cuts off all communication.Unable to live in their apartment alone, Connor moves back in with his father. While discussing the failure of his marriage with his best friend Stu (Bill Hader), Stu reveals to Connor that he saw Eleanor and believes she is taking classes at NYU. Connor begins to follow Eleanor. Eventually, he goes to one of her classes and passes her a note saying "Hi." Eleanor leaves the class and the two have an angry confrontation outside, with Eleanor insisting that he leave her alone. Connor is hit by a taxi cab as he leaves and Eleanor stays with him until the ambulance arrives.After going over the bills for his restaurant, Connor realizes they are losing money and cannot keep afloat. Depressed, he has a one-night stand with Alexis (Nina Arianda), the bartender of his restaurant.One day, Connor goes to Eleanor's parents' home to try to see her, but instead is confronted with his mother-in-law, Mary (Isabelle Huppert), who gives him little information and suggests that he and Eleanor want different things now. Shortly after, Eleanor comes by the pub and the two rent a car and go for a drive in the countryside. He tells her that he will be packing up their apartment the following week as he can no longer hold onto it. When it begins to rain and the windshield wipers do not work the two begin to kiss but Connor confesses he has slept with someone else. The two return to the city.Connor throws a closing party for his restaurant. While there he sees a young couple on a date and notices that they try to dine and dash. He follows them, chasing down the man and tackling him. Ultimately, he decides to let him go.Connor goes to his former apartment to clean it out. He falls asleep, and when he wakes Eleanor is there. The two talk about their son and Eleanor reveals she can no longer remember what their son looked like. Connor tells her that he mostly looked like Eleanor, but with his eyes. The two sleep together, but by the time Connor wakes up, Eleanor is gone.Sometime later, Connor is working at his father's restaurant. He decides to take a walk before the late night rush. As he walks, he does not notice he is being followed by a woman who appears to be Eleanor.
