Rob Haley (Dougray Scott), an up-and-coming chef and restaurateur in London, is grief-stricken when he loses his wife. With encouragement from his infamous friend and real life TV Chef Gordon Ramsay, Rob decides to spice up his life by turning a run-down country pub into a gourmet restaurant. His food catches the eye - and taste buds - of beautiful American food critic Kate Templeton (Claire Forlani) and they soon both write a recipe for love that leaves both their hearts - and their stomachs - full.
This is no popcorn movie but Michelin star film cuisine. The story is about a chef, Rob Hayley (Dougray Scott) who lost his creative touch when he lost his beloved wife in a car crash. He 'retires' with his young daughter to the countryside where he meets a comely critic Kate Templeton (Claire Forlani)who challenges his life expertise. He takes interest once again in creating dishes which are unique and scrumptious to impress her, and succeeds with great flair. Soon his local pub restaurant is attracting customers from far and wide. However, nasty rival lover and cranky locals then gang up against him, threatening him with closure of his business. His only hope is to win praise on national TV from a visiting critic (Simon Callow). A taste of English country fare, but not the usual Ploughman's lunch of cheese with pickles. Instead, we are served fresh lemon sole and salmon mousse followed by that quintessentially English dessert, fruit trifle. The trifle is made with the finest sherry and topped with irresistible cream laced with Cognac. The sweet film wins all hearts and is served with a dry sense of humor and much love. Everyone including the actors enjoys this culinary treat. Best tasted with quail's eggs and a bottle of chilled Chardonnay. Bon appetite.
Rob Haley (Dougray Scott, Desperate Housewives), a talented chef and restaurateur in London, is grief stricken after losing his wife in an auto accident. Then one bad review from a food critic, and the customers of his once -thriving restaurant start to dry up. But a chat with his old friend and world-famous chef Gordon Ramsay (Himself, Hells' Kitchen), inspires Rob to take control and reclaim the life he once had. Rob, his daughter and his loyal staff are now determined to turn a run-down countryside pub into a local gourmet eatery. On opening day, Kate Templeton (Claire Forlani, Meet Joe Black), an American food critic with a troubled love life, enters the pub. The last thing Rob needs is an uppity critic with a bad taste for men. Attitudes clash until finally Rob's charm and magical dessert trifle wins over her taste buds - and her heart. But not all the locals are happy with the fame and the traffic the up-and-coming restaurant brings to their neighborhood, and a few try to have it closed down for good. With the help of Kate, the pub receives a visit from the world famous food critic Guy Witherspoon (Simon Callow), Rob dishes up an incredible meal and his signature dessert. They receive a fantastic review, and Rob and Kate both discover that the recipe for true happiness is a pinch of teamwork and a whole lot of love.

