Three twenty-somethings find themselves in an impossible time labyrinth, where each day they awaken to the same terrifying day as the preceding one.
In Mission City, Kyle Halsted, Sonia Logan and Michael "Mike" Weeks are interned in a rehabilitation facility run by Bob Simpson. One Wednesday, they have a pass to go outside the site and Kyle visits his sister Charlotte Halsted (Alexia Fast) at the Mission Secondary School but she does not talk to him. Sonia goes to the hospital where her father is terminal, but she does not visit him. Mike visits his father at the Maximum Security Correctional Facility where he is prisoner and the man does not talk to mike. During the night, there is a storm and Kyle, Sonia and Mike have electrical shocks and on the next morning, they awaken on the same day. When they realize that the Wednesday is repeating over and over again, their first reaction is to have fun with dangerous situations. Soon Kyle and Sonia disclose secrets and they decide to use the days to resolve personal issues mending their lives. But Mike decides to route through a criminal life believing that on the next morning, everything would be over.
Three young drug addicts find themselves stuck in a time loop living the same day several times and decide to have fun with dangerous situations, believing that on the next morning, everything would be over. But it may be too late until they discover the true meaning of the phenomenon: use the days to resolve personal issues, fixing their lives.
Kyle Halsted, Sonia Logan and Michael Weeks have become friends in serving their mandatory time together in a drug rehabilitation detention facility. On day ninety-two of their detention, they receive their first day pass - which they will receive every day this week - they in the outside world supposed to attempt to make amends to the people who have been most impacted by their drug use. This day, Kyle chooses to make amends to his younger sister, high school student Charlotte Halsted, Sonia her ailing father, Ed Logan, who is currently in hospital, and Michael his father, who is behind bars serving a ten year sentence. The day doesn't go well for any of the three, with Ed passing away later in the day without Sonia even having talked to him. They have a chance to do it all over again when they awaken the next morning and eventually learn that they and they alone are reliving that day ninety-two all over again with the full knowledge of what happened to them the first go 'round. Day after day, day ninety-two happens yet again and again and again to them, with the possibility that it may be forever their fates. This situation has the potential to tear their friendship apart as some want to figure out why this repeated day is happening to them and thus want to make the day "right", while others see no consequence in their actions and thus want to do whatever they want. They will, however, discover that their actions do have consequences, at least among the three of them.

