A year with one platoon in the deadliest valley in Afghanistan.
Sebastian Junger and Tim Hetherington's year dug in with the Second Platoon in one of Afghanistan's most strategically crucial valleys reveals extraordinary insight into the surreal combination of back breaking labor, deadly firefights, and camaraderie as the soldiers painfully push back the Taliban.
A documentary covering a deployment of Battle Company, 2nd Battalion, 503rd Infantry Regiment, 173rd Airborne Brigade Combat Team in 2007-8. The deployment lasted 15 months and was at one of the most dangerous places on earth - certainly the most dangerous place, at the time, for US forces: the Korengal Valley in Afghanistan. Journalist Sebastian Junger and photojournalist Tim Hetherington were embedded with the 2nd Platoon of B Company and captured their daily lives, the action, the military strategy, the interaction with the community and the tragedy.
In May 2007 the Second Platoon of Battle Company 2nd of the 503rd Infantry Regiment begins a 15 month deployment in the Korengal Valley of eastern Afghanistan, considered one of the most dangerous postings in the US Military. The young, inexperienced soldiers have so far only had a vague idea of war, but when they fly into the valley, they start to realize that this is going to be a living hell. They land on the Korengal outpost called The Kop. This is a terrace in the mountain, fortified with temporary protective walls. The Talibans are all around them, constantly shooting at them. Soon the first young soldier, Vimoto, is killed, and one month later Doc Restrepo. To get a better grip on the valley, Captain Kearney orders his men to capture a nearby mountaintop, and there erect a new outpost, which they call Restrepo in honor of their dead fellow. The most dangerous action during their deployment is Operation Rock Avalanche. They go into Taliban controlled land, where they end up in close combat, whereby Sergeant Rougle is killed. When their 15 months deployment is ended, the surviving young soldiers have irreparable, psychic problems.

