Dispatched from his basement room on an errand for his widowed mother, slacker Jeff might discover his destiny (finally) when he spends the day with his unhappily married brother as he tracks his possibly adulterous wife.
Jeff, at 30, lives in his mom's basement, unemployed, looking for signs about what to do with his life. He answers a wrong-number call for "Kevin". Later, on a bus, he sees someone wearing a jersey with "Kevin" on the back. Jeff follows him. Meanwhile, Jeff's brother, Pat, a tone-deaf salesman, upsets his wife by buying a Porsche they cannot afford; Pat runs into Jeff soon after and they see Pat's wife with another man. At her job, Jeff and Pat's mom receives e-mails from a secret admirer; she tries to figure out who it is. Misunderstandings, errors, and confrontations abound. A backup on the Lake Pontchartrain Causeway brings things to a head.
Thirty year old Jeff Thompkins believes in the cosmic order of the world. Taking a cue from his favorite movie Signs (2002), Jeff is waiting for a sign from the universe for what he is supposed to do with his life. In the meantime, he doesn't work, lounges around his long widowed mother Sharon Thompkins' suburban Baton Rouge basement where he lives, and smokes weed. Seemingly responsible Sharon and Jeff's older brother Pat Thompkins don't understand Jeff, who they want to do something, anything, with his life, rather than waste it away. Little do they realize that their own lives are in shambles, despite the signs being obvious to anyone looking in at them. Sharon has not had love in her life since her husband Dan passed away a decade and a half ago, and doesn't really feel connected to her children. And Pat is oblivious to the fact that he neglects and largely dismisses his wife Linda, who looks for emotional gratification from anywhere she can find it because of Pat's behavior. One day, Jeff receives what he believes is a sign in the most everyday of occurrences: a wrong number, the caller who was looking for someone named Kevin. As Jeff follows any lead for that mystery Kevin, he encounters Pat solely by chance. They end up spending much of their day together, as in Jeff's search for the meaning of Kevin, he is there when Pat has the first spark of recognition that there is something wrong with his marriage as they spy Linda with another unknown man. Interspersed with helping Pat find out what Linda is doing with this man, Jeff still searches for how "Kevin" will change his life. Meanwhile, Sharon receives her own sign at work in the form of flirty text message on her computer from an anonymous co-worker, calling himself her secret admirer. She and her friend and co-worker Carol try to discover the identity of the mystery man, who does not seem to want to come out from the shadows.
Jeff is a 30 year old slacker who still lives in his mom's basement, and is obsessed with the movie 'Signs'. His brother Pat, doesn't approve of Jeff's lifestyle. Pat is married and has a job, but all is not well in his marriage. In fact, Pat suspects his wife is having an affair. Jeff agrees to help Pat find out what's going on and along the way fates collide.
When Jeff (Jason Segel) leaves his mother's basement to buy wood glue at the store, he looks for signs from the universe to determine his path. However, a series of unexpected and amusing events leads him to cross paths with his family, especially his brother (Ed Helms), in the strangest of circumstances and locations. If Jeff is very lucky and universally blessed, he will find the meaning of his life... and remember to buy the wood glue as well.
