Paula, (Renee O'Connor) an inspector for the Historic Trust, wraps up a successful and important project in the upper Midwest. On her way home to Chicago, she gets a call from her office and is asked to check out a new applicant. It's on her way anyway, and even though it's late on Friday, she takes a quick detour and heads to the site of once proud steamship along an industrial waterfront. The ships 400 foot black form looms against the sky, and collects dead fish in stagnant water near the pier. Moments after her arrival, her car is seriously disabled and her life is about to change forever. In the chaos that follows, she meets up with the self appointed caretaker, Vigs (Larry Joe Campbell) who is the odd caretaker on the ship. Making the best of a bad situation, she takes him up on his offer to spend the night in one of the cramped but historic staterooms. He invites her to dinner and bad beer. She gets sick from the food and retires to her room to sleep, but is awakened constantly by startling and compelling commotion that leads her to all points on this dark and frightening ship. In the end, she discovers the truth about herself, and her life will never be the same.
PAULA, (Renee OConnor) an inspector for the Historic Trust, wraps up a successful and important project in the upper Midwest. On her way home to Chicago, she gets a call from her office and is asked to check out a new applicant. Its on her way anyway, and even though its late on Friday, she takes a quick detour and heads to the site of once proud steamship along an industrial waterfront. The ships 400 foot black form looms against the sky, and collects dead fish in stagnant water near the pier. Moments after her arrival, her car is seriously disabled and her life is about to change forever. In the chaos that follows, she meets up with the self appointed caretaker, Vigs (Larry Joe Campbell) who is the odd caretaker on the ship.Making the best of a bad situation, she takes him up on his offer to spend the night in one of the cramped but historic staterooms. He invites her to dinner and bad beer. She gets sick from the food and retires to her room to sleep, but is awakened constantly by startling and compelling commotion that leads her to all points on this dark and frightening ship. In the end, she discovers the truth about herself, and her life will never be the same.Director's note...Even though our films are small, we compete with mainstream filmmaking, without the resources, so we make films that Hollywood wont. Thats the independent spirit. When we offer sneak preview of our new films, we run the risk of the audience thinking that it is the final cut. We listen to the audience react (or not) and make changes as we feel are consistent with the temperament of the film. Having said that, anyone who saw the unreleased sneak preview version of Deadrise, then titled FITFUL, really needs to see the final released product. There are no dogs anymore, and the ending has been changed from a Oh, you got me to a DAM!. The dream sequences have new meaning, and our main character Paula, has a considerably bigger surprise waiting for her at the end of the film. Additional final tweaks also included enhanced music and sound. It is safe to say that the entire context of this non-traditional suspense thriller has been nicely modified prior to its final worldwide release as DEADRISE.
