A poor working man loses his job and decides to start a theater troupe.
Guna is a village labourer in the hinterlands of Maharashtra. Holding a passion for the 'tamasha' theatre shows, he decides to start his own troupe. Instead of the prestigious role of the king he always dreamed of, he ends up having to play a 'nachya', an effeminate, homosexual man. He goes ahead with the decision, which forever changes him and his family, as he ends up torn between his artistic passion and his societal prestige.
The protagonist, Guna, is a poor village laborer who is gifted with an exceptionally talent for stage acting. His passion for the art defies logic. When he loses his day job, he takes that as an opportunity to sail into the world of theatre and go places. However he has to encounter many unanticipated struggles in the process. He longs for playing a king's role, but the fate plays its cruel hand and compels him to play a role of Nachya (A man who performs a woman's role in theater) to quell his hunger of becoming a successful actor. His stage role eventually creeps into his personal life and turns it completely upside down. He is looked down by the society and hence his family suffers a great deal of emotional and financial stress. Will he still continue to pursue his passion? Will the fate kindly give him a second chance to justify pursuing his exceptional passion for acting in perhaps the most extraordinary and unreal way?
The struggle of a creative mind that dares to think different. A young artist Gunavantrao Kagalkar or "Guna" decides to go beyond his family, his friends, the society and above all his own imagination to achieve a dream unthinkable. A story set in the 1970s in a small village of a Maharashtra in India, digs into the deep-rooted gender politics revealed through incidents in an artist's life. Guna, a poor village laborer, nurtures an obsession for Tamasha - a popular theatrical folk art form of Maharashtra. It is his dream to play the king once in his life. Unforeseen circumstances land him in situation where he sets up a theater company. But its survival now depends on inclusion of Nachya, (A man who performs a woman's role in theater) a mandatory in the Tamasha. The strongly-built Guna takes up the challenge of doing the role due to his passion for the art. A decision that puts his life in turmoil inside out. He is deserted by his wife, teased for performing feminine roles, abused and declared a eunuch and gay by the society that fails to understand the creativity involved in the art form.

