After Hee-jin's younger sister So-jin, who is possessed by a spirit,disappears,the neighbors die one by one and a secret underlying their deaths is revealed.
When 13-year-old So-Jin disappears, her elder sister Hee-Jin returns to the apartment of their religious-maniac mother. Tae-Hwan, a cop, who reluctantly has to take the case seriously is confronted with more and more suicides that are difficult to explain rationally. And why does the skeptical Hee-Jin, who keeps having gruesome encounters with suicides, have to keep coughing?
College student Hee-jin returns home after her younger sister, the recent survivor of a devastating car accident, has gone missing, only to find her mother is a fanatical religious convert and an ominous aura hangs over the family's apartment complex. Things take a macabre turn when the neighbors start offing themselves in increasingly bizarre and grotesque ways, and Hee-jin calls on skeptical detective Tae-hwan to investigate the mysterious events. Together they begin to unravel the tangled web of connections between the victims that will ultimately lead back to the missing girl.
Hee Jin, a college student currently studying in Seoul, receives news that her 14-year-old sister So Jin has disappeared. Hee Jin then quickly returns home to look for her missing sister. Meanwhile, her mother prays obsessively for her daughter to return and asks Hee Jin to do so. Veteran detective Tae Hwan becomes involved in the case, but at first doesn't take things as seriously, believing So Jin is a runaway. Then another person, Jung Mi, falls down from a roof and discovers So Jin's note. The apartment's security guard Kwi Kap and apartment resident Kyung Ja reveal that So Jin was possessed by a ghost. The detective and Hee Jin become confused with these news facts. Shortly later, Jung Mi is found dead and Det. Tae-hwon learns that Jung Mi attended the same church as the missing girl's mother. The security guard Kwi Kap is then found dead. Meanwhile the mother continues to pray silently, while Hee Jin sees dead people in her dreams ...
