As a new year at school begins, Lola's heart is broken by her boyfriend, though soon she's surprised by her best friend, promising musician Kyle, who reveals his feelings for her.
In a world connected by YouTube, iTunes, and Facebook, Lola and her friends navigate the peer pressures of high school romance and friendship while dodging their sometimes overbearing and confused parents. When Lola's mom, Anne, "accidentally" reads her teenage daughter's racy journal, she realizes just how wide their communication gap has grown. Through hilarious and heartfelt moments between mother and daughter, LOL is a fresh coming-of-age story for modern times.
In this re-make of the 2008 French movie of nearly the same name and set in Chicago, Illinois, Lola (Miley Cyrus) leads an ordinary life, with her boyfriend Chad (George Finn), and best friends Emily (Ashley Hinshaw), Janice (Lina Esco) and Kyle (Douglas Booth). When they return to school after summer vacation, Lola discovers that Chad has cheated on her over the summer, so the two of them break up. Lola and Kyle begin to realize that they have feelings for each other and pursue a relationship, but this is complicated due to the fact that Chad and Kyle are friends, and Lola's "enemy" Ashley (Ashley Greene) wants to date Kyle. Kyle and his band want to compete in the battle of the bands, but Kyle's father doesn't support Kyle's passion for music and feels that it is getting in the way of his schoolwork. During the movie, Lola records all of these events in her video diary.Lola's mother, Anne (Demi Moore), is a divorcée who frequently has sex with her ex-husband, Allen (Thomas Jane) until she finds out that Allen has been sleeping with another woman at the same time. Anne also begins to realize that she and Lola are growing further apart once Lola throws a party and is caught by Anne, who threatens to not allow Lola to go on her class trip to Paris.Things finally start to change when Anne meets police officer James (Jay Hernandez) and they begin to date. During their relationship, James offers Anne advice on how to reconnect with Lola. She takes up the advice. After a presentation at school, Lola looks for Kyle in the bathroom, and overhears two people having sex in the stall. Lola assumes it is Kyle and Ashley after seeing a purse similar to Ashley's peeking out from under the stall. Afterwords, Lola confronts Ashley, who doesn't deny it. A huge argument breaks out between Kyle and Lola, where Lola accuses Kyle of cheating on her, and the two break up. After the break up, Lola is determined to make Kyle jealous, and tries to do so by making out with her childhood friend Jeremy (Jean-Luc Bilodeau). Meanwhile, Lola and Anne reconnect, and Anne allows Lola to go on the class trip to Paris.While on the Paris trip, Emily finally admits to Lola it was actually her and her secret boyfriend Wen (Adam Sevani) in the bathroom, not Ashley and Kyle. After this realization, Lola and Kyle get back together and Lola spends the night with Kyle where he is staying and they have sex for the first time.When they all return home, Lola sticks up for Ashley when Chad calls her a hoe. Ashley thanks her for this and it seems they could be friends again in the future. Meanwhile, Anne finds Lola's diary and finds out that Lola has slept with Kyle, made out with Emily while "lesbo experimenting" and done drugs (smoking pot, freebasing, etc). She confronts Lola, and the two of them have a huge falling-out, causing Lola to move in with her dad. Eventually, Lola and Anne reconcile and Lola moves back in with her mother. Kyle's band wins battle of the bands with his father's support. Kyle and Lola stay together and Ashley and Chad begin to date. The film ends with Anne and Lola laughing out loud while cuddling.
