Battle of the Year attracts all the best teams from around the world, but the Americans haven't won in fifteen years. Dante enlists Blake to assemble a team of the best dancers and bring the Trophy back to America where it started.
The producer Dante Graham promotes a group of b-boys expecting to bring the Battle of the Year Trophy back to the USA that have not won it in fifteen years. He hires his friend and former basketball coach Jason Blake that grieves the loss of his wife and son to prepare his team. Blake fires the whole team since they do not have motivation and decides to select a new group of dancers under the nickname of Dream Team. He also hires the youngster Franklyn and the choreographer of break-dance Stacy to help him. Along the months, Blake tries to implement teamwork and works hard with the group. In the competition in France, he has a great surprise.
For break-dancers, winning the Battle of the Year is like taking the gold medal in the Olympics. Though the competition originated in the U.S., no American has taken the top prize in the past 15 years. A former b-boy with his eyes on the prize, L.A. hip-hop icon Dante (Laz Alonso) is determined to change that. But it's not going to be easy. In order to get the job done, Dante recruits his old friend Blake (Holloway) to help form a b-boy troupe comprised of the best dancers in the country. Having previously coached a basketball team to victory before falling on hard times, Blake knows a thing or two about winning. But with the competition just three weeks away, they'll need a small miracle to reclaim the Battle of the Year for their country. Undaunted, Dante and Blake prepare to dazzle the judges with the kind of moves that will prove b-boy culture is still alive and kicking in the country where it was born..
Battle of the Year is an international dance crew tournament that attracts all the best teams from around the world, but the Americans havent won in fifteen years. Los Angeles Hip Hop mogul Dante (Alonso) wants to put the country that started the Sport back on top. He enlists his hard-luck friend Blake (Holloway), who was a championship basketball coach, to coach his team. Armed with the theory that the right coach can make any team champions, they assemble a Dream Team of all the best dancers across the country. With only three months until Battle of the Year, Blake has to use every tactic he knows to get twelve talented individuals to come together as a team if they're going to bring the Trophy back to America where it started.Inspired by the actual world championship held yearly in France.
