A mother and her two teenage daughters move into an ancient house in a suburb of Detroit, when it is offered at a very low price.
A mother and her two teenage daughters move into an ancient house in a suburb of Detroit, when it is offered at a very low price, much to the dislike of the elder daughter. Soon, the younger child begins to see strange things in the house, but the mother disregards her claims, saying that it is only her imagination. Then the elder child also begins to notice creepy phenomena but does not speak about it. Only when things take a more serious turn and the mother too starts to witness strange events does she realize that something really is wrong with the house.
Rachel and her daughters live in a tiny apartment in Detroit. She's recently divorced and the ex-husband has moved to NYC. The oldest daughter, Lizzie, keeps talking about touring NYU and it's obvious she wants to be with the father. The younger daughter, Molly, is very sensitive - she always knows when the phone is about to ring. Rachel is starting a new job - apparently, she hasn't worked in a while - and has to take several buses to get there, while her brother, Marty, takes the two girls to school. Rachel's job is at a hospital. One of the first people she meets is Belle, a psychic nurse.On her way home, she stops to ask a real estate agent where the bus stop is. the agent tells her, then says that her client didn't show up and offers to show her the house. So Rachel looks at the house, a Dutch Colonial built in 1910. Theres a beautiful staircase that the agent says is the only open one in the neighborhood. While they're in the basement, there are these strange banging sounds, but the agent says it's because old houses do that. Rachel tells the agent that she just can't afford the house unless they REALLY lower the price. Some time passes and the real estate agent calls to say the owners have REALLY lowered the price! So they move to the house.Lizzie, of course, doesn't want to leave her friends and decides to have her room in the basement, which Molly thinks is creepy. When Marty is helping to move them in, he notices that there's a hole in one of the walls. It turns out to be a rotten space in the "wallboard." Marty is a contractor, so he's going to help fix everything up. They tear down the wall and discover that there's another wall several feet back. It's brick with a big old-timey vent. There's also a big closet in the basement and Lizzie finds a music box that starts playing "on its own." She also finds a photo in the box. A drop of blood falls on the photo and Lizzie looks up, but there's blood on her upper lip. Nosebleed?They all settle in. Lizzie starts school, but discovers the English class is studying Pride and Prejudice. Rachel named Lizzie for Elizabeth Bennet. One evening Molly is getting ready for bed and sees the ghost of a teenage girl looking at her. She screams and Rachel comes running. She tries to tell Molly that she just imagined it because she's very imaginative. Shortly thereafter the girls are returning from school and Molly sees the ghost again at a window. Lizzie doesnt believe her and walks into the house. Then, Molly sees the ghost running toward Lizzie. When Molly gets inside, Lizzie is on the floor. She says she felt dizzy and then she fell down. Later, Lizzie somehow got locked in the closet, and screams and screams until her mother gets her out. There are scratches all over the inside of the closet where shes tried to get out. The next scene is at the hospital. Shes lost a couple of nails and is sedated. The doctor calls it a night terror (a nightmare that happens while sleepwalking).A couple of days later, theyre back at home. In the middle of the night, Rachel hears a music box playing and goes to see what it is. She finds a photo, too, and then the lights go out. Next day, the girls go back to school, but Rachel does some research and discovers that a married teenage girl named Greta went missing in the 1950s. They never found her. Later, Rachel is in the basement looking around and realizes that theres cold air coming from the vent. Marty comes over to see why the lights went out and she has him open the vent. Several feet back, he finds a boarded up place in the wall. When he takes the boards down, he hands them out the vent to Rachel. She sees scratch marks all over them. Finally, he takes the last one off and, lo and behold, theres Gretas bones.After the police take the body away, they all assume that the house wont be haunted now. No such luck. Now that Greta is out of the hole, shes close enough to physical form to put a necklace on Lizzie, which Lizzie tells her mother was from a friend. So, Greta possesses Lizzie and is then able to leave the house. Rachel finds Lizzies copy of Pride and Prejudice and discovers that one of the pages has been marked out by magic marker except for the words She is not Lizzie. Molly realizes somethings up when Lizzie suddenly starts acting all nice to her.Rachel decides to have Belle do a spiritual cleansing of the house, so Rachel and girls are staying with Marty. Rachel wakes up from a nap and realizes that Molly is missing. She has gone to the house. Belle is cleansing the basement when suddenly she is pushed really hard and knocked out. Molly walks in and says You pushed her too hard, Lizzie.So Rachel gets to the house and finds Belle and Molly. Molly tells her that Lizzie isnt Lizzie that Lizzies spirit has been pushed out of her body by Greta, who wants to be free and that only a mothers love can fix it all. So Rachel takes Lizzie to the house, pretending she doesnt know its not really Lizzie. She asks Lizzie why she named her after Elizabeth Bennet. Of course Greta doesnt know so she doesnt answer, she just attacks Rachel. Theyre upstairs by then, on the famous open staircase. Suddenly, Lizzie falls back over the open stairwell. When Rachel tries to grab her, she can only grab the necklace and Lizzie falls all the way down the stairs. It looks like shes dead and Rachel tries to resuscitate her, but it doesnt work and she breaks down. Lizzie suddenly breathes and wakes up. She tells Rachel that she named her Lizzie because Elizabeth Bennet was strong and she wanted her to be strong, too.So they move out of the house. On moving day, the agent brings a new couple to look at the house. Rachel tells the couple that the house is haunted, that they had it cleansed, but theyre not sure it worked. They tell her they dont believe in ghosts and walk into the house with the agent, rolling their eyes, while telling the agent that they have two teenage girls. Rachel walks off. They show the ghost of Greta in a window upstairs. [Original synopsis by Lilibetp]
