A brilliant computer loner seizes Las Vegas and its terrorist attack, while fighting against his fits of clinical depression and obsession for romance and death.
Aaron, a brilliant computer hacker/bio weapon terrorist (&amp; former government agent, with biomechanical implants) his hired by an unknown terrorist organization to shut down the Las Vegas strip for a short period of time. Aaron, plagued by visions of his dead wife (and his parents at one point) accepts the job.It is revealed that Aaron is a cynical former government agent, and is the best secret agent that there ever was. Because of this the government attempted to assassinate him, but killed his wife instead. Ever since Aaron has camped out in the Mojave Desert. In order to maintain his safety he has set up safeguards to make sure no one can kill him; such as an invisibility shield that kills any unauthorized person and biological bombs planted in several major cities that will explode if he doesn't punch in a code every 48 hours.While wandering the desert he meets a mystical old man who dies after hitting his head against a rock, but not before giving Aaron a magical rock that endows him with powers. Armed with this rock he visits an old friend from the government agency and attempts to cure his friend's daughter's brain cancer.Aaron then begins planning the terrorist plot by buying anthrax and testing it on a local lake, ensuring the anthrax is poisonous. He is contacted by the government agency and tasked with assassinating a target. Because the target is getting marries, Aaron poses as a limo driver and picks up the couple, he feeds them poisoned strawberries which both eat. The Target dies and his wife sleeps, Aaron throws his body into the back and drives to an undisclosed location. The wife wakes up and Aaron tricks her into thinking they're married, until he gets a phone call from the government agency saying that he kidnapped the wrong target. He dumps the wife and the body in the desert and hunts down the correct couple, but when he finds them he discovers that they committed suicide together in order to spare themselves from Neil Breen's/Aaron's wrath.Later Aaron sets his terrorist plot into motion by planting anthrax on a random citizen and waiting for it to go airborne.
Back out in the desert he gets plagued by more visions of his dead wife, and he starts yelling and hitting the ground saying, "I can't go on with this, I CAN'T GO ON WITH THIS!!!! I'm an American, I'M AN AMERICAN, I love this country!" He then tries to stop the terrorist plot that he started.Aaron informs the government agency and various Politicians about how to handle the crisis survive the outbreak with minimal damage. He then leads the agency in an ambush of the terrorist organization and kills all terrorists. The outbreak is contained and Aaron rides into the sunset, his future unknown.
