A Mafia boss trains his mentally impaired son as his successor.
Young-goo (Hyung-rae Sim) the son of mafia boss Don Carini (Harvey Keitel), is too foolish to be part of the mafia elite. One day, Young-goo comes to his father and is trained by Tony V (Michael Rispoli) to be his father's successor. A few days later, Young-goo accidentally rescues Nancy (Jocelin Donahue), the only daughter of Don Bonfante, the boss of a rival mafia family. But Vinnie (Jason Mewes), an under-boss of the Bonfante family kidnapped her and fabricates that Young-goo has taken her. Vinnie's behavior provokes an armed conflict between the two families.
Young-Gu 's unlocked in the LAST GODFATHER :Not exactly a tribute to any lurid Mafia epic but does star veteran Hollywood actor Harvey Keitel as the 1950's Mafia don Carini with Korea's cause celebre and king of comedy Shim Hyung Rae who casts himself in hugely popular role of "Young-gu." Talk about a flash from the past and except for a few costume changes and other theatrics, everything does seem to fit the bill here in which the good humored character adoringly called fool in Korean, Young-gu ventures off to the Big Apple and turns out to be the illegitimate son of a powerful Mafia boss. After a brief stint training to head the organization, poor Young-gu is not even close to being prepped for the responsibilities bestowed upon him as Carini's heir.Even though things are suppose to be run exactly the same way a la Carini, Younggu ends up becoming chummy with Nancy Bonfante whose Dad runs a rival organization . Despite being slightly non -composmentis in the new movie , Young-gu and his leading lady played by Jocelin Donahue prove to be a good couple.Shim, who attempts to develop his brand of comedy in The Last Godfather as well, gets through to American moviegoers despite a strong accent from his native country, using his trademark sense sense of humor or slaptick comedy , the most difficult kind to develop on screen compared to the kind most of have whether its sarcastic,dry or campy. Then again even if you don't have a sense of humor , the mastery of CG dis-
played in this comedy gains a lot of recognition from moviegoers worldwide .Rated PG for violence and language .----- media liaison for Young - gu Arts -- icnakano@ yahoo.com
