In order not to jeopardize her overseas career, an impaired woman, who had just run over a male, decides to conceal her crime with the victim trapped in the windshield.
A thriller that takes it's premise from the real life incident of a woman who hit a man, then drove home, and parked the car in the garage with the man wedged halfway through her wind shield. what happens next makes the rest of the thrilling story.
Employed at an Elders' Home, Sonam Chopra is thrilled when she is informed that her employment with Red Cross in London has been confirmed. She celebrates with her co-worker, Tina, and boyfriend, Sid, at a pub, where she consumes considerable alcohol. While driving home, she runs into a male crossing the street on Hill Road, and the impact throws him into the windshield. Fearful of losing her Visa, she takes the car and the victim home, places it in the garage and locks the door. She telephones Sid, and goes over to his residence to ask for his assistance. She, instead, finds another woman with him, but forgives him. The next day she informs him about the accident, and the duo decide to return back to her residence in order to survey the situation and plan what to do next. What they find there will change their plan and their lives forever.
To celebrate the sanctioned of her visa for employment at the 'red-cross' located in London, U.K. Sonam Chopra, her boy-friend Siddharth and one of her co-worker celebrates at a local pub where she consumes an unreasonable amount of alcohol. While driving home she crashes into an elderly man crossing hill road which results in the man getting stuck in her car's windscreen. For fear of losing her visa she drives home and parks her car in the garage with the male still confine in the car's windscreen. She find that the man is still alive and in an estranged position the man started to call for help but instead she and her boyfriend Siddharth attempts to kill him albeit unsuccessful; while in the process she and her boyfriend ends up losing their lives with the man escaping.

