Chandramouli, a famous archaeologist, goes missing while on a research expedition. Anitha, a government officer, and Lavanya, Chandramouli's daughter, embark on an adventurous journey to find him.
In 1279 A.D. the downfall of the Chola dynasty seems imminent as the Pandyas drive the Chola people out of their kingdom in southern India. To escape them and save the life of his successor the Chola emperor sends his son along with the Chola people to a secret territory. The refugees take along an idol sacred to the Pandyas, angering them. To capture the escaped Cholas and the stolen idol, the Pandyas extend their invasion to unexplored territories but cannot find them.Centuries later, in 2009, Indian archaeologists continue searching for the existence of the lost Chola group based on clues left by the ancient Pandyan warriors. All archaeologists who attempted to search for the secret land have disappeared. Archaeologist Chandramouli is the most recent person to have gone missing.The Indian government organizes a search expedition led by officer Anitha to find Chandramouli and the Chola empire; she is assisted by the Indian army led by Ravisekharan. They recruit archaeologist Lavanya, the estranged daughter of Chandramouli, because her insight is essential for the success of the expedition. She hands over crucial documents on the Chola dynasty, prepared by her father, with instructions on the route to reach the destination.Along with the army, Anitha employs a group of porters headed by Muthu, to transport the baggage during the journey. The crew embark on their voyage leading them to an island, Min-gua, near Vietnam. They face seven traps set by the Cholas: sea creatures, cannibals, warriors, snakes, hunger, quicksand and a village. Many porters and army men are killed by these traps.Muthu, Anitha and Lavanya get separated from the others. They reach the ruins of a village where they are subjected to black magic and nearly go mad before reaching the secret hideout of the Chola. The three find an ethnic isolated primitive Tamil group, ruled by a Chola king. The king and his people are in hiding, awaiting the arrival of the fabled messenger who will bring glory and prosperity back to their land and lead them back to Thanjavur, their motherland. The king and the priest consult the gods for omens and order Muthu, Anitha and Lavanya to be burnt alive as sacrifices.Anitha tells the king that she is the messenger sent from the homeland. Muthu and Lavanya are enslaved while Anitha is given a chance to prove herself. She tries to seduce and convince the Chola king to march towards the homeland in two days so he can be crowned a proper king. He suspects whether she is legitimate since none of Anitha's actions match ancestor's description. The ancestors wrote that the messenger will be preceded by hail and following his ill-treatment will eventually help the tribe.Meanwhile, Anitha drugs the priest and poisons the water sources. She catches a glimpse of the Pandyas' sacred idol and leaves, finally exposing her identity as a descendant of the Pandya Dynasty. For generations, her race has been trying to find the whereabouts of the Chola prince and his people. The central minister, who sponsors the expedition, is also shown to be a Pandyan. The Chola king is shattered for having believed in Anitha to be his true messenger. Anitha and Ravishekaran gather an army and assault the hidden kingdom. The king discover Muthu is the true messenger who would save the Cholas from the clutches of Anitha and the army.The Cholas fight bravely, but eventually lose and are taken prisoners. Their women are molested and raped by the army, the king is killed and the men drown in the seas. Muthu is able to escape and save the Chola prince. The seed of the Chola dynasty is brought back to India by the messenger as prophesied.
