On her latest assignment, a journalist for Elle immerses herself in a prostitution ring run by university students.
Anne (Juliette Binoche), a well-off, Paris-based mother of two and investigative journalist for ELLE, is writing an article about student prostitution. Her meetings with two fiercely independent young women, Alicja (Joanna Kulig) and Charlotte (Anais Demoustier), are profound and unsettling, moving her to question her most intimate convictions about money, family and sex.
In Paris, Elle Magazine's journalist Anne is assigned to write a four-page article about prostitution. Anne is a middle class mother and housewife that lives a routine life in a comfortable apartment with her husband Patrick and her two sons, the teenager Florent and the boy Stéphane. Anne contacts the college students and call-girls Charlotte "Lola" and Alicja and she interviews them. They tell details of their sexual experience with their clients, most of them married and aged enough to be their fathers, who are seeking kinky sex that they do not do with their wives. In the beginning, Anne is shocked with the humiliations and perversions that the girls are submitted to keep their lifestyles. But soon she realizes how tedious her life is and she fantasizes sexual encounters with their clients. Further, she changes her opinion and attitude towards the girls that have good time in their lives with their independence. But in the end, she wears the society mask and returns to her routine life with her family.
Set during the course of one day, Anne (Juliette Binoche) is a middle-aged reporter for the local Elle magazine living in Paris who is trying to meet the deadline for her article about prostitution. She is first seen food shopping and preparing dinner for her husband's boss and his wife. She is also worried about her two sons, the eldest of whom has been skipping classes while the younger appears to start being hooked on video games. This narrative is interrupted by the flashbacks to the conversations Annie has had with the two students, scenes from their lives, and the effect that their work in the sex industry is having on them and those close to them.Earlier.... Anne interviews Charlotte (Anaïs Demoustier), a local teenage prostitute in a park where she seems very relaxed about the sex she has with her clients. She has tried doing part-time work but found that her studies suffered so she turned to prostitution. But she still does the occasional shift as she needs to be able to explain to her family and boyfriend where the money comes from. These sexual encounters inevitably lead to conflict in her relationship with her boyfriend who at one point demands to know if she is seeing someone else. Her friendly, girl-next-door nature leads her clients to confide in her about their lives, as well as their jobs, and their wives, which has surprised Charlotte as she had imagined the work would have been non-stop sex.Anne interviews Alicja (Joanna Kulig) another teenage prostitute who is is quite a different person. Arriving from Poland to study for college in France, she not only lost her suitcase but found the student advisors to be less than helpful in her hour of need. Another student came to her rescue, but admitted that his generosity was part of the courtship. By the time we see her being interviewed by Anne, Alicja has earned enough to have a very nice apartment along with designer clothes and handbags. She is much more hedonistic than Charlotte and proceeds to get Anne drunk during the course of the interview in her apartment. When asked who her clients are, Alicja simply replies that they are bored husbands. She always gives them a handjob in public, a long blowjob including sucking at home, or just directly get fucked in the ass at the cinema. For Alicja, being alone in a foreign country has led her to seemingly much more freedom than she enjoyed at home, but when asked if she wanted to stop, she admits that there is an element of addiction with the way she earns money. Lonely men likes to pee on her while masturbating each other. After that, they fuck each other's brains out.How the two students' lives turn out is left to the viewer to decide, with the end of the film focusing more on Anne's life and the effect these encounters with the two students have had on her and her relationship with her husband as she attends to him as the evening draws to a close.
