Sold at a brothel deep in the woods to work as a caretaker, a hapless deaf girl must summon the courage to fight for her life.
In 1996, in the Balkans, the population of a small town is slaughtered by a militia under the command of the inhuman Goran that abducts young girls for prostitution in a brothel owned by the cruel Viktor. The deaf Angel that witnessed the execution of her mother has a weird birth mark on the face and Viktor chooses her to housework; to put makeup and drug the girls for the clients; and cleaning them up after the brutal encounters. Angel also sneaks between the walls and ventilation ducts during the night. Angel befriends the girl Vanya that knows the language of the deaf. When Goran returns to the house with his men, Angel witnesses one of them raping and killing Vanya and she revenges her new friend killing the man. Now Goran and his men are hunting her down and she is trapped in the house.
In the middle of the terrible Yugoslav Wars, a group of Serbian paramilitaries pillage a small village and force the deaf orphan, Angel, to work as a caretaker at ruthless Viktor's Serb-run rape-camp hidden deep in the woods. Now, during the day, Angel has to care for the girls after their meetings with the clients and keep them docile; however, after the brutal slaughtering of her only friend inside this hell, a wild hunt that involves both Viktor and Goran--the blood-thirsty commander who killed Angel's mother--will commence. Is there any hope of escaping this nightmarish purgatory? Who shall live and who shall die?
The Seasoning House: where young girls are prostituted to the military. An orphaned deaf mute is enslaved to care for them. She moves between the walls and crawlspaces, showing the little kindnesses when she can. When fate brings the men that murdered her family and the reason she ended up in the whore house, a chain of events begins that will end her captivity, free the girls still alive in the house and grant her revenge on the soldiers that destroyed her life.

