Fate brings two diversely different women together, and sets them on a collision course that will shatter their preconceived notions about love, life and the power of one's soul.
Peyton and Elena are, on the surface, diametrically opposed - one, a well-known lesbian writer, the other a mother and wife of a pastor - but when their paths cross, several times over, they feel compelled to connect. What begins as friendship quickly blossoms into something deeper. Peyton tries to extricate herself before her heart wants what it can't have. Elena can't imagine not having Peyton in her life. And despite the fact that she has never even considered kissing a woman, Elena is overwhelmed with a desire to do just that. Despite Peyton's reservations, Elena pushes the relationship into a full-blown affair. The two women fall deeply in love, both keenly aware a future together might be little more than a dream.
In the opening scene, the paths of two women cross. They are Elena Winters (Necar Zadegan), a mother and pastor's wife, and Peyton Lombard (Traci Dinwiddie), a well-known lesbian writer. They are both in their late 30s and while they are walking down a park pathway, both make eye contact with each other before walking their separate ways.The movie opens in two places - following the two protagonists - first, within a church, where Elena's teenage stepson, Nash, refuses to support an anti-homosexual protest, and then within a funeral service for Peyton's recently deceased mother.Elena and her husband Barry (Gary Weeks) are trying to conceive but it becomes clear that their efforts have been unsucessfull when Barry rebukes Elena after her period starts. Meanwhile, Peyton starts cleaning out her mother's things from her house, having flashbacks of her emotionally troubled mother as she works. Peyton finds a tape entitled 'Women's Glory Project' with her things, and becomes obsessed with it.Elena visits her friend Tyler for advice, telling him that she and Barry are going to adopt instead of trying to have another child. He asks "what's in it for her," and insists (as he's apparently done in the past) that Barry is not her soul mate, or "twin flame." Even so, he pushes her to go to the adoption, saying that "someone is definitely coming into her life, in a big way."Peyton and Elena meet once again at the adoption agency. They briefly speak as Peyton returns Elena's lost keys to her. They exchange business cards after Peyton mentions that she might have use for a photographer (which Elena was prior to marrying Barry).Peyton's lesbian best friend, Wave (Mary Wells), drags her to a 'love guru' (who happens to be Tyler) where Peyton and Elena meet again. Elena finds out that Peyton is gay as they talk about their marriages. Peyton calls Elena the next day, inquiring if Elena would help her with continuing her mother's Women's Glory Project, and make plans for Elena to visit the next day with her portfolio.They meet once again, and it's revealed that Peyton's an agoraphobic with substantial difficulties trusting. They bond over the next few weeks - over picnics with Tyler, and late-night glasses of wine. Later, Elena takes better professional photographs of Peyton for her books, and they discuss their upbringings and how they knew they were straight and gay, respectively.One day, Peyton calls Wave asking for advice on her feelings for Elena, and her friend tells her to be honest with Elena about said feelings, unaware that Elena has some of her own. She visits Peyton later, after being avoided for some time, showing up at her door with the printed photographs. At the unexpected visit, Peyton discloses her feelings to Elena and suggests that they not spend time together. Elena violently rebukes that idea, telling Peyton that she's her absolute best friend, that they need to be in each others lives, and that Peyton can have "all of her except for that (meaning physically romantic encounters)." Subsequently, however, Elena begins to rapidly examine her own feelings. Elena calls Peyton after exploring lesbian websites, saying that she's not attracted to them and doesn't think she's a lesbian (leaving the viewer aware that she is attracted to Peyton). This is followed by an uncharacteristically (up to this point) passionate statement from Elena asking if she and Peyton could agree to call her feeling a serious "crush." Her husband walks up in the middle of the call, causing her to quickly end it, which appears even more suspicious.The following day, Elena comes over to Peyton's house and makes out with her passionately (in a long, three-minute unbroken shot) before leaving. As time passes, Elena begins wanting more from her relationship with Peyton. Another day or two later, while over at Peyton's house to look over more of the photo shots that she took, she suddenly asks Peyton to make love with her. At first Peyton refuses, saying that "once they go there, there's no going back." Elena tells her that she doesn't want to go back. As they're having sex, Peyton asks Elena to stay with her, though it's unclear whether she means physically or emotionally.The next day, both Elena and Peyton happily confide in Tyler and Wave about their newfound sexual tryst with each other. Tyler is happy and supportive to Elena, while Wave disapproves to Peyton, reminding her that Elena is married and straight. Peyton yet is happy in her new romance with Elena and doesn't want it to end.One morning after another night of lovemaking between them, Elena and Peyton get into a bit of an inquisition when Peyton asks how Barry comes on to Elena and when and how often they have sex. Elena tells her that they don't have sex anymore, and also tells her that they're going on an annual vacation to Hawaii together. Peyton writes intimate letters to Elena as she's away, and Nash is the one that finds them as he's looking for some aspirin in her suitcase.The toll of having two partners starts to eat away at Elena, and she begins to get in more fights with both Barry and Peyton. Nash starts stealing and drinking from the stress of keeping Elena's affair with Peyton secret, and ends up getting caught by the police after getting drunk and returning to the store he stole from. When Elena comes back and confronts him about it, he tells her that he knows of her affair with Peyton and she explains (briefly) that she does not intend to stop seeing her.Elena returns to Tyler out of desperation for answers as to why she's been set on this path, and meets Peyton later and kisses her in the park, oblivious to Millie seeing them together. Millie then calls Barry and tells him about Elena's affair. Peyton tells her that they should probably break up, because of all the complications arising for Elena. Elena insists that they don't, asking Peyton rhetorically if she ever saw a future of them together. They break up and Elena walks off as Millie goes to Barry and tells him about the affair to his face. Elena breaks up with Barry, telling him that Nash needs the real them, not the fighting couple that they've become.Six months later.Wave and Peyton are taking a walk in the park and run into Tori and Nash, also doing the same. Elena also comes up, walking with Tyler and his wife. She's now pregnant, and at first Peyton freaks out, thinking that Elena played her and was sleeping with Barry the entire time they were together. Elena faints, and Nash gets Peyton and Elena to talk together at Tyler's house so Elena can explain that she broke up and is getting divorced from Barry, but still wanted a child, to have some hope in her life and that she received IVF with Tyler's 'contribution,' and asks Peyton to try and understand. Peyton apologizes to Elena and they kiss.The final scene shows another of Tyler's picnics with Peyton and Elena together with their infant.
