After a prison riot, former-Captain Nascimento, now a high ranking security officer in Rio de Janeiro, is swept into a bloody political dispute that involves government officials and paramilitary groups.
After a bloody invasion of the BOPE in the High-Security Penitentiary Bangu 1 in Rio de Janeiro to control a rebellion of interns, the Lieutenant-Colonel Roberto Nascimento and the second in command Captain André Matias are accused by the Human Right Aids member Diogo Fraga of execution of prisoners. Matias is transferred to the corrupted Military Police and Nascimento is exonerated from the BOPE by the Governor. However, due to the increasing popularity of Nascimento, the Governor invites him to team-up with the intelligence area of the Secretary of Security. Along the years, Fraga, who is married with Nascimento's former wife, is elected State Representative and Nascimento's son Rafael has issues with his biological father. Meanwhile Nascimento and the BOPE expel the drug dealers from several slums but another enemy arises: the militia led by Major Rocha and supported by the Governor, the Secretary of Security and politicians interested in votes. Nascimento is manipulated to help this group, vanquishing the criminals in the slums and poor communities; then the corrupt group of police officers is free to exploit the poor population.
Robert Nascimento is back, and he has been promoted. Now a Lieutenant Colonel in the police his career is jeopardised by slanderous accusations. He is reassigned to working with state security. Now he has to deal with the worst types of criminals - politicians.
The Brazilian most popular cinema character since "Retomada" comes back to screens. Now more mature, more strategic and more solidary, Colonel Nascimento gives BOPE structure and force. Gets the traffic away from lots of favelas. Denies the corrupt politicians to earn with traffic's "truce", only to discover that in the public security of Rio de Janeiro nothing is what it looks like and that the problem to be faced is not restringed to the traffic. The "hole" is lower.The destiny of the city and of Nascimento intersect in "Elite Squad 2". Since intense researches, the director José Padilha and the writer Bráulio Mantovani constructed an actual history, based in real facts that mingle to the fake history of Nascimento, of his family and of his friends, to talk about Brazilian reality through cinema.To face the challenge and present the publics a so surrounding history as "Elite Squad", Padilha and the producer Marcos Prado counted on almost the same team and cast from the first movie. An integrated team, which resumed hard and devotely the challenge to continue the saga and a character that marked Brazillian cinema forever.In "Elite Squad 2", the system is reinvented and discovers how to gain money without the traffic intermediate. Following the way trodden by the system, the public accompanies Nascimento going out of the barrack's limits, revealing the connections between militia and Estate. And the discover's price is high. You don't know where the bullet is from.
