JANA is a fading B-movie actress who was famous for her roles in Amazon movies playing a variety of pre-Xena warrior-princesses. Nearing 40, she is desperately trying to keep her leg in the B-movie game and decides to pursue her fading career with a zealous fervor.But new roles are elusive and the clock is ticking. Will she admit defeat or finally get her break?
Jana, a fading B-movie actress, has refused to give up her dream of being a star. The clock is ticking; she is on the cusp of forty! Despite her best efforts to live clean and expand her skills, Jana is ultimately overcome by the burden of a dream.
Amazon Falls tells the story of a faded B-movie actress JANA who refuses to let go of her dream of being a star. Famous for her roles in Amazon movies where she portrayed a variety of pre-Xena warrior-princesses, she desperately tries to keep her leg in the B-movie game, and pursues her career with a zealous fervor. She is on the cusp of forty and its now or never. She will not be dispirited by her job at a sleazy nightclub nor the ceaseless grind of waiting for the big break. She creates the illusion that her big break is just around the corner and her friends and co-workers are supporting her in her dreams: ARON, her much younger 25-year old boy toy is in love with her LI-LI, an achingly beautiful 22-year-old actress her best friend and protégé will follow in her glamorous footsteps DEREK, a film producer will be the one to give Jana the big break she yearns for. But the reality is she works in a nightclub run by TOMMY, her sleazy boss who encourages flirtation with an array of oily characters including CALVIN, a particularly shady character from Janas distant past who has resurfaced to tempt her down a dark path. Jana avoids facing the truth at all costs. Despite her best efforts to live clean and expand her skills, Jana is ultimately overcome by the burden of a dream in a business that would seem to punish more for virtue than for vice. Faced with perpetual futility and diminishing returns, when is it time to finally let the dream go? Amazon Falls is the first feature by award winning director Katrin Bowen With the energy and mood of a B-movie, the film seduces you. With the feel of The Wrestler and Boogie Nights, this unapologetic film will expose you to the grit behind the glitz in a world you never expected.
