A teenage outcast discovers he is a werewolf, and must battle a pack of the brutal creatures when they threaten him and his new girlfriend.
On the eve of his high school graduation, unremarkable Will Kidman finally bonds with the girl he has long yearned for, reclusive Eliana Wynter. But he also discovers a dark secret from his past... that he is about to become a werewolf. Now, in an effort to fight destiny and save their love as well as their lives, they must battle not only Will's growing blood lust but an army of fearsome beasts bent on killing them... and then, us all.
High-school loner Will Kidman finally asks out the girl of his dreams, the reclusive Eliana Wynter. But Will also discovers a dark secret from his past - that he is a member of a werewolf clan. Even worse, he must also fight a pack of werewolves who are hellbent on killing both him and his new girlfriend.
On the eve of his high school graduation, Will Kidman finally looks up from his books to catch the eye of the girl he's longed for the last four years - the mysterious Eliana Wynter. He's always been the shy kid, flying under the radar, but when he discovers a dark secret from his past - that he is heir to a powerful line of werewolves - he finds he has a choice to make between succumbing to his primal nature, or turning against his own, and maintaining his humanity. In order to fight the destiny of his legacy, and save Eliana - as well as himself - he must battle not only his growing blood lust but an army of fearsome beasts bent on killing him, Eliana...and then, us all.
In the Shermer High School, the teenager Will Kidman is bullied by his school mate Roland. Will lost his mother when he was born and he lives alone with his father Jack Kidman. Will's best friend is the aspirant horror film director Sachin and he dreams on his mysterious school mate Eliana Wynter, for whom he has yearned for a long time. On his eighteenth birthday and eve of his graduation day, Will is invited to go to an underground party and he stays with Eliana. Will is drugged by a colleague and he has the sensation that a werewolf attacked people in the party. Out of the blue, Will gets stronger and stronger and he suspects that he might be a werewolf. When the evil Kay meets Will at school, he learns dark secrets about his past and finds that Eliana might be in danger.

