Three childhood friends from Belgrade, Serbia, whose destinies change as they become adults during the wartime 1990s.
As former Yugoslavia was falling apart, so did the financial and social stability of Serbia. Social extremes were visible everywhere, especially among the youths. War, inflation, physical isolation and sanctions all contributed to Serbia becoming a type of ghetto. This was most visible in Serbia's capital Belgrade, which had a steep downfall in all aspects of life. In this isolation, the young were creating their own worlds. The film is set in the second half of the 1990s in Belgrade, seen from the perspectives of young adults, and about their efforts to find themselves while circumstances were pulling them to the bottom of a chaotic whirlpool. The film follows the three main characters: Bogdan, Kale and Count, in three separate stories, but all of them are intertwined. It follows their lives for 48 hours which is enough to change them completely.
This is a film about the second half of the 1990s in Belgrade, Serbia seen through the eyes of the young who were then becoming adults, and about their efforts to find themselves while the circumstances were pulling them to the bottom. The film has three stories: The Roots of Hatred, The Twilight of Idols and The Whirlpool. Every story follows a different character for a period of 48 hours during which their lives change completely. The stories are successive, but the characters intertwine in every story.
A film about human self-destruction. Three fierce stories about the time when both money and life in Serbia were completely devalued. Due to the economic and social problems, the young people from Belgrade are like fish out of the water, struggling for air in the contaminated environment, manifesting violence, aggression and recklessness. The Whirlpool consists of three stories that intertwine characters and situations with plenty of action, brutality, human corpses and madness, and all that as a consequence of the moral and the social crisis in Serbia in the 90s. Whirlpool is an urban metaphor which from aesthetical point of view can be seen as a perfect balance between fact and fantasy, reality and hallucination.

