Two decades after the first Independence Day invasion, Earth is faced with a new extra-Solar threat. But will mankind's new space defenses be enough?
Two decades after the freak alien invasion that nearly destroyed mankind a new threat emerges. This Alien mothership is more than twice the size as the last one and once again, the world's armies must band together to save the world. Do they have enough firepower or will this battle change and will aliens take over?
20 years after defeating the aliens who invaded the Earth, the world is almost a Utopia wherein technology taken from the aliens have made the planet a paradise. They built a base on the moon. And just as the anniversary is approaching, strange things are happening. President Whitmore who led the attack on the aliens 20 years ago is acting strangely and is drawing some strange symbols. David Levinson the man who figured out how to defeat the aliens travels to Africa to inspect one of the alien ships that crashed. The leader who is on possession of the craft, takes Levinson and they discover they sent a distress signal before it went down and apparently it was drilling through the Earth's core. The leader is also drawing the same things that Whitmore is. At Area 51, Dr. Okun who fell into a coma 20 years after being attacked telepathically by an alien wakes up and starts drawing the same thing Whitmore is. Whitmore tries to warn everyone that the aliens are returning. And sure enough a space craft appears just near the moon. The ship is different from the aliens'. The President is being advised to shoot it down but Levinson doesn't think they should. The President gives the order and shoots it down. Levinson wants to go to the moon but the President wants him to attend the anniversary celebration. Levinson asks Whitmore's daughter to ask her boyfriend who is among the ones at the moon base to pick him up. They go to the moon and he inspects the craft and finds something. He takes it and brings it to Area 51. At the same time an alien ship like the one who attacked the planet 20 years ago shows up and attacks the planet. Levinson arrives at Area 51 and gives the thing to Okun. Whitmore arrives and along with Okun and the African, they compare notes and they deduce why the aliens came to Earth 20 years ago. And now they are back to finish the job.
For two long decades of peace--after the devastating alien invasion that threatened to obliterate the Earth and all life forms in Independence Day (1996)--the world has been steeling itself against an inevitable second wave of extraterrestrial attacks. As the nations' experts and the director of the Earth Space Defence program, David Levinson, work in unison, combing the skies for signs of hostile activity, in the meantime, an invisible and even greater spaceship flotilla enters our solar system, bent on harvesting our planet's resources. This time, it's up to the old heroes--including the former President of the United States, Thomas Whitmore--and the next generation of the Earth's guardians to defend humanity, when all hope seems lost. Can the earthlings emerge victorious in the ultimate showdown?
The story opens in outer space on the alien mothership. A creature is observing Thomas Whitmore's (Bill Pullman) rousing speech during the battle that took place 20 years earlier (from the first Independence Day film). The creature growls, but it's just a nightmare that Whitmore wakes up from in a jolt.Whitmore's daughter, Patricia (Maika Monroe), works for current president Elizabeth Lanford (Sela Ward). Patty was a pilot for the military, but she resigned to take care of her father, as he is more frail and disturbed after the invasion. She's friends with Dylan Dubrow-Hiller (Jessie T. Usher), son of Steven Hiller, who died in the years since the battle. Dylan is captain of the military pilots. After the battle, the so-called Earth Space Defense was established, with Area 51 becoming its headquarters.Patty's fiance, Jake Morrison (Liam Hemsworth), is on a base on the moon working on a machine with his best friend Charlie (Travis Toth). The machine loosens and nearly collapses onto the base, but Jake uses his pod to lift it and secure it in place. He later gets chewed out by his superior General Jiang Lao (Chin Han).General Joshua Adams (William Fichtner) is brought to the prison of some captive aliens that were kept alive since the first battle. It's mentioned that for the past 20 years they have been catatonic, but suddenly, a couple of hours ago, they all became animated and agitated.In Africa, David Levinson (Jeff Goldblum) arrives with Floyd Rosenberg (Nicolas Wright) at a base to meet warlord Dikimbe Umbutu (Deobia Oparei). David runs into an old flame, Dr. Catherine Marceaux (Charlotte Gainsbourg). They are at the site of a crashed alien ship, one that has a new shape and configuration they've never seen. Levinson and Marceaux determine that the ship was drilling into the Earth at that point, however they're unable to determine exactly why. Umbutu tells them how he and his men fought the aliens and seized their weapons. Umbutu claims to have seen visions involving the aliens. The ship they've found has also sent a distress call to its home planet.The pilots on the moon get a visit from Jiang's niece Rain (Angelababy), whom Charlie becomes smitten with. Dylan also shows up, causing friction since Jake almost accidentally killed him during training. Dylan returns the favor by punching Jake in the face. They are both harshly admonished by Jiang.The moon base notices a spherical craft approaching them. It is also seen on Earth by those in Africa and those on Lanford's staff. Considering it a threat, Lanford orders the craft to be shot down. The moon team fires its laser cannon at it, sending it hurtling backwards. All teams celebrate, thinking they have scored another victory against aliens.In Africa, Jake arrives in his shuttle to pick up David, Catherine, Umbutu, and Floyd to the crash site of the craft on the moon, where they find a large container and recover it.We cut to David's elderly father Julius (Judd Hirsch) at a retirement home where he advertises a book in which he claims he was responsible for saving the planet.In a hospital, Dr. Brakish Okun (Brent Spiner) has finally awoken from his coma after 20 years. He immediately gets out of bed and scribbles alien symbols on the walls of his room.On Earth in Washington DC, a celebration is held for shooting down the craft and for the 20th anniversary of the victory over the invaders. Several veterans from the first alien invasion attend, including an elderly and frail General Gray (Robert Loggia). Lanford credits the moon team for their effort. Thomas walks up to speak unexpectedly, but as he is introduced, he tries to warn everyone that "they're coming back". At the same time, he, Umbutu, and Brakish all experience the same sensation, just as high above Earth, an enormous ship, many times larger than the first mothership, approaches Earth. It first strikes the moon base, killing Jiang and several others, which Rain witnesses. The ship moves over the North Atlantic Ocean and levitates part of China and Dubai, causing destruction wherever it hovers. London, Shanghai and Dubai are all destroyed when skyscrapers, cars and people are levitated in the air and crash back to the ground. In the chaos, Dylan sees his mother Jasmine (Vivica A. Fox) working in a hospital as she leads a woman and her newborn baby to the roof of the hospital. The woman and her baby are rescued, but Jasmine perishes when the building collapses under her, which Dylan sadly watches. Meanwhile, Julius is riding his boat as the attack hits and a large wave strikes his boat, but he survives.Jake later finds Dylan and offers his condolences. He says he knows his pain since his parents were killed in the first alien attack when he was a child, deeply regretting the last thing he told them was that he hated them.Thomas goes to the holding cell of a captive alien. He enters to communicate with it, but it grabs him with its tentacle in front of Patty and other soldiers. The alien uses Thomas to say "she" is coming. Patty shows a picture of a sphere, which the alien reacts to with anger. The soldiers shoot at the alien, breaking its cell open in the process. Umbutu kills the alien as it crawls out of its exoskeleton bio-mechanical suit.The military picks up an infrared reading from the new mothership, where they spot the Alien Queen in a chamber at the top of the craft. They figure if they can kill the Queen, they can stop her fleet. Lanford authorizes the retaliatory strike. The newly refitted Earth air force attacks and are met with heavy resistance, both from the mothership and from a new design of alien attacker ships. The pilots fly into the ship and begin unloading on any alien that crosses their path.The new mothership uses a large beam to bore into the planet's core in the Northern Atlantic. A boat full of men searching for gold near the site are contacted and they are offered money to send back information and to help in stopping the drilling. They jokingly tell the government that they want $100 million and are given the amount without hesitation. They immediately start their monitoring.The alien warriors also attack Lanford's command bunker in the mountains of Colorado, killing her and most of her Cabinet. At Area 51, Adams is quickly sworn in as her successor.On Earth, Julius is found by four kids driving away from Florida after being separated from their parents. Julius comforts the oldest girl Sam (Joey King), as she has to take care of her siblings and she has no idea what happened to their parents. Julius takes over the car until they come across a school bus full of kids whose driver abandoned them. Julius brings the four kids onto the bus and drives with all the other kids.Meanwhile, Brakish breaks the container open and uncovers a large white sphere not unlike the one that was shot down. Unsure of how to open it, Floyd activates it by touching it, and the sphere comes to life. It speaks English and explains how the race that it belongs to was extinguished by the alien harvesters. Their planet's core was absorbed by the aliens to refuel their ships, something they have done to countless other planets. The sphere also states how it attempted to evacuate Earth, but it couldn't since the moon team shot down the ship needed for the evacuation.As the pilots head toward the Queen, they start to realize it's a trap, and that she knows they're coming. The aliens disable the pilots' jets and weapons systems with an EMP (electro-magnetic pulse)-like blast. Jake, Dylan, Charlie, and Rain all manage to escape before they are killed. The queen's chamber aboard the large ship separates and flies off, looking for the alien sphere.A plan is formed to lure the Queen out to an isolated area where they can kill it with a nuclear weapon. Patty volunteers to head the attack, but Thomas makes it out before she can, knowing it's going to kill him. The pilots all get ready to fight as David prepares himself at the site of the attack. Thomas flies into the ship as the Queen's shields go down. Once she is in the trap, Thomas detonates the bombs, destroying the ship at the cost of his life.Everyone celebrates prematurely as they think the Queen is dead. She's actually very much alive. The enraged Queen (which stands around 100 ft. high) rampages through the deserted area, attacking the pilots trying to strike her down. The drill is also closer to the core by the minute. As this happens, Julius drives the bus toward David's location. The Queen moves to attack the bus. Patty flies her jet above the Queen and fires at her shields. She manages to bring them down as the Queen's fleet starts swarming around her for protection. Jake, Dylan, Charlie, and Rain fly around in the swarm, trying to gain enough speed to break away for a new assault. They break free and shoot at the Queen from behind. She is mortally wounded and bursts out of her exoskeleton and flails around until she collapses and finally dies. The other aliens are brought down, and the drilling ceases. Earth is saved once again.The mothership ascends and leaves Earth. Jake and Patty are reunited, and they kiss. Charlie tries to get that going on with Rain, but she says "Dinner first", to his delight. Brakish then approaches the pilots and his son with the sphere, stating that it can offer them new technology and weapons should they take the fight against the aliens into space before they come back. Everyone agrees, and Brakish closes the film by saying that it's time to "kick alien ass".
