A weekend at a lake house in the Louisiana Gulf turns into a nightmare for seven vacationers as they are subjected to shark attacks.
When 7 college friends pack their swim suits for a weekend of fun-in-the-sun activities at their friend Sara's lake house, they think it will be the perfect vacation. But the tables immediately turn when the lead football star, Malik, gets his arm ripped off during a water skiing accident. While the friends are to believe his wound was a freak accident, they soon come to discover that there was a primal attack involving a shark. Now while they think that one shark is no problem, they soon come to the realization that 15 species of sharks are lurking in the water, and with no form of boat or transportation, and no signals for phone's, the group of seven now face a fate they would never imagine. They soon learn that they don't know who to trust or who to turn to for help!
College friends Nick, Beth, Malik, Maya, Blake and Gordon are invited by their friend Sara Palski to spend the weekend at her saltwater lake house in Louisiana. They stop at a bar to buy supplies and Malik has some friction with the rednecks, Red and Dennis Crim, but Sara resolves the situation since Dennis is her ex-boyfriend. Then the group meets another friend of Sara, Sheriff Greg Sabin. When Malik is skiing in the lake, he has an accident resulting in having his arm severed by a shark and his friends trying to seek help. Instead, they learn that the lake is infested with several different species of sharks, and they have more dangerous problems threatening them.
The film opens with a young blond woman named Jess walking into focus. As she walks around in the water. She suddenly feels like she is not alone. She is not as her boyfriend Keith had been swimming beneath her and grabs her up onto his shoulders. They proceed to make out and despite her protests, he takes her top off and throws it away. She tells him to get it, but he refuses, saying he is getting some food. He leaves to go back to their Trailer, and Jess grabs her top and puts it back on. Suddenly, she is jerked around in the water. A shark is attacking her. She screams for help from anyone, but no one can hear her and she is dragged underwater, and the water goes red. Keith was unaware that his girlfriend was eaten and didn't hear a thing.Meanwhile seven Tulane University undergraduates, Sara, Nick, Beth, Malik, Maya, Blake and Gordon drive to Sara's family vacation home on a secluded private lake near Lake Pontchartrain). At a local bait shop, Sara encounters her old boyfriend, Dennis and his friend, Red. Dennis and Red make racial taunts to Malik and Maya, his Latina fiancee, but Sara diffuses the situation. Sara drives a speedboat recklessly to the vacation home, attracting the attention of Sheriff Sabin. He chases her, frightening her friends, but then happily shares a beer with them. He tells Sara he is happy to see her back after a three-year-long absence.While Gordon tries to seduce Beth and Sara sunbathes, Nick, Blake, Malik and Maya go water-skiing. A shark pursues Malik and attacks him. Nick, Blake and Maya try to rescue him, but he swims back to shore -- missing his right arm. When Nick swims out into the lake to retrieve his arm, he is stalked and pursued by the shark. Nick barely makes it back to shore. A medical student, he stabilizes Malik, then goes with Sara and Maya to take him to a hospital. However, blood dripping from Malik's wound attracts a shark that attacks the boat. Maya is knocked into the water and eaten. The shark then damages the steering column of the boat. It crashes into the gas pump in front of the boathouse, exploding and stranding everyone. Sara, Nick and Malik barely make it to shore. Because their cell phones have no reception and the house has no landlines, they cannot call for help.Dennis and Red arrive and agree to take Beth and Gordon to the mainland. Nick refuses to allow Malik to be moved. On the boat trip, Red suggests the sharks have entered the lake due to a storm surge from a hurricane -- then offers a more ominous, vague theory that someone put them there. Dennis reveals that he and Red have put the sharks there and feed uppity college students to them. Dennis forces Gordon into the water; he manages to swim to and climb a nearby mangrove tree but is devoured by a bull shark when it leaps from the water and picks him off the trunk. Red and Dennis then feed Beth to cookie cutter sharks while forcing her to save herself and watch out, but she's the only friend of Sara's not to be swallowed whole.When Blake tells Malik that Maya was killed by a shark, Malik arms himself with a harpoon and ventures into the water to kill it. His bloody wound attracts a hammerhead shark; he kills it but is further wounded in the process. Nick and Blake pull the shark to shore, and Nick realizes that it wasn't the shark that took Malik's arm. He also finds a camera attached to its belly. Blake decides to take Malik to the mainland on a jet ski. Malik sees sharks pursuing them and, realizing that Blake can travel faster alone, sacrifices himself. But Blake is killed when an enormous great white shark breaches from the lake and plucks him off the jet ski.Sheriff Sabin visits Sara and Nick. He gives them soup to calm them, and appears to use his police radio to call for help. Nick passes out. When Sara goes to the kitchen to get a towel, she finds her dog has also passed out after eating the soup Sabin brought. Sara takes a knife and is about to attack Sabin when Dennis disarms her. Dennis and Red take Sara out on their boat, while Sabin takes Nick to the boathouse and prepares to dunk him into the lake where sand tiger sharks await. Sabin reveals that he, Dennis and Red have been inspired by the Discovery Channel's Shark Week and Faces of Death videos to film and make available to thrill seekers on the Internet live footage of people being eaten by sharks. When Sabin is distracted by the CD player, Nick frees himself then ignites an overturned can of gas. Badly burned, Sabin plunges into the lake and is eaten by the sand tiger sharks.Dennis reveals he is still bitter at Sara for leaving him after their last diving date three years earlier. Sara was unnerved by two accidents that occurred that day: her sudden loss of air (and Dennis's apparent lack of concern), and her slashing his face open with the boat propeller when she tried to escape him. After throwing her dog into the lake, Dennis and Red lower her, in a shark cage, into the lake. A ravenous great white shark appears, but so does Nick, who tries to hold Red hostage and force Dennis to free Sara. Instead, Dennis shoots Red. Nick and Dennis struggle in the water. The great white eats Dennis and then attacks the cage. Sara's dog gives Nick a powerhead, and he uses it to kill the shark and free Sara. Nick, Sara and the dog swim to the boat. Nick realizes that Sara is not breathing and performs CPR. After a few moments she finally regains consciousness and thanks him for saving her. As they kiss the camera pulls back a distance away from the boat and a great white shark breaches towards the surface and jumps towards the camera signifying that they are still sharks in the lake.
