Julian, a drug-smuggler thriving in Bangkok's criminal underworld, sees his life get even more complicated when his mother compels him to find and kill whoever is responsible for his brother's recent death.
Bangkok. Ten years ago Julian killed a man and went on the run. Now he manages a Thai boxing club as a front for a drugs operation. Respected in the criminal underworld, deep inside, he feels empty. When Julian's brother murders an underage prostitute, the police call on retired cop Chang - the Angel of Vengeance. Chang allows the father to kill his daughter's murderer, then 'restores order' by chopping off the man's right hand. Julian's mother Crystal - the head of a powerful criminal organization - arrives in Bangkok to collect her son's body. She dispatches Julian to find his killers and 'raise hell'.
After the gruesome murder of a 16-year-old Thai prostitute in the ghastly Thailand underworld and the death of her murderer, Billy, the deceased's brother and owner of a corrupt Bangkok Muay Thai club, Julius, must deal with his icy mother, Crystal, who commands retribution. But the man behind Billy's killing is the invincible Angel of Vengeance, the katana-wielding Lieutenant Chang, who is playing on his own turf, enforcing payback and his own kind of speedy justice. Crystal wants the killer's head on a platter; however, who can stand in the way of Chang's irreversible course of revenge?
Ten years ago in Bangkok Julian killed a cop and went on the run. Now he manages a Thai boxing club as a front for a drugs operation. Respected in the criminal underworld, deep inside, he feels empty.When Julian's brother kills a prostitute, the police reaches out to retired cop Chang, known as the Angel of Vengeance. Chang allows the father to kill his daughters murderer, then restores order by chopping off the man's right hand.Julian's mother, Crystal, the head of a powerful criminal organization, arrives in Bangkok to collect her son's body. She orders Julian to find his killers and raise hell.Increasingly obsessed with the Angel of Vengeance, Julian challenges him to a boxing match, hoping that by defeating him he might find spiritual release but Chang triumphs. A furious Crystal plots revenge and the stage is set for a bloody journey through betrayal and vengeance towards a final confrontation and the possibility of redemption.Based on wildbunch.biz
