Engulfed by anguish, trapped inside an allegory of torment and carnage, Jennifer's soul seeks the path of awareness and enlightenment.
Suddenly Jennifer is torn from her comfortable and non-assuming (inconspicuous) life. While planning to move, the young mother and her husband will experience anything but an ordinary day! It all begins with a strange visit from her soon to be ex neighbor, the postman who mentions an urgent need. Later, when coming home from grocery shopping, Jennifer discovers an elderly neighbor, who is her son Niko s babysitter has disappeared. She also receives a terrifying and disturbing letter. The fateful delivery contains a macabre death poem by yet another occupant of her building, plus some compromising sex photos of her husband and the missing babysitter! To get over the initial shock of this disturbing news, she decides to take a bath, and promptly falls asleep in the bathtub. When she awakes, she finds herself on the floor of her apartment covered in blood and body parts! Centre to this surreal and horrific scene is a mysterious masked man who promises to lead Jennifer on the right path toward the sacred white light . The story continues as a tale of physical and mental torture!
As Jennifer's soul slowly detaches from her body, flashing visions of her unfulfilled life bombard her mind while she lies stark-naked on the floor, drenched in her blood. During her futile final attempt to cling to life, an unworldly transcendental figure guides her awed soul to its realm--and just like a twisted mockery of a guardian angel--it offers Jennifer unconditional awareness. Little by little, through the powerful experience of her brutal death, the weary soul will mature, carrying away the accumulated guilt of the past, allowing Jennifer to embrace her suffering as the sole solution. Otherwise, oblivion and the never-ending ordeal of a perpetual repetition awaits her. Now, in the centre of this dark limbo of consciousness, a tentacled executor uses colour symbolism and diverse teachings in blood, to gradually unlock the narrow pathways of enlightenment, until the ultimate catharsis. How many do they have to suffer, before Jennifer's soul bathes in the light?

