A girl becomes trapped inside a house and becomes unable to contact the outside world as supernatural forces haunt it.
The plot is based on a true story that happened in the late '40s in a small village in Uruguay. The film focuses on Laura, who, second by second, intends to leave a house, which hides an obscure secret, unharmed. Laura and her father Wilson settle down in a cottage they have to renew since its owner will soon put the house up for sale. They will spend the night there and repair the following morning. Everything seems to go smoothly until Laura hears a sound that comes from outside and gets louder and louder on the upper floor of the house. Wilson goes up to see what is going on while she remains downstairs on her own, waiting for her father to come down.
Laura ( Florencia Colucci) and her father ( Gustavo Alonso) settle down in a cottage which seems to be off the beaten track in order to update it since its owner ( Abel Tripaldi) will soon put the house on sale. They will spend the night there in order to start the repairs the following morning. Everything seems to go on smoothly until Laura hears a sound that comes from outside and gets louder and louder in the upper floor of the house. Wilson goes up to see what is going on while she remains downstairs on her own waiting for her father to come down. The plot is based on a true story that happened some time ago in a small village in Uruguay. "La Casa Muda" focuses on the last seventy eight minutes, second by second, when Laura intends to leave the house which hides an obscure secret and she hopes to leave unharmed. REAL FEAR IN REAL TIME, this is the most remarkable underlying feature of the film which will not go unnoticed by all those who may be willing to experience this different and disturbing filming experience.
Nestor, the owner of a house who is selling the property, tells Laura and her father, who are there to do yard work and minor repairs on the house, that tiles are loose in places and it is dangerous to go upstairs. He tells them explicitly not to go upstairs. Laura and her father settle down to sleep so they can awaken early and start work on the grounds, then the house. Laura starts hearing noises, first outside, then upstairs. However the house is almost entirely dark and although some light is seen through the boarded up windows, it is not enough to illuminate anything within. Fluorescent lanterns, candles and a Polaroid-type camera provide the lighting for Laura. Laura has to try twice to fully awaken her sleeping father, who hasn't heard any noise. When her father finally awakens, he tells her to stay put, that he will go upstairs and investigate the noise. Suspense steadily builds.

