A profile of the noted and extraordinarily cheerful veteran New York City fashion photographer.
Chronicles a man who is obsessively interested in only one thing,the pictures he takes that document the way people dress. The 80-year-old New York Times photographer has two columns in the paper's Style section, yet nobody knows who he is.
Eighty year old photojournalist Bill Cunningham, who does not consider himself a photographer, has been a columnist for the New York Times for over thirty years, his photographic columns covering the social scene and fashion on the streets of New York, the latter for which he is perhaps more renowned. He himself comes from a fashion background, having started his professional life as a milliner. His greatest interests in fashion are spotting fashion trends before they are officially categorized as such, and documenting the interesting and unconventional especially as worn in everyday situations in movement. He will do whatever it takes to get the shot he wants. Those that know of him generally more than welcome his candid photographing of them as his photographs almost without exception are fond documents of the subjects. He also has little interest in the celebrity of his subjects (if they are indeed celebrities), as he wants to see the creative side of people and what they can do regardless of money or access to wardrobe consultants. He also has little interest in what what most would consider a conventional personal life, as he cycles everywhere, and lives in a small cramped apartment with his plethora of filing cabinets full of negatives in the Carnegie Hall Studio, from where he and his fellow few longtime and equally infamous residential tenants will soon be evicted.
An intimate portrait of Bill Cunningham, the 80 year old New York Times photographer who for forty years has been riding around New York City on his bicycle, documenting fashion trends on the street by day and New York's social scene at night for his two weekly columns in the Sunday Times. Known and beloved by most New Yorkers, and with an international following in the paper and on-line. Bill has been likened to Garbo in that, until now, no one has known a thing about him. Intensely private, and with an aversion to any kind of recognition.

