Doug (Rhys Darby) thinks he has the perfect life and is stunned when long term girlfriend Susan (Faye Smythe) dumps him. He finds an injured duck and reluctantly decides to nurse it better until such time as a new home can be found for it. The task gives him new found motivation and propels Doug into a journey of self discovery, where he meets zoologist Holly (Sally Hawkins). Will the duck ever fly again? and will Doug find his perfect life?
Doug's (Rhys Darby) life falls apart after long-term girlfriend Susan (Faye Smythe) leaves him. An injured Shelduck (native to New Zealand) - literally crash lands into Doug's life, igniting a much-needed spark and adventure, as he is compelled to nurse it back to health. Doug is lead to animal specialist and busy single mother Holly (Sally Hawkins) and realizes that true love might be within reach. Doug's work-mates Kanga (Dave Fane), Brent (Wesley Dowdell), and Gurneesh (Alvin Maharaj) tease him mercilessly about his new life 'bonding' with a duck.Doug and Holly's relationship soon develops, but her son Taylor (Beck Taylor) doesn't like Doug potentially replacing his lost father. Nonetheless Doug discovers that he can be romantic and takes Holly and Taylor on excursions to win Taylor over.As the story progresses, Doug finds his life has become richer and more rewarding, yet more complicated at the same time. He has to take the duck with him everywhere, his good mate Craig (Craig Hall) is going broke, and he befriends an eccentric vet, Dr. Buster (Bryan Brown), who opens his eyes to new ideas. Holly's best friend Brenda (Emily Barclay) is on his side, and just as things warm up with Holly, Susan wants him back and asks him out on a fateful dinner date.While Doug doesn't want to go back to Susan, Holly gets wind of this evening tryst and dumps Doug, believing him to be a two-timer. Through Pierre, the name he has given the duck, Doug discovers his own true place in the world and the belief in himself that will allow true love to blossom with Holly -- as she shows him how to care for Pierre -- and sees the errors of his own approach to life.
