A skilled warrior and the protector of Badrinath temple finds his loyalties divided while trying to revive an agnostic's faith in God.
Bheeshma Narayan (Prakash Raj) is a religious guru who prepares an army for the protection of all the ancient Hindu temples from terrorists. Of all the valiant and talented warriors in this elite army, Badrinath (Allu Arjun) is one who is groomed by Bheeshma Narayan and wishes to make Badri his successor. Once, a group of terrorists attacked Amarnath Temple and killed some devotees, Badri fought and killed those criminals, saving both the temple and the devotees. Meanwhile Alakananda (Tamanna), who is a staunch agnostic due to certain circumstances, along with her family is visiting Badrinath Temple, to which Badri is appointed as the protector. Her grandfather explains to Badri that she is in danger as Sarkar (Kelly Dorjee), a dreaded don, is trying to force her marriage with his son. On the request of her grandfather, Badri helps Alaknanda to gradually believe in God's existence. Eventually Alakananda falls deeply in love with Badri, unbeknownst to him, and is not willing to lose him at any cost. Sarkar and his men follow Alaknanda to Badrinath, and try to kidnap her. Although Badri manages to save her, he is heavily injured and goes under medication. Meanwhile Bheeshma Narayan is shocked upon seeing Alakananda's affectionate behaviour towards Badri when he lay injured. As it is a strict rule that only an unmarried man must be the next guru who would lead the elite warriors, Bheeshma Narayan becomes highly suspicious that Badri is in love with Alakananda, which is not the real situation. Badri promises Alakananda that he would bring her back to Badrinath Temple for success in her love, unaware that he is the object of her love in the first place. As per the promise, Badri goes to Bellary to free Alakananda from the clutches of Sarkar, who is planning to fix the marriage, and escort Alaknanda back to the holy shrine. He fights with all the goons and escorts her to Badrinath. Sarkar vows revenge on Badri as Sarkar's son is severely hurt in the process by Badri. Subsequently Sarkar leads his goons to Badrinath and destroys Bheeshma Narayan's ashram. Feeling that Badri is the real traitor and loves Alakananda, Bheeshma Narayan orders Badri to vacate Badrinath Temple. Meanwhile Alakananda is being taken away by Sarkar's men, and Alakananda proposes to Badri to which he rejects as he has dedicated his life to his guru. After seeing Alakananda's pure love for Badri, Bheeshma Narayan is moved and orders Badri to bring her back and marry her. Following his guru's orders, Badri saves Alakananda and finally marries her. In the end, Bheeshma Narayan asks them to hand over one of their children so that he can make him his successor to which they agree happily.
Badri, a warrior and the protector of Badrinath temple, tries to revive Alakananda's faith in God, thus leading to battles between him and her cruel uncle, Sarkaar. In this entire process, Badri's Guru begins to doubt that he is in love with Alakananda, who loves Badri. Meanwhile, Sarkaar's wife wants Alakananda's marriage to get fixed with her son Munna, who would torture her, since Alakananda had insulted Sarkaar's wife in public. Strange situations arrive, and thus leading everyone to think: Can Badri protect Alakananda's life? Will Alakananda be married to the evil Sarkaar 's son, and whether Badri's Guru will accept Badri or not? A few more questions like this for the rest of the story, as well as the action packed climax of the film as well.
In the modern time, when the temples have become unsafe for people, Guru Bhishma Narayan prepares an army of warriors to safeguard various temples of India. Among them all, Badri, the most talented and skilled warrior, takes up the responsibility of the protection of Badrinath temple. However, one day, there arrives Alakananda, who doesn't believe in God due to a dark past. Badri, on her grandfather's insistence, takes on to revive Alakananda's faith in God. Meanwhile, her cruel uncle Sarkaar's wife wants Alakananda's marriage to get fixed with her son, who would then torture her, since she had publicly insulted her. Unaware of all the dangers, Badri continues to help Alakananda, thus leading his Guru to doubt him. What happens further is quite important to form the crux of the film's plot.
Badri, a warrior and the protector of Badrinath temple, tries to revive Alakananda's faith in God, thus leading to battles between him and her cruel uncle, Sarkaar. In this entire process, Badri's Guru begins to doubt that he is in love with Alakananda, who loves Badri. Meanwhile, Sarkaar's wife wants Alakananda's marriage to get fixed with her son Munna, who would torture her, since Alakananda had insulted Sarkaar's wife in public. Strange situations arrive, and thus leading everyone to think: Can Badri protect Alakananda's life? Will Alakananda be married to the evil Sarkaar 's son, and whether Badri's Guru will accept Badri or not? A few more questions like this for the rest of the story, as well as the action packed climax of the film as well.
