Two women plot revenge against the woman marrying their friend's ex-boyfriend.
When Abigail and Parker return from New York City to visit their home town, they discover that their best friend Rachel is a bridesmaid in the wedding of their childhood friend, Caitlyn, and Tony, who was Rachel's boyfriend until Caitlyn interfered. Abigail and Parker decide to run some interference of their own. They manipulate Caitlyn and become bridesmaids as well so that they and Rachel can sabotage the wedding from the inside. With help from a police detective who happens to be a groomsman, the girls strive to ruin Caitlyn's wedding while dodging her controlling mother and hopefully reuniting Tony and Rachel.
In New York City, published novelist Abigail Scanlon, who believes a second success isn't going to happen in having a case of writer's block, and actress Parker Wald, who goes on more auditions than gets parts due in large part to self sabotage in having self doubt, have been friends since the second grade in Lambert, Louisiana, that Louisiana life which they try to have solely as part of their past. In heading home for Parker's parents' thirtieth wedding anniversary, they run into the third and fourth in their group of four closest childhood friends. From what they have learned through keeping in touch, Rachel Phipps, the shy, quiet one who has never left Lambert, has found the man of her dreams in Tony Penning. The fourth, Caitlyn McNabb, they had not kept in touch with in discovering that she is a narcissistic b****, Abigail and Parker, as children, who were blinded by Caitlyn's family's wealth and being able to play at the family estate, Bellefontaine. Caitlyn became what she is by her controlling mother, Olivia McNabb, to who money and prestige is everything. Three times married Olivia taught Caitlyn to believe that it isn't who one marries that matters, but what he is is in providing for that life of wealth and comfort. It is at one of Caitlyn's pre-wedding gatherings that they run into both Caitlyn and Rachel, who along with three of Caitlyn's sorority sisters are the bridesmaids. The groom?: Tony. When they learn directly that Rachel is heartbroken in still loving Tony and learn through the grapevine that Caitlyn is probably marrying Tony for his money so that now broke Olivia can keep Bellefontaine while Caitlyn herself can have her dream wedding, Abigail and Parker take it upon themselves to break up the wedding from the inside in maneuvering themselves into the roles of two replacement bridesmaids so that Rachel and Tony can have their meant-to-be happily ever after. In moving from plan to plan with further information coming to light such as why Rachel did not put up more of a fight for Tony who still loves her as well, Abigail and Parker have to decide how far they will go to achieve their mission, especially as Parker starts to fall for Lambert Police Lieutenant Henry Kent, who may not be able to overlook anything of a criminal nature. They may find that overcoming Olivia's maneuverings may be the most difficult hurdles.

