A video camcorder, a store security camera, and concealed cameras candidly expose lives in three loosely-linked tales.
LSD explores the human emotions of love, sex &amp; betrayal through very candid points of view. Told through the chaos of the camera that has invaded all our lives - through handy cams filming home movies, security cameras shooting every inch of existence, mobile phones transmitting love messages, sting cameras uncovering uncomfortable truths.
Three loosely-linked tales that involve assorted video recording devices. The first: the maker of Dee Bee International movies, Rahul Kumar, falls in love with the lead heroine, Shruti Dahiya, and is thrilled to know that she, too, loves him. He is disheartened when he finds out that her father has already arranged her marriage with a male based in Canada, and the couple decide to elope and marry. The Second: Heavily in debt, Adarsh, who works in a All Night Store, first attempts to woo co-worker, Sonal, albeit in vain, then does succeed in wooing a second co-worker, Rashmi, with some success and a hidden agenda. And the Third: Dancer Mrignaina Biswas is upset after being unceremoniously used and dumped by Loki Local, and decides to take revenge with the help of a male, Prabhat, and the media.
Love (Titled Superhit Pyaar)Rahul, a young amateur film director in his early 20s decides to make a small-budget film for the diploma of his film course. He conducts audition and meets Shruti, a young girl whom he chooses for the leading role. Shruti belongs to an orthodox family and her patriarchal father is a real estate magnate. The two bond and become closer, but Shruti's overprotective, aggressive brother overhears their telephone conversation and attacks the film set to find out the identity of the caller. Shruti tells Rahul her father will get her married to someone else; they elope and get married. From their honeymoon suite, they telephone Shruti's family and ask for their acceptance; her father and brother are initially angry but then approve and tell them they will be sending a car to pick them up from the hotel. During the journey, Rahul and Shruti are ambushed by Shruti's brother and his goons who murder them, dismember their bodies with an axe and bury their remains.Sex (Titled Paap ki Dukkaan)Shruti's friend Rashmi is a quiet woman who works night shifts in a supermarket to support her family. Adarsh, a supermarket supervisor, has obtained his job by using his family connections with the store's owner and has debts with loan sharks. He makes a pact with a friend to make a sex tape with one of the employees to sell for to the media for a large sum of money; Adarsh chooses Rashmi, for whom he develops genuine feelings. He decides to back out of the plan but his feelings for Rashmi are suppressed by his greed. Rashmi receives news about the gruesome deaths of Shruti and Rahul, and is deeply saddened. Taking advantage of Rashmi's vulnerability, Ardash has sex with her and captures it on the shop's security camera. Having sold the footage, Adarsh is able to pay off his debts. It is later revealed that Rashmi was fired from the supermarket and shunned by her family.Dhokha (Titled Badnaam Shohorat)Prabhat, an investigative reporter, is desperate for a sensational story so he will be paid a bonus by the news company that employs him. He saves the life of aspiring dancer Naina, who tries to commit suicide by jumping from a bridge. Naina is initially furious at Prabhat but plans a sting operation with him to take revenge on Loki Local, a music producer and singer who asked her to trade sex for the position of leading dancer in his upcoming music video. Prabhat and Naina take the sting footage to the media, who encourage them to plan another sting; Naina will supposedly blackmail Loki by threatening to reveal the initial footage in an attempt to catch him trying to bribe her-to render false any accusations by Loki of fabrication of footage. Naina meets Loki in the supermarket where Rashmi works to execute the sting, while Prabhat watches closely. The plan goes awry when Loki tries to steal the camera and shoots Prabhat, who is admitted to the hospital. Naina goes to meet Prabhat to hand over the footage so he can get the bonus, but he decides to protect Naina's dignity, refuses to give his superiors the footage and resigns. It is revealed that Naina has betrayed Prabhat by accepting the role as lead dancer in Loki's new music video.
