DI Tom Thorne's only key to catching a serial killer is a survivor unable to move or communicate.
Thorne Sleepyhead: follows DI Tom Thornes investigation into a mysterious serial killer. His first three victims ended up dead. His fourth was not so fortunate. Alison Willetts is unlucky to be alive. She has survived a stroke, deliberately induced by manipulation of pressure points on the head and neck. She can see, hear and feel, she is aware of everything going on around her, but she is unable to move or communicate. In leaving Alison alive, the police believe the killer's made his first mistake.
In this edge-of-your-seat thriller, DI Tom Thorne investigates a serial killer who after murdering 3 young women leaves his fourth victim alive and aware, but paralyzed and unable to communicate - was this the killer's first mistake? Now DI Thorne, carrying his own baggage from a previous case, must try to unlock the secrets Alison may hold, and try to get inside the mind of a calculating, psychopath to end his reign of terror.
DI Tom Thorne, famous for apprehending serial killer, Frank Calvert, 15 years earlier is loved and hated in his department. He works well with both his DCI and forensic pathologist, but his former partner envies and tries to compete with him. This spills into the investigation of what appears to be a serial killer with a very distinct MO. But when a victim, Maggie, is found and kept alive in hospital, DI Thorne sees the facts turning another way. Maggie is in a sort of conscious coma, what her doctor calls "locked in syndrome," and cannot move or communicate. DI Tom Thorne is determined to find the answers, any way he can.
Siga o Detetive de investigação Tom Thornes em um misterioso caso de um assassino serial. Suas três primeiras vítimas acabaram mortas. A quarta não teve tanta sorte. Alison Willett é o azar de estar vivo. Ela sobreviveu a um acidente vascular cerebral, deliberadamente induzidas pela manipulação de pontos de pressão na cabeça e no pescoço. Ela pode ver, ouvir e sentir, ela está ciente de tudo o que acontece ao seu redor, mas ela é incapaz de se mover ou se comunicar. Ao deixar Alison viva, a polícia acredita que o assassino cometeu seu primeiro erro.
