James Furlong, motherless, discovered an extraordinary gift by accident which caused the death of his father and his grandmother.
James Furlong, motherless, discovered an extraordinary gift by accident which caused the death of his father and his grandmother. Shocked by the mysterious power he has discovered, James isolates himself in a forest to avoid hurting his family and decides to live there. A few years later, a girl named Mae takes refuge in the same forest because of an incurable disease. The two young people meet and fall in love. Their union allows James to discover unsuspected powers.
James Furlong, orphelin de mère, se découvre un don extraordinaire à la suite d'un accident qui cause la mort de son père et de sa grand-mère. Bouleversé par le mystérieux pouvoir qu'il s'est découvert, James s'isole dans une forêt pour éviter de faire du mal à ses proches et décide d'y vivre. Quelques années plus tard, une jeune fille nommée Mae, se réfugie dans la même forêt à cause d'un mal incurable qui l'aurait atteint. Les deux jeunes se rencontrent et tombent amoureux l'un de l'autre. Leur union permet à James de découvrir une force jusqu'alors insoupçonnée dans ses pouvoirs.
----------The movie begins with a brief history of the Furlongs and their strange gifts. Charlie Furlong hides in a cupboard while playing hide and seek. His father enters the room with a woman and they make love in the bed. Strangely, Charlie loses his sight while this happens and from that point onward, he loses his vision for 37 minutes whenever he thinks of sex. This also happens on his wedding night. Charlie's son Philip Furlong inherits a similar strange gift. Whenever he is frightened, he knocks out electricity around him.When Philip's wife is in labor, he drives her to the hospital, but on the way he gets scared when his wife appears unconscious, causing the car's engine to stall. Stuck in the middle of the road, his wife delivers the baby but she's dead before she can even see her son's (James Furlong) face. When James is ten, his grandfather Charlie Furlong dies in a car accident. There was a poster of Wonderbra that Charlie had seen, causing him to lose his vision and that in turn caused the accident. James' grandmother therefore considers this a curse and she tries to warn James about it.James, however, longs to have the gift. While trying to explore if he has any strange gifts, he cycles along a country road and in an attempt to fly, he falls off the cycle. When he returns home injured, his father rushes to the site to see half their cattle and even the grass dead. Philip returns home and takes James outside and starts beating him, saying that he knew that there was something wrong with him. James starts bleeding and soon enough everything around him starts withering away and his father and his grandmother both die.In the orphanage that James is taken to, he first kills a dog when he is frightened. When the kids try to hit him for killing the dog and the teachers question the other kids, James gets frightened and in turn kills everyone around him save his friend Liam, who has been kind to James since his first day there and rushes out of the building when everyone is dying. However, his lungs are affected thereafter, requiring him to carry an oxygen cylinder with him to breathe normally. Realizing what he has done, James runs away to the forest.A few years later, a patient Mae West is being treated by a doctor at the same locale as the orphanage. She is suffering from cancer and the doctor tells her mother that Mae will soon die. Mae runs away from the hospital and ends up at James' place in the forest, which is located on a barren piece of land where all trees, grass, and animals are dead. They spend some time together and fall in love, but James warns her to stay away. He tells her about his past, as well as that when he ran to the forest, he ate wild berries that caused him to pass out. An old man brought him to his house, where James now resides. James says that he told the old man to leave but the old man did not listen. After a few hours, James walks out of the house to find the old man dead and half buried in leaves. James then decides to stay away from everyone in the forest and feels guilty for all the deaths around him. Next morning, Mae leaves without telling James. When James wakes up he sees that there are buds and leaves on the long-dead trees and birds fluttering around. He is shocked and stunned.At the hospital, the doctor informs Mae's mother that Mae is showing signs of improvement. James goes to the hospital to meet Mae, where they make love. While searching for Mae, we see James visiting many rooms, and all the patients in those rooms recover: A blind child begins to see and a child whose leg is in a cast starts running around. Even Liam is able to breathe normally. However, Liam has seen James, and holds a grudge against him for killing all the lads. Liam sets off the fire alarm, and when James rushes out of the hospital, Liam strikes him with a pair of scissors saying that he won't let James hurt Mae.When James starts bleeding, everything around him starts dying off again. Mae runs toward him, but James warns her to stay away. While running, James falls into a river. Mae jumps in after him, as James does not know how to swim. She tries to save, him but to no avail. She kisses James, but he is dead. As he is dying, all the leaves that were withering start turning green again.The movie ends with a completely recovered Mae reciting the story of James to their young daughter. Early on in the movie, James tells Mae that the gift is passed only from son to son. Even James's curse of taking lives turns into a gift wherein he gives life to others.
