In the early 1960s, CIA agent Napoleon Solo and KGB operative Illya Kuryakin participate in a joint mission against a mysterious criminal organization, which is working to proliferate nuclear weapons.
In the 1960s with the Cold War in play, CIA agent Napoleon Solo successfully helps Gaby Teller defect to West Germany despite the intimidating opposition of KGB agent Illya Kuryakin. Later, all three unexpectedly find themselves working together in a joint mission to stop a private criminal organization from using Gaby's father's scientific expertise to construct their own nuclear bomb. Through clenched teeth and stylish poise, all three must find a way to cooperate for the sake of world peace, even as they each pursue their own agendas.
In the 60's, the CIA agent Napoleon Solo is assigned to bring the mechanic Gaby Teller from East Berlin to the other side of the wall. Gaby is the daughter of the scientist and American collaborator Udo Teller that defected from German at the end of WWII and now has vanished. They are chased by KGB agent Illya Kuryakin but they succeed to escape. Soon Napoleon Solo's chief Saunders discloses that Gaby's uncle Rudi works for the wealthy Alexander and his wife Victoria Vinciguerra and Udo might be secretly building a nuclear weapon for them. Napoleon Solo is forced to team-up with Illya and Gaby and they go to Rome to investigate.
1963, the height of the Cold War. In an unlikely alliance, a CIA agent, Napoleon Solo and KGB agent, Illya Kuryakin, band together to save the world from nuclear disaster. A top nuclear scientist, formerly employed by the US, has gone missing. It is suspected his brother has kidnapped him to work on a nuclear bomb. Solo and Kuryakin accompany the scientist's daughter, Gaby, to Rome, as this is where her uncle is based. The idea is to covertly investigate his company and, hopefully, find the scientist and the bomb. Things aren't all plain sailing though. This is heightened by the fact that Solo and Kuryakin aren't sure they can trust each other and, to some extent, still regard each other as enemies.
1963. Napoleon Solo is a suave and urbane C.I.A. agent. He was once a criminal, but the C.I.A. believed his unique talents would be of better service to the country as a spy than they would be if he was behind bars. His current case is to locate Dr. Udo Teller, a famed German rocket scientist who had been working for the Americans on their nuclear program since the end of WWII until he disappeared without a trace two years ago, that is until he was recently photographed in Rome. Napoleon manages to smuggle Teller's biological daughter, Gaby Schmidt, out of East Berlin to the west in order to locate Teller. The Americans don't believe she knows anything about his whereabouts - her father who she has not seen or heard from in eighteen years - but that she can influence some who do, namely her Uncle Rudi who is an executive at Rome-based Vinciguerra Shipping, owned and operated by husband and wife Alexander and Victoria Vinceguerra. The company is purportedly the front for the development of nuclear weapons, the major national intelligence agencies suspecting that Victoria, the brains behind the operation, having kidnapped Teller to build her an atom bomb. Because of the global implications, Napoleon is forced to work on this case with KGB agent Illya Kuryakin. Beyond the east-west divide between the Americans and Soviets, Napoleon will have a difficult time working with his new partner due to their recent not so pleasant encounter in East Berlin, and Illya's volatile and violent temper, which can cloud what he does professionally. As Napoleon, Illya and Gaby work on the case - their success or failure which may determine world order - what happens is affected by other players in the picture which they do not know about, and the Americans and Soviets working arguably on their own different agendas.
During the taut East-West relations and the volatile early-1960s Cold War climate, the former thief and now suave CIA agent, Napoleon Solo, manages to transport Gaby Teller, the daughter of an ex-Nazi scientist, from East Berlin to West Germany, as the KGB spy, Illya Kuryakin, is hot on their trail. However, before the imminent threat of a global nuclear Armageddon, America and the Soviet Union order the two operatives to join forces in an unprecedented joint mission. Now, Solo and Kuryakin will have to endure each other for the common good and hope that their frail truce lasts. Can they thwart the elusive adversary's plans, especially when both governments have hidden agendas?
1963, West Berlin.Napoleon Solo (Henry Cavill) makes his way through checkpoint Charlie from West to East Berlin, but notices he's being followed by a man we'll later discover is Illya Kuryakin (Armie Hammer). Solo goes to a chop shop garage where he meets Gaby Teller (Alicia Vikander). Gaby's father is being forced to build an atom bomb for the Nazis. Solo's mission is to get her out of Berlin so they can find her uncle Rudi (Sylvester Groth) and have him set up a meeting between her and her dad.As they make their way to the border they're chased by Kuryakin, who turns out to be Solo's match. However, Solo has help. Waiting on the other side of the wall is a CIA truck that shoots a zip line up to the roof where Solo and Gaby end up. They're able to zip line over the Berlin wall. Kuryakin is right behind them but the truck backs up making slack in the line and leaving Illya on the other side of the wall.There is a flashback to Kuryakin's briefing on Solo.Solo came to Europe during the second world war but stayed there and became a master art thief. He was eventually captured but the CIA felt his skills were too good to be wasted in a prison, so they recruited him.In the present, CIA specialist Sanders (Jared Harris) meets with Solo at a park. In the restroom he lays out the mission. While at the urinal he says, "What I'm going to feed you might be bitter." It's innuendo, but nevertheless, it's true. It's Illya Kuryakin! They fight and Kuryakin overcomes Solo. The KGB director Oleg (Misha Kuznetsov) comes in and tells Kury, "Don't kill your partner on your first day." Solo asks what that means. Sanders translates. Solo says he understands the words, but what does that mean. The CIA and KGB have struck a deal and are sending Solo and Kury on a joint mission.They have to go to Rome where Kury will pose as Gaby's fiancé and Solo as an antiquities dealer. They believe a family business there that Gaby's uncle Rudi works for is a front. The business has been in Alexander's (Luca Calvani) family but actually his wife Victoria (Elizabeth Debicki) is the brains behind the operation.Kury and Solo get to know each other by revealing what they've discovered in each others files. Solo triggers Kury's rage issues, but the Russian manages to keep them in check.Meanwhile, a man named Waverly (Hugh Grant) checks into the hotel in Rome right before Napoleon does. When Napoleon checks in, he notices a couple of guys who are clearly evil henchmen in the lobby. He has his bags brought to his room but he takes off.On the streets of Rome Kury and Gaby bond a little. Solo shows up and tells Kury that he's going to get mugged. To convince the bad guys that he's really a Russian architect, his cover, and not a super bad-ass secret agent, his instructions are to "be a pussy"; just get mugged and don't fight back. The mugging happens and even though the thugs take Kury's father's watch and Gaby's engagement ring he manages to suppress his rage and submit. Solo pops up and they all go back to the hotel.Solo and the hotel desk clerk drink champagne and wind up in bed. Meanwhile, in the "engaged couple" room, Gaby chugs vodka and tries to get Kury to dance with her. He won't so she slaps him and they start wrestling. She passes out and he tucks her into bed.In the morning Solo discovers about a dozen monitoring bugs in his room. He goes to Kury's room and hands them to him telling him that they're Russian-made. Kury hands Solo about a dozen bugs too and says that they're American-made.Kury meets Gaby in front of the hotel and gives her a brand new engagement ring.Solo heads to a party that Victoria is throwing. On the way in he literally bumps into Waverly. We later find out that he picks Waverly's pocket and steals his invitation. Solo crashes the party and gets in a fight with security because he doesn't present an invitation. Victoria takes notice and Solo shows his invitation. He manages to "lift" her necklace and another woman's bracelet. Victoria asks how he got an invitation and who he is. He says his name is Deveny and that he specializes in filling the gaps in people's collections. He gives her the bracelet and the necklace.Gaby and Kury are also at the party. Rudi disses Kury by wondering if Gaby is slumming it like "a racehorse with a work horse". Kury goes into a bathroom but three young Italian aristocrats prevent from using the sink and tell him to use the ladies' washroom instead. He finally gives in to his anger and roughs them up. Alexander takes a keen liking to Gaby right away.Back at the hotel Kury has locked himself in the bathroom which he has turned into a dark room and is developing film. His camera was able to pick up on radiation on clothing at the party. Therefore, Gaby's father must be near and working on that atom bomb. Both Solo and Kury say that they'll sleep on this new information, but ...... in the next shot they both break into the company's factory in the middle of the night. While Kury is clearly the muscles between the two of them, Solo is more cunning and manages to break into a large bank-style safe. It's empty except for a centrifuge used for enhancing uranium. Solo thought that model of safe didn't have an alarm. Wrong! They escape by jumping out of a window and onto a boat. Solo falls off and swims to a dock where he finds a truck. Inside is the driver's dinner which he casually eats while Kury gets chased in circles by guards on a well-armed boat. They blow up Kury's boat. Solo drives away but has second thoughts. He returns, crashes his truck onto the bad guys' boat, and then rescues a drowning Kury.Victoria sees that the safe has been opened and calls Solo's hotel room. No answer. Rudi calls Gaby and asks to apologize to Kury, but she says he's asleep. She then calls room 304 to tell the person on the other end that the meeting is confirmed. Victoria and her goons race to the hotel, but Solo and Kury get there first. She and Solo get it on in his room (807).The next morning, Kury awkwardly turns on a tracker that's on Gaby's garter belt. (Lots of sexual tension there).Gaby meets with her uncle and says that she knows her father is there and that he works for him. Rudi asks how she knows. We don't hear her answer just yet. Instead, we see Kury, who's monitoring from afar, start running.Solo meets with Victoria. He pours himself a drink, but she's drugged it. He wakes up strapped to an electric torture chair. Rudi is an evil Nazi scientist who keeps a scrapbook of all the horrific stuff he's done. He has a blank page just waiting for Solo. Fortunately, there's a short in the electric chair. Kury rescues Solo and straps Rudi into the chair. He tells them that the warhead is already built. Kury and Solo step out of the room to debate what to do with Rudi. In the background, the short in the electric chair fixes itself and Rudi gets electrocuted to the point of bursting in flames.Gaby is brought to an island where her dad is working. She slaps him and tells him to finish the job. Alexander and Victoria seem happy with this.Meanwhile, Waverly (who turns out to be a member of the British Intelligence) informs Solo and Kury about the situation. The Brits knew that it was only a matter of time before someone grabbed Gaby to try to get her dad to finish the atom bomb. They assumed it would be the Nazis. They were surprised that it was the Russians and the Americans. So Gaby has been working undercover with the British this whole time. She gains the trust of the bad guys by telling them that Kury and Solo are secret agents. She knew that her new engagement ring would have a bug in it and that Kury would be listening. Solo says that he thinks the British were working with her, but now that they've lost her, they need the American and the Russians help.Kury and Solo are both told by their respective superiors to get the warhead and the disc with professor Teller's research. Also, to kill the other if necessary.On the island, Gaby and her dad try to switch lenses on the warhead but Victoria notices. There is also a second warhead. She orders Gaby be put in a cell and tells her father to finish, with the threat of her death. He does, but Victoria takes his disc and the backup he had hidden, then shoots him.Time for a super-stylized and ultra-cool breaking-in montage as Solo and Kury storm the island. During it, Solo finds Kury's father's watch on a guard and grabs it. They find that Gaby and the warhead on the far side of the island in a jeep being driven by Alexander. Solo chases in a dune buggy while Kury is on a motorcycle. The vehicles all crash. Alexander and Kury fight and Kury stabs him in the head with his knife. Turns out though, this is the wrong bomb! Victoria disappeared with the right one.Solo remembers that Alexander's family used a fishing boat to smuggle gold for the Nazis. He also remembers the name of the boat from an old childhood photo of Alexander. They radio the boat and Solo taunts Victoria about the way her husband died. They stay on the radio long enough for the good guys to track the boat. Turns out that the two lenses that were in the bombs make it so that one bomb can take out the other. They launch the decoy bomb and blow up Victoria, the Atom bomb and the fishing boat.Gaby apologizes to Kury and returns the engagement ring. He tells her to keep it so that he can know if she ever needs him. Kury's boss tells him that the professor's disc wasn't destroyed but that Solo has it. Kury goes to his room. Solo pours drinks for the two of them. Kury sees the disc and is filling with rage. Solo gives him the watch and reveals the disc. They both decide to destroy it. Waverly and Gaby show up. Waverly says that he's decided to keep the group together and that they have a new code-name: UNCLE. (United Network Command for Law and Enforcement).Over the end credits we see everyone's dossiers. In one little detail, Gaby is currently learning to speak Russian.
