Colin Clark, an employee of Sir Laurence Olivier, documents the tense interaction between Olivier and Marilyn Monroe during the production of The Prince and the Showgirl (1957).
Sir Laurence Olivier (Sir Kenneth Branagh) is making a movie in London. Young Colin Clark (Eddie Redmayne), an eager film student, wants to be involved and he navigates himself a job on the set. When movie star Marilyn Monroe (Michelle Williams) arrives for the start of shooting, all of London is excited to see the blonde bombshell, while Olivier is struggling to meet her many demands and acting ineptness, and Colin is intrigued by her. Colin's intrigue is met when Marilyn invites him into her inner world where she struggles with her fame, her beauty, and her desire to be a great actress.
In 1956, Sir Laurence Olivier (Sir Kenneth Branagh) is directing a movie and he casts Marilyn Monroe (Michelle Williams), and clearly Marilyn is getting on Olivier's nerves because she's difficult to work with, because of her lack of confidence. But Colin Clark (Eddie Redmayne), an aspiring filmmaker Olivier hired to work as an assistant, somehow develops a rapport with Marilyn and convinces her she can do it, and she does. Eventually, Clark falls for Marilyn and everyone tells him, there's no future for them. But he doesn't care.
Young Oxford graduate Colin Clark (Eddie Redmayne) has dreams of getting into the movies, or, as he prefers to say, "run off to the circus". He pursues a production position, and is eventually named Third Assistant Director for The Prince and the Showgirl (1957). Directed by and starring Sir Laurence Olivier (Sir Kenneth Branagh), the movie also stars Marilyn Monroe (Michelle Williams). While Olivier, the renowned stage actor is looking to become a movie star, Monroe is a movie star looking to be seen as a serious actress. Monroe is terribly self-conscious, has her own full-time acting coach in Paula Strasberg (Zoë Wanamaker), and is frequently late. It all drives Olivier a bit mad and he assigns Colin to supervise her and make sure she gets to work on time. Colin and Marilyn soon develop a rapport and they have a positive effect on one another.
England 1956. Bucking the trend of his highly successful academic and aristocratic family, twenty-three year old Colin Clark (Eddie Redmayne) is instead determined to work on the production side of movies. Having met him previously, Colin doggedly pursues a job, any job, with Laurence Olivier Productions. Because the company will soon be filming a movie titled "The Sleeping Prince" (which will eventually become The Prince and the Showgirl (1957)), Colin eventually gets a job as an unpaid assistant, which morphs into a paid job as Third Assistant Director for the lighthearted comedy, which is to star Sir Laurence Olivier (Sir Kenneth Branagh) and Marilyn Monroe (Michelle Williams), whose entourage includes her husband, playwright Arthur Miller (Dougray Scott), and one of her Method acting coaches, Paula Strasberg (Zoë Wanamaker), and be directed by Olivier. Colin sees that Monroe is a very scared and insecure person about her acting abilities, and thus paranoid, she who requires the constant support of her entourage, especially Miller and Strasberg. These insecurities lead to problems on the set with almost all of the others, which is exacerbated by Olivier's angry frustration toward her, he who does not believe in the Method. It does not help that Olivier's wife, Vivien Leigh (Julia Ormond) has her own insecurities about what she believes is Olivier's romantic fascination with Monroe. Seeing the problems, Colin tries to bolster Marilyn's confidence with his own secret words of encouragement. So when Miller decides to head back to the U.S. early, leaving a fragile Marilyn to feel abandoned, she searches for another source of support which she believes she has found in Colin. Colin's ensuing time with Marilyn during production threatens many things in his life, including his burgeoning romantic relationship with the production's wardrobe assistant, Lucy (Emma Watson). Through the process, Colin may be in way over his head, as most people who see him and Marilyn together suspect he is.
Following his graduation from university, aspiring filmmaker Colin Clark (Eddie Redmayne) travels to London to get a job on Laurence Olivier's (Kenneth Branagh) next production. Hugh Perceval (Michael Kitchen) tells Colin there are no jobs available, but he decides to wait for Olivier, whom he once met at a party. Olivier and his wife, Vivien Leigh (Julia Ormond), eventually show up and Vivien encourages Olivier to give Colin a job on his upcoming film The Prince and the Showgirl, starring Marilyn Monroe (Michelle Williams). Colin's first task is to find a suitable place for Marilyn and her husband, Arthur Miller (Dougray Scott), to stay at while they are in England. The press find out about the house, but Colin reveals he secured a second house just in case, impressing Olivier and Marilyn's publicist, Arthur Jacobs (Toby Jones).The paparazzi find out about Marilyn's arrival at Heathrow and they gather around the plane when it lands. Marilyn brings her husband, her business partner, Milton H. Greene (Dominic Cooper), and her acting coach Paula Strasberg (Zoë Wanamaker) with her. She initially appears to be uncomfortable around the many photographers, but relaxes at the press conference. Olivier becomes frustrated when Marilyn is late to the read-through. She insists Paula sits with her and when she has trouble with her lines, Paula reads them for her. The crew and the other actors, including Sybil Thorndike (Judi Dench), are in awe of Marilyn. Colin meets Lucy (Emma Watson), a wardrobe assistant whom he is attracted to, and they go on a date. Marilyn starts arriving later to the set and often forgets her lines, angering Olivier. However, Sybil praises Marilyn and defends her when Olivier tries to get her to apologise for holding the shoot up.Marilyn struggles to understand her character and leaves the set when Olivier insults her. Colin asks the director to be more sympathetic towards Marilyn, before he goes to Parkside House to check on her. He hears an argument and finds a tearful Marilyn sitting on the stairs with Arthur's notebook, which contains the plot of a new play that appears to poke fun at her. Arthur later returns to the United States. Vivien comes to the set and watches some of Marilyn's scenes. She breaks down, saying Marilyn lights up the screen and if only Olivier could see himself when he watches her. Olivier tries unsuccessfully to reassure his wife. Marilyn does not show up to the set following Arthur's departure and she asks Colin to come to Parkside and they talk. The crew becomes captivated by Marilyn when she dances for a scene and Milton pulls Colin aside to tell him Marilyn breaks hearts and that she will break his too. Lucy also notices Colin's growing infatuation with Marilyn and breaks up with him.Colin and Marilyn spend the day together and are given a tour of Windsor Castle by Owen Morshead (Derek Jacobi). Colin also shows Marilyn around Eton College, and they go skinny dipping in the River Thames. Marilyn kisses Colin and they are found by Roger Smith (Philip Jackson), Marilyn's bodyguard. Colin is called to Parkside one night as Marilyn has locked herself in her room. Colin enters her room and Marilyn invites him to lie next to her on the bed. The following night, Marilyn wakes up in pain and claims she is having a miscarriage. A doctor tends to her and Marilyn tells Colin that she wants to forget everything. She later returns to the set to complete the film. Olivier praises Marilyn, but reveals she has killed his desire to direct again. Lucy asks Colin if Marilyn broke his heart and he replies that she did, a little. Marilyn comes to Colin's B&amp;B and thanks him for helping her. She kisses him goodbye and Roger drives her to the airport.
