Gangster and deadbeat dad, Ulysses Pick, embarks on an unusual journey through his home.
In a house haunted with memories, gangster and father Ulysses Pick (Jason Patric) arrives home after a long absence tow­ing the body of a teenaged girl and a bound and gagged young man. His gang waits inside his house, having shot their way past police. There is friction in the ranks. Ulysses, however, is focused on one thing: journey­ing through the house, room by room, and reaching his wife Hyacinth (Isabella Rossellini) in her bedroom upstairs. His odyssey eventually becomes an emotional tour, as the strange nooks and crannies of the house reveal more about the mysterious Pick family.
On a dark and stormy night, several people shoot their way into a police surrounded house, the police who will not enter as long as the storm is happening. The house is a labyrinth, with a small open air quadrangle in its center with a bottomless bog. The group is able to achieve its mission of capturing the bound and gagged young man inside. This attack, in which there are three casualties, was ordered by Ulysses Pick, who once lived in the house with his wife Hyacinth - the quadrangle her sanctuary - and their four offspring, Ned, Manners, Lota and Brucie, but who has not been there in quite some time. The group includes among others Rochelle, Ulysses' francophone mistress, and Heatly, who Ulysses adopted after Heatly killed one of Ulysses' sons. Ulysses arrives at the house shortly thereafter, he carrying a waterlogged, seemingly blind and comatose young woman, who becomes more animated shortly after entering the house. With the rest of the group ordered to stay in one room unless otherwise directed by Ulysses, Ulysses carrying a stuffed wolverine named Crispy, the young woman, and the bound and gagged young man who remains bound and gagged go on what Ulysses states is a private mission through the house, which is made all the more difficult by all the locked doors, any idea what may be on the other side being through the doors' keyhole. That mission is to locate Hyacinth. Hyacinth is indeed still in the house, she in the bedroom on the uppermost floor. With Hyacinth is her father Calypso, who she has chained naked to her bedpost. Much as he knows the role of the young woman, Ulysses knows that his need to find Hyacinth is not to see her but to help him remember, so that the innocent, both alive and dead, can exist in peace. Ulysses and his group have only until dawn to achieve their mission.

