A former thief frantically searches for his missing daughter, who has been kidnapped and locked in the trunk of a taxi.
In New Orleans, the notorious bank thief and family man Will Montgomery steals $10m with his partners Vincent, Riley Jeffers and Hoyt. However, he has an argument with Vincent in the runaway and Hoyt leaves Will behind. He tries to flee but the FBI agent Tim Harlend organizes a manhunt and Will is captured, but he burns the stolen money to get rid of the evidence against him. Eight years later, Will leaves the prison and he goes to the house of his teenage daughter Alison Loeb, who has issues against him. Alison leaves Will alone in a coffee shop and takes a cab to go to a session with her shrink. However, a couple of minutes later, Will receives a phone call from Vincent, who is presumed dead, telling that he has abducted Alison and will kill her unless he receives the $10m of the last robbery. Now Will has twelve hours to find a way to rescue his daughter from the hands of the psychopath Vincent.
A desperate thief has just 12 hours to steal $10 million and save his daughter from his vengeful former partner in this fast-paced action thriller reuniting Nicolas Cage and director Simon West (Con Air, The Expendables 2). Determined to get the payout for a major heist gone awry, a degenerate criminal (Josh Lucas) kidnaps the daughter (Sami Gayle) of his one-time partner-in-crime (Cage), and threatens her life if he doesn't have the money in 12 hours. Now, with the clock ticking and his daughter trapped in a random taxi being driven around New Orleans, the frantic ex-con enlists the help of a former associate (Malin Akerman) to help pull off the heist that will save his little girl's life.
Having spent eight long years of his life in jail after a botched attempt to rob a New Orleans bank, the experienced master thief, Will Montgomery, is now ready to put his ignoble past behind, and try to rebuild his shattered relationship with his estranged daughter, Alison. With an alleged bag crammed with $10 million dollars in cash hidden away by Will himself, his former partner, Vincent, abducts Alison, demanding the enormous loot in exchange for her life. Now, Will has only twelve hours to come up with the money, before it's too late. Can Montgomery count on his getaway driver, Riley, to get his daughter back?
In New Orleans, the notorious bank thief and family man Will Montgomery steals $10m with his partners Vincent, Riley Jeffers and Hoyt. However, he has an argument with Vincent during the getaway and Hoyt leaves Will behind with money. He tries to flee but the FBI agent Tim Harlend organizes a manhunt and Will is captured. He burns the stolen money to get rid of the evidence against him. Eight years later, Will leaves the prison and he goes to the house of his teenage daughter Alison Loeb, who has issues against him. Alison leaves Will alone in a coffee shop and takes a cab to go to a session with her shrink. However, a couple of minutes later, Will receives a phone call from Vincent, who is presumed dead, telling that he has abducted Alison and will kill her unless he receives the $10m of the last robbery. Now Will has twelve hours to find a way to rescue his daughter from the hands of the psychopath Vincent. Vincent soundproofs a cab trunk, drugs Alison, and drives around, making threats and killing people at random. Apparently, this is how he stays off the radar.Will buys a prepaid phone and sends Vincent's phone to Alabama to buy time, then he accosts Hoyt. Hoyt is conveniently killed by the police, and Will carjacks a cab and tries to track Vincent, all while evading the hopeless FBI/police. Will contacts Riley and they somehow get a truckload of specialized equipment to break into the same bank, stealing gold bars to pay off Vincent. Harlend continues his chase, ineffectually. Riley and Will make for the ferry, using a mannequin to fool the cops.Will meets Vincent with the money at the fairground, lugging $10m in gold bars in a duffel bag. Vincent shoots Will and lights the cab on fire. Despite a bullet in his ribs, Will beats up Vincent, lights him on fire, and drives the cab into the water, apparently drowning his daughter. Vincent, also despite being gravely wounded, wades into the water to battle Will. After some underwater karate moves, Will beats Vincent (again) and rescues Alison. Vincent returns from another beating, and Will sticks a tire iron through him, pushing him into the trunk, which closes, and the car conveniently slides deeper into the water.Alison holds Will until the police arrive. Harlend decides to absolve Will of all his recent crimes. Sometime later, the FBI are still watching Will, and watch him throw away the last chunk of gold. Harlend is relieved that he doesn't have to arrest Will again. As Will and Riley join Alison at the BBQ, we see the chunk of gold is still on the table; Will threw a stone pineapple away, fooling the brilliant Harlend.
