A woman leaves the farm and enters the unknown.
An unnamed Oregonian (Lindsay Pulsipher), the protagonist, leaves behind an abusive past as she delves into her unknown future. She wakes up bloody behind the steering wheel of a crashed Station Wagon. There are two dead people in front of the car. Did she run them over?Dazed and confused, she begins her journey to find a phone to contact society to find help, not only with her current position, but with her life as a whole. Her first encounter is an elderly, decrepit woman. The Oregonian then has a series of flash forwards in which depicts her future in the film. The elderly decrepit woman pays no attention to The Oregonian so The Oregonian continues and happens across a creek.She cleans her wounds to the best of her capability and continues to not only find a car, but also a shotgun, which she uses to defend herself throughout the film. In the car, she is introduced to a large green frog character. She leaves scared and confused and continues to an abandoned town and is confronted by a mysterious man in a trashed van. The man gets out of the van and urinates for an exceptionally long time and his urine is flowing in colors of the rainbow.This portrays the uniqueness of the man and of the film up to this point. The Oregonian and the mysterious man end up in a motel. The man drinks gasoline furthering the confusing nature of the film. She has flashbacks of the crash, the old woman and the green frog. She leaves the motel and meets numerous people in a green room. The characters act senile and The Oregonian cannot handle the scene. It seems that The Oregonian cannot figure out the events that seem to be happening. Is this all a dream? Or is this reality?As the film comes to an uncompromising end, The Oregonian comes to a realization that the characters fit her past. She feels content with the characters and her journey through the maze of her unknown future. She ends up becoming one of them, and she fades away into her death, the path that was bound to happen.
