A pregnant teenager flees her abusive mother in search of her father, only to be rejected by her stepmother and forced to survive on the streets until a compassionate stranger offers a hopeful alternative.
16 year old street-wise Apple (Vanessa Hudgens) has never had an easy life. Her mother, June Bailey (Rosario Dawson), is an addict and prostitute, is verbally and physically abusive, and is grooming her daughter to follow in her footsteps. Apple knows the streets, alleys and motels like the back of her hand but wants more from her life. She possesses a tenacious, tough, indomitable spirit, and will not surrender to fate. Apple runs away from her mother and tracks down her father whom she has never known, as he was only 19 when he got Apple's mother pregnant. Apple begs her now Wall Street Broker father, Tom Fitzpatrick (Brendan Fraser), to take her in. In the few days under her father's care, she learns she's become pregnant by a kid from the streets she met on the train, who now wants nothing to do with her. She is forced to leave her father's home because of her choice to give birth to the baby she is carrying. Apple runs away again, and is eventually taken under the wing of Father McCarthy (James Earl Jones), the chaplain of the local hospital after almost getting herself killed. He offers to let Apple live at a shelter for pregnant young women run by a spiritual woman named Kathy (Ann Dowd). It is here that Apple begins to tentatively interact with the other girls who are in the same predicament as she and gradually begins to make a family for herself.
Agnes "Apple" Bailey has never had an easy life. She's been in and out of foster care for years, and her mother, June, is an abusive drug addict who only wants her for the welfare money she provides. She decides to run away and go in search of her absent father Tom Fitzpatrick, whom she discovers is now a wealthy Wall Street broker with a family. Tom agrees to take her in, but she's quickly forced out again when he and his wife learn she's pregnant, and don't agree with her decision to keep the baby..
Agnes "Apple" Bailey (Vanessa Hudgens) is a 16 yr old girl who was abandoned by her father before she was even born, taken from her mother June's (Rosary Dawson) custody several times into foster cares, physically and sexually abused at these homes, juts to return with her biological mother who abuses her too.
Tired of it all, Apple runs to New Jersey to ask for her father's help, a wealthy broker in Wall Street named Tom (Brendan Fraser), who has since then married and has two children.
When Tom and his wife find out Apple is pregnant they urged her to abort or leave their house, which she does. And after a nearly lethal car crash, she ends up in the hospital where she meets Father McCarthy (James Earl Jones) that wants to help her by introducing her to Kathy DiFiore (Ann Dowd) who runs a shelter for pregnant teenagers, but June wants to taker her back to her place to use the child as means to get Social Security.
Not wanting to return with her mother, Apple agrees to go to Kathy's home where she unexpectedly finds the family, love and support she has always yearned for thru the other teen mothers and Kathy herself who has dedicated 20 years of her life to take care of teen mothers.
