A teenage girl moves to a new high school where she slowly discovers herself involved in the reincarnation of King Arthur.
Allie Pennington, the daughter of two Knights-of-the-Round-Table scholars, begins classes at Avalon High where, new to the area, she slowly discovers herself involved in the prophecy of King Arthur's reincarnation. Her being there is no accident. The Order of the Bear, an ancient secret society awaiting Arthur's return, may be at hand, and Allie's own parents, if not members of the Order, are at least Order wannabes. Allie becomes quickly linked to two classmates: Will, the school's revered pretty-boy quarterback (whose girlfriend is having relations on the side with his best friend, and whose dark, brooding step-brother lurks about threateningly), is the most obvious Arthur candidate. Miles, the observant and witty school geek, suffers psychic flashes that always prove true and may be the reincarnation of Merlin. As the Arthur prophecy seems to indeed be unfolding before her, Allie finds herself in the protectorate role, guarding Will against the forces of Mordred who're out to destroy Arthur at his every appearance down the centuries, whose destruction would plunge the world into another Dark Age.
A young girl who grew up listening to King Arthur stories and prophecies moves to a new town and soon discovers she is part of the prophecy that says King Arthur will one day be reincarnated and is a member of the knights of the round table.
Allie Pennington (Britt Robertson) is transferred to a new school (Avalon High) where she discovers that her new classmates are reincarnations of King Arthur and his court. Now her mission is to solve the school's mystery before Mordred wins again. Allie also meets the high school football quarterback, Will Wagner (Gregg Sulkin).that brings Arthurian legend alive at a contemporary high school| Allie believes that Will is King Arthur and that a mean classmate Marco is Mordred, but it turns out that Marco is another Knight while Mr. Moore, one of her teachers is Mordred. It's revealed that Allie herself is King Arthur when she draws a plastic sword and it turns into Excalibur. Allie and her friends battle Mordred and after Miles (Merlin reincarnated) summons Merlin's staff away from Mordred, Allie defeats him. Mordred tries to have her arrested in the real world, but she turns Excalibur back into a plastic sword and Mordred/Mr. Moore is taken away as the police think he's insane.
