A sharp-witted comedy that follows a group of apparent strangers in interlocking stories taking place in ten different bars during the course of one evening throughout Los Angeles.
A dentist teams up with a feisty would-be assassin to put the final touches on the plan to kill his wife. Once he makes a play for the assassin's payment, he unknowingly sets off a chain of events that fuels a cross-town journey through the many lounges, bars, strip clubs and the occasional nudist ping pong club scattered across Los Angeles. Along the way, we are introduced to a series of idiosyncratic characters, from gangsters to exotic dancers, from ex-cons to cops, with the odd hatcheck girl and bartender thrown in for good measure.
An undercover ex-cop named Francine Driver, who poses as an assassin, meets a dentist in a Los Angeles bar. His name is Nick and he wants his wife Karen dead. He does not have the upfront payment of $20,000, but he promises he can get it for her before the night is over. When he leaves, Francine meets a young man named Henry, a photographer who charms her before stealing her wallet and running off into the night. Her wallet contains the device used to record her conversation with Nick, and the evidence is incriminating. And so begins Francine's frantic search through the bars and clubs of Los Angeles. As she journeys, a number of characters are introduced. There is Henry's sister, Teresa, an exotic dancer. There is Teresa and Henry's father, Dodge, an ex-con who gives his son the most baffling of advice and has a strange fixation on bones. There is Nick's patient, Aldo, a gangster who can get Nick his money ... but only by roping him into participating in a heist. There is a bartender named Camilla, who is having relationship problems with her divorced upstairs neighbor. There is June, a hatcheck girl for an exclusive nude ping pong club. There is Francine's superior, Sam Salazar, who is always addressed as Officer but is actually a detective. And then there is Francine's ex-husband, Emmit, who has something Francine wants.
