A former secretary, newly appointed as a scriptwriter for propaganda films, joins the cast and crew of a major production while the Blitz rages around them.
During the London Blitz of World War II, Catrin Cole is recruited by the British Ministry of Information to write scripts for propaganda films that the public will actually watch without scoffing. In the line of her new duties, Cole investigates the story of two young women who supposedly piloted a boat in the Dunkirk Evacuation. Although it proved a complete misapprehension, the story becomes the basis for a fictional film with some possible appeal. As Cole labors to write the script with her new colleagues such as Tom Buckley, veteran actor Ambrose Hilliard must accept that his days as a leading man are over as he joins the project. Together, this disparate trio must struggle against such complications such as sexism against Cole, jealous relatives, and political interference in their artistic decisions even as London endures the bombs of the enemy. In the face of those challenges, they share a hope to contribute something meaningful in this time of war and in their own lives.
1940, and the war rages on, while in war-bruised London, the heavy German bombers batter relentlessly the British capital at the height of the Blitzkrieg. Under those circumstances, with nearly all England's youth dispatched overseas to fight the Nazis and the morale sapping, the cinema, inevitably, became a form of consolation and comfort, a place to inform and to lift the public spirits. With the intention to give the audience optimism and to inspire the Nation, the British Ministry of Information - Film Division, summons the talented and assertive young copywriter Catrin Cole to collaborate with the grouchy screenwriter Tom Buckley to add a dash of female perspective as a writer of "slop" or in other words, sentimental language, for the informational propaganda shorts. Hesitantly, but without delay, the improbable team with the aid of the pompous actor Ambrose Hilliard, will join efforts to encapsulate authenticity and bring to a conclusion a film project concentrating on the heroic Dunkirk Evacuation. Will they manage to capture the public's imagination?

