A plane is taken over by a mysterious virus. When the plane lands it is placed under quarantine. Now a group of survivors must band together to survive the quarantine.
In Los Angeles, the police put a residential building in quarantine. Meanwhile, the flight attendants of Trans Sky Air, Jenny and Paula, are welcoming the passengers of flight TS Air 318 from Los Angeles to Kansas City with Captain Forrest and Co-Pilot Wilsy. Teacher Henry brings a cage of hamsters to the cabin, but Jenny tells him that it should be transported in the cargo hold. However, one hamster bites the fingertip of the fat passenger Ralph. Soon, Ralph vomits and becomes aggressive, attacking Paula. The male passengers help Jenny and lock Ralph in the bathroom while Captain Forrest requests an emergency landing. When they land in the airport, they find all the gates closed and the Captain heads the plane to an abandoned terminal. Employee Ed helps the crew and passengers to reach the exit, but they find that they are closed. Soon they discover that the place is in quarantine and there is no way out.
Los Angeles. Jenny and Paula are two female flight attendants on their way to LAX for a flight to Nashville, at the gate they meet George. George frequently flies to his parents on either side of the country and rejects Jenny's attempts at kindness and guide of control. Aboard the plane, we meet the rest of the crew and passengers; Captain Forrest and co-pilot Wilson, an elderly couple Bev and Sylvester (who has Parkinson's, unable to speak or move his body), Louise (another elderly woman who brings her cat), Henry (a teacher who has brought a cage of hamsters on the flight but is made to put them in the cargo hold), Nial and Susan (a germophobic couple with a baby on the way), Shilah (an Army Medic), another couple, Hvorst and Nicca (who are both foreign and speak heavily accented English), Preston (a businessman), and finally, Ralph (a heavyset golf player).As they board the plane, Ralph is accidentally bitten by one of Henry's hamsters. As the flight progresses, he deteriorates quickly and demands that the plane land. His mouth begins to foam and he vomits on Jenny, before running in a rage for the cockpit. Preston, Henry, George and Paula manage to knock Ralph out and restrain him with plastic cuffs while Wilson locks the cockpit door as per terrorism protocol.The plane is directed to land at the Las Vegas Airport, but communication with the tower is cut off as they land. Ralph reawakens and bites Paula's nose, severely injuring her. Shilah uses the plane's emergency first aid kit to administer an anesthetic, but Paula is losing a lot of blood and needs immediate medical attention. Frustrated with the lack of communication from the tower, Captain Forrest taxis the plane to a gate, as the other passengers attempt to trap Ralph in the bathroom. Ed, a baggage handler at the terminal, sees the plane land and opens a gate so they can disembark. As they attempt to gain access to the airport, they discover that all the doors into the terminal are locked. Ed leads them to an employee entrance. Forrest and Wilson hold the plane's bathroom door shut while everyone else (except for Bev and Sylvester) escapes into the staging room (a giant warehouse of loading docks and various equipment to move bags).It is here that they are first notified that they are being quarantined. Because of Paula's worsening condition, Shilah tells Jenny that she has a medical kit in her luggage, and Jenny enlists Ed's help to save her friend. The power in the staging room goes out as Preston, Henry, Jenny, Ed, and Nial move back to the plane to find that Wilson and Forrest are gone and the bathroom is filled with blood. Sylvester is still in his seat but his wife is gone as well. He uses his eyes to call the group's attention to a pair of plastic cuffs on the floor that have been chewed through.Ed manages to find a sort of trapdoor from the cabin area of the plane into the hold. Jenny searches for Shilah's medical kit while Nial grabs a gun from his suitcase, and Preston stays with Sylvester above. Nial is bitten by a rodent, and says that it looked like a rat. Jenny reasons that it must have been a hamster. Before climbing back out of the hold, Jenny looks up through the trapdoor to see Preston's laptop spattered with blood. She turns to find Forrest, mouth foaming, eyes red. He attacks her, forcing Nial to shoot him in the back. He is splattered with blood but everyone has escaped without getting bitten.The group moves out of the hold and into the aisle of the plane, where they find Sylvester on the ground, thrown from his wheelchair, and Preston bitten on the back of the neck. They go to regroup with everyone else and are attacked by the infected Bev, whom they lock in the walkway. When they meet up with the rest of the group, they begin to realize that the infection is probably being spread by bites and that the symptoms appear to be those of a "super-rabies" virus turning people bitten in to a rabid type of zombie (or more likely "were-rats"). Sylvester tries to alert the group to a rat lurking above him, but they fail to hear him and the rat attacks him. George notices the rat perched on his head seconds after and knocks it off, drawing enough attention for everyone to see it. They proceed to lock him and Paula up in the fear that they're infected as well.George takes this opportunity to accuse Henry of being responsible for the infection, accusing him of bringing rats onto the plane, and not hamsters. When Henry denies this, George says that he saw long tails peeking out from the carrier, pointing out that hamsters have short, stubby tails. Jenny takes Henry aside to talk to him, and Henry claims that George is just confused. It's illegal to bring lab rats onto a plane, and Henry reasons that if he had he would have been caught by security. It is here that they are attacked by the infected Ralph again. Jenny's screams attract the attention of the group, and together they strangle him with a rubber hose.A team of four CBDT officers arrive and enter the building heavily armed. They direct the group to take Sylvester and Paula out their makeshift cells and administer 'protocol' to them, a pressurized injection to the neck. They demand the others step forward to receive it as well. They are all hesitant, as the CBDT officers refuse to explain what's going on. Louise finally steps forward. While attempting to administer it to her, her cat (who had eaten Ralph's vomit earlier) bites her neck. The team fires and misses several times and Sylvester jumps in and bites one of the officials. After killing him, the three other officials attempt to flee, but find they are locked in. They shoot out the locks and run. They, along with Hvorst, who attempts to flee with them, are all apparently shot to death by the surrounding military personnel.Ed drags a wounded surviving officer inside, and the group flees the infected, now including Nial (from the rat bite he received earlier). He grabs Susan as she attempts to escape with the others. They take shelter in a large catering truck. The group interrogates the CBDT officer.The officer tell them about the quarantine building in L.A. (from the first Quarantine movie) and about a possible outbreak. But before giving them any real answers, he shoots himself.Wilson attempts to attack the group from a opening in the top of the trailer whilst Ed directs George to activate a lift that crushes Wilson between the trailer and a beam above it. They exit the truck and flee, but Henry turns back, alone, without telling anyone where he's going. Ed leads the remainder of the group to a blueprint office to try to find an old drainage tunnel that doesn't appear on the new blueprints. While fleeing, Nicca is dragged away from the group and moments later Paula attacks the rest of them. Jenny reconciles with killing her friend, and attacks her with a metal bar. The infected Paula falls off the catwalk and dies.The surviving group (currently consisting of Jenny, George, Ed, and Shilah) reach the airport engineer's office and start looking for the blueprints detailing where the tunnel is. George snoops into Henry's briefcase, discovering alarming documents and a case containing a vial and a syringe. The infected Nial and Susan arrive and attack, but Henry saves the group by shooting the two to death with Nial's gun. It's discovered he was bitten, but George accuses Henry and pulls out the vial. Henry admits to having started it all, claiming he's, "One of two good guys. [He's] doing something. Otherwise, the population will just keep growing and growing while the planet is dying." Henry is apparently part of the so-called Doomsday Cult (referenced briefly in the previous movie) to bring about the end of the world through a weaponized rabies virus. He threatens to kill Jenny if George doesn't hand over the antidote. Ed promptly attacks him to try getting the gun away, and Henry shoots him dead. The others are immediately scared into compliance.While administering the antidote, Henry admits that he has "friends to the cause" that are helping him with everything, and that they helped him get the rats and antidote through security and let him know his 'lab' in L.A. was compromised and that he should skip town. After administering the antidote to himself, an injection into his brain through his eye socket, he leaves and forces George to come with him, hitting Jenny with the gun when she tries to stop him.Shilah offers to go ahead as Jenny's a little overwhelmed and out of it. While separated, Jenny is attacked by the infected Preston. After a close chase, she kills him by bashing his head over with a piece of machinery. She then gets a second wind and continues her search for George.Shilah shows up, bitten, but with one of the CBDT's thermal/nightvision camera goggles, which make it easier to walk around and see the unknowing infected in the dark. She gives it to Jenny, telling her to go rescue George and "kill that rat." At this time there are only four infected besides Shilah, and Shilah uses herself as a distraction to allow Jenny to escape and find George. She is seen to be attacked by all four infected.Jenny finds George abandoned and crying near the drainage tunnel. It turns out Henry's antidote has failed and the man is now infected. George (unable to see anything in the dark) begs Jenny to stay up out of the tunnel, but she comes down anyways, and is attacked by Henry. She drops the goggles, and George puts them on and is instantly able to see the gun laying on the ground. He grabs it and shoots Henry. He then hands the goggles back to Jenny, who sees that Henry is incapacitated on the ground but still alive. She proceeds to use a metal bar to repeatedly strike Henry's head, killing him.The two remaining survivors escape through an air vent as the terminal is being burnt down by the soldiers. Jenny is revealed to be infected and she begs George to leave her. George refuses to go without her, and Jenny reluctantly agrees to follow. At the end of the tunnel, there are metal bars that George is barely able to squeeze between. He turns back and calls for Jenny, who is now fully infected and attempts to grab him. However, she is too big to fit through the bars and she retreats back into the dark tunnel. George drops the goggles and is seen walking away from the airport fence... free and clearly not infected, but alone.After George leaves, the scene skips to the point of view of the goggles, which you then see Louise's cat through. The cat shakes off what appears to be part of the virus, letting it splatter onto the lens, before assumingly heading into the city of Las Vegas....
