Swiss Professor Raimund Gregorius (Jeremy Irons) abandons his lectures and buttoned-down life to embark on a thrilling adventure that will take him on a journey to the very heart of himself.
This movie is about aging Swiss Professor Raimund Gregorius (Jeremy Irons) of classical languages who, after a chance encounter with a Portuguese woman, quits his job and travels to Lisbon in the hope of discovering the fate of a certain author, a doctor and poet who fought against Portuguese Dictator Antonio de Oliveira Salazar.
In Bern, Switzerland, Professor Raimund Gregorius (Jeremy Irons) saves a young woman from committing suicide jumping off a bridge and brings her to the school where he works. During his class, she leaves the building and Raimund unsuccessfully runs after her to give her coat back. He finds a book, "Um Ourives das Palavras" (A Goldsmith of Words) written by the Portuguese Amadeu de Almeida Prado (Jack Huston) in the pocket and he goes to the bookstore stamped on the first page and discovers that the book was sold on the previous day to the woman. He finds a train ticket to Lisbon that will departure in fifteen minutes inside the book and he goes to the Central Station expecting to find the woman. He embarks in the train to Lisbon and reads the book, becoming fascinated with the story. When he arrives in Lisbon, Raimund decides to stay in the city to meet Amadeu. He finds his house, where his sister Adriana (Charlotte Rampling) lives, and soon he discovers that Amadeu is dead. Raimund decides to research the life of Amadeu, who was a doctor and writer that belonged to the resistance against the Dictator Salazar, and his discoveries affect his own boring life.
Professor Raimund Gregorius (Jeremy Irons), a teacher of Classics at a Bern, Switzerland institution, leads a lonely and staid existence. One rainy day while walking to work, he prevents a young woman from committing suicide. After losing track of her, he becomes obsessed with finding her to make sure she's all right, he going solely on what he knows, namely the bridge where she tried to jump, her red coat which she left behind, and a Portuguese language booked titled "Um Ourives das Palavras" (A Goldsmith of Words) by Amadeu de Almeida Prado (Jack Huston) and a train ticket to Lisbon in the coat pocket. Dropping everything in his life, Raimund decides to use the train ticket to see if he can find her there. En route to Lisbon, Raimund reads the book and becomes equally obsessed with finding all he can about the author due to the touching philosophies of life contained in the book, such philosophies which Raimund always contemplates, and how the book and/or the author is connected to the young woman. Upon arriving in Lisbon, Raimund initially learns that Amadeu de Almeida Prado was a medical doctor who originally wanted to be a philosopher and writer, that this book is his only published work, of which only one hundred copies were ever printed, and that he died a young man of thirty-three in 1974. If Raimund does learn the entire story, he will discover one of commitment to knowledge, repression, love, and betrayal, those items which still affect the living, such as that young woman, and may ultimately affect what happens in Raimund's own life.
The story follows Swiss Professor Raimund Gregorius (Jeremy Irons), who, having saved a beautiful Portuguese woman from leaping to her death, stumbles upon a mesmerizing book by a Portuguese author, which compels him to suddenly abandon the boring life he has led for years and to embark on an enthralling adventure. In search of the author, Gregorius acts as detective, pulling together pieces of a puzzle that involves political and emotional intrigue and the highest possible stakes. His voyage is one that transcends time and space, delving into the realms of history, medicine, and love, all in search of true meaning to his life.
Bern, Switzerland. While walking over a bridge on his way to a local university, Raimund Gregorius (Jeremy Irons), a Swiss professor of ancient languages, notices a young woman in a red coat standing on the railing, about to jump. Dropping his briefcase, he runs and pulls her down. She helps him gather the papers that have spilled from his briefcase and accompanies him to the school where he teaches. But instead of waiting to talk, she leaves during the middle of his class, without her coat.Concerned, Raimund grabs the coat and runs after her, but fails to find her. He checks her pockets for identification. All he finds is a small book, a memoir of sorts, by Amadeu do Prado. It is stamped with the address of the bookstore, so he goes there. The bookseller remembers the girl purchasing this obscure book. As he leafs through it, a train ticket to Lisbon, Portugal falls out. The train is, in fact, leaving in 15 minutes. Confused and doubtful, Raimund rushes to the station, but the woman is nowhere in sight. At the last moment he decides to use the ticket himself, and during the journey he reads the book.According to the book, Amadeu do Prado lived in Lisbon, so Raimund searches for him, hoping that this will lead to the woman. He finds Amadeu's home, where he is welcomed in by the writer's sister Adriana (Charlotte Rampling). She gives the impression he still lives there. Raimund learns that Amadeu is a doctor, and that only 100 copies of the book were printed. When Raimund asks what happened to their father, Adriana's reaction is hostile. As he is leaving, the maid informs him that he can find Amadeu in the town's cemetery. He finds the tomb: Amadeu died in 1974.On the street, Raimund is hit by a bicyclist and smashes his glasses. While obtaining new glasses from a local optician, Mariana (Martina Gedeck), he narrates his experiences. When he collects the glasses, she tells him in fact that her uncle knew Amadeu do Prado well and would like to talk to Raimund.Raimund and his lovely new-found friend Mariana both go to the nursing home where her uncle João Eça resides (Tom Courtenay). João explains that he and Amadeu were both in the resistance against the Salazar dictatorship, a story told in continuing flashbacks as the film continues.Raimund then visits the priest Father Bartolomeu (Christopher Lee) who taught and also buried Amadeu do Prado. In another long flashback, the priest explains that Amadeu, a smart young boy from an aristocratic background, befriended Jorge O'Kelly (August Diehl), another bright boy in the school though of lowly means. They bonded through their love for knowledge, particularly the philosophical and political knowledge not permitted under Salazar. Amadeu gave a graduation speech that reflected his contempt for the regime, much to the chagrin of his father, a well respected judge.Raimund returns to Adriana and asks for her side of the story, and then visits João again for more information. He learns that Amadeu died of an aneurysm, which he knew he had, but had not told her about. As a doctor, Amadeu never refused a patient, and when a powerful member of the Salazar regime Rui Luís Mendes, called "the Butcher of Lisbon", was brought to Amadeu's clinic, he saved the man's life. Amadeu's friends were shocked by this, especially Jorge, who at that time was already in the resistance.Later, Amadeu confronted Jorge and declared that he too would join the resistance. Jorge introduced him to João and to Estefânia (Mélanie Laurent), a beautiful woman who helped the resistance by memorizing people's names and contact information, and who they were both attracted to. When the revolution against Salazar began, Amadeu was able to smuggle Estefânia to safety in Spain. Raimund learns where she went and goes there to see that she is still alive. The older Estefania (Lena Olin) tells Raimund about her romance with Amadeu before her fleeing into exile.Raimund finally meets the woman from the bridge again, in Lisbon; she had felt suicidal because she had just learned from the book that her beloved grandfather was the Butcher of Lisbon, but is learning to accept this.The events become a catalyst to Raimund's life, in a gentle sort of way. He informs the school that he is now returning to his job. In the final scene, Mariana goes to the railway station with him and, at the last moment, suggests he could instead stay.
