The lives of a bored suburban couple are changed forever when a seemingly nice old man gives their daughter a job at his fish store, and soon his gruesome hobbies are bought to light.
When Syamoto's teenage daughter is caught stealing, a generous middle-aged man helps resolve the situation. The man and his wife offer to have Syamoto's troublesome daughter work at their fish store. Syamoto soon discovers the horrific truth of the seemingly perfect couple.
Syamoto's life is a bit on the mundane as he is approaching his own mid-life crises. His wife and daughter are perfect examples of a text book of a dysfunctional family. Syamoto's teenage daughter is caught steeling from a store. It just so happens that Syamoto and the store his daughter stole from both sell fish for aquariums. The General owns the fish store and has a staff of young teenage girls helping the customers. The plot thickens as the lives of Syamoto and the General become more intertwined. A metamorphose begins that reveals the strengths and weakness of each character. Syamoto is afraid and therefore the perfect example of a consummate victim. The General is a bully who takes what ever he wants any time he wants it. The lives of Syamoto and The General go through many revelations of each others ghosts and demons with the eventual emergence of each character inner self.
In an unhappy home, Mr. Shamamto (Mitsuru Fukikoshi) lives with his second wife Taeko (Megumi Kagurazaka) and daughter Mitsuko (Hikari Kajiwara) from first marriage. The daughter is filled with rage that her father remarried so shortly after her mother's death. The stepmother lives with the guilt that perhaps she is the cause of her stepdaughter's troubles. In this uneasy enviornment, Mr. Shamamoto runs "Shamoto's Tropical Fish Store" out of their home.Then on a rainy evening Mr. Shamoto receives a phone call and learns his daughter has been caught for shoplifting. Mr. Shamamoto and his wife quickly leave for the store. When they arrive, they find a furious manager in the back storeroom berating their daughter. The Shamoto's apologize profusely, but their words fail to appease the seething manager, who believes this isn't the first time their daughter has stolen from the store. In fact, the manager is threatening to call the police.Suddenly, a seemingly mild manner man walks into the storeroom and attempts to pacify the manager. The man's name is Mr. Murata (Denden) and he is the owner of "Amazon Gold Tropical Fish Store". Mr. Murata is also the person that reported their daughter to the manager. The man has a way with his words and in no time the manager is wrapped around his finger. Before leaving the store, Mr. Murata invites the Shamoto family to visit his tropical fish store, which is only a few miles away. While leaving the store he offers to drive their daughter in his brand new red ferrari.When the Shamoto's arrive at "Amazon Gold Tropical Fish Store" they are amazed by the vast selection of fishes and the sheer expansiveness of the store. They also meet Mr Murata's wife (Asuka Kurosawa). During their chat at the store Mr. Murata offers their daughter a job at "Amazon Gold Tropical Fish Store" and boarding at his workplace. He currently has 6 other employees living in his company dormitory. The Shamoto's, already in awe of Mr. Murata's success, do not refuse his offer. Their willingness to let their daughter stay &amp; work there is partly due to their troubled daughter's need for help and partly due to the parents need for privacy in their small home. Unfortunately for the Shamotos, they soon learn that not all that glitters is gold and in fact they have fallen under the spell of a cold blooded serial killer.
