In 1992 Professor Richard Davidson, one of the world's leading neuroscientists, met the Dalai Lama, who encouraged him to apply the same rigorous methods he used to study depression and anxiety to the study of compassion and kindness, those qualities cultivated by Tibetan meditation practice. The results of Davidson's studies at the Center for Investigating Healthy Minds at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, are portrayed in Free the Mind as they are applied to treating PTSD in returning Iraqi vets and children with ADHD. The film poses two fundamental questions: What really is consciousness, and how does it manifest in the brain and body? And is it possible to physically change the brain solely through mental practices?
Free the mind is the fantastic tale of how one man's vision provides a turning point in the lives of three people. Professor Richard Davidson is one of the world's leading researchers of the human brain. He sets out to discover if, and how, it is possible to physically change the brain using only the power of thought. Steve and Rich are just two out of thousands of American war veterans. Their lives have turned into painful nightmares; restless insomniacs tormented by their own consciences after events witnessed and deeds done during wartime. Will, 5 years old, suffers from ADHD and anxiety. His parents are eager to try other options than those provided by traditional medicine. Can Richard Davidson make a difference?
Free the Mind follows three test subjects on an emotionally-charged journey through life-changing experiments overseen by Dr. Davidson that delve into the deepest recesses of the human mind. Steve and Rich are American veterans who served in Iraq and Afghanistan and are tormented by painful wartime memories. Will is a five-year-old suffering from ADHD and severe anxiety whose parents are eager to find treatment options other than traditional medications. Can Dr. Davidson free these three from their troubled existences and help them lead happier lives? The film explores the intersection between modern neuroscience and ancient contemplative practices, as well as deeper questions about the nature of consciousness and how it manifests in the brain and body. Animated segments vividly depict the effects on the brain of the techniques being employed, helping viewers understand the complex ideas involved.

