Based on the 2012 end-of-world prophesy where two unlikely characters team up to solve a mystery that just might save the world.
A book editor is in the posession of an artifact that gives him visions. He lets on that he has another book written ready for publishing and asks for a proof reader (by name) to come and collect it. When the proof reader arrives, he finds the book editor dead and upon touching the artifact, has visions himself about the ending of the world. The entire plot is based on the 2012 galactic allignment end of world scenario, and the lead character teams up with an attractive archeologist and together they run from rogue government agents who also want the artifact, whilst narrowly avoiding death both from being shot and by falling into the earth during massive earthquakes. Mean while the rest of the world is befalling massive destruction. with only hours to spare, the duo must somehow save the day.
García (Bruce Ramsay) has just arrived arrived to a scientific camp in Bulgary where some scientists and military people are studying the Black Sea which has recently disappeared. Garcia fears that the event may create religious turmoil. When he has just identified himself, a huge earthquake creates an abyss, from which they almost can't run away.In New York, an editor, Sam Lovell (Jerry Wasserman) sends a proof corrector called Eric Fox (A.J. Buckley) to pick up the last manuscript of the crazy wacko Rupert Crane. Eric finds it weird that the editor wants to pick a manuscript up, but as he will be paid, he finally goes with reluctance.Brooke Calvin (Jewel Staite) is explaining to some visitors that the Maya's predictions about the end of the world are mythical, but that science doesn't support such claims at the present moment, and that only lunatics believe in those things.Raven (Roseanne Supernault) thinks that grandpa John (Gordon Tootoosis) is a bit crazy when he talks about listening to the vision and respecting the sacred plots of land. Meanwhile, Fox arrives to a café where he's supposed to meet Rupert Crane. He talks to the waitress who gives him the manuscript. When he is trying to tell his editor the news, New York finds itself torn in half by huge earthquakes.The General (Alan Dale) listens to the scientific news that the universe's equator is causing the Earth's earthquakes. He also hears about Rupert Crane.Fox listens to a newscaster (Kate Gajdosik) to give out the news about New York's disaster. He decides to meet up with Crane in person. When he arrives to his home, Crane has committed suicide. There are many strange writings on a blackboard. Fox touches a kind of black-marble ball and he has an overload of futuristic visions, so it's implied that he passes out.Crane had called Brooke to her job. He says that she will need his help. Brooke arrives to Crane's and finds Fox there. She enters anyway and threatens Fox with a gun. Fox tells her that he had a vision of her aiming at him. There is a videotape with the name "Eric and Brooke" written on it. They watch the tape and Crane says that there is no manuscript. The stick belongs to Eric by birthright, Crane alleges. There were more visions for Crane: he tells them to run away and to be careful with the painted wall. Eric finally convinces Brooke to hide with him. Eric thinks that they are about to be shot by the military men who has just arrived. Brooke wants to talk to the police / agents. She makes some noise but an earthquake hides it. When Brooke decides to give herself up, one of the federal agents -called Jenning (Rick Ravanello)- tries to shoot them. Fortunately, Eric has seen the painted white stone and steps onto it, unloading some explosives. This gives them the opportunity to run away.Brooke and Eric run towards a forest lake. Crane advises Fox to use the artifact as less as possible. He has prepared a tent and some tools for them to spend some time. There is also a map which will lead them to a car. Eric is told to find the connection with the Moai figures. Meanwhile, the federal agents keep on looking for Crane's non-existent manuscript and decide to blame Crane's death onto Brooke and Eric. The General complains that science doesn't offer any explanation. The general also tells Jennings to fulfill his task - and it's implied that he's giving the federal agent order to shoot Brooke. The General admits that they need Fox alive.Eric touches the artifact. He sees how the north of Canada will separate itself. Brooke phones Dennis (Matthew Kevin Anderson), her assistant, who tells her that Italy has crumbled down under the sea. Brooke will send a photo of the drawing which Eric has seen in his vision. It's from a Prehistoric painting in North America. Dennis phones Brooke to tell her that the TV news is announcing that her and Eric killed Rupert. She denies it.Eric feels Jennings' arrival. The federal officer is not afraid of hurting some innocents, e.g. the talkative waitress which had served Eric the first time. They are saved by an earthquake again. The weather becomes freezing cold.Brooke talks about the equators of the Earth and the universe getting in line, aligning themselves like 26,000 years before. Dr Sparks (David Richmond-Peck) finds a massive black hole. When it passes the Earth by, the geography of our planet will have changed forever. Meanwhile, Dennis is evacuated. He tells Brooke that there is an Indian tribe has to do with the problem, as the drawing of Eric coincides with the paintings in a North-American Indian cave. Raven and her grandpa reach a cave she didn't know anything about. He hadn't told her anything because she wasn't ready before. He is worried because there will be more and more deaths. Raven appears out of the blue and aims at them. When she realizes that they are the people John was waiting for, she leads them to her grandpa. The drawings are exactly as Eric's vision. John says that Orion's constellation will save the Earth. There are seven Moai figures, and there has to be another set of seven figures hidden somewhere close to avoid the present danger. Henning appears and shoots at them. John takes Raven's shotgun and wants to be the one who kills Henning. Fox tells Henning that the stick is the essential tool to save the world.John shoots Henning, and he aims well. However, Henning also shoots John. Raven picks up the gun and it's Brooke who shoots, giving Eric the opportunity to kill Henning. Raven is with John. John is bruised but he will survive. There is another earthquake: John tells Eric and Brooke to leave him and Raven, because they will be alright. Fox and Calvin run. Fox touches the stick again to find the seven statues. It hurts more and more. Finally, Brooke feels compelled to take the stick away. Eric tells her that he saw a clearing in the middle of the woods, and that there is a federal agent who will help them to do whatever will need to be done.García aims at them when they leave the woods. They tell him that Henning is dead. They tell Garcia the truth of what happened. Garcia can't believe that there exists no manuscript at all, or that Henning tried to kill them. García tells his boss, the General, the truth of everything, and discloses the existence of the stick. The general is going to talk to the president, and offers García whatever he needs.Obviously, the stick is made of an unknown material. The stick radiates some frequency. They think they know where the seven figures are. In China, many people have died because the soil has parted into two. García, Calvin and Fox are going to the location by car. A helicopter sent by the General appears. They wonder who gave Henning his orders.An assistant (Paula Lindberg) tells the General that the president will give orders from the Air Force One. The General doesn't want to hide with the rest of the VIP's. Sparks uses red-light vision to find the seven figures. García, Sparks and the rest start to dig out looking for the biggest of the seven. They only have 20 minutes to put the stick in its right place.Cut to images of the huge black hole eating up some other sun/planet in the universe.They finally find the Moai figure. They have to wait four minutes to put the stick on the figure. The General appears, wanting to use the stick to become the world ruler. He knows that there will be some survivors - only a few - if the final disaster happens. The General says that nor Eric Rox nor his father -Rupert Crane- have a real right to use the stick.García shoots the General. The General uses the stick, but he doesn't get any visions. Eric throws the General to the hole. He takes the stick and puts it into its right place. The released energy kills the General. The seven Mooi figures emerge and they stop the black hole. The Rapa-Nui-like figures repel and destroy the black hole, which dies out.García is still alive, although hurt. The president of the USA says that the earthquakes will disappear, and that now it's the moment to re-build the world.
