It's 1968, and four young, talented Australian Aboriginal girls learn about love, friendship and war when their all-girl group The Sapphires entertain the US troops in Vietnam.
1968 was the year that changed the world. And for four young Aboriginal sisters from a remote mission this is the year that would change their lives forever. Around the globe, there was protest and revolution in the streets. Indigenous Australians finally secured the right to vote. There were drugs and the shock of a brutal assassination. And there was Vietnam. The sisters, Cynthia, Gail, Julie and Kay are discovered by Dave, a talent scout with a kind heart, very little rhythm but a great knowledge of soul music. Billed as Australia's answer to 'The Supremes', Dave secures the sisters their first true gig, and flies them to Vietnam to sing for the American troops. Based on a true story, THE SAPPHIRES is a triumphant celebration of youthful emotion, family and music.
Outback Australia, late-1960s. An Irish entertainer, Dave Lovelace, is working as an MC at a small pub. He is impressed by a trio of Aboriginal women who sang country tunes in a pub competition. Seeing an advert for musicians needed to entertain the troops in Vietnam, he convinces them to try out for the gig. Their cousin in Melbourne also joins the band. One thing - they will sing soul music.
1968. The aborigines in Australia have recently been granted full citizenship rights in the country, but are still largely treated as second class by the white majority as witnessed by what happens to young adult sisters Gail, Cynthia and Julie - whose family has long lived on the Cummeragunja Reserve - at a local talent contest, where they are clearly the most talented but where they are all but ignored. Who can see their talent is the show's Caucasian emcee, Dave Lovelace, a failed musician who drowns all his life failures too often with booze. So when Julie, the most talented and ambitious but perhaps the most naive of the sisters, suggests they all collaborate to audition to perform for the US troops in Vietnam, they all agree, they deciding to include their cousin Kay, who was part of the stolen generation that was taken away by the white authorities to live as white because of her fair skin, but who ultimately decided to stay away on her own volition. However, Dave knows that they have to put together a true act as opposed to the girls just standing and singing the country and western songs to which they are most attuned. Not because it is the music to which he is most attracted but because it's what American audiences expect from dark skinned girls, Dave transforms them into a girl soul group. They pass the audition, but are not prepared either for the constant need to prove themselves while in Vietnam or for the conditions of it being a war zone. But what may ultimately be their professional failing is their own differences, including those differences with Dave. Gail, arguably the weakest performer of the four females but who has always been the de facto leader as the oldest, and Dave are the one most often butting heads, but the old adage may be true that there is a fine line between love and hate.

