Madrid, post-Spanish Civil War. Sisters Hortensia and Pepita are involved with an underground guerrilla movement. Hortensia is captured and forced to deliver her baby in jail. Pepita tries to find a way to help the guerrilla and her sister.
Pepita , a young woman from rural Cordoba, travels to Madrid, in the postwar period, to be near her sister Hortensia who is pregnant and in prison. Pepita meets Paulino, coming from a bourgeois family from Valencia, who fights alongside his brother in the mountains of Madrid. Despite the difficulty in their relationship, they fall in love passionately. Hortensia is sentenced to death. The execution will not be carried out until after delivery. Pepita tries by all means and in all instances that execution is condoned. She goes every day to the prison in order to take with her the future son of Hortensia, pleading not to give him up for adoption or leave him in an orphanage ...
Two sisters, Tensi and Pepita find themselves caught up in politics in the turmoil following the Spanish Civil War, when Franco's police started to go after people who disagreed with the regime. The pregnant Hortensia (Inma Cuesta) is locked away in a crowded women's prison because of her republican ideology. Her younger sister Pepita (María León) moves from Andalusia to Madrid to be near her and tries to look for influence people who could help her sister; actually she works cleaning a house of a family which is very close to Franco. Finally, Pepita achieves to delay her sister's fusillade until her baby born. Pepita meets young fighter Paulino (Marc Clotet), whose best friend, Felipe (Daniel Holguín), is Hortensia's boyfriend. Paulino and Felipe are two republicans hidden in the mountains and who are very looked by the police because of their politic activism, and Pepita will try to help them to get away from police. Pepita will keep Hortensia and Felipe in contact by letters, risking her life; and she will be tortured by police to say where Paulino and Felipe are hidden, but she will resist the pain.
Meanwhile, Hortensia will find support and comfort in their cell companions, Tomasa and Reme, but will also suffer abuse from the regime's jailer, called "Zapatones" who tortures all the prisoners and forces them to go against their ideas.
Finally, Hortensia's baby girl is born and, despite all the effort made by Pepita, Hortensia is killed by police. Pepita's boyfriend, Paulino, is sent to prison during nine years but achieves avoid his death penalty, and they get married after all that time.
