When four 40-something college friends meet up for their annual reunion, things start to spiral out of control, and a pact they made as young men is revisited.
Middle aged Jonathan, Richard, Rob and Tim are friends from their college days, each who has had some modicum of success in his life, but each who is facing an issue resulting in dissatisfaction with his current lot. Divorced father Jonathan is a physician whose practice is largely made up of wealthy patients for who he writes prescriptions for drugs for recreational use in return for payola. Party boy Richard was once a novelist, but now resorts to teaching high school English to make a living. Stockbroker Ron is happily married with kids, but in providing for his family, he decided to steal from his clients which has now resulted in a probable indictment by the Securities Commission for embezzlement. And five years ago, openly bisexual Tim was the driver that caused an accident which killed both his sister and his boyfriend, the guilt surrounding which still remains with him. As they live in various parts of the country, they make a point to get together at least once a year for a week, this year's gathering at a rented beachfront house in Big Sur to celebrate Tim's birthday. Their get-togethers are to escape the responsibilities of their everyday lives, by reliving their former frat boy days of drugs, sex and partying. An incident that occurs half way through their scheduled time together leads to them examining their lives, and deciding individually and collectively if they will keep true to a pact they made twenty-five years ago. Their situation is complicated by their encounters with the local sheriff, Officer Boyde.
Richard (Thomas Jane), Ron (Jeremy Piven), Jonathan (Rob Lowe) and Tim (Christian McKay) are old college buddies who gather for a week each year in Big Sur to celebrate Tims birthday and catch up with each others lives. On the surface, they look like typical men in their forties, with careers, families and responsibilities. But as with most people, there is more to them than meets the eye.As the week progresses, they go down the rabbit hole of excess: mountains of drugs are consumed to a blaring rock 'n' roll soundtrack, parties with much younger women spin out of control. Exhausted and run ragged, they bare their souls and their reunion takes a much darker turn. When a promise from their past is brought to light, none of their lives will ever be the same. From director Mark Pellington, I MELT WITH YOU is a visually dazzling, wild and woolly trip deep into the male psyche, driven by four amazingly committed and profound performances from Thomas Jane, Jeremy Piven, Rob Lowe and Christian McKay.(from the Official Movie Website)
