Paolo (Vincenzo Amato), an Italian who drives a Paris tour bus, has just proposed to his true love, the German stewardess, Greta (Nora Tschirner), when the young French beauty, Cécile (Louise Monot) pulls up beside his bus on her bicycle - and, in short order, Paolo, following some very bad advice from his friend, Derek (Paddy Considine), finds himself with a German fiancée, a French "wife", two Australian children who call him "Papa", and his life upside-down.
What happens when Italian passion is in love with German temperament, encounters French beauty and British humor adds the finishing touch? Turbulent chaos that crosses all borders. Every day, bus driver Paolo (Vincenzo Amato) drives tourists through Paris and fervently explains to them his own point of view: Paris is nothing more than a second-class Rome. His true passion is his girlfriend and great love Greta (Nora Tschirner), a German stewardess he is finally ready to propose to today.But as it happens, the very next day, he meets the enchanting Frenchwoman Cécile (Louise Monot). The young single mother of two just barely gets by as an advertising model and is always rushing from one appointment to the other on her bicycle. At a red light, her glance briefly meets that of the tourist bus driver - and she smiles at him. From that moment on, Paolo can't think straight anymore. He's in love with Greta. But this unknown beauty has turned his head. His best friend Derek (Paddy Considine), a smart Brit with a penchant for womanizing, gives him a disastrous piece of advice: the only way to forget this woman is to meet her - because reality is never as wonderful as the fantasy image. But his attempt to talk to Cécile goes wrong - he hits her bicycle with his bus. Plagued by a guilty conscience, Paolo decides to take care of Cécile and her little family, of course without telling Greta about it - he simply isn't able and doesn't want to, either. After all, he knows how feisty his girlfriend can be. A small lie that turns his life completely upside down.

