The relationship between writer AA Milne and his son, Christopher Robin, and how this became the inspiration for Winnie the Pooh.
A rare glimpse into the relationship between beloved children's author A. A. Milne (Domhnall Gleeson) and his son Christopher Robin, whose toys inspired the magical world of Winnie the Pooh. Along with his mother Daphne (Margot Robbie), and his nanny Olive, Christopher Robin and his family are swept up in the international success of the books; the enchanting tales bringing hope and comfort to England after the First World War. But with the eyes of the world on Christopher Robin, what will the cost be to the family?
After fighting in World War 1, Alan Milne returns home to his wife Daphne and settles down to writing plays, poems and books. They have a son, whose nickname is Billy Moon. As Billy grows up, his and his father's wanderings in the woods near their home and their play-acting with Billy's toy animals becomes the inspiration for a series of books by Alan Milne. These books are among the most-loved and most sold children's books ever written - Winnie the Pooh. Alan Milne was better known in literary circles as AA Milne and his son was Christopher Robin Milne.
The film begins during WWII in 1941, with Alan Alexander Milne - nicknamed "Blue" by his friends and family - and his wife Daphne receiving a distressing telegram at their home. It then changes time frame to 1916 during WWI with Blue fighting in the Battle of the Somme. He resumes his life with Daphne in England while suffering shell shock of occasional flashbacks to his battle experiences, and having a child with Daphne. She was hoping for a girl and is disappointed to instead have a son, whom they name Christopher Robin Milne but generally call "Billy Moon". They hire a nanny, Olive, whom Billy calls "Nou". Blue is having difficulty resuming his writing - he wants to draft a compelling treatise against war - and relocates the family to a house in the country with wooded acreage. Daphne resents the move and returns to London for an extended period. During that time, Olive goes to care for her dying mother and the cook takes some time off, leaving Blue and Billy to fend for themselves. Reluctantly at first, Blue takes Billy along on walks in the woods and begins making up stories about the boy's adventures with the stuffed animals the parents have bought for him..

