A retired CIA operative is paired with a young FBI agent to unravel the mystery of a senator's murder, with all signs pointing to a Soviet assassin.
Story kicks off with the mysterious murder of a senator bearing the marks of a Soviet assassin, who was long thought to be dead. To hunt down the killer, a retired CIA operative, who spent his career going toe-to-toe with his Soviet nemesis, is teamed with a young FBI agent.
SPOILER: When a senator is murdered, CIA agent Paul Shepherdson who is near retirement is summoned by his chief Tom Highland to investigate the murder of a senator. Paul has joined CIA twenty-five years ago and has been unsuccessfully hunting down the Russian assassin Cassius 7. The senator was murdered with the same "modus operandi" of Cassius 7, but Paul insists that it is a copycat. They go to a meeting with the FBI and Paul is introduced to the young FBI agent Ben, who has prepared his Harvard thesis based on the killer. Tom asks the reluctant Paul to work with Ben to find Cassius 7 whereabouts. But the problem is that Paul Shepherdson is Cassius 7 and Ben knows too much about the assassin.
A retired CIA spy and a fledgling FBI agent team up to investigate the murder of a U.S. senator and catch a notorious killer in this high-stakes political thriller starring Richard Gere and Topher Grace. Back when he was an active operative, Paul Shepherdson (Gere) devoted his every waking minute to capturing "Cassius" -- an elusive Soviet hit-man with a spectral reputation. Decades later, Shepherdson believes that Cassius has been taken out of the game. But when a U.S. senator is assassinated and all evidence links the killing to Cassius, Shepherdson's former boss Tom Highland (Martin Sheen) convinces his old operative to investigate. Meanwhile, FBI agent Ben Geary (Grace) becomes positively certain that the high-profile murder is the work of the notorious Soviet hatchet man, and begins working with Shepherdson to crack the case. Now, in order to learn their target's true identity, Shepherdson and Geary must first revisit the entire case from top to bottom. In the process, the two determined men uncover a clue that indicates Cassius may not, in fact, be the prime suspect that the government has been chasing for decades, but instead the last person anyone ever expected.

