In this holiday romantic comedy, a mysterious woman who works at the post office answering Santa's mail captures the heart of a disillusioned postal carrier
A postman falls for the pretty co-worker he was recruited to spy on, only to realize that she may be the woman of his dreams in this romantic holiday comedy. When Matt's boss grows suspicious of new hire Kristi, a "Santa Writer" whose job is responding to letters addressed to the North Pole, she recruits him to spy on her and report back with any unusual findings. But the more time Matt spends observing Kristi, the harder he starts to fall for her until he's hopelessly in love. Later, when Kristi uncovers the clandestine plot, she quits her job and disappears without a trace. Meanwhile, Matt searches high and low for her, to no avail. But when Kristi learns that Matt had no choice if he wanted to keep his job, it's only a matter of time before fate brings them back together.
Kristi North works only two months out of the year at the same job: hand writing letter responses to children who wrote to Santa. "Corporate" sends her to a different postal outlet every year, corporate in fact being her father, Santa Claus, and not the postal service as her coworkers believe. Since becoming an adult, Kristi has been looking for a place that she could truly call home. The outlet that she is working at this year in Del Vista, California is managed by egotistical Richard Fuller, who has no Christmas spirit whatsoever and does not allow any Christmas adornments in the outlet. Believing Kristi to be a corporate spy somehow trying to catch him in a mistake to thwart what he believes is an imminent promotion, Fuller enlists the assistance of carrier Matt Sanders as assistant manager, his primary job responsibility to spy back on Kristi. Matt reluctantly takes the job solely because he needs the money as a single man taking care of an eight year old child, his orphaned niece Emily. Matt gave up his life in a band where he was living and took the carrier job to take care of Emily in her own home not to add to her upheaval, and as such has focused all his energies on taking care of her at the expense of his own life. Emily's Christmas wish, which she writes to Santa about, is wanting her Uncle Matt to be happy, in part by finding someone with who to fall in love. Santa's response, via Kristi, who is unaware that Emily's Matt is the same as Matt her coworker, leads to Emily trying to act as matchmaker. In the meantime, Matt tries to do his job by getting closer to Kristi. In the process, Matt and Kristi start to fall for each other, Kristi for the first time in her life. But a happily ever after for them would possibly be threatened by other things happening in Matt's life as well as Kristi finding out about Matt's clandestine work for Fuller.

