Stuck in her boring factory town, twenty-three-year-old Marina is at the mercy of both her father's impending death and her distaste for other humans.
Marina, 23, is growing up with her architect father in a prototype factory town by the sea. Finding the human species strange and repellent, she keeps her distance from it. Instead she observes it through the songs of Alan Vega's Suicide, the mammal documentaries of Sir David Attenborough, and the sexual education lesson she receives from her only friend, Bella. A stranger comes to town and challenges her to a foosball duel, on her own table. Her father meanwhile is preparing for his exit from the 20th century, which he considers to be 'overrated'. Caught between the two men and her collaborator Bella, Marina investigates the wondrous mystery of the human fauna.
Demure, inexperienced and introverted, 23-year-old virginal Marina lives in a small Greek industrial town by the sea, while her father is dying of cancer. Devoid of friends, Marina spends her time with the only girl who really understands her, the lively Bella, experimenting with passionate kissing while watching David Attenborough's animal documentaries and re-enacting Monty Python's awkward walks and funny sketches. And then unexpectedly, an intriguingly handsome stranger comes to town, eager to change everything. Who knows where this relationship will lead?
Marina is a sexually inexperienced 23-year-old woman who lives with her terminally-ill architect father, Spyros, in an industrial Greek town by the sea where she works at the local steel mill as a gofer and transportation driver. Unable to relate to her fellow humans, she lives her life through the wildlife TV documentaries of Sir David Attenborough, the songs of Suicide and the sex education lessons given to her by her friend Bella.Despite her sexual and social inexperience, Marina's relationships with her father and Bella show warmth and thought. Spyros, contemplative as he approaches death, shares with her how he believes, "Man has designed ruins with mathematical accuracy..." referring to the destiny of most architecture, eventually. But then cynically, he reflects that " We (Greece) went from sheep to bulldozers..."When a stranger comes to town, an engineer whom begins a work course at the steel mill, Marina has her first sexual relationship with him. She is secretive. Telling first Spyros and later Bella. Spyros asks of course, "If you do not want me to meet him, why are you telling me about him?"As Spyros comes closer to death, Marina asks Bella to sleep with her father, as a favor for a dying man, whom she duly obliges. Meanwhile, Marina begins a sexual relationship with the stranger.The film reaches its sudden conclusion after Spyros's passing. His body is flown to Germany to be cremated. In the final scenes, Marina and Bella take Spyros's speedboat into the sea where they scatter his ashes in the water before returning to the steel mill and going their separate ways.
