Abraham Lincoln, the 16th President of the United States, discovers vampires are planning to take over the United States. He makes it his mission to eliminate them.
At the age of 9, Abraham Lincoln witnesses his mother being killed by a vampire, Jack Barts. Some 10 years later, he unsuccessfully tries to eliminate Barts but in the process makes the acquaintance of Henry Sturgess who teaches him how to fight and what is required to kill a vampire. The quid pro quo is that Abe will kill only those vampires that Henry directs him to. Abe relocates to Springfield where he gets a job as a store clerk while he studies the law and kills vampires by night. He also meets and eventually marries the pretty Mary Todd. Many years later as President of the United States, he comes to realize that vampires are fighting with the Confederate forces. As a result he mounts his own campaign to defeat them.
This movie speculates that Abraham Lincoln as a child saw his mother killed by a man she stood up to. Years later Abe would find the man and try to kill him but for some reason he doesn't die. He tries to kill Abe but a man saves him and nurses Abe. When Abe awakens, the man, Henry Sturges, tells him that the man he was trying to kill is a vampire and he is a vampire hunter. Abe wants to learn how to kill them and Henry teaches him and makes him an ax lined with silver, which is the weapon Abe prefers. Abe would then study law and move to Springfield to become a lawyer and to hunt vampires. He meets Mary Todd but Henry cautions him about relationships. Eventually Abe slays the vampire who killed his mother but before dying he tells Abe that Henry has not been honest with him. He confronts Henry, who doesn't deny it. Abe would come face to face with Adam, a vampire who plans to make the country his. Abe would give up hunting vampires, marry Mary and would continue his work as a lawyer and would become President. And when the Civil War breaks out, Abe learns that Adam is aiding the Confederacy and when it appears that they are close to winning, Abe must find a way to stop them.
This movie is about a young Abraham Lincoln who loses his mother after she is killed by Jack Barts, a vampire (she dies in front of him), so he grows up wanting to kill the person who killed her and while at a bar getting drunk he meets Henry Sturges, a person who teaches him how to fight and hunt Vampires. As time goes by he kills many Vampires, except the one who killed his mother, and he's getting impatient. He moves to Springfield and takes on a "normal" job as a store clerk and meets Mary Todd, who eventually becomes his wife. But the normal life is a cover for what he really needs to do, kill Vampires. So he becomes political and uses his popularity to climb the ranks to eventually become President while at the same time trying to take out the Vampire population, and eventually kill the head Vampire, and the one who killed his mother.
In the Nineteenth Century, the nine-year-old boy Abraham Lincoln witness the vampire Jack Barts sucking the blood and killing his mother. Years later, Abraham Lincoln seeks revenges against Jack Barts but he fails in his intent of killing the vampire. He is saved by Henry Sturges, who becomes his mentor and teaches how to hunt and kill vampires. Henry sends Abraham to Springfield to kill vampires. He gets a job and lodging in the store of Joshua Speed where he meets his black friend Will Johnson. Abraham also dates Mary Todd but keeps his vampire hunter business in secret. After killing Jack Bart, he calls the attention of the powerful and ancient vampire Adam. Abraham becomes a politician and the President of the United States, and sooner the leader of the Secession War against the vampires.
Explores the secret life of the America's greatest president, Abraham Lincoln, and the untold story that shaped the nation. The president discovers blood-thirsty vampires are planning to take over the United States. Lincoln makes it his mission to eliminate them, becoming history's greatest hunter of the undead.
In 1818, Abraham Lincoln (Benjamin Walker) lives in Indiana with his parents, Nancy (Robin McLeavy) and Thomas (Joseph Mawle), who works at a plantation owned by Jack Barts (Marton Csokas). There, Lincoln befriends a young African American boy, William Johnson (Anthony Mackie), and intervenes when he sees Johnson being beaten by a slaver. Because of his son's actions, Thomas is fired. That night, Lincoln sees Barts break into his house and attack Nancy. She falls ill the following day, and dies shortly afterwards. Thomas tells Lincoln that Barts poisoned Nancy.Nine years later, Lincoln decides to get revenge against Barts. He attacks Barts at the docks, but Barts, who is actually a vampire, overpowers him. However, before Barts can kill him, Lincoln is rescued by Henry Sturgess (Dominic Cooper). Sturgess explains that vampires exist, and offers to teach Lincoln to be a vampire hunter. Lincoln accepts and, after a decade of training, travels to Springfield, Illinois. During his training, Sturgess tells Lincoln that the vampires in America descend from Adam (Rufus Sewell), a vampire who owns a plantation in New Orleans with his sister, Vadoma (Erin Wasson). Sturgess also tells Lincoln of the vampires' weakness, silver, and presents him with a silver pocket watch.In Springfield, Lincoln befriends shopkeeper Joshua Speed (Jimmi Simpson), and meets Mary Todd (Mary Elizabeth Winstead). Though Sturgess warned him not to form any close relationships, Lincoln develops romantic feelings for Mary.Lincoln successfully finds and defeats Barts. Before dying, Barts reveals that Sturgess is also a vampire. Lincoln confronts Sturgess, who reveals that, several years ago, he was attacked and bitten by Adam. Because Sturgess' soul was impure, he became a vampire, and that prevented him from harming Adam or any other vampire (since "Only the living can kill the dead"). Sturgess has since been training vampire hunters, hoping to destroy Adam.Disappointed, Lincoln decides to abandon his mission. However, Adam learns of his activities and kidnaps Johnson to lure Lincoln into a trap at his plantation. Adam captures Lincoln and tries to recruit him, revealing his plans to turn the United States into a nation of the undead. Speed rescues his friends, and they escape to Ohio.Lincoln marries Mary and begins his political career, campaigning to abolish slavery. Sturgess warns Lincoln that the slave trade keeps vampires under control, as vampires use slaves for food, and if Lincoln interferes, the vampires will retaliate. After Lincoln's election as President of the United States of America, he moves to the White House with Mary, where they have a son, William Wallace Lincoln (Cameron M. Brown). He eventually signs the Emancipation Proclamation, setting the American Civil War in motion. William is later bitten by Vadoma and dies.Confederate President Jefferson Davis (John Rothman) convinces Adam to deploy his vampires on the front lines. Lincoln orders the confiscation of all the silverware in the area and has it melted to produce silver weapons. Speed, believing that Lincoln will lead them to death, defects and informs Adam that Lincoln will transport the silver by train.On the train, Adam and Vadoma attack Lincoln, Sturgess, and Johnson, who have set fire to the upcoming trestle. During the fight, in which Speed is killed, Adam learns that the train holds only rocks. Lincoln reveals that Speed's betrayal was a ruse to lure Adam into a trap. Lincoln uses his watch to stab Adam, killing him, and the three escape the train before it explodes. Meanwhile, Mary and the ex-slaves have transported the silver to Gettysburg through the Underground Railroad.The now leaderless Confederate vampires stage a final, massive assault and are met head on by the Union. Armed with their silver weapons, the Union soldiers destroy the vampires and win the war.A few months later, on April 14, 1865, Sturgess tells Lincoln that the remaining vampires have fled the country. Sturgess unsuccessfully tries to convince Lincoln to allow him to turn Lincoln into a vampire, so that he can become immortal and continue to fight vampires. That night, John Wilkes Booth kills Lincoln.In modern times, Sturgess approaches a young man at a bar in Washington, D.C. as he once approached Lincoln.
