After getting their Mumbai-based underworld boss, Ramdas Mali, is arrested for attempting to abduct Mumbai's DCP Madhav Sakharkhande, Mohan, Siddhu, and their 3 slacker buddies. He is unable to pay rent to their landlord, Shiva Kanhole, and decides to take to crime after watching 'Dhoom', and 'Hera Pheri'. Both capers comically fail, and the duo end up stealing a car, which stalls just about 100 kilometers from Sholapur. Before they could get there, both get abducted by rival residents of Hyalagaad and Tyalagaad, and must compete in the 100th Bhagwan Shri Bhairavnath Jatra - and as per past tradition and custom - only one of them can survive this fierce competition.
Two rival villages Hyalagaad and Tyaalagaad hold a religious fair every year and can also kill the other opposite person to win the race,In Mumbai Monya,Sidhu and their friends arrest their crime boss Ramdas Mali for kidnapping a ACP,Monya wants to make quick money and and tries to commit small crimes when his landlord Kanole comes to know about his activities he warns that he will handover Monya and his friends to the cops.The same night Monya and Sidhu leave the house on their way they steal a car and reach the border of Hyalagaad and Tyaalagaad village on sunset Monya becomes the first man to enter Hyalagaad village and they decide they for this year's fair they will make him run from their side when Monya and Sidhu come to know about plans of village they escape in the dark and reach Tyaalagaad village where he villagers choose Sidhu to run for them for the fair,a scared Monya comes running Haalagaad for safety but is shocked to see his lookalike already there and Hyaalagaad villagers think Monya is a man sent by Tyaalagaad villagers to disrupt the 100 annual fair.
The film is based on a comedy of errors. The story primarily is of two villages, 'Hyalagaad' and 'Tyaalagaad'. Roughly translated the names of the two villages mean 'bury him' and 'bury them'. The story of Jatra (religious fair) is about a fair, which leads to rivalry between the two villages. The host of the fair is decided by a race between two individuals from the two villages, who compete and even kill for winning the hosting rights. A youth called 'Monya' played by Bharat Jadhav, wants to become rich along with his six friends by hook or crook, arrives to this village, along with his friend. At the same time, his look alike, having a very limited vocabulary, also lands up in the same village. What follows is a marvellous comedy of errors, funny one liners and mindless comedy. The film has two catchy songs and both are hit all over Maharashtra.

