Mei, a young girl whose memory holds a priceless numerical code, finds herself pursued by the Triads, the Russian mob, and corrupt NYC cops. Coming to her aid is an ex-cage fighter whose life was destroyed by the gangsters on Mei's trail.
In China, the girl Mei is a genius that looks like a computer in numbers. She is abducted by the Chinese Triads and the boss Han Jiao ends Mei to Chinatown, in New York, to help him in the control of his activities. Meanwhile, the fighter Luke Wright has his life destroyed when he wins a fight against the will of the Russian Mafia and accidentally kills his opponent. The Russian mobsters kill his wife and the alcoholic Luke wanders on the streets and hostels with no objective in life. One day, Han Jiao asks Mei to memorize a long number and soon the Russian Mafia abducts the girl from the Chinese mobs. She escapes from the mobsters and is chased by the Russians; by the corrupt detectives from the NYPD; and by the Triads. When Luke sees the girl fleeing from the Russian mobs in the subway, he protects the girl and discovers that the number she had memorized is the combination of a safe where the Triads keep 30 million dollars. Luke is an elite agent and uses his skills to protect the girl.
For the ageing mixed martial arts fighter and former police officer, Luke Wright, life is pointless. As his brazen refusal to throw a match brings him on a collision course with the feared Russian Mafia, a chance encounter with Mei--an eleven-year-old Chinese math genius who is on the run from the Triads--will give the weary ex-cop a new lease of life. Now, a long string of numerical code--the key to a massive $30 million payout, memorised by the extraordinary girl--makes Mei an obvious target; not only to the Chinese Triads but also to the Russians, and a band of corrupt NYPD officers. Under those circumstances, can Luke keep Mei safe?
A young Chinese girl has vital weapons of mass destruction science secrets both the Chinese Mafia and also the Russian Mafiz desire to obtain and use to blackmail world governments.
The girl meets up with a "Soldier of Fortune" (Jason Statham) and he protects her from abduction and murder by the Russian and Chinese Mafia agents in the USA, both of which compete to find the girl and get the secrets she possesses so they can use these secrets to blackmail world governments.
The plot of the movie depicts the young Chinese girl meeting up with the Soldier Of Fortune protagaonist and then shows the two of them fleeing to various locations (including large hotels and a large gambling casino) in big cities (New York City and Philadelphia) in the east coast area of the USA.
Many confrontations, fights, and firearm battles and near climaxes occur as the hero and the young girl he protects attempt to stay alive and avoid the Chinese and Russian Mafia gangsters who chase them.
