Inspector Surjan Shekhawat, who is dealing with a depressing past, has to investigate a high profile murder case, deal with his crumbling marriage and use the help and solace of a prostitute by the name of Rosie.
Seeing reflections of Mumbai under the red light, Talaash is a tale of love lost, fatal attraction and above all the quest to solve a perfect crime. Suspense at its core, Talaash explores Mumbai's underbelly like never before. Aamir Khan plays an investigation officer, Inspector Shekhawat who receives a phone call early in the morning informing him about death and an accident and how everything starts to unfold from there. The case turns into a life altering chase for Inspector Shekhawat when he is forced to reel under the repercussions of a broken married life with his wife Roshni played by Rani Mukherji and come face to face with his suppressed grief. Being on his investigational quest and fighting it out with personal struggle, Inspector Shekhawat meets a sex worker Rosie played by Kareena Kapoor who further adds shades of mystery to the puzzle. What looks like a simple car accident investigation turns into a haunting mystery as further investigations show many anomalies stringed to the death of the victim.
Inspector Surjan Singh Sekhawat is put on the case of film actor Armaan Kapoor who has driven his car off the embankment and subsequently drowned in the sea. The circumstances surrounding the car accident do not fit with suicide, nor is there any evidence of foul play. Meanwhile, Surjan's wife Roshni is grappling with her grief over the death of the couple's young son, Karan. To avoid his difficult home life, Surjan focuses on solving Armaan's mysterious death. He begins investigating in the nearby red-light district and meets Rosie, an alluring prostitute, who may hold the answer to the mystery.
The film opens with a late-night car accident on a deserted road. Well-known actor Armaan Khan (Vivan Bhatena) loses control of his car for no apparent reason and drives into the river. Inspector Surjan Shekhawat (Aamir Khan) begins an investigation into Armaan's death. Surjan's personal life is in turmoil since his 8-year-old son, Karan, drowned during a family outing. His wife, Roshni (Rani Mukerji), is still grieving and Surjan has developed a guilt complex.Surjan focuses all his energy in the investigation. He learns that on the night of Armaan's accident, Armaan was travelling with Rs. 2 million in cash, which is missing from the car. Surjan suspects that Armaan had given the money to a blackmailer a little while before the accident.In fact, the blackmailer is a pimp named Sashi (Subrat Dutta). Three years back, Sashi had performed a cover-up for Armaan and his friend Sanjay Kejriwal (Suhas Ahuja). Once he learns of Armaan's death, Sashi takes off with the cash, leaving behind a mistress, Mallika (Aditi Vasudev). However, Sashi's friend, Taimur (Nawazuddin Siddiqui), steals Sashi's discarded sim card.Sashi begins sending blackmailing calls to Armaan's friend, Sanjay. In panic, Sanjay employs some thugs to murder Sashi. Hearing nothing more from Sashi, Taimur surmises that he has been killed and begins to use Sashi's old sim card to blackmail Sanjay with Sashi's murder.Meanwhile, Surjan's wife, Roshni, begins to seek solace from a medium (Shernaz Patel) who claims that she is in touch with Karan's soul. After an upsetting conversation with his wife, Surjan drives off one night and is propositioned by an escort who calls herself Rosie (Kareena Kapoor). Surjan declines Rosie's advances but asks her if she can become an informer.Through Rosie, Surjan finds out about Sashi's connection with the case and starts a manhunt for Sashi. Eventually, the police find Sashi's body at the bottom of the river, along with a bag containing the blackmail money and a DVD. The DVD contains embarrassing CCTV footage of Armaan and his friends leaving a hotel with a girl.Convinced of Armaan's link with prostitutes, Surjan focuses his search on the slums near the local brothel. He runs into Rosie once again and tries to find out more from her. To speak unobserved, Rosie takes him to a quiet place by the riverside. She tells him that three years ago, she was picked up by Armaan and his friends, Sanjay and Nikhil (Prashant Prakash). However, she declines from giving any more details about what happened. Later, Surjan tries to approach Nikhil for more information but discovers that Nikhil has been brain-dead after the incident three years ago.After a heated argument with his wife about her visits to the medium, Surjan drives off to the riverside place where he had last met Rosie. He finds her there and confides in her about his marriage the death of his son. She comforts him and promises to continue to help. In return, she asks him if he can help Sashi's mistress, Mallika, who has been forced into prostitution after Sashi's death.The next morning, Surjan rescues Mallika from the slum and puts her in reliable care. In gratitude, Mallika tells that he should track down Taimur, who has been blackmailing Sanjay. Before Surjan can get to Taimur, however, Taimur is chased down by the two thugs in Sanjay's employ, who shoot him dead. One of the thugs are captured by the police and on interrogation, he reveals that Sanjay Kejriwal has been behind the killing of both, Sashi and Taimur.Surjan arrests Sanjay, who confesses to the whole thing: three years ago, Sanjay, Armaan and Nikhil had picked up a girl - an escort - from a hotel to celebrate Nikhil's birthday. While they were driving, Nikhil began making out with the girl in the backseat. The car door opened by accident, throwing both, Nikhil and the girl from the moving car on to the road. Both were badly injured. Armaan and Sanjay rushed Nikhil to the hospital but fearing scandal, they left the girl unattended on the road. Sanjay called Sashi to ask him to take care of the girl. A few days later, Sashi called them, saying that the girl had died, and that he had CCTV footage of the three leaving with the girl. Since then, Sashi had continued to extort money from them by blackmail.Surjan re-watches the CCTV footage and realises that the girl is Rosie. He deduces that she must have survived the accident, and has been helping him with the investigation in order to get even with Sanjay for leaving her uncared-for on the road.As Surjan drives Sashi to the police station, they approach the same stretch of road where Armaan had his car accident. Surjan looks at the rear view mirror and is shocked to see Rosie reflected in the backseat. He turns around to find the backseat empty. Just then, both Surjan and Sanjay see "Rosie" standing ahead in the middle of the road. In a re-enactment of Armaan's accident, Sanjay wrenches the steering wheel out of Surjan's control and swerves the car into the river. The car quickly fills up with water and settles on the riverbed. With Sanjay already dead and past help, Surjan struggles to get himself out of the car. Rosie appears underwater and opens the car door to let him out. Surjan re-surfaces, unharmed.At the police station, Surjan's superior advises him against reporting his incredible story. Surjan agrees to write in the official report that Armaan Khan's death was an accident and that Sanjay deliberately swerved the car into the river to avoid arrest.Surjan returns to the riverside place where he used to meet Rosie and, intuitively, starts digging up the ground. He uncovers Rosie's remains, where Sashi had hidden her body three years ago. He gives her a proper funeral.Now more accepting of the supernatural, Surjan returns home to find a letter from his dead son, Karan, penned by the medium. Through the letter, Karan tells Surjan not to blame himself for his death. He also says that he wants both his parents to be happy. Surjan cries while reading the letter, and Roshni arrives to console him. The two are reconciled.
