A young woman becomes increasingly suspicious of the motives of her older roommate.
Carrie Remington seems like any other struggling waitress who's had a run of bad luck including a recent divorce. Things seem to be improving when she moves in with Ashley Dunnfield...things take a turn when Ashley starts digging into her past and finds out that there is much she didn't know about her new roommate's sinister history.
In Philadelphia, early twenty-something college student Ashley Dunnfield, who grew up in privilege, is trying to assert her independence in light of her self-made businessman father, Richard Dunnfield, wanting to control all aspects of her life. Beyond her having her own apartment which she can barely afford instead of living at home, and working a dead end waitress job at a restaurant rather than taking money from him, one other area of contention between the two is Ashley dating Matt Wilson, a struggling artist who works as a bartender at the same restaurant just so that he can have a steady income to support himself and his former police officer brother, Ethan Wilson, who is in a wheelchair from a workplace accident. Because of all these issues, Ashley wants as little to do with her father as possible. Ashley offers new coworker, mid-thirty-something divorcée Carrie Remington, a place to crash temporarily as her boyfriend has just passed away, leaving her currently homeless. What Ashley is unaware of is that Carrie, with her long time friend, ex-con Anna Prieto, orchestrated her way into Ashley's life all in a grand scheme to gain access to all Richard's wealth by becoming his girlfriend and eventually his wife. Carrie and Anna have killed in the past, framing Carrie's ex-husband for murder in the process. Beyond Carrie's goal of living in luxury, she also owes Anna. One unforeseen obstacle in Carrie's plan is the return of Paula Wickless, Richard's ex-girlfriend, the two who broke up when Paula moved to Atlanta. Carrie and by association Anna will not let anything get in their way, and having killed once are not averse to doing it again if anyone tries to thwart their plan.

