Netherlands, 1938. In a small town in the province of North Brabant called Oss, Johanna wants to change her life and quit the criminal gangs of the town. The harder she tries, the more she is involved.
In the 1930's the Brabant (southern province of the Netherlands) city of Oss was caught up in a crime wave. Even the military police was sent from the north to free the city from the terror regime of the gang of Oss. When they discover sex crimes and fraud even amongst the local clerics and prominent members of the community, the conflict escalates between the catholic south and protestant north which eventually leads to the fall of the 'Colijn' administration, the last operating pre-war administration. During this a young woman Johanna wants to escape from the web of crime that surrounds her. The harder she tries the more she gets stuck in fraud, prostitution, manslaughter and even murder.
Title
THE GANG OF OSSTagline
1 woman, 2 lovers, 4 murdersLogline
A young woman wants to escape from a web of crime that surrounds her. The harder she tries, the more she gets stuck in fraud, prostitution, manslaughter and even murder.Premise
He who doesn't speak, never liesSynopsisIn the 1930s the Brabant [southern province of the Netherlands] city of Oss was caught up in a crime wave. The military police was sent from the north to Oss to free the city of the terror regime of the Gang from Oss [Ossche Bende]. When the military police discover sex crimes and fraud even among the local clerics and prominent members of the community, the conflict escalates between the catholic south and the protestant north which eventually leads to the fall of the Colijn administration the last operating pre-war administration.THE GANG FROM OSS is told from the point of view of Johanna van Heesch, a young upbeat cafe proprietor daughter of Mien de Snol (Mien the Trollop) and half-sister of mentally handicapped Trees who is trying to break free from this criminal environment. Together with her paroled husband Ties she tries to start a better life. Nevertheless, Ties uncle Wim de Kuiper, self-declared leader of the gang from Oss, makes Ties pick up his bad habits again quickly. Ties relationship with Johanna worsens and hits rock bottom when he tries to force her into abortion. To protect her unborn child, Johanna has her husband killed by Jan Greven, aspiring racing cyclist, who hopes, in vain, to win Johannas love by murdering her husband. Harry den Brock, a relatively well-to-do insurance broker, also appears to offer a way out for Johanna.By having Ties killed, Johanna gets more and more in the grip of Wim de Kuiper who postulates himself as Johannas protector. Nevertheless, Johanna gets into a conflict with him once she realizes that he has her half-sister Trees abused by the local priest. Once Tress is killed in a tragic accident or was it criminal intend? there is nothing left that keeps her in Oss. Together with Harry den Brock she is planning to escape from Oss but not before she gets her revenge on Wim and the prominent members of the community who Harry also appears to be working for.At the same time, Johanna is evading the military police that are slowly but surely unravelling the gangs activities and coming closer to solving her husbands murder.
