Two weeks before Christmas, the last thing Ben and Charlotte expected is for Santa to crash-land his sleigh in their town. Santa has just escaped the villainous Gerold Goblynch, recently named the new head of the Great Christmas Council.
With two weeks left until Christmas, the last thing new boy in town Ben expects, is Santa to crash land in front of him in the middle of a storm! Being chased by Gerold Goblynch, an evil man who wants to steal Christmas, Santa must find help if he is going to free his elves and Christmas angels from Goblynch's evil grasp. Will Santa succeed and save his Christmas helpers so every child's Christmas wish will be heard and come true? From the extraordinary to the bizarre, Ben and his school friend Charlotte are now faced with a festive adventure full of chases, invisible reindeers, fake Santas and vicious nutcrackers, and all because Santa fell to Earth!
Christmas is just two weeks away, it is pouring with rain, and Ben is struggling to get into the Christmas spirit. He and his parents have just moved to town, where his mum has big plans to open her new pastry shop. As Bens dad lost his job at the bank some time ago, its a great chance for the family to make a fresh start. However, Ben is finding it difficult fitting in at his new school and wishes he could feel more at home here. Suddenly, Bens life takes a turn for the better when Santa Niklas Goodfellow and his Christmas caravan come crashing down to Earth in the middle of thunderstorm and land in Foggy Lane.Santa is on the run from the ruthless Gerold Geronimus Goblynch and his army of nutcrackers who have outlawed all of the old magical ways and have transformed the bright and peaceful Christmas world into a dark and hostile place, governed by greed and money. Goblynch has banned work for all Santas and confined the Christmas angels to tiny prison cells, where they can no longer hear the dearest wishes of children. Goblynch also wants to force Santa Niklas Goodfellow, the last real Santa, to work for his commercialized Christmas company and forces him to do hard labour in the ordering department of the Christmas Palace.Then one dark night, helped by his trusty companions Christmas angels Matilda and Emmanuel and the Christmas elves Flybeard and Spillbeard Goodfellow steals away from the palace and, with his mischievous reindeer Twinklestar pulling his Christmas caravan, escapes by the skin of his teeth with Goblynch and his nutcracker army hot on his tail. When Twinklestar bolts in the middle of a thunderstorm, Niklas and his caravan come plummeting down to Earth.Luckily for him, he crash-lands in a friendly neighbourhood, where he meets Ben, and much to Bens dismay, his classmate Charlotte. Santa has landed in a whole lot of trouble and needs to get away before the nutcrackers find him, but without his currently missing marzipan-loving reindeer, Twinklestar, who is invisible in the normal world, he is stranded. In return for Bens help in finding his reindeer, Niklas offers Ben the best Christmas ever. Ben and Charlotte and Charlotte's dog, Mutt, join forces to help Niklas preserve all that is magical and special about Christmas. And if finding an invisible reindeer were not difficult enough, if Niklas fails to fight off Goblynch, Christmas may be lost forever...The film WHEN SANTA FELL TO EARTH is based on the novel of the same name written by bestselling German author Cornelia Funke. The book is inspired by the desire to rekindle that childhood joy and overall sense of wonder that Christmas brings. Pure entertainment for the whole family, the film is brimming with magic, suspense and lovable characters and is a thrilling ride into the fantastical world of Santa Claus that will leave everyone in the Christmas spirit!
