A homicide detective is pushed to the brink of his moral and physical limits as he tangles with a ferociously skilled hired killer who specializes in torture and pain.
Dr. Alex Cross is on his last police duty to track down an assassin called Picasso, who's been torturing and killing rich businessmen in Detroit. Soon when the mission gets personal, Cross is pushed to the edge of his moral and psychological limits to end this once and for all.
A lawman is torn between justice and personal vengeance in this action drama. Alex Cross (Tyler Perry) is a detective and forensic psychologist who works for the Detroit Police Department with his partner Tommy Kane (Edward Burns) and promising rookie Monica Ashe (Rachel Nichols). While Cross is dedicated to his work, he's just as committed to his home life, and is excited to learn he and his wife Maria (Carmen Ejogo) will be welcoming a third child. When a wealthy and well-connected woman is found dead and partially dismembered in her mansion, police chief Richard Brookwell (John C. McGinley) assigns Cross and his team to the case, and they soon find themselves playing a cat and mouse game with a nameless psychotic (Matthew Fox) with a taste for torture and a grudge against some of the Motor City's wealthiest citizens. Clues point to French financier Leon Mercier (Jean Reno) as the killer's ultimate victim, but Cross and his team suspect Mercier has a secret he isn't willing to share, and the case becomes a personal obsession for Cross when the maniac first kills Monica and then Maria.
After Detroit detective Alex Cross is told that a family member has been murdered, he vows to track down the killer. He soon discovers that she was not his first victim and that things are not what they seem.
Washington DC detective Alex Cross goes up against the hitman 'Picasso'. As Alex investigates Picasso's gruesome murders, Picasso decides to send him a message by killing his wife. Enraged, Cross vows to hunt down the killer, if it's the last thing he does. However, Picasso is a mastermind and continues to evade Cross while pushing him to an ethical breaking point as a cop and a father. As Cross closes in on the killer, he discovers evidence that points to the unimaginable - a revelation that can change everything.
