Om Shastri, a recession victim comes to India to sell his ancestors property to clear is debt. On reaching he comes to know that selling the property will make his family homeless in India. Later he is kidnapped by goons thinking a rich NRI.
Phase Gaye Re Obama is a comedy set against the backdrop of global recession/meltdown that originated in USA. The film traces the journey of OM Shashtri, an American citizen of Indian origin, who loses all his wealth overnight to the global recession &amp; has been asked to vacate his home by the bank unless he pays up $100,000 (mortgaged amount) within 30 days. Seeing no other option Om comes to India to sell a small piece of an ancestral property. But within days of landing in India he is kidnapped by a 'recession-hit' underworld gang those who think that he is still a millionaire. What happens to Om, is he able to save his home, how did the 'poor' gangster cope with their 'poor' catch &amp; what do small town Indian gangsters have to say to President Obama...is largely forms the rest of the story. The film, showcases how global recession/ meltdown impacted lives from an America based businessman to underworld dons in the dusty plains of small town India.
A criminal by profession, Bhai Saab has always been envious of others - especially of Dhananjay Singh, who has risen from petty crime, to extortion/kidnapping, and is now the Animal Welfare Minister. He tries a hand at kidnapping but is unable to even negotiate a ransom, and his most intelligent henchman, Anni, shoots himself when he tries to kill a victim. Then a wealthy American-based NRI (Non-Resident Indian) businessman, Om Shastri, comes to visit his extended family in their mansion in the village. Bhai has Om kidnapped until he gets a ransom, but things get complicated when word gets out to other gangsters, Ali, and a female Gabbar, Munni. Bhai will be in for more shocks when he finds out that dreaming of making wealth in America, whose reputation has been tarnished by Bill Clinton's affair with Monica, and the tyranny of George W. Bush, has now been turned into a greater American nightmare - with the onus on Barrack Obama - who is perceived to be both Bhagwan Hanuman and Superman - to put things right for this beleaguered nation; the impact the recession has on India and its' gangsters - with Om, who has lost everything, is facing a bank-takeover of his residence - and does not even have money to return home.

