All hell breaks loose when a Muslim man breaks a temple lock to save a little child, thus for his safety keeps a Hindu name, where he starts making web of lies.
When a child falls into the well of the temple and Abbas breaks the temple's lock to save the child. When Prithviraj arrives at the scene, Ravi says Abbas's name as Abhishek Bachchan to avoid religious controversies of a temple being broken open by a Muslim. Prithviraj hires Abhishek Bachchan (Abbas) and is happy with his work, but Ravi and his friends have to come up with a new plan when Prithviraj spots Abbas celebrating Eid as a Muslim. Abbas and the others convince Prithviraj that the one celebrating Eid was actually 'Abbas', an effeminate man and classical Kathak dancer. Things become worse for Abbas and Ravi when Prithviraj kindly hires Abbas for teaching Kathak to his sister Radhika (Prachi Desai). The more Abbas tries to manage his dual life without letting Prithviraj know, the more he has to lie to cover up other lies; this forms the crux of the story.
Abbas Ali (Abhishek Bachchan) lives in Karol Bagh, New Delhi with his sister Sania(Asin Thottumkal). They are legally fighting for an ancestral property - land case. But the odds turn against them and they lose. Their well wisher, Shastri Chacha, advises and convinces them to migrate to his village Ranakpur where he assures Abbas that he will get him a job at his owner's place. The owner being none other than the powerful Prithviraj Raghuvanshi(Ajay Devgn). Abbas enters Ranakpur village and while saving a child trapped inside a temple, he breaks open the lock of an ancestral temple but fate plays an important twist in Abbas' life as the whole village including Prithviraj's step-brother Vikrant opposes Abbas' actions but Prithviraj arrives and handles the situation. On being asked his name, Abbas's friend comes out with a fake name, as it would create a rage if villagers came to know that the lock of a temple had been broken by a Muslim. From here starts a series of cover-ups, goof-ups and comic situations where to cover one lie, Abbas starts padding up with a bigger lie telling people that he also has a twin brother with no moustache. From here on starts the topsy-turvy journey of a single person acting as two different entities.
