After a drunken house party with his straight mates, Russell heads out to a gay club. Just before closing time he picks up Glen but what's expected to be just a one-night stand becomes something else, something special.
On a Friday night after a drunken house party with his straight mates, Russell heads out to a gay club, alone and on the pull. Just before closing time he picks up Glen but what's expected to be just a one-night stand becomes something else, something special. That weekend, in bars and in bedrooms, getting drunk and taking drugs, telling stories and having sex, the two men get to know each other. It is a brief encounter that will resonate throughout their lives. Weekend is both an honest and unapologetic love story between two guys and a film about the universal struggle for an authentic life in all its forms. It is about the search for identity and the importance of making a passionate commitment to your life.
On Friday night, Russell, a lifeguard, on the pretense that he has to work in the morning (regardless of the fact that he indeed has to work), ditches his straight friend Jamie's party early, but instead of going home to sleep heads to the gay club. There, he meets Glen, an art gallery employee and aspiring artist. The two, in a drunken stupor, head back to Russell's apartment for the night. In the sober light of morning, they begin truly to get to know each other. Despite there being an obvious connection between the two beyond their initial attraction, they learn that they are different and on the surface incompatible in their outlooks. Glen is outwardly more open about his sexuality in public, but does not see himself with a boyfriend. Russell, on the other hand, is more controlled about expressing his gay self in public, but does eventually want a boyfriend and to be married, not implying that Glen is the person in either position. Half way through the weekend, Glen makes an announcement that due to circumstances unless something major changes, the probability that there is a long term future for the two of them is near zero regardless of their feelings. Each has to makes decisions about what to do about what their remaining time together for the weekend will look like, if there is indeed a rest of the weekend for them.

