While settling his recently deceased father's estate, a salesman discovers he has a sister whom he never knew about, leading both siblings to re-examine their perceptions about family and life choices.
Workaholic and sleazy businessman Sam is extremely reluctant to leave New York and go to his father's funeral. When he finally arrives, it becomes apparent that his mother and girlfriend are disappointed in him for "running away" whenever times get too emotional. Soon afterwards, he discovers that his father was sleeping around with another woman, and that Sam actually has a half-sister whom he never knew existed. His father has willed her $150,000 and has left Sam with the task of getting it to her. Frankie is a bartender also wrapped up in work just like her half-brother, and she has had a bad past and has now been left with the job of being a single parent to her troublemaker son, Josh. Josh is eleven years old but curses like a sailor and constantly makes fart jokes and sex jokes, making him popular with the bad kid crowd at school, although behind the act, Josh is depressed and lonely. Now Sam has to find a way to fix the past and reunite his mom, nephew and half-sister together at last, but it won't be easy.
New York based Sam Harper - a "salesman" who works for Allied Barter Trade, which deals solely in bartering overstocked goods and as such does not pay corporate taxes with no money trading hands - does whatever he can, besides coming right out and saying so, that he does not want to attend his father's funeral in Los Angeles. The reason is that he didn't much like his father, Jerry Harper, a music business executive, who he felt treated him distantly his entire life. By association, he has a strained relationship with his mother, Lillian Harper, for purposefully staying out of her and Jerry's lives, she more being collateral damage in Jerry and Sam's estrangement. Regardless, Sam's supportive girlfriend, Hannah, is able to get him onto a plane to Los Angeles. Sam learns from Ike Rafferty, the family's lawyer, that Jerry has a post-mortem task for him: to deliver a shaving kit to Josh Davis, the kit filled with $150,000 cash. Sam further learns that eleven year old Josh, a smart-aleck of a boy prone to acting out, is the son of single working mom and recovering alcoholic Frankie Davis, the half sister (i.e. Jerry's illegitimate daughter) he never knew he had, and that Frankie knew of Jerry being her father, who dropped out of her life when she was only a child. With all this knowledge at hand, Jerry contemplates if he will hand the money over to Frankie and Josh, especially as he is facing not only money but legal issues back in New York stemming from a barter situation gone bad, let alone if he will introduce himself to her as her half brother. Sam does decide to speak and ultimately get to know Frankie, which may further factor into what he decides to do, he knowing that the longer he waits to tell her truth, the harder it will be both for him and for her.
A businessman (Chris Pine) discovers a ruinous family secret during a return trip home to attend the funeral of his estranged father. In the wake of this life-altering revelation, he embarks on a trans-formative journey that will forever alter the way he looks at life, love, and family. Star Trek screenwriter Alex Kurtzman makes his feature directorial debut with this heartfelt drama co-written by Roberto Orci and Jody Lambert, and featuring Elizabeth Banks.
The story centers around Sam (Pine), a fast-talking salesman whose latest deal collapses on the day he learns that his father has suddenly dies. Against his wishes, Sam is called home, where he uncovers a startling secret that turns his entire world upside down: He has a sister he never knew about (Elizabeth banks). As their relationship develops, Sam is forced to re-think everything he thought he knew about his family, and re-examine his own life choices in the process.
