A CIA interrogator is lured into a ruse that puts London at risk of a biological attack.
Alice Racine works at a London Community Center as a therapist. She lives alone in a quiet apartment. However, it is revealed that she is a former interrogation officer for the Central Intelligence who retired after she broke a bomber too late resulting in an explosion killing numerous people in Paris. Alice secretly longs for a chance to make things right and frequently meets with MI5 Intelligence Chief Emily Knowles for another possible job. Racine's former trainer and mentor Eric Lasche encourages her not to let the guilt of her failure destroy her and explains that she could still help in the future in the field. The CIA and MI5 learn that a biological attack on an American target by Islamic extremist Yazeed Khalil will be launched in Britain in collaboration with Islamic convert David Mercer.Khalil's courier, Lateef, is captured by Frank Sutter an officer from London station and his men for interrogation. Sutter, claiming to be under CIA chef Bob Hunter's orders, intercepts Racine and convinces her to help them in an interrogation of Lateef. After meeting and slowly breaking Lateef, Racine learns the message which Lateef was to send to Mercer's messenger. However, after receiving a message from her handler Ed Romley who is confused as to the directive of which she is under. Racine realizes that she is being played by Sutter. Before divulging the massage to Sytter, she notices one of his men putting a silencer on his gun in preparation to kill her and Lateef. Racine divulges her findings to Lateef and stages an escape. However, after fighting her way past Sutter's men, Lateef is killed in the crossfire and Racine flees to Lasche's residence.However, operatives attack the apartment and kill Lasche in front of her eyes before she escapes to a hotel which Lasche provided the address for before being killed. On her way into the room she sees a man looting it and ties him up. The man is revealed to be Jack Alcott. She contacts Hunter and Romley who appear to believe her but then send operatives after her. She fights two officers but is taser. However, Alcott frees himself and rescues her. After bringing her to his apartment, he reveals that he overheard her call and wishes to help her since he has nothing to live for after fighting as a British Marine in the Iraq war. Racine hesitantly believes him and the two meet with her friend and former patient Amjad from the community center.Amjad helps them find Khaleel in his hiding place in a Moroccan restaurant, and after Alcott beats down his security, Racine interrogates him. In there meeting he divulges that he has given out on his former extremism in discovering the horrors he had helped bring about and that he had given Lateef a stand-down order. Racine discovers Khaleel to be a man of means who now seeks peace and discovers that someone else is working in collaboration with Mercer's planned terrorism. Amjad follows one of Mercer's associates to an apartment. After Alcott and Racine investigate it, Alcott brags about fighting in a war which Racine realizes he could not have. Alcott realizes his mistake too late and Racine sees through his lies, discovering him to be working in collaboration with Mercer. The two fight and Alcott gains the upper hand, taking her hostage in an elevator.The two share the ride with a resident having two savage pit bulls. Racine removes the muzzle form one of them and attacks the owner, prompting the unmuzzled dog to attack her but it misses and mauls Alcott who shoots it to death in self-defense. Alcott angrily shoves Racine into the parking terminal and prepares to kill her but Amjad fights him. After beating the both of them down, Alcott prepares to kill them but the dog owner returns from his apartment with a gun which he uses to shoot Alcott in the back and in the throat before his remaining dog mauls Alcott to death. Amjad and Racine wisely escape as the owner takes his revenge on Alcott.Racine and Amjad reunite with Knowles who sets up a meeting with Mercer's representative. Amjad volunteers as bait, much to Racine's discouragement at the feeling he could be killed. Knowles then explains of her findings in the Paris bombings that Racine had successfully sent in the information to the authorities but something wrong happened which prevented the news from arriving. Racine realizes she was indeed not to blame for the failure and is shocked and angered, realizing someone in the field is responsible.One of the MI5 snipers, John Wilson is a corrupt double-agents working in collaboration with Sutter. He kills the snipers as Mercer's representative arrives to question Amjad. He then kills the entire MI5 force in the area including Amjad after the representative takes his information and mortally shoots him. Wilson prepares to kill Racine but Knowles drives him off, having survived his gunshots by wearing a bulletproof vest. The representative escapes to Mercer and explains the stand-down order that they will hastily ignore. The two smile at their outlooks of success and drive away into the night.Meanwhile, an Islamic terrorist pretending to be a worker, sets in the biological weapon cannisters in the fans at a football arena. However, he has second thoughts of his actions and refuses to set off the trigger knowing he will kill hundreds of helpless children. However, Wilson intercepts him and slashes his throat, taking the trigger from him. Sutter and Lasche, who had feigned death all along, meet and discuss their plans in a restaurant. Racine intervenes and kills Sutter by crushing his windpipe before interrogating Lasche who had been playing her all along. Lasche refuses to divulge the information of the target and beats her down, escaping into the night.Racine follows him to an abandoned warehouse outside the Wembley stadium where the football game will be played. She attacks Lasche but Wilson intervenes, hurling a grenade in her direction. Racine shoots Wilson to death before being blown off a balcony by the force for the grenade. Racine clings for her life by its edge. Lasche turns on the trigger and explains that the biological warfare will take the pandemic back to U.S soil and convince the government to take the threat seriously, saying that it is, "to protect my country." Racine however, struggle with him and drags him over the rail causing him to lose his balance and fall to his death. Racine grabs the trigger and turns it off with only 3 seconds to spare. She is congratulated on her success by Hunter who explains where Mercer is escaping to Syria.As Mercer is about to meet with his contact in Prague, Racine brushes past Mercer in the crowd and takes her revenge upon him for the death of Amjad by slicing open Mercer's groin with a switchblade. Mercer bleeds to death as blood hemorrhages from his femoral cavity as everyone passing watches in horror. Racine walks away casually and meets with Hunter in his limo who offers to buy her coffee and hands her a stack of passports, welcoming her back into active duty saying, "It's good to have you back."
