Members of an elite DEA task force find themselves being taken down one by one after they rob a drug cartel safe house.
An elite DEA team raids the safe house of a drug cartel and hide $10 million in the plumbing. When they go back to retrieve the money it is not there. The team is under investigation for the missing $10 million. Then after a couple months the investigation is lifted. The team trains together again and then celebrates at a strip club. Then one of the team is murdered. He wakes up in his RV on railroad tracks. Then a second team member is nailed to the ceiling. The third team member is gunned down at his remote cabin. There is a female City of Atlanta investigator in charge of the murders. After investigating the cartel angle, the twisted truth comes to light.
A DEA special ops unit becomes involved in a large scale bust involving tens of millions of dollars. The bust becomes interesting when the group decides to take 10 million dollars for their own use. Things go sour when the money which was hidden turns out to be missing. The group eventually recovers from an internal investigation with another chance to salvage their reputation. But which organized drug group would forget about 10 million dollars? The bigger mystery is where did that money go?
After effectively hiding 10 million in drug money during an epic bust, their plan falls apart when they return to discover that someone has swiped the cash. As the incident gets investigated, everyone is suspended from duty. After authorities fail to bring any charges, Breacher starts retraining the group which has grown rusty and distrustful of each other during the long layoff. Soon, members of Breacher's crew start dying in gruesome fashion. He gets close to Caroline Brentwood (Olivia Williams) the investigator put in charge of the case. Caroline eventually learns about a dark secret from Breacher's past. Soon the remaining members of the crew realize that one of them is responsible for the murders, and that same person probably has the cash as well..
Balancing dangerously between the law and destructive opportunism, the veteran DEA task force leader, John Breacher, and his hard-as-nails squad decide to skim off $10 million in cash, after taking down a powerful Mexican cartel. However, only a few months after the seemingly successful heist, a lethal assassin on the loose starts wiping out the unsuspecting members of Breacher's team one by one, as Detective, Caroline Brentwood, and her partner, Darius Jackson, investigate this mysterious case. Who is the elusive killer who knows Breacher's heavy secret? Could this string of cold-blooded murders be a well-planned inside job?
In "Sabotage", Arnold Schwarzenegger leads an elite DEA task force that takes on the world's deadliest drug cartels. When the team successfully executes a high-stakes raid on a cartel safe house, they think their work is done - until, one-by-one, the team members mysteriously start to be eliminated. As the body count rises, everyone is a suspect.
