A college freshman's world is rocked when she learns she is the adopted survivor of a failed abortion.
As the curtain rises, Hannah hesitantly steps onto the stage for her theatrical debut in college. Yet before she can utter her first lines, Hannah-unscripted-collapses in front of the stunned audience. After countless medical tests, all signs point to one underlying factor: Hannah's difficult birth. This revelation is nothing compared to what she then learns from her parents: she was actually adopted ... after a failed abortion attempt. Bewildered, angered, and confused, Hannah turns for support to Jason, her long-time friend. Encouraged by his adventurous spirit, Hannah joins his group of friends on a Spring Break road trip, embarking on a journey to discover her hidden past ... and find hope for her unknown future. In the midst of her incredible journey, Hannah learns that every life is beautiful.
19-year-old freshman Hannah has always felt like an outsider. Something is missing. Although she is an incredible stage actor with a lovable naivety, She has always had a deep seated feeling that she has no right to exist. Because of escalating health and psychological problems her parents reveal to her that she was adopted and was never told because of the shocking and heartbreaking circumstances surrounding her birth. With her identity and world thrown into turmoil she sets out on a spring break road trip to New Orleans with her best friend Jason, his girlfriend and a host of misfits piled into a decrepit VW minibus. Everyone else is on the ride for good times, but Hannah is determined to use the opportunity to return to the city of her birth and find the answers she craves - something her overprotective father has forbidden her to do. As she finds herself closer than ever to the truth, she also finds herself closer than ever to Jason, and sparks begin to fly between the two - something his girlfriend Alanna finds infuriating. Finally Hannah and Jason embark alone to Mobile, Alabama, the city of her birth, and Hannah discovers that sometimes the truth can be more painful than a lie and she must choose between confronting her birth mother or returning home. Ultimately Hannah discovers the freedom she has always wanted and the true power of forgiveness.
