Danny's sent to stay with his estranged dad after yet another illegal street race and arrest. He befriends Jessica at school and has problems with her speed crazy bully ex. There's a drag race with a racing school scholarship as prize.
Born To Race is the story of Danny Krueger, a rebellious young street racer on a collision course with trouble. After an accident at an illegal street race, he is sent to a small town to live with his estranged father, a washed up NASCAR racer. When Danny decides to enter the NHRA High School Drags, he's forced to seek his father's help in taking down the local hot shot.
It is the story of Danny Krueger "Joseph Cross", a rebellious young street racer on a collision course with trouble. After an accident at an illegal street race, he is sent to a small town to live with his estranged father "John Pyper-Ferguson", a washed up NASCAR racer. Attending high school, Danny meets Jessica "Nicole Badaan". She invites him to a party. Attempting to integrate, Danny accepts the invitation. At the party Danny runs into the local hot shot Jake Kendall "Brando Eaton". The two characters clash. Jake rules the neighborhood fiercely, and Danny will have to live up to those standards in order to become accepted, which means that he shall have to race again. Meanwhile the relationship between Danny and his father has its own ups and downs. Danny cannot get over the fact that his father left him and his mother when he was still a young child. In his struggle to find his ways in his new hometown, he cannot get around his father, and through dialogue the two slowly come to realize that they have more in common then they suspected. When Danny decides to enter the NHRA High School Drags, he is forced to seek his father's help in taking down his rival Jake Kendall.
Born To Race is the story of Danny Krueger (Jospeh Cross), a rebellious young street racer on a collision course with trouble. After an accident at an illegal street race, he is sent to a small town to live with his estranged father (John Pyper-Fergeson), a washed up NASCAR racer. Attending to Highschool, Danny meets Jessica (Nicole Bandaan). She invites him to a party. Attempting to integrate Danny accepts the invitation. At the party Danny runs into the local hot shot Jack Kendall (Brando Eaton).The two characters clash. Jack rules the neighberhood with fierce and Danny will have to live up to those standards in order to become accepted. Which means that he shall have to race again.Meanwhile the relationship between Danny and his father has it's own ups and downs. Danny can't get over the fact that his father has left him and his mother when he was still a young child. In his struggle to find his ways in his new hometown he cannot get around his father and through dialoge the two slowly become to realize that they have more in common then they where suspecting. WHen Danny decides to enter the NHRA High School Drags, he's forced to seek his father's help in taking down his rival Jack Kendall.
!
