Death Bell 2: Bloody Camp is about a group of high school students and teachers who get locked in the school after the swimming instructor is murdered.
The film opens at a swim meet. Chung Taeyeon and her best friend Yoon Narae are both competing, with Lee Sehee in the stands cheering them on. Taeyeon comes in first with Narae in third place. While both swimmers have pictures taken of them, Taeyeon calls Sehee out from the crowd and gets her to pose with them for a picture. The scene shifts to two years later. At the pool, a member of the swim team, Kyunghee, goes for a practice swim in the
pool but is suddenly dragged underwater by a mysterious black smoke. Kyunghee struggles, but then spots a corpse-like figure staring back at her and screams.The school is in the middle of final exams. Narae, tired of studying, makes no real attempt at the test. Sehee gets a severe nose bleed; the teaching assistant, Miss Park, tries to let her go to the nurse, but the teacher, Mr. Cha, refuses to let her go. After the test, Narae watches the swim team practice before getting up and leaving. She has quit the team. The coach tells Narae to study hard in order to get into a good college now that she doesn't have
swimming to fall back on. Above the swimming pool a male student, Wonho, takes pictures of the swim team in their bathing suits.Miss Park messes up during a class evaluation, causing the students to laugh. While she tries to teach, the students pass around a photograph of Miss Park and another teacher, edited to look like they were having sex. Just
as he gets hold of the picture, Kim Jangkook - known as JK among the students - is called on to read from the textbook. Miss Park demands that he hand over the picture, but becomes embarrassed when she sees what it is
and crumples it up.Yeom Jiyoon approaches Sehee and asks if she wants to rejoin her study group; Sehee says no. Kwanwoo, who has been handing out milk cartons to the students, tosses a carton at Jiyoon, who moves. The milk hits Sehee instead, exploding and drenching her. Mr. Cha enters just then, and the students return to their seats; as Kwanwoo passes Sehee's desk, he hands her a handkerchief to dry herself. Mr. Cha announces that the top thirty students in the school will be enrolled in a summer course and will still be at the school during summer break, starting tomorrow. It is shown that Narae has been enrolled in the program despite her ranking being lower than 30. Narae calls her mother and demands to know why she was put in this class, saying that she only wanted to quit swimming, not get involved with more studying. She accuses her mother of giving the school money - and not for the first time - in order to get her into the summer program.While Sehee packs for the summer course at home, Taeyeon sits at the piano behind her, teasing her for her intense study habits. She asks Sehee to play something for her on the piano. When Sehee finishes, Taeyeon
demonstrates that all she can play is "Chopsticks"; while she plays, Sehee glances over to see that Taeyeon has become a rotting corse, complete with hollow eye sockets dripping with blood. Sehee screams, then wakes up from
where she had been sleeping at her desk. She turns behind her and sees the piano bench empty, but water droplets can be seen on a few of the keys.Before the summer program begins the next day, Sehee and Narae run into each other but don't speak. JK and Yongran, his girlfriend, speed by on JK's motorcycle. The rest of the students trickle in. Mr. Kang, the principal, tells the class that this course will be about competition for the highest ranking and to see the other students as rivals. Miss Park takes the cell phones from the students. Wonho hands her a small nude figurine wrapped in bondage along with his phone, but she ignores it. During lunch, Yongran reveals to Jiyoon that she plans to have sex with JK that night. Sehee is too absorbed in her flash cards to pay attention to Kwanwoo's apology for the milk incident. That evening, Miss Park and Mr. Cha are left to supervise the students by themselves, as Mr. Kang is leaving for personal matters; he assures them that the doors and gates will be locked and nothing could go wrong.In the dorm, Hyuna, another friend of Jiyoon, is putting up her numerous pill bottles when another girl, Minjung, tells her that Kyunghee saw the ghost of Chung Taeyeon in the swimming pool. Hyuna becomes upset and leaves, and Narae criticizes Minjung's sense of humor over someone's death. In the bathroom, Hyuna takes her pills and begins to hallucinate hair growing rapidly all over her body, then blood being dumped on her from the ceiling. The swimming coach goes to shower, but hears noise coming from the other room. The lights go off and the coach begins fumbling around; a sudden burst of light in her eyes makes her scream before she is thrown against the
wall and killed. Yongran sneaks through the halls to her meeting spot with JK. She is pinned to the wall by someone wearing a mask; it's only JK, who removes the mask before they begin to make out. Outside, Mr. Kang finishes
locking the gates and leaves just as the televisions and lights in the hallway begin to flicker.The students and Miss Park have all fallen asleep at their desks while studying. As the clock strikes midnight, the school bell plays and wakes the students. Sehee notices something written on the blackboard: "When an innocent mother is killed, what son wouldn't avenge her?" Hyuna wakes up to find blood dripping onto her forehead. Yongrans body suddenly breaks through the ceiling tiles, hanging from a rope. Foreign characters are sewn into her face. The PA system turns on and a male voice announces that students will die, and that the students must find the answer to who is killing them and why in order to leave the school alive. Yongran is suddenly dropped and dies on impact with the edge of a desk. The students, terrified, find that they are locked in. The televisions in the hallway turn on to show JK laying in the middle of a different school hallway, waking up from unconsciousness. A mysterious figure appears in the same hallway on his motorcycle proceeds to run JK over repeatedly until he is dead.Hyuna begins to panic and says that Taeyeon has come to kill everyone. Mr. Cha appears, and the students tell him that Yongran and JK are both dead. They beg him to let them out, but he tells them that Mr. Kang has the keys. He
tells Miss Park to take the students back to the classroom, and goes with Kwak Sooil to try to find a working telephone. Sooil tells Mr. Cha that the lines have been cut and that there is also no wireless signal.In the classroom, Hyuna takes more of her pills as some of the other girls discuss Taeyeon; it is revealed that Taeyeon committed suicide in the school swimming pool. A male student begins to get aggressive, accusing another student of being behind the killings and threatening to beat him up. Hyuna screams and hallucinates ants crawling all over her. She begins clawing at herself and even stabs herself with a pen to get rid of the ants. Jiyoon tries to stop her but ends up getting slashed in the face with the pen. Hyuna starts foaming at the mouth and coughing up blood; just as Jiyoon notices that the pills Hyuna had been taking were not her prescribed ones - meaning someone had switched her medication - Hyuna dies.Sehee repeats the riddle she saw on the board and Jiyoon comes up with an answer. The riddle references Queen Yoon, mother of King Yeonsan. Yoon was poisoned and killed. Mr. Cha and Sooil enter the classroom right then.
The same male student from earlier becomes aggressive again, accusing Mr. Cha of being involved in the murders. Angered, Mr. Cha punches the student, but before the student can return the blow the lights go out. Mr. Cha
gets a flashlight and asks for everyone to stay together and go to their dorms while he goes to the maintenance room with Miss Park and Sooil.In their dorm room, Sehee mentions to Narae that the photo of them with Taeyeon is still hanging in Taeyeon's bedroom; this is the first time she has spoken of Taeyeon since her suicide. Minjung, confused, asked if Sehee lived with Taeyeon. The scene changes to a flashback of a miserable Sehee and her father sitting in a restaurant, where Sehee is meeting her father's new fiancee for the first time. When she arrives, she has her daughter with her:
Taeyeon. Taeyeon mentions that she's excited to be in the same class as Sehee the next semester; Sehee responds that she hopes no one finds out that they will be step-sisters. In the present time Sehee begins to cry, saying that she feels guilty for the nasty way she treated Taeyeon. Narae says she was angry that she was never told that Sehee and Taeyeon were step-sisters. Sehee apologizes to Narae, "even though it's too late."Kyunghee is out in the hallway, banging on a dorm room door and begging for someone to let her in. After a few minutes, Wonho opens his door and invites her in. In his room are several figurines like the one he gave to Miss Park, of nude women in bondage. Wonho asks if Kyunghee remembers when, a year before, she sat next to him and shared her lunch with him during a school trip. He then asks if she wants a blanket but Kyunghee, clearly
uncomfortable, says no and leaves. Wonho follows her out into the hallway, begging her to stay with him. Around this time, some of the male students break into one of the classrooms and grab a box of spray paint cans.In the maintenance room, Mr. Cha connects two wires and turns the power back on. A generator comes on as well, which turns on a weapon that kills Sooil. Mr. Cha and Miss Park separate, and Mr. Cha finds Jiyoon wandering the halls alone. She asks him if the murders had anything to do with "that." Mr. Cha insists that nobody knows about whatever happened, and that she shouldn't mention it again. She tells him that there is one other person involved with the mysterious incident. In a flashback, Jiyoon is shown sitting in class when she receives a picture on her phone of a dead girl. She looks around and sees Wonho smiling at her. At a later time, Wonho approaches Jiyoon and hands her what appears to be a set of picture slides, and she in turns hands him a packet of unknown pictures. Off to the side, Mr. Cha is shown on his cell phone telling someone on the other line that Jiyoon will no longer be pestered with "these kinds of issues."Back at the school, Mr. Cha, carrying a hammer, follows a trail of blood to the school darkroom where he finds Wonho sitting at a desk with his head down. Mr. Cha raises his hammer to attack Wonho, who he is surprised to find is already dead. Mr. Cha notices that the wall is covered in pictures of some of the students running through the pool area during one night. He tears the photographs down, then sees the negatives in a large incinerator. An unseen force pushes him inside, slamming the door shut. The school bell rings again, and the televisions turn on to show images of Sooil's dead body and Mr. Cha locked in the darkroom incinerator. The students hurry to the darkroom to get him out, but see that the incinerator has a timed lock that requires a code word. Several of the pictures around the room and pictures on a slideshow on the wall have letters on them, pieces of the code. The students begin naming those who are featured in the photographs: Yongran, JK, and Jiyoon. Sehee figures out that the code is "memento mori," but before she can input the code the incinerator turns on and burns Mr. Cha alive.After Mr. Cha's death, Sehee realizes that the characters sewn on Yongrans face mean "to forget." A slide of a beaten and dead Taeyeon pops up on the wall, and Sehee repeats "memento mori," or "never forget your mortality."
Narae sees the picture as well. It dawns on her that Taeyeon didn't really commit suicide, and she demands for Sehee to tell her the truth. Kwanwoo notices that the next picture in the slideshow is of Jiyoon, and comments that
everyone in the pictures around the darkroom is now dead, except for Jiyoon, who is now missing.Jiyoon wanders the halls of the school, having left the darkroom after the other students recognized her in the pictures. Miss Park finds her, and Jiyoon tells her that she (Jiyoon) is the next to die. In a flashback, one of the student study groups - JK, Hyuna, Sooil, Yongran, and Jiyoon - are at school studying late one night. They break out a bottle of whiskey from Jiyoon's locker and get drunk; the conversation turns to sex, and Sooil reveals that he is still a virgin. They spy on Taeyeon in the gym showers, washing off after a swim. The other students pressure Sooil into raping Taeyeon. He attacks her while the others watch and laugh. Humiliated, she threatens to tell the police. Yongran informs her that Sooil's father is a prosecutor, and if she takes this to the police then they will make it look like her fault. Jiyoon hands Taeyeon a towel and tells her to go back to swimming, but Taeyeon slaps her. Jiyoon pulls her hair and she slips, hitting her head against a shower knob; Taeyeon falls to the shower floor, dead.Jiyoon, back at the locked-down school, tells Miss Park that it was an accident and that she will turn herself into the police if it means everyone can be set free. Miss Park asks Jiyoon why she decided to reveal the truth now. Jiyoon stares at Miss Parks calm face, realizing she is involved, and screams as a hidden figure grabs her.The other students wander the halls looking for Jiyoon. The televisions turn on to show Miss Park seated in front of a microphone. She tells them that they must remember that "with every action comes responsibility." For the
following ten minutes there will be phone signal, and locked in a safe in the auditorium is a cell phone that can be used to call for help before the time runs out. Several of the students head for the auditorium, but three of the boys head for the broadcasting studio where Miss Park is. In the studio, Miss Park sits staring at the microphone as a man standing beside her puts his hand on her shoulder. He tells her that she "did good" before another flashback starts.Two years earlier, the mysterious man - Jungbum - gets a text from his girlfriend, Taeyeon, that she wants to break up. He calls her cell but gets no answer; the phone is laying smashed on the ground beside the pool. The students involved in Taeyeon's death are seen running away from the pool, and pictures are taken of them by Wonho. Jungbum arrives at the pool and spots her dead body floating in the water. He drags her out to perform CPR, and Taeyeon regains consciousness long enough to speak Sooil's name before dying. Just then the swimming coach enters the pool area and screams. She testifies that Jungbum killed Taeyeon, followed by Mr. Cha, Wonho, Yongran, JK, Sooil, and Hyuna stating that Taeyeon and Jungbum were dating, Jungbum was a trouble-maker, Taeyeon was a slut, and more. When it gets to Jiyoons confession we hear the officer talking to her father, and it is hinted that her father donates money to the police. Jiyoon and her friends are free. Jungbum, on the other hand, is shown in handcuffs climbing on a bus. He has been convicted of murdering Taeyeon. Later, Jungbum's sister - revealed to be Miss Park - visits her brother in the insane asylum. She hands him an envelope that was addressed to him (presumably the pictures of Taeyeon's murder). Jungbum continuously fidgets and wraps a piece of string around his finger. He asks if his sister has seen Taeyeon, as he can't find her anywhere.Back at the school, Jungbum tells his sister that she can leave; he will handle the rest. She hugs him and leaves, but as she goes down the stairs crying she is attacked and beaten by the group of boys who had come to find her. In
the auditorium Jiyoon is tied up, rigged to a noose that will hang her if someone pulls on the key at the end of the rope - the key to open the safe containing the cell phone. The students try to untie her but can't. Kwanwoo, Sehee, and Narae try to keep Jiyoon alive, but in the end she is hung as the key is used to open the safe. The students grab the phone with only a few seconds to spare but the signal cuts out before they can get out more than a few words.Downstairs, Jungbum sets the school on fire. The students all run out of the auditorium to try and escape. The boys create a large bomb using the spray paint cans they had taken earlier, taping them to the locked gate leading to the
school doors and throwing a lighter at them to make them explode. The explosion destroys the gate. As the students leave the school grounds, Narae tells Kwanwoo that Sehee is missing.Back at the pool, Sehee stands on the edge of the diving board, remembering a time when Taeyeon helped teach her to swim. Jungbum appears behind Sehee, asking if she has seen Taeyeon; in his hands is a heavy chain
attached to a weight. He chokes her and asks if she was a part of Taeyeon's death. In another flashback, Sehee is shown fetching food for Jiyoon and the rest of the study group. She comes in just as they are planning for Sooil to
rape Taeyeon, and she begs them not to. Jiyoon tells her she can either stay and watch or leave. Sehee leaves the school, crying.Jungbum pushes Sehee over the edge of the diving baord, the weighted chain wrapped around her ankle, but she pulls him down with her. He continues to choke her underwater until Kwanwoo pulls him off. Narae attempts to get the chain off from around Sehee's ankle but can't. Sehee blacks out, and the ghostly corpse of Taeyeon grabs her ankle. Another flashback is shown of Taeyeon and Sehee in the pool, talking about going to the beach in their bikinis to flirt with men. Jungbum and Narae appear, and Jungbum begs them to take him along. Narae pushes him into the water and they all laugh. The unconscious Sehee smiles. Taeyeon's ghost-corpse sees this and slowly becomes less disfigured. She removes the chain from Sehee's ankle and watches as her step-sister's body floats to the top of the pool. Jungbum - the pleasant, happy Jungbum from the flashback who had been pushed into the pool - swims past her and together he and Taeyon's ghost swim off together hand-in-hand. The picture of Sehee, Narae, and Taeyeon floats on the pool water as the screen fades to black.During the credits, Kwanwoo is shown reviving Sehee with CPR. He holds her, and she spies something behind him. He turns and the image of his face freezes, then fades to black.
