A woman's idyllic life is shattered when her husband is killed in a senseless act of violence. As she prepares to take matters into her own hands, two unexpected encounters begin to change everything.
A woman's world is shattered after her sweetheart Billy is murdered in a random act of violence. After this tragic event she starts to dig around to find the killer of her husband. On her quest she reunites with her childhood best friend Joe who runs an after school program for children in his neighborhood.
Samantha Crawford lives a dream life. She is happily married on a ranch where she keeps her beloved horse, and the stories she's told and illustrated since childhood have become published books. When her husband Billy is tragically killed, Sam loses her faith and will to live. A death-defying encounter with two children leads to a reunion with Joe, her oldest friend. As Sam watches "Papa" Joe care for and love the kids in his under-resourced neighborhood, she begins to believe that the love of God is always reaching out to her.
Samantha Crawford's life is like a storybook: she's happily married, living on a beautiful ranch where she keeps her beloved horse, and the stories she's told and illustrated since childhood have become published books. She senses God's love all around her-just like the little bird in the next book she's working on.In an instant, however, everything changes when her husband Billy is killed in a senseless act of violence. With the police writing off the case, Sam can't come to grips with Billy's murderer roaming the streets as a free man. Her faith-and her will to live-is quickly fading.As she prepares to take matters into her own hands, a death-defying encounter with two children changes everything. Coming to their rescue not only begins a new friendship, it also leads to an unexpected reunion with Joe, her oldest friend from childhood.Once a vibrant dreamer, Joe is now plagued by extreme health issues that have forced him to live on disability in a low-income neighborhood. Despite his difficult circumstances, Joe puts his heart and (dwindling) energy into caring for and loving the fatherless kids on his street. He has become their "Papa" Joe.Seeing the impact Joe has on so many people begins to open Sam's heart to the possibility that she can rebuild her life. But when evidence indicates Billy's killer is too close for comfort, Sam's fragile newfound hope is severely tested.Inspired by true events, UNCONDITIONAL stars Michael Ealy (Think Like A Man, Barbershop) and Lynn Collins (John Carter, X-Men Origins: Wolverine). It is the first feature film from Harbinger Media Partners, which creates and produces high-quality theatrical films to inspire moviegoers to pursue God and serve others.Partnering with scores of ministries and non-profit organizations around the country like the one run by the real-life Papa Joe Bradford, UNCONDITIONAL is encouraging people to ACT on the needs in their communities. Details are available at UnconditionaltheMovie.com.When Sam comes face-to-face with a decision that will shape the rest of her life, she begins to realize that no matter the circumstances, God's love is always reaching out to us.
