An ambitious Lebanese-American youth is forced to take over his family's gas station after his father's death.
A fresh take on boy-meets-girl comedy set in Detroit. Sami runs his immigrant family's gas station with his cousin Mike, a charismatic hustler with dreams of expanding into an unleaded empire. More than just a pit stop for late-night gas and rolling papers, their station is where a steady stream of unforgettable and often hilarious customers flow through. When a gorgeous "up-do girl" named Najlah comes to deliver cheap long-distance phone cards, Sami quickly falls for her from behind the bulletproof glass. Afraid her overprotective brother Fadi will disapprove, Najlah begins an under-the-counter romance with Sami, making his shift anything but routine.
Of Lebanese descent, Sami wants nothing more than to escape his life in Detroit, his current plan to go to school in California. Among that escape is not inheriting the family self-service gas station from his immigrant parents, it located in one of the tough inner city neighborhoods, Sami's decision on the matter which his parents accept. Things change when Sami's father, who ran the gas station, unexpectedly passes away. His death leaves Sami's mother, who already felt somewhat isolated in US society, more dependent on Sami upon who her entire focus turns, especially as she does not want to be disrespectful to the memory of her husband in socializing without him. But it also leaves the running of the gas station to Sami, who hires his more ambitious player of a cousin, Mike, to work the day shift, while Sami handles the night shift. Mike tries to convince Sami to see the gas station as their joint future - not only this specific station, but a chain of them upon which to build an empire. Mike's view is despite Sami having contempt for almost everything about the current station: the fact that they are barely able to make ends meet; the pressure of the competition with the station down the street, with who they embark on a gas price war; the animosity he has with the customers and suppliers, most of who are solely out for their own self-interest; and living twelve hours of each and every day in the small secured "cage" behind bullet-proof glass which separates him from the rest of the world. Sami sees his life at the station a little differently when he meets Najlah, the sister of Fadi, the Arab supplier of the convenience store's long distance telephone cards. There is an immediate attraction between the two. Sami and Naj embarking on a relationship is not the easiest thing to do as Fadi treats Naj not only like she should be a virgin for her entire life, but that her first priority is to him and their business. As such, Fadi would not accept Naj going out with Sami, who is seen as a simple gas station attendant. As Sami and Naj secretly start spending time together, the question becomes whether each will be able to help the other find their true wants in life.
A fresh take on boy-meets-girl comedy set in Detroit. Sami (E.J. Assi) runs his immigrant family's gas station with his cousin Mike (Mike Batayeh, Breaking Bad), a charismatic hustler with dreams of expanding into an unleaded empire. More than just a pit stop for late-night gas and rolling papers, their station is where a steady stream of unforgettable and often hilarious customers flow through. When a gorgeous "up-do girl" named Najlah (Nada Shouhayib) comes to deliver cheap long-distance phone cards, Sami quickly falls for her from behind the bulletproof glass. Afraid her overprotective brother Fadi (Steven Soro) will disapprove, Najlah begins an under-the-counter romance with Sami, making his shift anything but routine.
