A comedy centered on the life of Kate Reddy, a finance executive who is the breadwinner for her husband and two kids.
Opportunist Chris Bunce remains Pacific coast investment firm CEO Clark Cooper's favorite by being available always, also when he can snatch up deals Kate Reddy largely set up but lost giving priority to husband Richard and their kids. She gets a dream chance working for New York tycoon Jack Abelhammer, who proves most accommodating, amused by her faults, generous and able to sort of draw her back into enjoying life, so it looks like she'll have to choose when he offers her an investment fund partnership.
Kate Reddy is a junior fund manager at the investment firm Edwin Morgan Forster in the regional Boston office, the job which entails frequent traveling. She is also wife to architect Richard Reddy, who just opened his own small and struggling architecture firm, and mother to kindergarten student Emily and two year old Ben. Kate is seen as a Goddess by other working moms, such as her best friend, single mother lawyer Allison Henderson. However, others in her professional life view her personal life getting in the way of work, and others in her personal life see work getting in the way of her family responsibilities. In the former category are: her smarmy colleague Chris Bunce, who gets ahead through old boys networking and/or swooping in on projects at the last minute hence getting all the glory while doing none of the work; and Momo Hahn, Kate's loyal, dedicated, hard working and career-focused research analyst, who views what she sees of Kate's home life as the most effective form of birth control. In the latter category are: the so-called "perfect" aka full-time moms of Emily's classmates, such as Wendy Best, who scoff at Kate's attempts of domesticity; Richard's parents who indirectly blame Kate in not devoting more time to home life for Ben's slow development; Emily, who laments at her mom never being around to do the important mother-daughter activities; and to some extent Richard himself, who loves Kate but feels she isn't always there at home even when she is there at home. Things for Kate and Richard take a turn for the more hectic when concurrently Richard's firm is contracted for a major project, and Kate's boss, Clark Cooper, assigns her as the lead to develop a new fund stemming from one of her proposals. That fund development will require her working with Jack Abelhammer in the New York head office on average two days a week. The question then becomes what if anything will give, including her marriage, in Kate's drive to be able to everything, especially as suave Jack seems to be the one person who appreciates everything about Kate, and may be ready to settle down with someone like her.

