A young English woman is immigrating to her uncle's ranch - but is kidnapped on the way by a rugged outlaw who discovers a problem he never knew he had - leading them on a wild ride across the West.
In short: Isabella is new to town. Against everyone's wishes she moved from England and wishes to start her life on her uncles ranch in the Wild West. While on her way to the ranch, a cowboy (The Man) sees her and attempts to have his way with her. Frustrated when he isn't able to, he decides to kidnap her and keep her until he is able to function againSo thats the story in a nutshell. Its actually a whole lot better than the story!
The scene opens with a train rolling across the plains. On board is an English girl (Isabella) on her way to her Uncles ranch. With her is a woman who advises her that shes doing the wrong thing. Isabella does not listen and the journey continues. The train makes a special stop for Isabella and she gets off the train. She is met by two men from her uncles ranch.The men take her on her journey, but stop off at a ramshackle cantina/ bar on the way to get a drink. While sat at their table gunshots ring out. A man has been killed. The offender (The Man) searches the body taking his money. Isabellas companions catch the gunmans eye and there is a tense moment, until The Man shoots her companions and grabs her taking her from the bar. No one inside the bar bats an eyelid or tries to help.
Outside he puts her across his horse and rides off. There has been little or no dialogue at this point. The man pulls up after riding away from the scene. He pulls Isabella from the horse and a struggle ensues. He rips off some of her clothes and tries to rape her. Fortunately for her and unfortunately for him he cannot get it up. She scrambles away from him as he comes to grips with the problem.
Once again he puts her on his horse and rides away. He heads towards an un-named town. Outside of town he ties Isabella to a tree and rides into town. He looks for and finds a doctor. He finally speaks and tells the doctor my dick is broke. The doctor tells him to leave off the whiskey. The Man is insulted and it looks as if he might shoot the doctor, the doctor realises this and advises him to seek out a Chinese medicine man at the Chinese camp.In the meantime outside of town, Isabella has managed to get free and has walked to the town. She goes to the sheriffs office and asks him for help. The sheriff sees her as a whore and grabs her, he is about to rape her when The Man walks in and shoots both him and the prisoner in the cell.
He takes Isabella and rides out of town with her.Meanwhile, the sheriff has been found and his brother is alerted. They go to the jail where they find that the shot prisoner is still alive. He proceeds to tell the sheriffs brother that a man and his woman did the shooting. The sheriffs brother raises a posse. What is more, the dim-witted self-appointed new sheriff has concluded that the kidnapped woman is The Mans accomplice.The posse are told who they are looking for. Initially the men want no part in the manhunt. In desperation the sheriffs brother offers he men double pay, to whoever shoots the whore.Isabella and the man camp for the night while the posse is being raised in town. In the morning The Man awakes after a troubled nights sleep, grabs his pistol and fires off two shots. Isabella wakes in alarm. There is no trouble. In town, the posse ride at first light to hunt them down. Isabella tries to communicate with the man but he doesnt reply. She asks him if he speaks English, he doesnt respond. Isabella takes out a compact to check her hair and face. The man takes it off her. There are two photographs in the compact, Isabellas mother and father. The man keeps the compact.They ride off once again. After a while she asks him to stop so that she can take a pee, She disappears into bushes and returns minus the ragged dress she has been wearing. She asks him what he intends to do with her. He replies give you a poke. They reach the Chinese settlement and the man goes to speak to the medicine man. He ties Isabella to the horse. The man explains his problem to the Chinese doctor and is told he needs Tiger medicine. There are no Tigers in America so the medicine man advises him to ride up to the mountains and speak to an Indian medicine man.While he is gone Isabella pleads with two Chinese labourers to help untie her from the horse. Eventually they agree and attempt to untie a very complicated knot. They have no success and look for something to cut the rope with. As they are looking The Man returns and their plan is foiled.The posse continue to give chase. They stop at a stream near where Isabella and The Man earlier stopped for a pee. Their Mexican guide stands in the river looking for clues. He is obviously very bad at being a guide or totally lost. The sheriffs brother argues with the guide and gets off his horse. The two men argue draw their guns and have a shootout. They are truly terrible and both empty their guns. Those old firearms were dreadfully inaccurate and hard to shoot. The fantasy of the gunslinger always hitting the bad guy on the first try was Hollywoods invention, not actual history.The sheriffs brother, who has been slightly wounded in the altercation, goes back to his horse and takes his rifle from the saddle. He aims at the guide. The guide panics, turns and tries to run across the river. The sheriffs brother fires and wounds the guide. He shoots again and finally kills the man.The posse ride off but the sheriffs brother is troubled by his wounded shoulder. They stop and camp for the night and treat his wounds. He squeals like a pig as they retrieve the bullet and cauterise the wound. The other posse members are far from impressed with him.Further on, Isabella and the man are camped. The man sees the wounds on Isabellas wrists and spits whiskey on them to help them heal. She thanks him. They eat a chicken that The Man shot back at the Chinese camp. He tells Isabella that she has very white teeth and asks her how. She tells him she brushes them each day with a brush. They talk and he tells her about his favourite horse that he had to kill. She tells him about her father. How he got sick and she nursed him. She also tells him that she how she eventually smothered her sick father. He tells her that she did right by her pappy.He suggests she could stay and ride with him. Meanwhile - the posse are catching up.Isabella wakes in the morning to find the man missing. She goes down to the river to wash and finds him naked in the river except for his gun belt, washing and scraping his teeth with a stick. She heads back and tries to saddle the horse and escape. He arrives back before she can with a bunch of pathetic weeds in his hand and a forced smile to show his attempt at cleaning his teeth.
He sees her with the horse and realises that she has tried to escape. He says nothing, but throws his bouquet to the ground.They ride off once again. The posse is closer than ever.
In the mountains we come across a cabin, the home of the Indian. The Indian stands at the door and stares at him and Isabella. The Man goes into the cabin and offers to sell the Indian Isabella. The Indian tells him that will only get him killed. There is uneasiness between the men. He is told by the Indian that he cannot help cure what is between the man and Isabella.It is a trap and a hidden Indian fires an arrow. It hits the man in the arm. There is a shootout. As the man escapes he is shot in the back with another arrow. He an Isabella ride off.They stop further in the mountains and the man pulls the arrow from his arm. Isabella helps pull the arrow from his back and then treats his wounds, with whiskey and pieces from her tattered petticoat. While she is pressed close to him, the man realises that there is nothing wrong with him he smiles and says Well Ill be damned Im fixed.The posse have now caught up and are creeping up on Isabella and the man. There is a shootout. He manages to escape telling Isabella to stand up and tell them her name. She will be safe. She does this and stands up telling the posse she has been kidnaped. The posse members argue amongst themselves. The Sheriffs brother tells them he will take the girl back to town. They argue about this and eventually they shoot the sheriffs brother. They then realise that they have shot the man who would have paid them.
Not wanting to leave empty handed they decide they will each take turns with Isabella. The Man has escaped and is preparing to leave. He can hear Isabella calling for help, but it looks as if he will make good his escape leaving Isabella to her fate.The members of the posse decide who will go first and Isabella is thrown across the rock. Just as it looks as if everything is lost, the man returns and shoots them all, getting badly wounded in the process.Isabella tends to his wounds. He tells her that he is dying, but when he realises she wont be able to find her uncles ranch on her own , he announces Im not dying yet. They ride off looking for the ranch. She helps him as they ride looking for clues as to where the ranch may be. It appears he is at deaths door - but they find the gates to the ranch. There is a sign above the gate saying Welcome Isabella. She slides off the horse and slowly walks down the road towards the ranch. She watches as he turns and rides off to an unknown fate. She walks towards the ranch leaving him to his fate.
