Identical twins Andy and Pete Goodwynn have always been there for each other. But in a cruel twist of fate, orchestrated by the town's most powerful family, their lives are forever altered. Can the brothers gain vengeance on those who have taken away from them all that matters? While revenge may seem sweet, Brother's Keeper is a powerful reminder that only forgiveness can truly heal.
Andy and Pete Goodwynn have been side-by-side since a family tragedy left the twins orphaned as young boys. As their high school graduation nears, Pete plans to marry Maggie, the love of his life, and head off to seminary to become a preacher. Andy, a rebel at heart, has no plans, no direction, and seemingly no future. In a shocking turn of events, Pete is thrown in jail - framed for Maggie's murder. Andy struggles to find a way to save his brother from Death Row - concocting a desperate escape plan that shocks his brother and alters both of their futures forever.
"Be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you." Ephesians 4:32 (NIV)BROTHER'S KEEPER
Sometimes the Greatest Revenge is ForgivenessAndy and Pete Goodwynn have been side-by-side since the womb. But that's about to change forever ...The identical twins have grown up watching out for one another while avoiding the glares and whispers that come from a small-town tragedy like the one that left them orphans at a young age.Yet despite their incredible bond, Andy and Pete couldn't be any more different. While Pete readily turns the other cheek, Andy prefers an eye for an eye. As their high school graduation nears, Pete has big plans to marry Maggie, the love of his life, and head off to school to become a preacher. Andy, who wants nothing to do with God, has no plans, no direction, and seemingly no future.Yet all of this is also about to change.Instead of becoming engaged to Maggie, Pete hears his love say no to his proposal. In a dizzying turn of events, he ends up in jail ... framed for murder! As Pete wrestles with God about this cruel twist of fate-orchestrated by the most powerful family in town-Andy struggles to find a way to help his brother ... even if it means coming to peace with God and abandoning his hopes for revenge.Coming to theaters in fall 2012, BROTHER'S KEEPER takes moviegoers on an incredible journey through rural Georgia in the 1950s: from Main Street to the State Penitentiary ... from young love to a heinous crime of passion ... from counterfeit justice to forgiveness forged through pain ... from God's mercy to the ultimate sacrifice.The first feature film from Desert Wind Films, BROTHER'S KEEPER is co-directed by Josh Mills and T.J. Amato and stars Alex and Graham Miller as Pete and Andy. The cast also includes Daniel Samonas as Gordon, MacKenzie Mauzy as Maggie, Ray Wise as Herbert, and award-winning singer Travis Tritt as Eddie.Will Andy be able to help Pete gain his freedom? Will the brothers seek vengeance on those whose corruption and deceit have taken away from them all that matters in life? While revenge may seem sweet, BROTHER'S KEEPER is a powerful reminder that only forgiveness can truly heal.BROTHER'S KEEPER
In Theaters Fall 2012
BrothersKeeperFilm
