In order to immortalize his love, a groom decides to create conflict between his and his to-be bride's families.
Narrated through the two wise kids of the hilariously madcap Parekh family, namely Jacky and Chakki. Khichdi - The movie is about a hare brained dream of a snail brained bunch of lovable losers. Hansa's brother Himanshu has born a ridiculous ambition that is to have a memorable legendary love story. It's all together another matter that he is not in love with anyone and neither is he capable of getting any sensible girl smitten to him. But as Babuji over wisely says that for every idiotic Praful there is an even more idiotic Hansa made, his prophecy turns out to be true. Parminder, Himanshu's neighbor falls in love with Himanshu for no logical reason and the 2 get engaged to get married. That's when this ridiculous story line takes a ridiculous turn. Himanshu realizes on the eve of the wedding that the impending ceremony would mean impending doom to his desire to have a legendary love story. For nothing interesting ever happened in his love story to make it memorable. It was a simple non happening take with a boring happy ending. No resistance, no conflict, no separation, no sad song, no climax nothing. And so our gifted dumb family sets out to stall the wedding. And then begins their journey to create all those missing stages in Himanshu's love story in order to make it legendary. How, in this hilariously hare brained process, they make a mess of everything and how at the incredibly ridiculous climax Himanshu eventually manages to win his love back, makes up the story of Khichdi The Movie.
Children narrate the story of the Parekh family, who at first humiliate Buddhidev; and then attempt to fulfill a deceased Chandrakant Tribhuvandas Seth's last wish to get a bride for his naive son, Himanshu. Their attempts to find one result in nothing but heartbreak for the prospective groom as he not only gets rejected but also humiliated. He does get to meet his sweetheart, Parminder Kaur, their neighbor, who lives with scores of other male/female 'Parminders' - who dislikes Bollywood actors - and accept Himashu with open arms. After his engagement, Himanshu plots with the rest of the family and decides to create a rift between the Singhs and the Parekhs in order to immortalize his romance. After failing to make them hate him for trying to become a Bollywood actor, he sets off trying to alienate them. He does succeed, so much so that the Singhs not only cancel the wedding but also decide to get Parminder married to a male - also named Parminder - while a beleaguered Himanshu gets arrested and charged with attempting to kill their friend, Chakku Singh Ahluwalia.

