Feeling pressured to become more sexually experienced before she goes to college, Brandy Klark makes a list of things to accomplish before hitting campus in the fall.
Brandy Klark (Aubrey Plaza) has just graduated from high school where she excelled in every subject, except real-life sexual education. When her older sister tells her how important it is to be experienced, Brandy writes out a sex to do list for herself for the summer. Her friend Cameron might be the perfect guinea pig while she sets her sights on the popular and sexy Rusty Waters as the ultimate end goal. But once feelings get in the way, it becomes much harder for Brandy to check off the remaining items on her sex to do list.
The year is 1993. Brandy Klark (Aubrey Plaza) is the brainy teen who's always home studying while her friends are out partying. Now, as graduation looms, she starts to realize just how much fun she's been missing out on. Of course Brandy's grades are impressive, but how is a girl who's barely even kissed a guy supposed to handle the freedom of college life? In order to get a leg up, Brandy compiles a list of all of the erotic extracurricular activities she's missed out on and attempts to cross them off one by one. When the task proves more demanding than the previously chaste teen had anticipated, she rounds up a crew of her closest friends to help undertake some hilariously unconventional college prep..
1993. Brandy Klark, who has just graduated at the top of her class at Merriwether High School in Boise, Idaho, has focused her entire existence on academic excellence at the expense of all else, this focus making her a proverbial goody-two-shoes, which is just fine especially with her conservative father, Judge George Klark. That focus also blinds her to that her friend, and science lab and study partner, Cameron Mitchell, has long mooned over her in a severe case of puppy love. That focus changes when Brandy has her first case of lust in spotting college guy Rusty Waters at what is her first keg party. In speaking to her sexually aggressive older sister Amber Klark - the two who generally do not get along in their differences - Brandy decides to try to lose her virginity before she heads off to college in the fall. In her academic mindset in wanting to make losing her virginity the best experience it can be, Brandy develops a to do list of other sexual activities before that final act on the list, losing her virginity to Rusty, with who she will have the opportunity in learning he is a coworker in her summer job as a lifeguard at a community outdoor swimming pool. Along with Amber, her more sexually experienced best friends Fiona and Wendy act as her official guides, with Brandy's mother, Jean Klark, who is more liberal than her husband, acting as an unofficial guide in solely wanting Brandy to have a safe yet enjoyable first experience whenever it may happen. Even with this help, Brandy may make many missteps along the way especially as she doesn't even know what several activities on the list entail in the euphemisms that Amber, Fiona and Wendy use. Who also factors into what happens is Cameron, who, regardless of knowing or not knowing what Brandy is up to, will want to be part of any sexual experience she has in his love for her.

