A tight-knit team of rising investigators, along with their supervisor, is suddenly torn apart when they discover that one of their own teenage daughters has been brutally murdered.
2002: Ray Kasten (Chiwetel Ejiofor) and Jess Cobb (Julia Roberts) are two investigators in a private police unit led by the DA. When they receive an anonymous tip about a girl raped and killed, they rush to the scene. Ray realizes it is Jess' daughter and the team falls apart due to the grief. In 2015, Ray comes back to LA, and says that after 13 years, he has found a lead and convinces the DA to reopen the case. They find clues and leads unknown to them, and secrets from the past come to light as they start discovering the real, chilling truth. Meanwhile, Jess, dissatisfied with the law, decides to take matters into her own hands and track down the killer, no matter what lengths she has to go to.
In 2002, the daughter of a member of the Los Angeles DA Counter-Terrorism team is murdered in a building adjacent to one believed to house a terrorist group. The chief suspect turns out to be an informer within the terrorist group. As he is valuable to the authorities in their attempts to prevent a terrorist attack, they are unable to touch him, and he goes free. Now, 13 years later, the FBI agent on the team believes he has tracked down the killer, and intends to settle the score.
2002. A counter-terrorist joint task force is housed at and led by the Los Angeles District Attorney's office, its main goal to prevent a 9/11 styled attack in Los Angeles by finding and prosecuting terrorists. D.A. Martin Morales believes all else is secondary to the team's stated goal. Team members are focused on monitoring different aspects of the Al-Ankara mosque where the primary suspected sleeper cell is centered. In that process, the team is called to a site adjacent to the mosque where a dead body is found in a dumpster and might be associated to the terrorists. It isn't until the team arrives on the scene that they discover the victim is Carolyn Cobb, the teenaged daughter of team member Jess Cobb, one of the D.A.'s investigators. Another team member, FBI Agent Ray Kasten, arguably Jess' best friend after Carolyn, feels somewhat guilty about Carolyn's death in that they were supposed to meet regarding some personal business around the time she was murdered, that meeting which didn't happen due to Ray having a last minute work commitment. Under the circumstances, Ray changes the focus of his work from the terrorists as a whole to finding out who killed Carolyn, he still believing it having something to do with the activities at the mosque. Ray's change of focus does not sit well with Morales. Purely on circumstantial evidence, Ray believes the murderer is someone associated with the mosque, a young man he eventually learns is named Anzor Marzin. Due to the situation, Ray knows that what he discovers about Carolyn's murder he will receive no support from Morales as being counter-productive to the team's work. Fast forward thirteen years to present day. The team was able to quash the cell at the mosque. Jess, now the D.A.'s chief investigator, has aged considerably in her emotional distress about Carolyn's killer never having been brought to justice. Harvard graduate Claire Sloan, hired in the office as an Assistant D.A. in 2002, is now the D.A. Ray had been in love with Claire at the time, but didn't follow his heart in pursuing her, respecting the fact that she was engaged, she still married to that man, Ellis. And due to the situation in 2002 and knowing that he could not work on Carolyn's case while within the Los Angeles D.A.'s office, Ray moved into private sector work, he now head of security for the New York Mets. But he returns to the Los Angeles D.A.'s office for the first time since 2002 believing that he has a lead as to Marzin's current whereabouts - Marzin a recent parolee under the assumed name Clay Beckwith, convicted for grand theft auto - bringing him to justice now possible due to the sleeper cell at the mosque no longer being an issue and Morales no longer in the top job. Ray's return affects Claire and Jess both professionally and personally, Claire with who he is still in love, and Jess who has her own view of justice in the matter different than Ray's.
Shortly after the aftermath of the devastating attacks on 9/11, FBI investigators, Ray Kasten and Jessica Cobb, along with their district-attorney supervisor, Claire Sloane, form a counter-terrorism task force in Los Angeles. But, nothing will ever be the same again, as the harrowing discovery of a murdered young woman near a mosque, will tear the team apart. Now, thirteen long years later, Ray, who is still fervently searching for the shadow killer, reunites with the old friends, convinced that he finally has the murderer's identity, unbeknownst to him; however, that the silent ghosts of the past want to remain unfound. Are they all prepared for the shocking revelation?
A former Los Angeles DA inspector (Chiwetel Ejiofor) spends 13 years hunting the killer who raped and murdered the teen daughter of his colleague (Julia Roberts). But when he finds the culprit and the district attorney (Nicole Kidman) refuses to reopen the case, he is forced to pursue justice on his own, which ultimately leads to a shocking discovery..

