A British college student falls for an American student, only to be separated from him when she's banned from the U.S. after overstaying her visa.
Anna and Jacob fall instantly in love when they meet as students at an L.A. university. But Anna is British and when graduation approaches, Anna decides to stay and violate her student visa rather than returning to England. After a visit home, she is then unable to return to the United States. While fighting customs and immigration battles, Anna and Jacob must decide if their relationship is worth the distance and the hardship.
Anna Gardner and Jacob Helm, a Londoner and an Angeleno respectively, meet as students attending the same Los Angeles college. They end up falling in love just before they both graduate. Instead of Anna's original plan of heading home to London for the summer following graduation which includes needing to attend her sister's wedding, Anna, not wanting to leave Jacob at all, at the last minute changes her mind and decides to stay with Jacob in Los Angeles for the summer, only returning home at the end of the summer for the wedding before returning back to Los Angeles to be with Jacob. However, when Anna tries to reenter the United States at LAX, she is denied entry as she violated the terms of her student visa by staying that extra two months over the summer. Both Anna and Jacob, the former with the help of her supportive parents who have met and like Jacob, do whatever they can to overcome what seems to be the stringent US customs regulations for Anna to be able to reenter the States again at some point in time down the road. Having established his own business as a custom furniture designer and builder in Los Angeles, Jacob, after discussing the issue with Anna, is not prepared to move to London, and due to the logistics it does not make sense for Jacob to commute back and forth regularly between the two cities. So in the meantime, they decide to try the long distance relationship. The question then becomes whether their relationship can survive all the stresses on it, especially as they establish their own separate lives in their respective cities without the other, which also includes other romantic interests entering their lives.
Like Crazy stars Felicity Jones as Anna, a British girl who comes to America to attend college. In Los Angeles she falls madly in love with fellow student Jacob (Anton Yelchin), who returns her affection absolutely. However, when she overstays her visa, the government kicks her out of the United States, forcing the lovebirds to maintain a long-distance relationship and overcome a number of problems to keep their relationship alive.
Drake Doremus' romantic drama Like Crazy stars Felicity Jones as Anna, a British girl who comes to America to attend college. In Los Angeles she falls madly in love with fellow student Jacob (Anton Yelchin), who returns her affection absolutely. However, when she overstays her visa, the government kicks her out of the United States, forcing the lovebirds to maintain a long-distance relationship and overcome a number of problems to keep their relationship alive.
Anna and Jacob are college students. He's a talented young designer from Los Angeles; she's a gifted writer from London but after Anna makes the nervy first move, they seem to connect at the purest level. When they're together, they feel like anything is possible. But when Anna overstays her American visa, breaking the rules of 21st Century travel, she unwittingly drops a wall between them. Forced by law to return to London while Jacob remains in L.A., they discover the perils of long-distance relationships. Their lives become wrapped up in anxious text messages, missed phone calls and ecstatic reunions that turn to bittersweet departures.They also begin to change. Jacob's furniture design business takes off in L.A. Anna is promoted to Junior Editor in London. Jacob seeks solace with his assistant, Sam, and Anna has a fling with her neighbor, Simon. Yet every time they are inevitably pulled apart by circumstance, by Homeland Security, by the clash of inexplicable emotions - something keeps luring them back together, something they cannot seem to hold on to, yet cannot live without.Paramount press.
