A middle-aged couple's career and marriage are overturned when a disarming young couple enters their lives.
Josh Srebnick is 44. He is married to Cornelia, 43, the daughter of Leslie Breitbart, a respected documentary filmmaker. The couple lives comfortably in New York Village and gives the image of happiness. But things are not so rosy as they look: on a personal level, their relationships have been cooling down while they suffer from not having children. On a professional plane, things have deteriorated as well. Josh, who is also a documentary filmmaker like his father-in-law, has lost inspiration: he has been grappling with his last movie for eight years now without being able to complete it. To be true, Josh goes nowhere and his marriage is on the rocks. Things start changing when Josh and Cornelia meet another married pair: Jamie and Darby, a generation younger, express their admiration for Josh (Jamie wishing to become a documentary filmmaker himself). Plus, they are much cooler, smarter and more uninhibited than the two forty-odds. Could they help Josh and Cornelia to revive their couple? Could they give Josh an extra boost of energy to make a fresh start in his art?
Josh and Cornelia are married and in their 40s, but they're not old and boring yet, or are they? Josh has spent 10 years trying to make a documentary and get out from under the shadow of Cornelia's famous documentarian father. At a class he teaches, Josh meets Jamie, a young aspiring filmmaker who has seen Josh's first film, and Josh is immediately smitten. Jamie and young girlfriend Darby represent who Josh thinks he and Cornelia should be. They live in the moment, shun new technology and idolize the past. Slowly, Josh turns into a new-age hippie resembling Jamie. Jamie also presents Josh with a new way of documentary filmmaking. He can get investors but the path might not be worth the price for Josh in this conflict of new vs. traditional, young vs. old and maturity vs. immaturity.
Josh Shrebnick and Cornelia Breitbart are married mid-forty-something New Yorkers. Josh, a documentary filmmaker and part-time college professor to help pay the bills, has been working on the same now over-bloated documentary project for ten years with no end in sight. As Josh likes to work without critical input, Cornelia, a producer, instead produces her father's movies, he famed documentarian, Leslie Breitbart. Josh and Leslie have an outwardly strained relationship in their many differences within the business. Beyond these issues, Josh and Cornelia hit a crossroads when their similarly aged best friends, Fletcher and Marina, have their first child, Fletcher and Marina who seem to be making new friends in other parents. Josh and Cornelia had once thought about having children, but had difficulty in trying to conceive leaving the thought now only a memory at this stage in their life. Things for Josh and Cornelia begin to take a turn when they befriend married mid-twenty-somethings Jamie and Darby Massey, also a documentary filmmaker and artisan ice cream maker respectively, they who decided to audit Josh's class in their admiration of his work. Jamie and Darby are self-assured hipsters who seem to make whatever they do work for their lives, at least to anyone looking in, such as Josh and Cornelia. Cornelia but especially Josh begin to mimic much of what they admire about Darby and Jamie, and thus take a step back a few decades in their lives. If they dig below the surface, Josh and Cornelia may find that Jamie and Darby are not all they initially appeared to be, but discovery of such may be too late to repair the damage that their association with the younger couple has taken on their own lives.

