Johnny Worricker (Bill Nighy) is a long-serving MI5 officer. His boss and best friend Benedict Baron (Sir Michael Gambon) dies suddenly, leaving behind him an inexplicable file, threatening the stability of the organization. Meanwhile, a seemingly chance encounter with Johnny's striking next-door neighbor and political activist Nancy Pierpan (Rachel Weisz) seems too good to be true. Johnny is forced to walk out of his job, and then out of his identity to find out the truth. Set in London and Cambridge, this is a contemporary spy movie for the BBC, which addresses intelligence issues and moral dilemmas particular to the new century.
Johnny Worricker (Bill Nighy) is a life-long member of the Security service. He's no longer married and realizes that he's not much of a father to his now adult daughter. His boss, Benedict Baron (Sir Michael Gambon), asks him to review a particularly sensitive file that reveals not only that the C.I.A. has illegal prisons around the world, but that Prime Minister Alec Beasley (Ralph Fiennes) was aware of them and knew about them all along. When Baron dies of a heart attack, the Prime Minister personally tells Worricker that he has twelve hours to return the incriminating file or face the consequences. Johnny enlists the aid of his neighbor, Nancy Pierpan (Rachel Weisz), but in the end he has to compromise, leaving him in a delicate situation.
MI5 analyst Johnny Worricker (Bill Nighy) receives from his boss and his friend since they studied at Cambridge, Director General of MI5, Benedict Baron (Sir Michael Gambon), a top secret report also distributed to Jill Tankard (Judy Davis), and to Home Secretary Anthea Catcheside (Saskia Reeves). They have an internal meeting and Johnny highlights that on page eight, there is information that Prime Minister Alec Beasley (Ralph Fiennes) knows that the U.S. Government is torturing prisoners in prisons around the world. Baron cannot disclose his source, but if the information is correct, the Prime Minister has not informed the MI5. Meanwhile, Johnny befriends his next door neighbor, political activist Nancy Pierpan (Rachel Weisz), whose brother was murdered by the Israeli Army holding a white flag. When Baron dies of heart attack at home with his wife, Johnny suspects that the death of his friend may not have been an accident. He also finds the file on Nancy's brother. Now, Johnny has to decide his next move.
Johnny Worricker (Bill Nighy) is a long-serving MI5 officer whose life, personal and professional, has just been turned inside out. When his boss and best friend, Benedict Baron (Sir Michael Gambon), dies suddenly, Worricker is left on his own to deal with a contentious Top Secret file that threatens the sanctity and stability of the entire MI5 organization. Further complicating his life is his suspicion that a chance encounter with his beautiful neighbor, Nancy Pierpan (Rachel Weisz), was, in fact, meticulously orchestrated to serve her own secret agenda. Though his well-honed instinct to question everything is right on, the more duplicity he uncovers, the more desperate he becomes to find someone he can trust before he's forced to walk out on his job and his life.
Johnny Worricker is a lifelong member of the Security service. He's no longer married and realizes that he's not much of a father to his now adult daughter. His boss, Benedict Baron, asks him to review a particularly sensitive file that reveals not only that the CIA has illegal prisons around the world but that the British Prime Minister, Alec Beasley, was aware of them and knew about them all along. When Baron dies of a heart attack the Prime Minister personally tells Worricker that he has 12 hours to return the incriminating file or face the consequences. Johnny enlists the aid of his neighbor Nancy Pierpan but in the end he has to compromise, leaving him in a delicate situation.Continues with "Turks &amp; Caicos". Written by garykmcd
