To fight for custody of his daughter who loves playing the piano, a steel factory worker decides to forge a piano from scratch.
Steelworker Chen has a passion for music and plays the accordion in a local band with a close group of friends. When his estranged wife returns one day after years of absence, she demands a divorce and sole custody of their daughter. Chen is at a loss. He doesn't mind divorcing a woman who has become a stranger, but he can't bear to part with his daughter. Chen has worked hard to give her a respectable life and has taught her his love of music. When asked if she'd rather stay with her father or go with her mother, the girl gives a practical, devastating answer: she'll go with whomever can provide her with a piano. Chen cannot afford such a luxury item, but the piano becomes his last hope to save what little is left of his family. With the help of his loyal friends and the support of his lover - the singer in his band - Chen concocts several plans to fulfill his daughter's wish, from sneaking her into the local music school at night to drawing a fake piano. He even tries to steal the instrument from the school - anything to keep her near him. Nothing works for long, until Chen looks around his fading steel factory town and hits on the perfect solution.
Steel factory worker Chen's estranged wife reappears asking for a divorce and custody of their daughter. The girl decides to live with whoever can provide her a piano. Chen's struggle thus begins. When efforts to borrow money and even steal a piano fail, Chen concocts a preposterous plan - he'll make a piano from scratch! He persuades a bunch of reluctant, but loyal, misfits to help him forge the instrument in a derelict factory from a heap of scrap steel and savvy. Though crude in design and tune, the factory piano awaits its first and final performance from his little girl.
Chen Guilin currently makes a living as an accordionist, playing on the street in his steel factory town in China with his small band whenever they don't have a gig. He wants his adolescent daughter, Xiao Yuan, to follow in his footsteps and become a musician, she who loves playing the piano. Since they don't own one, she must practice on the piano at her music school. Guilin's wife/Yuan's mother, Xiao Ju, deserted them in her pursuit of another man and an easier life. Ju has just returned having achieved that life, her boyfriend's wealth from selling fake medicine to unsuspecting buyers. Ju wants a divorce, which Guilin is more than happy to grant as he is dating the band's singer, Shu Xian. But Ju also wants custody of Yuan, who Guilin is not willing to relinquish without a fight. Her parents asking her what she wants, Yuan decides that she will live where she has a piano to play. Not having the financial means to buy a piano, Guilin goes through one scheme after another in trying to obtain one. When he sees the internal workings of a piano, he believes he can build one instead. In achieving this goal, Guilin will need the help of his friends in providing their expertise, their facilities, their time to scrounge up materials and their labor, all for free if possible. Even if he is able to get his friends to cooperate, time is not on his side as he has to get it all done before Ju completes the divorce proceedings. Through it all, Xian is by his side. However, she may be able to tolerate only so much as Guilin takes her for granted and has a skewed view of male/female relationships based on his disastrous marriage to Ju.

