Two best friends decide to have a child together while keeping their relationship platonic, so they can avoid the toll kids can take on romantic relationships.
Julie and Jason have been best friends for years with no romantic interest in each other. He sleeps with someone new every few days, and she's looking for Mr. Right. Now in their thirties, they notice that their friends seem to lose all their good qualities when they have children - child rearing and the spark of Eros don't seem to co-exist. So, they decide to have a child together, share in child rearing, but pursue their own romantic lives. Things go well until he meets Mary Jane and she meets Kurt. Both seem like perfect mates. What could go wrong?
Six friends are enjoying life without responsibilities, until married couple Leslie and Alex fall pregnant. This is quickly followed by Ben and Missy's pregnancy. Life changes, as it becomes harder for the friends to meet up. The remaining two friends, Jason and Julie, have been best friends for years and live in the same New York apartment building. Following their friends route into parenting, they begin to question whether they too would like to have kids. They decide on a plan to have a baby together and carry-on with their platonic relationship. They share the childcare and they each begin a new relationship with other people. The plan appears to be going very well.Life as parents becomes increasingly difficult for the once passionate Ben and Missy, as they have become distant and resentful of each other. An honest dinner conversation, between all the friends, on a ski trip brings everything to the surface. On returning home, they decide to separate. Meanwhile, after some kind words from Jason about her at the dinner table, Julie comes to realize that she harbors feelings for Jason. She later admits these feelings to him during dinner in a restaurant. He rejects her, as he is in love with his current girlfriend and doesn't see Julie in this way. She moves out of their apartment to Brooklyn and they continue to share custody of their child.Later, his relationship ends because they have different views about children - she doesn't want to have any. Jason then realizes that he has feelings for Julie. He goes to her Brooklyn apartment and and confesses his feelings. She is scepitcal at first but he manages to convince her.
