An ethnic Canadian hockey player struggles against traditional family values and discrimination from mainstream hockey players.
A hockey enthusiast since 12 years of age, Toronto-based Rajvinder Singh, even went to the extent of trimming his hair, discarding his Pagri/turban, did not complete his education, incurred the wrath of his father, Darvesh, who wanted him to be involved in the family business as well as confirm and respect Sikh religion principles and values. Hoping to play professional hockey, Rajvinder, along with other fellow Sikh players, instead finds himself treated as the object of ridicule, referred to as a 'joker', by mainstream Caucasian players. Even his friends tease him and ask him to take up 'Guli Danda' and Kabaddi', while his father makes him work for Uncle Sammy as a truck driver. He is attracted to stunning law student Melissa Winters while her brother, Dan, offers to coach Rajvinder and his team. Unable to get themselves included in any team, they form their own, and call it 'Speedy Singhs'. They then set about to make a name for themselves with a coach who is unable to pronounce their names, and assumes that they belong to the same family as all their last names are 'Singh'. The team, headed by Rajvinder, has an uphill task, challenging the reigning champions 'Hammerheads', while Rajvinder must counsel his school-going brother, Gurveer, who is being harassed for looking 'different', deal with family pressures - especially after Darvesh announces that his son has forsaken hockey once and for all.
Rajveer Singh is a 21 year old young man dreaming of a professional hockey career. The film opens with him dreaming of scoring a game winning goal, followed by a moment of bliss as beautiful girls surround him. Unquestionably, he has the talent to be an accomplished player, but faces many hurdles, the biggest of which is himself.Raised as a traditional Sikh, Rajveer was forbidden as a boy to cut his hair and had to wear a turban, this stopped him from playing hockey, the game he loved. In his early teens, forsaking his family's religious traditions and beliefs, he removed his turban and cut his hair so he'd be more accepted within his country. His goal was to succeed in a traditional white mans sport, but this conflicted with his father's wish that he'd devote his life to his religion and the family business.Unable to find a foothold in the game, Rajveer takes matters into his own hands by creating an all Indian hockey team (The Speedy Singhs), finding a coach and then bringing on his Uncle Sammy's trucking company as the team sponsor, doing all this behind his father's back. Along the way to the championship game, he is faced with the questions he had not wanted to address: family, friendship, loyalty and identity. And until he can answer these questions, the podium will always be out to his reach.
