Ian Folivor, a depressed and reclusive 30-something, finds himself taking advice from a growth in his bathroom after a failed suicide attempt. The Mold, a smooth talking fungus who was born of the filth collecting in a corner of Ian's neglected bathroom, works to win Ian's trust by helping him clean himself up and remodel his lifestyle. With The Mold's help, Ian attracts the attention of a neighbor he's been ogling through his peephole, Leah, and he manages to find a slice of happiness despite his unnatural circumstances. But Ian starts to receive strange messages from his old and broken down TV set that make him realize that The Mold may not be as helpful as it seems to be, and strange characters combined with stranger events cast Ian's life in the shadow of an epic battle between good and evil that Ian is only partially aware of.
Ian B. Foliver (Adrian DiGiovanni) loses all hope and meaning to his life after Kent, his old television set, dies. Kent has been passed down generation to generation in Ian's family, and for the last two years he has kept Ian good company in Ian's neglect to leave the apartment. But now Kent is dead, and Ian sees only one option. He attempts suicide in his bathroom, making chlorine gas in his bathtub.After falling from his sink while trying to cover the air vent, Ian wakes up to a strange voice. Born of the filth collecting in Ian's neglected bathroom, The Mold (Jeffrey Combs) comments on Ian's current state. Ian's amusement with what he believes is a hallucination is smothered by his anguish for Kent, as well as his innate disposition for failure.A series of strange events occurs after Ian calls for a repairman to come and fix Kent. Among them, The Mold warns Ian not to answer the door, Box the Ox (Pete Giovagnoli) comes for Ian's overdue rent, Ian regurgitates toxic slime onto the face of a demonic repairman (Ken Brown), he possibly murders and dismembers the body of a rebellious delivery girl (Hannah Stevenson), and he travels through the shows on his TV after eating a spore from The Mold. In the middle of this chaos, Ian notices his beautiful neighbor, Leah (Danielle Doetsch), going about her routine. She is relief. She is escape. She is outside.The Mold presents Ian with an opportunity. Presently, Ian is no better than the excrement to which he compares life itself. However, with The Mold's guidance, Ian cleans up himself, his apartment, and his life. His routine comes to a halt every day at 10:16, though, when Leah checks her mail outside of Ian's door. After days of spying on Ian as he spies on her, Leah finally comes to the door and introduces herself. Ian might be in love. The Mold has other plans.The Mold allows Ian to court Leah for as long as is necessary, but disposes of her when he feels Ian has had his whistle wet for whats to come. Ian denounces The Mold, putting an end to his deception and malice; once again, The Mold has something more spectacular in mind. Claiming right to the Earth and all its inhabitants, infecting all from the moment of their first breath, proving he is life itself, The Mold destroys Ian's body, changing him into a massive, writhing fungus.Ian wakes up. He is watching television. The holes he drilled in the walls upon The Mold's instructions still exist. Time is irrelevant. At 10:16, Ian's alarm clock buzzes. He gets dressed, opens the door, and exits for the first time in two years. He introduces himself to Leah.
