Mr. Church reunites the Expendables for what should be an easy paycheck, but when one of their men is murdered on the job, their quest for revenge puts them deep in enemy territory and up against an unexpected threat.
Barney Ross is approached by CIA man Church, who wants him and his guns for hire to go to the former Soviet Union to retrieve something that was on a plane that crashed. Church doesn't tell him what he is getting. And Church sends a woman, Maggie with him to make sure he gets it. They find the plane and get the thing but some men take one of Barney's people hostage and the leader tells him to give him what they got or he'll kill his hostage. They give it to him but he kills his hostage anyway. Barney asks Maggie what was so important about that thing. She says that it showed the location of a Russian plutonium storage mine. Barney decides to track the man down and deal with him. They track them down and discover that the man they seek is Vilain who leads a group known as The Sangs and that they have taken all the men from the surrounding villages to work the mine.
Following the events of the previous film and an explosive rescue mission in Nepal, Mr. Church enlists Barney Ross and his team for a seemingly simple mission deep within Eastern Europe. It goes well until one of them gets killed by the ruthless mercenary Jean Vilain. Swearing revenge, the Expendables venture into hostile territory and discover Vilain's plot to siphon and profit from tons of weapons-grade plutonium. With vengeance in their blood and some unexpected help, the Expendables race to stop Vilain and his team of mercenaries before the plutonium falls into more wrong hands.
After a successful rescue mission of a Chinese millionaire in Nepal, CIA Church (Bruce Willis) meets Barney Ross and asks him to travel with his team to Albania to retrieve the content of a safe in a plane that has crashed. Church sends the specialist Maggie to go with them. Soon they find the plane and Maggie takes a box from the safe, but while returning to the plane, they find that their sniper Billy The Kid (Liam Hemsworth) has been captured by a group of men under the command of Vilain (Jean-Claude Van Damme). He asks them to put the weapons on the ground and deliver him the box; otherwise, he would kill the hostage. Barney and his group do exactly what was ordered but Villain kills Billy the Kid before leaving in a helicopter. Barney asks Maggie what was inside the box and she tells that it shows the location of a large mine of Russian plutonium. Now Barney and his men decide to track down Villain and his group known as The Sangs and kill them.
The Expendables return with a vengeance in this follow-up to the 2010 surprise hit. Con Air's Simon West directed from a script by Sylvester Stallone and David Agosto. This time, Barney Ross (Stallone) and his merry band of mercenaries (including Jason Statham, Randy Couture, Dolph Lundgren, and Terry Crews) take on a mission from Mr. Church (Bruce Willis) to clear Ross' record. The mission in question involves acquiring a black box from a downed airplane, with the caveat that they bring along Maggie (Yu Nan), a military-trained soldier who throws a gendered wrench into the team's manly ranks. When another mercenary, Jean Vilain (Jean Claude Van Damme), ambushes the team and mess up their newest member (The Hunger Games' Liam Hemsworth), it's hunt and kill time for the Expendables. Jet Li returns in an extended cameo, as does Arnold Schwarzenegger, with fellow '80s action star Chuck Norris coming along for the ride.
The Expendables are reunited when Mr. Church enlists them to take on a seemingly simple job. When things go wrong, the Expendables are compelled to seek revenge in hostile territory, where the odds are stacked against them. Hell-bent on payback, the crew cuts a swath of destruction through opposing forces, wreaking havoc and shutting down an unexpected threat in the nick of time - five tons of weapons-grade plutonium, more than enough to change the balance of power in the world. But that's nothing compared to the justice they serve against the villainous adversary they seek revenge from.

