After a spontaneous kiss, a struggling designer ends up falling in love with her demanding boss's boyfriend as she decorates his home for a Christmas party.
Wendy Walton is the best designer in Boston... but no one knows it yet. Hoping to kick-start her career, Wendy has left work with the local theatre to take a job as an assistant to Priscilla Hall, the most prestigious designer in the city. Ms. Hall works Wendy around the clock, which is how Wendy finds herself trapped in an elevator late one night with an incredibly handsome stranger. Wendy and the mystery man share an impulsive, romantic, life-changing kiss before the doors open and Wendy runs out, leaving him behind. The next day at work, Wendy answers the door to find the handsome gentleman standing in front of her. Turns out he's Adam Hughes, a wealthy philanthropist - and Ms. Hall's long distance boyfriend. He doesn't recognize Wendy, which makes things all the more awkward for her when Ms. Hall assigns her to decorate his house for a big party at Christmas. As the holidays approach and Wendy and Adam spend more and more time together, Wendy realizes she's falling in love. Should she risk everything she's worked for and tell Adam the truth about their moment on the elevator before he proposes to Ms. Hall? And will Adam ever open his eyes and realize that the one true love of his life is right in front of him? A Christmas romance about how one kiss can change everything.
Wendy Walton (Laura Breckenridge) is an aspiring interior designer working as an assistant to Priscilla Hall (Elizabeth Röhm), a prestigious Boston designer. Wendy works around the clock, catering to Priscilla's every demand. One night, while preparing to go out with her roommates in glitter makeup, Wendy receives a call from her boss, instructing her to go to her penthouse and take care of some menial tasks. She follows Priscilla's instructions and prepares the apartment for her return dreaming of one day becoming a successful designer like her boss. While leaving the building, she encounters a handsome stranger in the elevator. When the elevator stalls abruptly, Wendy is thrown into the stranger's arms, and the two share an impulsive romantic kiss.
Priscilla Hall (Elizabeth Röhm) is a tough woman to work for, but her long suffering assistant Wendy Walton (Laura Breckenridge) is convinced that someday all the hard work will pay off. One night she encounters a handsome stranger in the elevator. When the elevator stalls abruptly, Wendy is thrown into the stranger's arms, and the two share an impulsive romantic kiss.

