Four socially troubled 18-year-olds from the south of England go on holiday to Malia.
Best friends Will McKenzie, Simon Cooper, Jay Cartwright and Neil Sutherland - who are not among the social outcasts, but also not cool enough to hang out with the cool kids who they aspire to be - have just graduated from their suburban London high school. Simon has finally been able to get Carli D'Amato, who he has been in love with since they were children, to be his girlfriend. Largely because they will be going away to different schools in the fall, Carli breaks up with him. To get Simon's singularly focused mind off Carli, his three best mates decide to take him on vacation for two weeks to get some sun, sand and girls before they move onto the next chapter of their lives in the fall. Neil makes the decision for them to go to Malia on the isle of Crete, a popular summer tourist destination for many a Brit. Jay, with inheritance money in hand, believes he can have the pick of any girl he wants. Neil has to decide what constitutes not cheating on his girlfriend, Nicole. Will wants to add a bit of culture into the vacation. And Simon still pines for Carli, getting her off his mind being more difficult when he learns why Neil chose Malia. What starts off as a disastrous vacation has the potential to pick up when they meet fellow Brits Alison, Lucy, Jane and Lisa, who pair up with Will, Simon, Jay and Neil respectively, and with who they hang, out of circumstance, for much of their time in Malia. Will the virgin, who generally makes Alison laugh, has no chance with her as she is far out of his league, and as she is already in a serious relationship with a Greek waiter named Nicos. Jay is ashamed to be seen with self-assured Jane, because she is overweight. Neil treats Lisa like any other female with who he wants to have non-cheating "sex". And Simon may not see that Lucy really does like him despite his singular focus on Carli. All these issues are placed against the backdrop of the guys trying to get tickets for the all-day boat cruise, seen as the party of the season, and at which all their dreams - at least in their dreams - will come true.
Four teenage misfits - Will, Simon, Jay and Neil - have finished their A-levels and are about to leave Rudge Park Comprehensive, much to the relief of Mr. Gilbert, their sarcastic, cynical sixth form tutor. Within their final week of school, however, Jay's grandfather dies, Simon is dumped by his girlfriend Carli and Will discovers that his divorced father has unexpectedly married his much younger mistress. Depressed, the boys decide to go on holiday together and Neil books them on a trip to Malia, Crete.Their accommodation in Malia is awful, but the boys meet four girls - Alison, Lucy, Lisa and Jane - in an empty bar during their first night out. Their initial meeting goes less than smoothly- Will chats to Alison and pokes fun at her cliched "Greek waiter boyfriend", Simon bores Lucy to death talking about Carli, Neil has a non-conversation with Lisa, and Jay "gets stuck" with the bubbly, if somewhat overweight Jane. The girls go on their way after Neil pulls two older women, but arrange to meet the boys the next day. Outside the bar, Simon sees Carli across the street. He talks awkwardly with her before being run over by a quadbike ridden by James, an obnoxious club rep and Carli's new squeeze. Carli reveals she is going to a boat party later in the week, and Simon pledges to meet her there.The next morning, Will and Simon awaken to find Neil being given oral sex by a middle-aged woman and Jay sleeping face-down in an ants' nest outside. After sobering up, they go to meet the girls by their hotel pool. While there, Jay has his shorts pulled down by a local child and throws him into the pool in retaliation, only to find that the boy cannot swim. At the same time, Will gets into an argument with a family whose poolside sun-loungers were 'requisitioned' by the boys, tactlessly pointing out that their wheelchair-bound daughter 'doesn't even need a sun-lounger'. Having publicly humiliated themselves, the boys are quickly thrown out of the hotel.Outside, Jay argues with Simon over his continuing obsession with Carli and they fight in the street. Will and Neil separate the pair and drag them off in different directions. Desperate to buy a ticket for the boat party, Simon attempts to sell his clothes to James, but never gets paid for them. Meanwhile, Jay angrily tears up two tickets he secretly bought for them as a surprise. He and Neil then go to a nightclub hoping to meet more girls, only to witness a male stripper performing autofellatio on stage. The duo subsequently run into James and his friends, who ridicule and threaten them until they leave.Later that evening, the four boys meet back at the bar and bury the hatchet. Before long, the girls turn up and suggest that they all go skinny dipping at the local beach. Jane attempts to kiss Jay, but he is embarrassed by her size so she leaves him behind. Will has better luck with Alison until he stumbles across her Greek boyfriend having sex with another woman; Alison then runs off in tears. Lucy and Simon appear to be growing closer until he sees Carli on the beach and leaves Lucy alone in the sea.Eventually, the boys are able to obtain tickets for the boat party. On board, Carli kisses Simon passionately in order to make James jealous, and Simon realises he is being used. Jay apologises to Jane, and she takes him into the toilets to perform oral sex on him. After finishing, they encounter James, who mocks Jane's weight and tries to extort money from Jay in order to snort cocaine. Jay complies, but gives him a 20 note that had been concealed in his anus as a bribe for 'corrupt foreign cops', resulting in James unknowingly walking around with faeces on his nose for the rest of the day. After a conversation about 'ethics', Neil and Lisa decide to be together and celebrate by dry-humping each other.Meanwhile, Alison hunts out Will and asks to be his girlfriend. He eagerly accepts as Simon finally realises that Lucy, who gave him her ticket so that he could attend the party, is more worthy of his attention than Carli. Simon then attempts to jump off the boat and swim to her on the beach as a grand romantic gesture, but nearly drowns in the process and has to be airlifted to shore. As several paramedics load him into an ambulance, Lucy rushes over to him in concern and the two reconcile.After the boat party is over, the other boys and girls visit Simon in hospital, and once he recovers they all spend the rest of their holiday together as couples. Eventually, the four boys head home to the UK, looking forward to the next stage of their lives. As they meet their families at the airport, their girlfriends exit the same terminal and introduce themselves to the boys' parents as the film ends. In a final scene during the credits, Mr. Gilbert is seen riding a quad-bike through the streets of Malia in his underwear.
