A young woman who comes from a life of privilege falls for the owner of a soup kitchen after discovering a Dear Santa letter written by his seven year old daughter.
Beverly Hills 90210 alumni Jason Priestly takes the helm for this warmhearted romantic comedy about a die-hard party girl struggling to change her frivolous ways. Crystal (Amy Acker) comes from a wealthy family. She loves spending money. Her parent's money. When they decide it is time for her to make something of her life they give her until Christmas to clean up her act. Should Crystal fail to comply, her credit cards will be promptly cancelled. Petrified at the prospect of having no money and no boyfriend, Crystal has a flash of inspiration when she finds a letter to Santa from seven year old Olivia (Emma Duke). In the letter, Olivia asks Santa to find her widowed father Derek (David Haydn-Jones) a new wife. He owner of a local soup kitchen, Derek has dedicated his life to helping others. Though Crystal has never set foot in a soup kitchen, she soon seeks Derek out and begins volunteering her time in an effort to get closer to him. Little does Crystal realize that Derek's girlfriend (Gina Holden) will do anything to keep her man to herself. Meanwhile, Crystal remains determined to prove herself, despite the obstacles that stand in her way.
In the lead up to Christmas, thirty year old Crystal Carruthers, who leads a frivolous and irresponsible life - she categorizing it all about "shopping and lattes" - all on the proverbial dime of her parents, is told by her mother that she, in forcing her to make some effort to do something with her life, like get a job or find a husband, is being cut off financially on Christmas day. Crystal opts for the latter when, seeing it as fate, she becomes in possession of a letter written to Santa by a little girl named Olivia asking him for a new wife for her now two year widowed father. In tracking Olivia and her father, towing/plowing company owner Derek Gowen, down, Crystal becomes more resolved to become Mrs. Gowen, even after learning that he runs a soup kitchen, helping the down and out which is as far away from her mentality as possible. Beyond the question of whether Crystal not only has the necessary skills but inherent want to be girlfriend, wife and arguably most importantly mother in this situation, she will find that she has competition in the form of Jillian, Derek's girlfriend before he met who was his wife/Olivia's mother Laura, Jillian who will not be denied becoming Mrs. Gowen this second time around.

