The established relationship between university student Bruno and aspiring photographer Carla is thrown into turmoil when Bruno feels drawn to sexy karate instructor/break dancer Rai. Complications ensue.
Struggling martial artist and dancer Bruno loves his girlfriend Carla, but when he meets fellow dancer Rai, serious sparks begin to fly, opening the couple up to new possibilities. A new generation navigates sexual fluidity, torn affections, and open relationships in this steamy love triangle. But once Bruno's clandestine encounters with Rai are revealed, a confused and hurt Carla kicks him out. But she simply doesn't want to give up on her love. Eventually she agrees that Bruno can date them both as long as he keeps his life with Rai relatively separate.
In Barcelona, Carla and Bruno, fellow students with Carla also being a photographer for the campus magazine, are in love and live together in a house paid for by Carla's parents. There is an open tension between Bruno and Carla's parents. Bruno also admits that his jealousy hangs over his relationship with Carla. On his way to meet Carla and her parents for dinner, Bruno stops to watch a group of hip-hop dancers performing on the street. There, Bruno is mugged, which results in him missing the dinner while he recovers from the incident. Bruno is assisted by one of the street dancers, Rai, who is also able to retrieve Bruno's belongings from the mugger. Rai, a karate instructor by paid trade, and Bruno, in spending time together in the aftermath of the mugging, find that they are quickly becoming friends, Bruno who in turn ends up also helping Rai with a problem. A few days into their friendship, Rai makes it clear to Bruno that he would like their friendship to be more than just friends. Despite never having identified as either being gay or bisexual, Bruno falls for Rai in return, the two then begin a sexual relationship. Carla eventually finds out about Bruno and Rai's sexual relationship. Bruno admits he still loves Carla while he deals emotionally with what is happening with Rai, who he does not want to lose as either a friend or lover. Carla also admits that she still loves Bruno despite what she sees as his betrayal in his friendship with Rai. As such, Carla, Bruno and Rai will have to figure out if they can still be friends and/or lovers and if so what those relationships between all three will look like. They may have to go through some trials and tribulations to settle into what those relationships will be, with no guarantee that all three will be happy with the outcome.

