A group of friends fight for their lives against the lethal and ravenous creatures lurking beneath the Earth's surface. The group finds themselves at the mercy of creatures genetically engineered by the military to be expendable in battle. Though they fought countless battles in Iraq, these friends never knew real fear until they went underground.
Where there is no light evil grows.
At an abandoned military base, a rave party cranks. Matt Wilcox and his buddy Storm have just returned from Iraq. Matts old friends are having a mini-reunion to welcome home the war veterans. The drinks are flowing, the music is cranking, Matt and girlfriend Myra are having a great time. Storm gets caught in the middle of a fight with local gang members. Guns are pulled. Matt yanks Myra, Storm and all their friends into a doorway to escape the danger. Matt and friends have just entered a locked underground facility. Not all of them will return.
Matt and his friends wait until the rave party has ended. They try to exit their hiding place. The door is locked. Storm discovers they are in a standard military bunker. Matt has seen the schematics. He knows there is an exit on the other side of the facility. He leads the reluctant group down into the bowels of the bunker. As the darkness thickens and tension grows, the kids are getting gruesomely killed one by one. The group has found themselves at the mercy of creatures genetically created by the military to be expendable in battle, made to have integral weapons to be better able to disentomb enemy bunkers and destroy the enemies within. These creatures are vicious Troglomorphs (Trogs) surviving on animal and human flesh when it comes into their lair. The trogs were left behind when the base closed, a forgotten black project. In the darkness, they are Matt and his friends worst nightmares. Now, Matt, Myra, Storm and their friends are the prey in a game of survival. With little more than a flashlight and pocketknife, Matt and Storm will be expected to save their friends as they battle these Trogs created to destroy their enemies with bloody prejudice. Though Matt and Storm fought in Iraq, but they never knew real fear until they went underground.
