Marian, a middle aged nurse, devotes herself to her patients like a saint. Sometimes she even takes on the role of a redeemer, by helping the gravely ill to the soothing order of ultimate silence. When she gets linked to a neighbor in an act of common voyeurism, she becomes fascinated by him. Faced with the fragility of these newfound emotions, Marian surrenders to her human needs...
In the shadowy margin between life and death lies the hospital where Marian, an ascetic nurse in her 40s, dedicates herself like a saint to the gravely ill and the dying by giving them what is often their last contact with the warmth of a living body. Sometimes she even takes on the role of a redeemer, and helps her patients out of their misery by sending them to the soothing order of death. These moments are precious to Marian - for her, death is a moment of ultimate intimacy. Outside the hospital, Marian lives a solitary life, driven by perfection and control. Occasionally, though, her suppressed feelings rise and make her drift away from her daily routine: one day, she meets a stranger in the bus, instinctively follows him to the video store and fantasizes about him. When Marian sees the man again she gets involuntary linked to him in an act of shared voyeurism. The sudden act of intimacy between them first repels then fascinates, transfixes and frightens her. Faced with the fragility of her newfound emotions, Marian realizes that she must give in to her human needs, even if this intimacy comes with a price...
Marian, in her 40s, lives a solitary life. Her life and ours rarely intersect but when they do, it usually means that we are gravely ill or dying. For she is a nurse, an efficient, perfectly functioning, white-uniformed helper in a hospital where death is not a taboo. When she senses that a patient wishes to put his life behind him, she finds a way to help.
One night she sees a violent rape from the window of her apartment. But she is not the only one looking. A man living in the same building also sees it. Whats more, he sees Marian watching. As soon as she spots him observing her, she quickly moves back and draws the curtain. The rape she witnessed has now created an unwanted intimacy with the man who saw her watching. A dark longing bubbles up from deep within her: the wish to disappear through a sexual act, a longing that both transfixes and frightens her. When Marian meets the stranger, she is forced to confront her secret desires ...
