Vicky (Prabhas), an expert in gaming software, lives in Australia and never compromises in his life, a principle he adheres to since his childhood. He believes that one should be oneself in a relationship and one shouldn't change one's orientation for the sake of the partner. He also encourages his friends to follow his principle of life. But Vicky's principles and attitude leads to a clash of interestswith his father (Nassar), who constantly advises him to adjust his character for his and other's happiness but to no avail.Meanwhile in India, Vicky's parentsarrange a wedding alliancebetweenhim and Priya (Kajal Aggarwal), Vicky's childhood friend who is a doctor by profession. She and Vicky are poles apart; while Vicky is modern in his thinking and is not ready to compromise with his life, Priya is traditional and conservativeand is ready to compromise for thehappiness of others. Initially, Vicky and Priya do not get along well, andboth play practical jokes on one another. But later, on her father's (Murali Mohan) advice, Priya attempts to change her attitude towards Vicky. Soon Priya falls in love with Vicky and changes in many ways for him, such as giving up her love ofclassical danceas Vicky does not like it, eating non-vegetarian food and wearing modern dresses. Vicky too begins to fall in love with her and is ready to accept the wedding proposal until he finds out that Priya has compromised on her interests for his sake. He rejects the wedding proposal and returns to Australia.Back in Australia, Vicky is matched up through aCadburysurvey with Maggie (Taapsee), a free-spirited modern girl who shares his no-compromise attitude. Both of them meet at a mall and interestedin each other, begin to date and soon decide to get married. However, Maggie's father is none other than the MindGames head's brother, who is unwilling to let Vicky marry Maggie. After much persuasion from Vicky, Maggie's father agrees to let Vicky marry Maggie on the condition that he should stay in his house for 4 days for Maggie's sister's wedding and if Vicky manages to win over at least 2 relatives of Maggie, he can marry her and he would get a business in India else he should forget Maggie and leave the contract. But Vicky changes the condition that if at least 1 relative of Maggie does not get convinced that Vicky is the correct match for Maggie then he would forget Maggie and leave the contract, else he would marry Maggie and does not leave the contract.Soon, the relatives begin pouring infrom India and among them, to Vicky's shock, is Priya, who happens to be the groom's cousin. During the 4 days, with the help of Priya, he manages to win over the entire family. It is clear that Vicky is going to win Maggie's father's challenge. Priya leaves for India on the night before Vicky wins the challenge, heartbroken at the thought that Vicky is marrying someone else. Vicky receives a message Priya had recorded prior to him rejecting heron his mobile phone where she haddeclared her love for him. He gainsa change of heart on seeing this message and realises how much Priya had loved him and was willingto change for him, in spite of his faults. He also realises the need forcompromises in life. Vicky conveys his feelings to all the wedding guests present and decides not to marry Maggie. Maggie understands his feelings and accepts his decision.Vicky returns to India to win back Priya. After initially playing hard-to-get, Priya accepts Vicky's love and they live happily ever after

