Vegucated is a guerrilla-style documentary that follows three meat- and cheese-loving New Yorkers who agree to adopt a vegan diet for six weeks and learn what it's all about.
Vegucated is a guerrilla-style documentary that follows three meat- and cheese-loving New Yorkers who agree to adopt a vegan diet for six weeks and learn what it's all about. They have no idea that so much more than steak is at stake and that the planet's fate may fall on their plates. Lured by tales of weight lost and health regained, they begin to uncover hidden sides of animal agriculture that make them wonder whether solutions offered in films like Food, Inc. go far enough. Before long, they find themselves risking everything to expose an industry they supported just weeks before. But can their convictions carry them through when times get tough? What about on family vacations fraught with skeptical step-dads, carnivorous cousins, and breakfast buffets? Part sociological experiment and part adventure comedy, Vegucated showcases the rapid and at times comedic evolution of three people who are trying their darnedest to change in a culture that seems dead set against it.
Three omnivores from various backgrounds try Veganism for 6 weeks in this light-hearted and, at times, comical film.They learn that Veganism isn't a cult, there are health benefits associated with the lifestyle, living conditions of animals are extremely poor on production farms, the environment suffers from livestock farming, and making lifestyle changes that go against the norms of culture and society can be difficult at times.Along the way, they explore which foods are vegan and which are not, including some surprising comfort foods such as: Chocolate Chip Teddy Grahams, and Oreo cookies! They also make a spontaneous covert visit to a farm to see if the claims of animal cruelty hold up at any given farm (they do). Families also prove to have some difficulties or reservations about understanding and accommodating the Vegan lifestyle.They share laughter and tears on their journey, which isn't always easy.
