Idiocy strikes when a woman and her daughter get separated from their family during the holidays.
Teddy Duncan's middle-class family embarks on a plane flight from their Denver home to visit Mrs. Duncan's parents, the Blankenhoopers, in Palm Springs - all except daughter Teddy and mother Amy, for whom a cross country odyssey begins when a chance at free plane fare leads to a curtailed bus ride, a nightmarish experience in a Yugo, hitchhiking with a pair of alien abductees, and peddling through the desert on a tandem bike. All the while, the male Duncans survive a zany Christmas with Grandpa and Grandma Blankenhooper.
Teddy Duncan and her estranged family of six (mom Amy, dad Bob, brothers P.J. and Gabe, and the adorable baby Charlie) set off for Palm Springs to spend Christmas with Amy's parents, Grandma and Grandpa Blankenhooper. Due to overbooking, Teddy and Amy wind up separated from the rest of the family, and must resort to taking a bus, walking 8 miles, buying a rundown old car, hitching a ride to Las Vegas with a couple who believe they are unlucky victims of alien abduction, and renting a two-person bike to ride to Palm Springs. Meanwhile, in Palm Springs, Gabe's plan to get his grandfather to let him play video games backfires, P.J. gets a bad sunburn, and Bob tries to keep Charlie from breaking all of the fragile objects in the house. Near the end of the movie, the entire family and the majority of viewers get an unexpected surprise that indicates that Teddy's family isn't yet complete.
The Duncans of Denver board a flight to Palm Springs to visit the maternal grandparents (the Blankenhoopers) for Christmas. Due to an overbooked flight, granddaughter Teddy surrenders her seat for a later flight and free air fare for spring break, but mother Amy won't sit still for her girl being on her own. Mother and daughter must now embark on a wacky road trip to reach their Christmas destination, dealing with motion sickness on a bus, an eight mile hike, a Yugo on its last gasp, elderly alien abductees with transportation, a young thief, street-singing for dollars, and a tandem desert bike ride. Meanwhile, the male Duncans must deal with crazy grandparents, an un-childproofed room with fragile bric a brac, a son's overexposure to the sun, and a shortcut than leads them into the heart of a popular video game.

