When the most probable serial killer suspect dies and the case looks like it's reached a dead end, police brass decide to create a killer - and anyone will do.
A serial killer targeting elementary school students is on the loose. When the most probable suspect dies and the case looks like it's reached a dead end, police brass decide to create a killer - and anyone will do. Though Detective CHOI boasts an incredible number of arrests over his career his rank never showed it. Deciding this is his last chance for professional redemption, he makes a deal with JANG, who he has been investigating, and together they decide to set up an existing suspect as the murderer. The only hurdle in their plan is public prosecutor JOO, who takes on the case and who had been involved in a deal with rival construction contractor KIM. When secret deals and back alley agreements start to come to light, it only serves to drag all of them deeper and deeper into a dark hole of questionable ethics and abuse of the law.
&amp;#12298;&amp;#48512;&amp;#45817;&amp;#44144;&amp;#47000;&amp;#12299;In 2010, South Koreans are terrified by a series of murders targeting children. The police fail repeatedly to capture the killer. Finally, the Korean President becomes directly involved in the case. The cops, feeling pressure from all sides, pursue a possible suspect, but the suspect is shot to death by the cops. To avoid another dead end and any further heat, the National Police Agency wants to target another person, any plausible person, and close the case as soon as possible.Police officer Choi Cheol-Gi (Hwang Jung-Min) is then chosen to do the dirty work. Police officer Choi Cheol-Gi is well respected by his peers and has an impressive resume of arrests, but due to the fact that Choi Chil-Gi did not graduate from the police academy he is always passed over for promotions. This time around, the police brass guarantees a promotion if he is able to close the case.Choi Cheol-Gi then enlists the help of gangster Jang Suk-Gu (Yu Hae-Jin) to frame a possible suspect as the serial killer.Meanwhile, prosecutor Joo-Yang (Ryoo Seung-Bum) is assigned to the arrest of the serial killer. He has also take on sponsorship by a powerful real estate businessman. When police officer Choi Cheol-Gi attempts to arrest Joo-Yang's sponsor, prosecutor Joo-Yang looks into Choi Cheol-Gi background to exact revenge. He hits paydirt when he comes across a deal between Choi Cheol-Gi and gangster Jang Suk-Gu.During this time, the man imprisoned as the serial killer dies in an apparent suicide ...
