Vikram Pandit (Arunoday Singh) a student of the Indian Institute of Business becomes the blue-eyed boy of Professor Jamshed Batki (Anupam Kher). Under Batki's influence Vikram starts public discoursing and publishing articles under his own name that are authored by Batki himself. The articles, which deal with the plight of the poor in India, are posted on his Blog as well as Facebook. The story mirrors the agony of the deprived in India. The problem is primeval but the remedy must be contemporary. Vikram offers a modern day solution that can bypass all red tape and political hurdles. Promoting and facilitating an idea where trust deficit can be minimized... How a radical business model can effectively replace stagnant policies... How a collective will and might of monetary resources can fast track results. Gradually as under-layers of the story surface and veils are lifted from the faces of people around him, Vikram realizes what he is up against; he must find a way out of the cesspool he has got himself into, where his own life is at stake now... and everyone around him a suspect
Vikram is a happy-go-lucky management student from a top Business School of India. He becomes an overnight sensation after a successful internet campaign against the radical fundamentalism of moral policing in India. This prompts his university teacher - Professor Ranjan Batki, to throw him a challenge for yet another internet campaign...A campaign that would help raise money via a non-profit Pottery Club for poor people living in Maoists areas of India.\ Little did Vikram know that he was about to become a part of a plot that would risk his life and the nation. he gets entangled between two corrupt facets of India - Socialism and Capitalism, both of which are deeply rooted in India. Its a story inspired from true life incidents of Underbelly India!
Buddha in a Traffic Jam is an autobiographical film based on it's writer &amp; director Vivek Agnihotri's life. Based on true life incidents, it's treatment is that of a new age political drama with an unique chapter wise approach to relevant topics leading to its climax. The film is an initiative by one of the top Business schools of the world, Indian School of Business, Hyderabad and this is the first Indian film ever based and shot in a B school. Its ensemble cast comprises Arunoday Singh , Anupam Kher, Pallavi Joshi, Mahie Gill and Anchal Dwivedi. Buddha In A Traffic Jam exposes the sinister politics of the nexus of Naxals, NGOs, Academia and the Intelligentsia of India. Film investigates how certain universities are brainwashing students to become intellectual terrorists. The film also takes on various themes of corruption, campus politics, moral policing, crony socialism and the aspirational India wiping it clean of its middlemen. It probes deep into the relevance of socialism and capitalism in a poverty and corruption ridden India seeking to become a superpower. Buddha In A Traffic Jam was officially nominated and premiered at the 2014 Mumbai International Film Festival in the India Gold category with a standing ovation and great reviews. It won the best actor (Pallavi Joshi) and got nominated for the best film in Dada Saheb Phalke Film Festival. It has won best Best Original Screenplay and was nominated for Best film and Best Lead Actress in a Foreign Language (Mahie Gill) at Madrid Film Festival, Spain. The film went on to receive Best Director at Jakarta Film Festival (Vivek Agnihotri) and has been showcased as the Opening Film in more than a dozen festivals.

