A writer whose work encourages women not to endure violent relationships discovers she has a crazed stalker.
Amelia's blog empowering women not to tolerate violent relationships has brought her fame, fortune and now someone is out to kill her. Is it the new man in her life, her now paroled ex who inspired the blog, or a deranged fan? Just as she has put the pieces of her life back together, Amelia must figure out who is behind the bizarre string of attacks and stop them before her own life comes to an ironic and violent end.
Amelia Davis (Stephanie Bauder) has got a column and a blog about battered women who get the courage to put a stop to it. Her column is publishes on a small newspaper, and it's called Ask Amelia. A woman who signs as "Embarrased" contacts Amelia and proposes for her to write a book. Amelia appreciates her support. Embarrased had a fight with her husband, who used to beat and mistreat her. A shot is heard, but we don't know exactly what happens. A year further the line "Embarrased" has been helping Amelia with her book, entitled Never Give Up, and pushes her to be more ambitious. They also talk about Daryl, Amelia's ex-husband who is to spend a further two years at jail. Amanda meets a guy at a pub while they are celebrating, and the guy approaches her and asks her for her telephone number. As Amanda doesn't want to say it, he gives her his card, Carlo Rossi, Architect.Carlo and Amelia meet at a lift another day, and Jenny encourages Amelia to get out with him. Daryl Devine has been released from prison on parole. His parole officer encourages him to find a job. Amelia checks Carlo's background on the net, and he looks like a promising young architect, already working for a company, so that will feel encouraged to phone Carlo.Detective Hank Wilson visits Amelia to tell her about Darryl's release. She is devastated, and he promises to contact Daryl's parole officer every day. On their first date, Carlo tells her that her book is powerful and touching. Amelia goes back home, being watched by somebody. Amelia's home is full of locks. She goes down to the basement to pick up a boxc, when she hears something. Amelia keeps a gun under the documents of her police case and sets out to type. She is threatened by a man with a knife who destroys her computer and leaves.Jenny is Amelia's support throughout the ordeal. Hank gets in touch with Carlo first as he was the last person who entered Amelia's life, and later with Daryl's parole officer, who is not very organized and says that Daryl only has to phone him. Hank leaves in desperation. A business contact pushes Amelia to hang onto the offer made by a company of promoting her and her programme nationwide.Amelia thinks that her attacker is Darryl, but he used his credit card 14 km away from her a little before the attack on her. amelia receives a letter, and inside it says "Sell the blog and you shall die". That convinces her of selling the blog to ModernMediaWorks. The press are on the presentation. Jenny says that she understand Amelia won't need her anymore, but Amelia gives her a job, writing about self-defence, a topic on which Jenny is a specialist.While going jogging, Amelia finds Carlo, who is annoyed at her because of the police visit and her not-returning his calls. They've another date. There, Daryl shows up on the toilet to tell her that he loved her so much, and that nothing was her fault. Hank advises Amelia to be on a safe place, so she goes to sleep at Carlo's luxurious condo. Jenny also offers to put up with her at her home for a while when the pressure increases.Daryl sues Amelia for defamation, because she says to everybody that he's guilty. Daryl watches Amelia's latest angry speech on tv, saying that she doesn't care about him suing her, and that she's not afraid of her anymore. Daryl storms onto a home while Amelia is reviewing old cutouts from the Ask Amelia section. But Daryl has stormed at Jenny's home, not at Amelia's. He shouts to her that they had an agreement to stop Amelia and her feminist empire, but Jenny says that things have changed now as the boyfriend has appeared. Jenny takes aim and shoots Daryl. Carlo is also shot at, and he's in a coma at hospital.Amelia realises that it was Trevor who was writing the letters to Amelia, signing "Emabarrased". Jenny was the husband-beater, and she tried to kill him. In fact, Jenny killed Trevor. She says that Daryl wanted Amelia's money, but she only wanted to have her own back. Her marriage was perfect until Trevor started reading Amelia's pages. With Trevor's letters signed "Embarrased", - except for one in which he also signed Trevor - the police believed that Jenny was the victim. Jenny will accuse herself of having killed
