When a paranormal research team investigates a haunting dramatized on a classic television series, they encounter a sinister supernatural force thought to be fictional.
Blair Witch Project meets Amityville Horror. This 90-minute supernatural thriller opens with a gripping scene of terror. A group of amateur videographers attempt to capture a seemingly supernatural force inside a home on Port Island, a sparsely inhabited parcel of land an hour removed from the Maine coast.The homes owners call in a group of nationally-recognized paranormal investigators known as The P.A.R.A. Force. En route to the allegedly haunted home, these investigators learn the history of the original house, as chronicled by Cassandra Hartley, a history professor at a nearby university.Its 1899 and Captain Michael Clausen, known for beating, even murdering his own crew, finally pays the price. His crew mutinies, turns his terror against him, and leaves him partially lame. Forced into retirement, the Captains bitterness grows. He sinks deeper into the depths of his own maniacal delusions. Imagining his spouses infidelity, he brutally attacks Elspeth, his wife, along with his best friend Gideon. Their bodies never found, the Captain escapes prosecution, but eventually renders his own sentence. In 1902 his lifeless body is found, dangling from the attic rafters, a nautical rope drawn tightly around his neck.The P.A.R.A. Force examines the unexplainable phenomenon at the house; the phantom piano music and sound of strange footsteps. One of the members, a psychology professor and one of Cassies closest friends, discredits the events as hallucinations.They soon discover the abandoned video equipment left by the videographers in their hasty escape. After viewing the recorded video, the psychology professor chronicles the events of the Captains Guests, the One Step Beyond episode that dramatized the original haunting.Its 1959. Andy and Ellen Courtney, a young professional couple, fall in love with the charming, vacant Clausen House. Despite the realtors warning, the Courtneys move in and soon learn why the house is termed unfriendly. Andy becomes delusional. He begins to look, walk, and talk like Captain Clausen. He imagines his wife having an affair with his business partner Bill. He turns on her in a fit of jealous rage. She is forced into a fight for her life, as well as Andys immortal soul.Later that evening, the P.A.R.A. Force experiences the unexplained phenomenon first hand. Phantom piano music and strange footsteps escalate to the horrifying reappearance of one of the videographers from the opening scene. He looks, walks, and talks like Captain Clausenand his intentions are just as deadly.
