A freak accident might just help an everyday garden snail achieve his biggest dream: winning the Indy 500.
After a freak accident infuses him with the power of super-speed, Turbo kicks into overdrive and embarks on an extraordinary journey to achieve the seemingly impossible: competing in the world's fastest race, the Indianapolis 500. With the help of his tricked-out streetwise snail crew, this ultimate underdog puts his heart and shell on the line to prove that no dream is too big, and no dreamer too small.
A snail named Theo is unhappy that he's slow. When he watches car races on TV, he wishes he could as fast as them and renames himself Turbo. One day through a series of mishaps, he ends up on a car that's in the middle of a street race. He gets sucked into the engine and when the driver hits the nitrous oxide which makes the car go faster, he gets doused with it. He gets out and discovers he can move fast. Eventually he and another snail, Chet get picked up by a guy who and some other people race snails. When they see how fast he is, they decide to enter him in the Indy 500 which is what Turbo wants.
Theo (Reynolds), a small garden snail, is probably the only snail in the garden who is obsessed with speed and racing. Everybody is against it even his older brother, Chet (giamatti). When he accidentally wrecks the garden, he runs off but lands himself in an accident that upgrades him. When he suddenly develops super-speed, he teams up with fake racing snail, whiplash (Jackson) and a team to compete in a challenge he loves-the Indy 500
In Los Angeles, the garden snail Theo dreams on being the fastest racer in car races and worships his idol, the champion Guy Gagné, who has won the Indianapolis 500 several times. His brother Chet protects him most of the time from daring situations caused by Theo. When Chet rescues Theo from a failed attempt of recovering a prize tomato, Theo leaves the garden feeling humiliated. Soon he is accidentally sucked by the supercharger of a racing car and he drowns in the nitrous oxide injected to speed up the car. On the next morning, Theo finds that he has achieved speed power. When a crow picks Chet from the garden, Theo pursues them and rescues his brother. However they are captured the taco truck driver Tito and brought to a snail race. When Tito sees the performance of Theo, a.k.a. Turbo, in a race with the other snails, he decides to enter Turbo in Indianapolis, despite the disagreement of his brother Angelo. But his neighbors share the entrance expenses and they head to Indianapolis. Who will win the Indy 500?
More than anything in the world, Theo--a sluggish, unimportant, and utterly typical backyard mollusc--yearns for power and great speed; highly desirable attributes for competing in the renowned and demanding Indianapolis 500-Mile Race. But, as fate would have it, a delightfully strange case of divine intervention shall rewrite Theo's genetic code, turning him into a fast and furious racing machine of unfathomable velocity. Will the new and improved Theo prove the world wrong, and show his sensible brother that even the tiniest and most insignificant of gastropods can make his dreams come true?
Turbo (voice of Ryan Reynolds) may live life at a snail's pace, but his dreams charge along at light speed. Whenever Turbo closes his eyes, he sees himself zooming past the checkered flag at the Indianapolis 500, and leaving all of his competitors in the dust. Unfortunately for Turbo, all of his fellow snails -- including his brother Chet (Paul Giamatti) -- seem to savor the slow life. Then, one day, it happens: Turbo is methodically making his way across a freeway overpass when he is suddenly sucked into the intake valve of a speeding muscle car. His molecular structure altered by the volatile nitro us oxide that fuels the car, Turbo gains the ability to travel at speeds up to 200 miles per hour. Turbo is in the midst of mastering his newfound ability when he and Chet are unexpectedly captured by Tito (Michael Peña) -- a California taco-stand proprietor who organizes snail races on the side. Tito quickly takes his two newest racers to Starlight Plaza, where all of the speed-freak snails await their next run on the track. It's there that Turbo makes some colorful new friends, and learns to have some fun while trash-talking the competition. But his adventure is still far from over, and by the time Turbo realizes that his dreams are finally within reach, his newfound family will be right there to cheer him past the finish line..

