A decision by India's supreme court tests a man's friendships and loyalty.
Following the Mandal Commission report and the Supreme Court of India's decision to maintain a 27 percent reservation for Dalits and lower/backward castes, right-winged political parties organize protests. The Principal of Shakuntala Thakral Mahavidyalal, a non-government college which is exempt from this mandate, gets in the limelight when it's Principal, Prabhakar Anand, endorses the decision - much to the ire of the trustees as well as the newly appointed Vice-Principal Mithilesh Singh, who has invested Rs.1200 Crores in private coaching classes. Prabhakar refuses to change his stand and ends up tendering his resignation, taking his family, consisting of his wife, Kavita and daughter, Poorbi, to live near Shambhu Yadav's Tabela after they find their family home being taken over by Mithilesh's coaching classes. Attempts to evict Mithilesh's staff will be in vain and will not only end up alienating the family from everyone but Prabhakar will also be summoned and possibly arrested for vandalizing the premises of the coaching class and threatening it's staff.
Following the Mandal Commission report and the Supreme Court of India's decision to maintain a 27 percent reservation for Dalits and lower/backward castes, right-winged political parties organize protests. The Principal of Shakuntala Thakral Mahavidyalal, a non-government college which is exempt from this mandate, gets the limelight when it's Principal, Prabhakar Anand, apparently discriminates against upper caste students and endorses the decision - much to the ire of the trustees as well as the newly appointed Vice-Principal Mithilesh Singh, who has invested Rs.1200 Crores in private coaching classes. Prabhakar refuses to change his stand and ends up tendering his resignation, taking his family, consisting of his wife, Kavita and daughter, Poorbi, to live near Shambhu Yadav's Tabela after they find their family home has been taken over by Mithilesh's coaching classes. Attempts to evict the coaching class staff will not only be in vain but also end up frustrating and alienating Prabhakar from his friends and family so much so that he will be blamed by everyone - including the leader of the Dalits, Neta Bhishamber. Then he gets summoned by the local police when media reports show that he had instigated Deepak Kumar, one of his pupils, to vandalize the premises of the coaching class and threaten it's staff. But things will turn even worse after the local authorities decide to demolish the Tabela - which will end up rendering the family homeless.
