Follows teenager Clay Jensen, in his quest to uncover the story behind his classmate and crush, Hannah, and her decision to end her life.
Thirteen Reasons Why, based on the best-selling books by Jay Asher, follows teenager Clay Jensen (Dylan Minnette) as he returns home from school to find a mysterious box with his name on it lying on his porch. Inside he discovers a group of cassette tapes recorded by Hannah Baker (Katherine Langford) -his classmate and crush-who tragically committed suicide two weeks earlier. On tape, Hannah unfolds an emotional audio diary, detailing the thirteen reasons why she decided to end her life. Through Hannah and Clay's dual narratives, Thirteen Reasons Why weaves an intricate and heartrending story of confusion and desperation that will deeply affect viewers.
Clay Jensen returns home from school one day to find a mysterious box with his name on it outside his front door. Inside he discovers a series of cassette tapes recorded by Hannah Baker - his classmate and crush. Only, she committed suicide two weeks earlier. On the first tape, Hannah explains that there are thirteen reasons why she did what she did. And Clay is one of them. You can't stop the future. You can't rewind the past. The only way to learn the secret, is to press play.
13 Reasons Why is based on the New York Times bestselling YA book by Jay Asher, was created by Pulitzer Prize and Tony Award winner Brian Yorkey, who also wrote the pilot. 13 Reasons Why is the story of Hannah Baker, a high schooler who commits suicide. Clay receives a box of tapes from Hannah, his late classmate and crush after she kills herself. On the tapes, which get passed along to other students based on Hannah's instructions, Hannah reveals the 13 reasons why she took her own life.
The recordings of a girl named Hannah Baker who commited suicide, helping her lover Clay Jensen uncover the story behind her suicide and confronting each and every single of the culprits who lead her to commit suicide. The story is a dark route of a girl who faces unfaithful behaviors of the people from her new residental school and so called friends.

