A burglar falls for an heiress as she dies in his arms. When he learns that he has the gift of reincarnation, he sets out to save her.
New York City is subsumed in arctic winds, dark nights, and white lights, its life unfolds, for it is an extraordinary hive of the imagination, the greatest house ever built, and nothing exists that can check its vitality. One night in winter, Peter Lake (Colin Farrell), orphan and master-mechanic, attempts to rob a fortress-like mansion on the Upper West Side. Though he thinks the house is empty, the daughter of the house is home. Thus begins the love between Peter, an Irish burglar in his early 20's, and Beverly Penn (Jessica Brown Findlay), a young girl, who is dying.
Around the early 20th century, an orphan with a gift for the mechanical, Peter Lake, has spent a rather shady life under the influence of Pearly Soames. As he ends an unsuccessful mansion robbery attempt, he meets the homeowners daughter, Beverly, a beauty with long red tresses who is apparently dying of consumption. Thus begins a tale of love, happiness &amp; sadness, and certain magical objects/people/events.
SPOILERS: In 1895, a couple of immigrants are not allowed to entry into the United States because the man has consumption (a.k.a. tuberculosis) and they leave their baby son in a miniature sailboat named "City of Justice", to be adopted by some family. In 1916, in New York, the baby has grown up and is the burglar Peter Lake, who was raised by the demon and gangster Pearly Soames. When Peter confronts Pearly, he orders his men to kill him but Peter is saved by a flying white horse. Peter decides to rob one last house and leave New York, but he meets the red-haired twenty-year old Beverly Penn that is dying of consumption and they immediately fall in love with each other. They decide to flee to the North to the Lake of the Coheeries, where Pearly has no jurisdiction and is not allowed to go by Lucifer. Pearly believes that Peter will use his miracle and spiritual destiny that everyone is born with to save Beverly and he uses another angel to poison Beverly. Peter does not succeed in saving her and when she dies, returns to New York and Pearly throw him off the Brooklyn Bridge. However Peter does not die and wanders for almost a century without memories until 2014, when he meets the little red-haired Abby, who is dying of cancer, and her mother Virginia Gamely. Now he believes that he can save Abby, but Pearly is hunting him down. Will Peter succeed in using his miracle this time?
In 1895, a young immigrant couple is refused entry into Manhattan because they have consumption. When their infant son is not allowed entry to the country without them, the couple place him in a model sailboat named "City of Justice," in which the baby floats to the New York City shoreline. In 1916, the baby boy has grown up to become Peter Lake (Colin Farrell), a thief raised by a supernatural demon posing as the gangster Pearly Soames (Russell Crowe). Peter is marked for death when he decides to leave Pearly's gang. In a confrontation, he is rescued by a mysterious (winged at times) white horse, his guardian angel. Although Peter hopes to move to Florida and come back in the summer, the horse encourages him to steal from one last mansion. The mansion is the home where Beverly Penn (Jessica Brown Findlay) lives, a young woman dying of consumption, whose fever is so high she sleeps outside in a tent in the winter cold. While her publisher father Isaac (William Hurt) and younger sister Willa are not home, Beverly discovers Peter preparing to rob the house. When Peter assures her that he no longer wishes to commit robbery, Beverly offers to make him a cup of tea. They tell each other their stories and fall in love. Pearly orders his men to Beverly's home, believing that saving her is Peter's "miracle" and spiritual destiny and that he can destroy Peter by preventing it. Peter rescues Beverly from being knifed by Pearly, and they escape to the Lake of the Coheeries, where Pearly, who is supernaturally limited to the five boroughs of New York City, cannot follow. Peter meets Beverly's family at their summer home and wins their respect..

