A universal story about the freedom of the human spirit and the struggle against slavery and despotism, about love, loss and betrayal. It is seen through the eyes of simple Kazakh kids and teenagers.
Central Asia, beginning of the 18th century.
Taking advantage of the disunion of the once powerful Kazakh Khanate, Galdan Tseren, ruler of the Western Mongolian tribes, initiates the policy of expansion of his state of Derben Oirat westward at the expense of Kazakh lands.
This has brought innumerable calamities to the Kazakh people. The village of the main character, Sartai, is ravaged by the Oirats (Dzungars), who kill almost all grown-up villagers, including Sartai's parents, take cattle and loot property.
Only few people, mainly kids and old villagers are able to flee. Nazar, the smith, takes them to remote mountains.
Seven years have passed. The refugees live in the mountains, not thinking about their return to the steppe. Sartai, already a 16-year old boy, his friend Taimas, and Korlan, an older girl, became brave and skillful hunters. Nazar teaches them how to live in the mountains but forbids them to go down to the steppe, fearing the exposure to their mountainside hideout.
On listening to the stories on Batyrs (steppe knights) of the past, the guys secretly sneak out to the steppe. Realizing that he would not be able to keep them in the mountains anymore, Nazar brings them to the celebration to the village of Rakhimjan, influential Kazakh nobleman, who maintains a non-aggression treaty with the Oirats.
This is where Sartai falls in love with Zere, daughter of Rakhimjan. As the ensuing events will show, Sartai will do anything to make Zere aware of his bravery, thinking that this is way to get her.
During the celebration, Sartai and Taimas see Rakhimjan warmly welcome the Oirats, and express their protest. They decide to start avenging the Oirats for their killed parents. First ambushes, killings, cattle-takings occur one by one. Korlan joins them, as well.
In this very time Kazakh leaders try to overcome their disputes and disagreements to fight as one force against the enemy. They start to gather troops ready to strike to the battle.
However Sartai and the gang do not use an opportunity to join the squadron that is aiming to get to the main Kazakh army's disposition, but decide to continue their attacks on their own.
Then Sartai meets Sabit and Ilyas, Assan and Oussen, orphans as he is, who are also eager to take their revenge on the invaders. The youngsters secure several victories and their glory is growing. Sartai and Taimas start disputing; their dispute grows into a confrontation.
Oirat's commander orders the killing of Sartai and demands Rakhimjan's help in this regard. Rakhimjan does not betray Sartai, just the opposite, he provides Sartai with help and shelter. This is why Korlan and Rkhimjan himself get killed, and Zere founds herself in the Sartai's mountain village.
Meanwhile, Kazakh and Oirat armies are approaching the place of the decisive battle.
Sartai, partly influenced by Nazar, rethinks his path of personal revenge and glory in favor of joining the army led by Kazakh sultans and knights.
In the midst of the battle, Sartai and Taimas perform an outstanding treat of bravery and give their lives in the name of freedom.
