A young woman engaged to be married finds herself in an affair with her soon-to-be stepmother's lesbian daughter.
MIA (Ruth Vega Fernandez) and FRIDA (Liv Mjönes), both in their thirties, meet each other for the first time at their parents' engagement party. Mia's father, Lasse (Krister Henriksson), is about to get married to Frida's mother, Elizabeth (Lena Endre), which will make Mia and Frida stepsisters. Lasse's daughter, Mia, has not visited her father in years and arrives with her boyfriend, Tim (Joakim Nätterqvist), with whom she is about to get married. As Mia and Frida get to know one another, strong emotions begin to stir between them. Their relationship will turn everything upside down for everyone close to them with dramatic consequences.
Mia (Ruth Vega Fernandez) announces her engagement to her boyfriend Tim (Joakim Natterqvist) at her father's 60th birthday party, where her father Lasse (Krister Henriksson) has just asked his live-in girlfriend Elizabeth (Lena Endre) to marry him. When Mia meets Elizabeth's fun-loving daughter Frida (Liv Mjones), she is initially wary to be accepted into Elizabeth's family. Reluctantly, Mia agrees to a weekend getaway on the island of Fyn, Denmark, with Frida and Elizabeth. Forced to share a bedroom with Frida, Mia finds herself fascinated by the other woman's free-spirited enjoyment of life. While out walking in the woods one night, Mia boldly kisses Frida leading to an amorous embrace. Frida is ready and willing to reciprocate and the women soon feverishly have sex for the first time. With the weekend over, Mia must return to Stockholm and her life with Tim, and Frida returns to her life partner Elin (Josefine Tengblad). Both women find it hard to put the intimacy they shared behind them. A chance meeting leads to Mia and Frida escaping into the windswept Swedish countryside where they shed their inhibitions once more and, in the process, fall deeply in love. Will they have a future together or will their sexual attraction to each other bring everything in their perfect lives to a halt?

