Emily arrives in Miami with aspirations to become a professional dancer. She sparks with Sean, the leader of a dance crew whose neighborhood is threatened by Emily's father's development plans.
The Mob sets the dancing against the vibrant backdrop of Miami. Emily arrives in Miami with aspirations of becoming a professional dancer and soon falls in love with Sean, a young man who leads a dance crew in elaborate, cutting-edge flash mobs, called "The Mob". When a wealthy business man threatens to develop The Mob's historic neighborhood and displace thousands-of people, Emily must work together with Sean and The Mob to turn their performance art into protest art, and risk losing their dreams to fight for a greater cause.
Set in Miami. Sean and his friend Eddie lead a flash mob who call themselves The Mob and they have flash mobs all over the city so that they could win an online contest. They also work at a luxury hotel. Sean meets a girl named Emily who is the daughter of the owner of the hotel, who aspires to be a dancer which her father doesn't support and they hit it off. Eventually Emily joins The Mob and she learns that her father plans to tear down the neighborhood where they live. She gets them to use The Mob to launch a protest.
An aspiring dancer in Miami befriends an innovative flash-mob dance crew, and helps them to stage a footloose protest in order to save their neighborhood from a greedy developer. Emily (Kathryn McCormick) has always dream of becoming a professional dancer. Shortly after moving to Miami, she meets up with Sean (Ryan Guzman) -- the leader of a crew called The Mob that takes the art of dance straight to the streets. Meanwhile, as Emily falls for Sean, a powerful businessman begins plotting to demolish the crew's historic neighborhood to make way for a highly profitable development. Now, with their homes at stake and nothing to lose, Sean, Emily, and The Mob prepare to stage a show that will save their families from getting thrown into the streets.

