A pregnant woman's search for her missing husband takes her from London to Kolkata, but everyone she questions denies having ever met him.
Kolkata is abuzz with the preparations for the annual Durga Puja festival, as seven months pregnant Vidya Bagchi steps off the airplane from London. Her first stop is the local police station to file a missing person report. Weeks ago, her husband Arnab arrived in India for a job assignment. The first two weeks, they talked daily on the phone, and then without explanation, his calls stopped. Everywhere Vidya turns, no one can remember Arnab. There is no trace of him at the guest house or his workplace. But Vidya will not give up her search. Somewhere in Kolkata she will discover the dangerous truth.
two years ago a gas attack at Kolkata metro station killed many people on board.Vidya Bagchi a pregnant women arrives in Kolkata in search of her missing husband Arnab Bagchi during Durga Pooja Festival.Rana a police officer provides her help all the way.Vidya claims that Arnab was on an NDC (National Data Center) assignment in Kolkata but NDC claims that there was no such person employed by NDC. Agnes D'Mello human resources officer of NDC claims that her Arnab resembles to their former employee Milind Damji .But she gets killed by a psycho contract killer Bob Biswas before she could provide more details.Bob frequently follows Vidya in order to kill her.Intelligence officer Khan arrives in Kolkata and tells Vidya to be away from Milind as he was responsible for Gas attack in Kolkata metro 2 years back.Vidya believes that Aranb's resembles to Milind might have left him in trouble.Vidya continues's her search with Rana which leads to more twist with unexpected situations.
The story begins with a pregnant woman, Vidya Bagchi (Vidya Balan), landing to Kolkata from London in search of her missing husband Arnav Bagchi. In her quest for her husband, she finds out that her husband's identity does not exist in the city. No records, either the flight's or the hotel's where her husband was supposedly staying or the company's where her husband had supposedly come for an assignment show any evidence that he actually exists. There is this docile police sub inspector (Parambrata Chatterjee) who is helping Vidya in her search. In the course of their search together, he develops some affection for her. The movie however does not have a romantic forte but this one-sided feeling of affection is very subtly and impressively captured in the movie.
The story gets more entangled and suspenseful when people involved in the interrogation get murdered and when the IB (Investigation Bureau) also seems very interested in this missing husband case. Why are they killed? What is the interest of the top officials in an ordinary pregnant woman's search? How is this related to the missing husband? All these answers are not revealed even until the end. The story has succeeded to grip the audience throughout. The presentation of real Kolkota is done very well. Good direction, good performances and once again a bravo job by Vidya Balan!
