A town in the south of Sweden is isolated after a viral outbreak. The Swedes and immigrants still inside must band together to survive the onslaught.
In a town in southern Sweden, tensions between the locals and immigrants grow. Meanwhile a submarine carrying a strange plague enters the town. The crew infects police officers out to investigate and a full-blooded outbreak begins. The town is isolated by the Swedish army, but the survivors inside, immigrants and locals alike, must band together against the infected.
ZONE 261 is a gripping action drama about seeing beyond our projections - our fear of what is foreign. ZONE 261 is packed with fast-paced action, shoot-outs and explosions - as well as drama, romance, comic relief; strong characters and neck-braking plot twists. And above all, heart. The story starts when a submarine slams into the Swedish city Landskrona, infecting the city with a virus that turns people into monsters. To prevent the infection from spreading, the military quarantines the city. A few non-infected - ethnic Swedes and immigrants - barricade themselves and fight to survive inside the war zone. As the infected close in, old animosities between the groups escalate to a boiling point - at which they have to ask themselves who the real monsters are. At the same time, they discover a secret - a secret that changes not only the way they see the infection, but, also, the way they see themselves. Now they have to bring this secret beyond the perimeter - before the military unleashes a firestorm, turning the city into a sea of flames.
Your enemy is not who you think it is. A submarine, carrying a military engineered virus, smashes into a city in Southern Sweden - turning the inhabitants into monsters. As the armed forces quarantine the city, a native family and an immigrant one - who, for some reason, are the only people not to be infected - take shelter simultaneously in the old citadel. As the infected advance - and the military starts to consider firebombing the city - the conflict between natives and immigrants escalate to boiling point. In the final hour, in order to survive, they are forced to decide who the true monsters are: the infected on the outside - or the enemies within?
ZONE 261 is about how the Swedish city of Landskrona is infected by a virus that turns people into monsters. In order to prevent the infection from spreading, the military sets the town in quarantine.A few non-infected a group of Swedes and a group of immigrants take shelter in the old citadel. While the monsters approach, the old conflicts between the Swedes and the immigrants escalate to the boiling point.Finally, with the monsters knocking on the door, the uninfected are forced to decide who the worst monsters are:The infected out there or the old enemies in here?
