Ashwin, a photojournalist, finds out that his classmate and a famous politician, Vasanthan, has links with the Naxalites. Will he manage to expose Vasanthan's treacherous motive as a politician?
The movie opens with a scene of a bank robbery in progress. The actions of the robbers during the gateway is photographed by Ashwin (Jeeva). After a chase, the injured Ashwin loses his camera to the robbers but managed to retrieve the memory card. His brave actions are broadcasted in the local TV channels and earns him praises from his colleagues and media friends.Ashwin is a press photographer for Dina Anjal, a Tamil daily. He comes across Renuka (Karthika), who earlier caused him to fall and lose his camera during the chase . Then, there is also Saro (Piaa Bajpai) who is Ashwin's close friend and colleague. She secretly has a crush on him.Two politicians, Yogeswaran (Prakash Raj) who is the Chief Minister and his opponent Alavandhan (Kota Sreenivasa Rao). Both of them are competing to gain control of the state. Their antics and wrong-doings are exposed by Ashwin and Renuka, causing them to run into trouble with both the political figures. Then there is Vasanthan Perumal (Ajmal Ameer) , a youth who is trying to gain the confidence of the people to change the state. He was saved by Ashwin once when he was attacked by goons. His efforts to gain the people's confidence are futile as he could not displace any ot the two strongmen. Meanwhile, Ashwin falls in love with Renuka.A bomb explodes at Vasanthan's political rally and scores of people including Saro are killed and many of Vasanthan's comrades are seriously injured. This incident changes the political scenario, Many people started to support Vasanthan's party. Renuka discovers a link between Ashwin and Vasanthan. A flashback reveals that both Ashwin and Vasanthan are college mates. Ashwin admits that he is secretly helping Vasanthan in his political ambitions. Later, Vasanthan's party wins in the elections and he is elected the Chief Minister.Meanwhile, Ashwin suspects elements of foul play in Saro's death. With a footage of the scene after the blast which was recorded by a dead TV cameraman and assisted by a media friend (editor Anthony), he discovered that Saro was stomped to death by a man. He finds out that Saro's killer and the gang leader of the bank robbers are both the same person (Bose Venkat).Ashwin then goes to meet Vasanthan with the evidence. He is shocked to see the killer in the CM's office. He tries to tell Vasanthan but he is calmed down and Vasanthan sends the killer out. It is then revealed that the killer is a leader of a Naxalite movement and they are the ones who robbed the bank. Then, Ashwin tails the killer to his hideout. Unknown to him, Vasanthan has ordered police commandos to surround the Naxalite's hideout and take them down.Ashwin arrives at the hideout and realises the presence of the commandos. He forces his way into a house which is the hideout. A shoot-out ensues between the Naxalites and the commandos. The Naxal leader is then shot. The Naxal leader then realised that he was set up by Vasanthan. Ashwin gets a doctor to treat the leader and at the same time, the leader reveals shocking truths to Ashwin. Vasanthan planned the bomb blast himself. When Saro discovered the bomb, she alerted Vasanthan but was beaten up by him and later killed. The motive of the bomb blast is to gain the sympathy of the civilians and the Naxals had helped Vasanthan.Vasanthan later arrived at the terrorists' hideout. He asked the other Naxalite terrorists to kill Ashwin but he ended up killing all of them after a fierce fight. Then, Ashwin confronted Vasanthan. Both of them get engaged in a free-for-all and get hurt. Ashwin then steps on a landmine.Vasanthan pleads to Ashwin not to reveal the truth to the media.( The conversation earlier between Ashwin and the Naxal leader was being watched by Renuka via 3G and she was preparing the headline reports.) Vasanthan tells Ashwin that if the truth is revealed then the people will sure lose their faith in the youths completely.Ashwin then releases the landmine and jumps off the window. The landmine explodes and Vasanthan is killed. Ashwin then urges Renuka to delete the headline reports. She was reluctant but after pleads from Ashwin she deletes it. She prepares a new report stating the death of Vasanthan.Ashwin and Renuka reveal the truth to the editor and submits their resignation letters. The editor rejects their resignation and both of them continue to work at the daily while Vasanthan's friends who are elected ministers rule the state.
