After suffering extreme humiliation at school, Dominik holes himself up in his room and begins spending all his time in a virtual reality chat room.
Dominik is an above-average high school boy. He's got loads of friends, the hottest girl in school, rich parents and money to spend on brand-name clothes, but one innocent orgasm with a mate changes everything. Humiliated, he begins to isolate himself from the outside world. Spending all his time on his computer, he meets an anonymous girl who introduces him to the "suicide room", a place from which there is no escape. Caught in a trap woven of his own emotions, Dominik becomes entangled in a web of intrigue and gradually loses what he cherishes most.
The movie begins with the opera 'Orpheus in the Underworld' at the Warsaw Oprea House, introducing Dominik Santorski and his parents life. His parents have success-driven careers and are out of touch with their son's life. Dominik is popular at his private high school, but is also spoiled by the perks given to him by his wealthy parents. While at school, his friends stumble upon a self-harm video while using his computer. Later, he watches the rest of the self-harm video and leaves a comment for the poster.While drinking at an after-prom party, a girl admits to lesbian experimentation. She agrees to demonstrate for her friends, to their amusement. Dominik is then asked to kiss a boy, Aleksander, for the group's continued amusement. He does so without hesitation. A video of the kiss is posted to a social media site, and Dominik's friends tease him about the kissing in the following days. He plays along, returning Alexander's 'pretend' longing gaze. Later at judo practice, Dominik and Aleksander are sparing, and Dominik becomes pinned beneath his friend. During the struggle that follows, Dominik is excited to the point of ejaculation. This event is relayed to a social media site, which angers Dominik.From his previous comment to the self-harm video, he is invited to join a 3D social network. He meets Sylwia (Sylvia), a suicidal girl who cuts and wears a mask, in 'Sala Samobójców' (The Suicide Room). In The Suicide Room, the group members watch films of people killing themselves. Sylwia and Dominik develop a bond, and Dominik begins skipping school to spend more time with her.Dominik and his family attend another opera, where they try to pair him with another family's daughter. Dominik acts out by insisting that he's gay and making out with one of the male busts in the lobby. His parents, embarrassed by Dominik's outburst, are angry with him and force him to go back to school. He returns home and sees a posted video showing shadow puppets (named after Dominik and Aleksander) engaging in various homosexual acts. The video drives Dominik to tears and causes him to rampage through his room.Sylwia mocks him for being upset; she says that he is different from others and encourages him to scare the normal people. Dominik changes his style, adopting the hair styles and clothing of the emo subculture, and takes his father's gun to school. When Aleksander approaches him with some friends after school, Dominik panics and runs to the safety of a taxi. When recounting the incident to Sylwia, he claims that he had scared his friend and was in total control of the situation. They return to The Suicide Room and Dominik finds out that Sylwia is a shut-in and has not left her room in three years.Dominik stays locked in his room for the next 10 days talking with her on-line and refuses to eat. These events go unnoticed by his parents, who often spend days out of the house on business. Eventually, their housekeeper calls the police, who break in Dominik's bedroom door and find him sitting in a pool of his blood beside a broken mirror. He is sent to a hospital and kept in a psychiatric ward for three days. His parents arrive to take him home claiming that there is nothing wrong with him, and he should not be wasting time at the hospital when he should be studying for his final exams.When Dominik returns home and goes back to The Suicide Room, he hears the group discussing their plans for suicide, but they refuse to discuss it with him. Upon hearing that his parents are trying to get him to speak with a psychiatrist, Sylwia opens up to him. She tells him a love story that ends with the lovers killing themselves with pills and alcohol. After telling Dominik that this is how she wants to die, she begs him to get pills for her from the doctor.At the behest of the psychiatrist, Dominik's parents write him a letter. He reads it to Sylwia, who finds it hilarious, before ripping the letter up. His parents decide that the doctor's methods will not cure Dominik before his final exams, so they demand the name of one that will simply give him drugs. When the new doctor arrives and interviews Dominik, Sylwia feeds him answers that will lead the doctor to give him the right pills. He follows the lines Sylwia gives him, but continually remarks about how no one should want to die, in a plea to make her reconsider her suicide.As Dominik and Sylwia discuss where to meet and transfer the pills, Dominik's father rips out the router before their plans are set. Dominik panics, bouncing from threatening to kill his parents to begging his 'Mummy' to help her son. His mother attempts to plug the cords back in, but his father stops her physically. Dominik bursts from his room and collapses. Later, he explains to his parents what The Suicide Room is. He tells them that the members are his new family, but his parents ban him from returning, even to explain that he cannot come back.Still wanting to see Sylwia in person, he takes the pills to the bar they had discussed. The bartender forces him to order something, which leads to Dominik drinking a large beer. He heads to the bathroom and decides to dump the pills. After throwing a few handfuls into a toilet, Dominik takes one of the pills followed by two more handfuls. Dominik finds a boy-girl couple who are kissing, and he starts filming them. They take the camera and begin filming Dominik's delirium. He mocks his father and himself, laughing at his own drunken imitations. He returns to the bar and sees Sylwia waiting for him. They walk to the middle of the dance floor and kiss passionately. For the first time in the film, Dominik is happy.Later at The Suicide Room, Sylwia is talking to her followers discussing Dominik's long absence from the group. They see Dominik's avatar walk up and learn that it is his mother using his account. She thanks them for being there and supporting her son, and announces that he has died (Dominik's encounter with Sywlia at the bar was a hallucination). Sylwia rips the internet cord out from the wall and stumbles through her room, knocking over piles of garbage. She opens her door and goes outside her apartment building for the first time in three years, bawling and screaming in the grass out front and at the bright blue sky.The movie ends with Dominik's parents at a ballet, though divorced and sitting in different places. The drunk couple's footage of Dominik is interspersed with the ballet. It is revealed that, instead of returning to the bar, Dominik was screaming for his parents in the bathroom of the bar as he was dying from the overdose. The video ends up on The Suicide Room wall.
