An American girl, sent to the English countryside to stay with relatives, finds love and purpose while fighting for her survival as war envelops the world around her.
American teenager Elizabeth "Daisy" is sent by her estranged father away from New York to the countryside of England to stay with her Aunt Penn. Her distant cousin Isaac welcomes her at the airport and drives her home. She is introduced to her cousins, seventeen year-old Eddie and young Piper and to their friend Joe. However Daisy is a resentful, needy of love and aloof girl who believes that she is cursed and that bad things happen wherever she goes since her mother died in her delivery. Aunt Penn is a busy woman who is studying the war scenario in England, which is on alert due to an imminent terrorist attack, and needs to fly to Geneva. However, the next morning, a nuclear bomb explodes in London and the authorities of the United Kingdom declare a state of siege. Meanwhile Daisy and Eddie fall in love with each other, but they are separated by the military, which sends girls to one camp and men to another. Daisy and Eddie promise to meet each other again. In a country at war, Daisy and Piper flee their lodging and cross England under martial law, trying to find Eddie and Isaac.
An American girl called daisy comes to live in England with her cousins. Things are going good, but war commences, and all around her things come crashing down. She has to learn to face her fears and stay focused on her goal. On top of this there is falling helplessly in love with her handsome cousin Eddie.
(spoilers) A film based on the best selling book of the same name by Meg Rossoff. Fifteen year old Elizabeth, Daisy, as she prefers to be known, is sent by her father and stepmother to live with her cousins Osbert, Isaac, Edmond and Piper, and her Aunt Penn, in England. Over time she comes to appreciate her cousins and strikes up a strong bond with all of them, especially the semi-telepathic, precocious Edmond. Daisy adapts to the English countryside lifestyle and begins to feel at home for the first time in her life, and barely notices the whispers about war that begin to circulate, until Aunt Penn is sent away to aid the Peace Process. With the departure and subsequent disappearance of Aunt Penn, and no adults left to supervise the children, Daisy and Edmond's relationship soon blossoms into something that is a little more than cousinly love. However, her new found idyllic life in the country is soon shattered by the advance of the Third World War, and she and Piper are sent away from Edmond, Isaac and Osbert. Surrounded by enemies during the futuristic "occupation", Daisy must find a way to reunite the family through all the bloodshed before their lives are ruined by the separation and the horrors of the war. When she finally returns home with Piper, after witnessing horrifying events, she finds a broken Edmond, also returned home. She tries to nurse Edmond back to health, and that is how she lives now.
