A group of six ex-high school cheerleaders are stalked by a killer with a medieval war hammer and battle axe during their first Spring Break from college.
Rebecca is set to spend her first Spring Break home from college with her old high school cheer-leading friends. As luck would have it, the group of six sexy girls have been granted the usage of a rental property in the Florida coastal town of Manatee Creek. However, they are soon to find that their vacation may be anything but... Just down the road, in Daytona Beach; "Crazy Girls Unlimited" - a company famous for it's drunken topless DVD releases - had been throwing a event for their latest video series. However, the shoot ended early when a killer, complete with medieval weaponry, showed up to end the festivities. Unaware of what has transpired at the "Crazy Girls" party, Rebecca and her friends decide to throw a Spring Break Free-For-All -- But the girls get more than they bargained for when one-by-one the party-goers disappear. It seems an uninvited stranger has been literally cutting through the guest list - straight from the party in Daytona.
When a group of sexy high school friends reunite for spring break during their freshman year of college, all they are looking for is a skinny dipping good time. Instead they find a sadistic blood thirsty killer wielding a medieval war hammer has targeted them to he his next victims.
Sheltered and virginal Rebecca, can't wait to finally break free from the clutches of Rosemarie, her ever-watchful, religion-crazed mother, to join her ex-cheerleader friends for her first mid-term break. Undoubtedly, this is going to be one heck of a weekend without parents, no boyfriends and no cell phones in the quiet town of Manatee Creek near Daytona Beach, however, the excitement will soon vanish into thin air when the girls, to their disappointment, will find out that the coastal town's nightlife is far from their expectations. Thankfully, down the road, the notorious "Crazy Girls Unlimited", a wild video series searching for the next college coed who's ready to flash her gifts, throws a big party and everybody is invited. But when the teenagers go missing after a mysterious crimson-cloaked monk executioner carrying a medieval war hammer and a heavy battleaxe starts hunting down the girls one-by-one, a never-ending mayhem will begin. Who's gonna stop the religious zealot?

