Rebecca has a very unusual secret, one that not even her best friends know about. The last person on earth she expects to reveal it to is a high priced escort named Paris.
Rebecca has a very unusual secret, one that not even her best friends know about. The last person on earth she expects to reveal it to is a high priced escort named Paris. What starts as a comedy of errors ends up a uniquely erotic journey. Rebecca's unconventional efforts to find herself are raw, evocative, and often times humorous, but always very real, very human. Sometimes a perfect ending is not what you expect it to be.
The movie immediately introduces the two main protagonists. Paris (Jessica Clark) is a young, good-natured, dark-haired woman who works as a high-priced escort/call-girl but is a creative artist by nature. Rebecca (Barbara Niven), a blond, straight up, middle-aged Stepford wife. The initial voice-over also narrates a cancer affliction that has grown beyond hope.Rebecca has lived a Stepford wife existence in creating a perfect family with her husband Mason Westridge (John Heard). The only signs of troubles are their hostility towards each other and a differing in opinion that Jessica (Kerry Knuppe), their only daughter, does not get stock shares of the family business. This is something that Rebecca seeks to right.Rebecca feels an emptiness and confides in her two lesbian 'besties', Sylvie and Shirin, that she has never hit the peak during the act of sex and that she and Mason only do it once every six months, which suits her well. Shirin suggests that she try a very discreet escort service run by her own cousin Valentina (Morgan Fairchild).It is then that Rebecca meets Paris and through a series of very discreet meets in a fancy hotel room. At first the very nervous Rebecca tells Paris to leave. But a few days later, calls her back just to talk. Rebecca eventually warms up to Paris's gentile reach and achieves her goals of having sex with another woman and achieving true happiness and satisfaction.Meanwhile, Paris who is well appreciated by other male clients for her services, seems to be in quiet agony over a past mistake that had led her to this profession. It's implied that Paris' husband died after being hit by a car shortly after their wedding day. It is Rebecca who later helps Paris to let go of the past and heal.At the height of all these, the three Westridge children finds the medical document that certifies the melanoma cancer in an inoperable stage that Mason Westridge has been hiding in his office desk. They confront Rebecca and ask if she had known about it all along. Rebecca holds the fort and tells her children that this changes everything. Afterwards, Rebecca makes the courageous step to say goodbye to Paris.Towards the end of the movie, Rebecca is seen as a butterfly, someone who has learned to spread her wings and Paris has her own art exhibition.In the final scene, after Rebecca's funeral, Jessica introduces herself to Paris at the art exhibition and says: "I want to know more about my mother."
