Follow two couples as they journey from the bar to the bedroom and are eventually put to the test in the real world.
Hot Tub Time Machine's Steve Pink directed this contemporary adaptation of David Mamet's play Sexual Perversity in Chicago, about two new couples who find that their sexually charged relationships may not have the substance to thrive in the cold, hard light of day..
Note: This is a remake of the 1986 film of the same name and based on David Mamet's one-act play titled 'Sexual Perversity in Chicago'Best friends Bernie Litko (Kevin Hart) and Danny Martin (Michael Ealy) go to a trendy bar in Los Angeles called the Broadway Bar for some drinks. Bernie is telling Danny about how he hooked up with a woman recently. This woman, Joan Derrickson (Regina Hall), talks about the same hook-up with her roommate and friend Debbie Sullivan (Joy Bryant) as the scene cuts between the two pairs of friends. According to Bernie, Joan gave him a great blowjob, and Joan likewise enjoyed what she had with him. The ladies end up meeting both guys at the bar. Bernie and Joan get super drunk and poke fun at their friends, with Bernie bringing up Danny's ex-girlfriend while Joan calls Debbie boring. The two go to have sex in the bathroom, leaving Danny and Debbie sitting there awkwardly. Debbie gets a buzz on her phone and tells Danny she has to leave to get up early for work the next day. He offers to walk her out.Danny learns that Debbie has lived in Los Angeles for six years and has never been to a Dodgers game. He offers to take her sometime, as a date. She then sees her ex and grabs Danny's hand. It's Terrell Owens. He makes a quip about Danny's height and leaves with his buddies. Danny tells Debbie he likes being her fake boyfriend, but if he were really her boyfriend, he would instead lock arms with her, and then proceed to caress her cheek before finally planting a kiss on her. The two go back to Danny's place and have sex.Debbie goes back to her place and tells Joan about everything, particularly complimenting Danny's style with oral sex. Bernie overhears and tells Danny at work, pressing him about it because he knows Danny is interested in Debbie.Both Danny and Bernie represent Casey McNeil (Christopher McDonald) for work as they support his business, an Irish bar. Unfortunately, Casey's not making as much money as necessary, which means his loans are about to stop coming.SUMMERDanny and Debbie start to see each other frequently, even cutting work at times to hang out. He takes her to a Dodgers game and sits in the same seats all the way in the back where his dad used to sit with him. Even though it's farther away than they'd like, she is okay with it since they have the whole place to themselves to make out. After the game, Danny takes Debbie to Casey's. Casey tells her she is the first woman Danny ever brought to the bar, making her feel special. Meanwhile, Bernie and Joan continuously see each other for sex. It gets to a point where Joan asks Bernie during sex if she's his girlfriend. He hesitates, but as she starts crying, screaming, and smacking him in the ear, he relents and tells her she is his girlfriend.Tensions rise when Bernie and Joan break up. She tells Debbie it's because she wanted to meet Bernie's parents, but he told her she can't because she's not Jewish. Bernie tells Danny about how he dropped a "Jew bomb" on Joan (he's really not Jewish). At the same time, Danny and Debbie's relationship begins to get serious. By the summer's end, Debbie moves in with Danny, to the displeasure of both Bernie and Joan.FALLDanny and Debbie continue to enjoy their relationship while fooling around every now and then. One night, as Danny goes to answer the door for a pizza, his ex-girlfriend Alison (Paula Patton) calls his phone. Debbie sees it and shows Danny, but he chooses to ignore it so that she cannot bother him. Before they start eating, Debbie tells Danny she loves him.On Halloween night, Danny and Debbie go to a party at a bar with their respective friends. The couple is dressed as Ike and Tina Turner, while Joan has a blue wig on and Bernie is supposed to be Channing Tatum as his character in "Magic Mike". Danny tells Bernie that Debbie said "I love you", which Bernie interprets as Debbie trying to set Danny up for something. Bernie enjoys single life, as he and Danny get drinks paid for by three sexy women in provocative costumes. Joan comes in and tells the girls that they should expect nothing from Bernie. Pissed off, he confronts Joan, and she says she told them he has herpes. This blows up into a bigger and louder argument for the whole bar to hear.At work, Danny and Bernie's boss, Ryan Keller (Joe Lo Truglio) brings Danny in to meet with the higher-ups to discuss the state of Casey's bar. He hasn't made his cut, so they will no longer continue to support him. This bothers Danny all the way back home, even when Debbie takes him to a work party where he meets her co-workers and boss, Steven (Adam Rodriguez). Steven tries to make conversation with Danny, but he is passive and rude toward him. He admits to Debbie in an elevator that he is frustrated with work and is only still there to support her. She reminds him that that's not a good enough reason for him to stick around with a job he hates. At the same party, both Bernie and Joan were invited by their friends, and Bernie sees Joan with another (taller, more handsome) man. It clearly bothers him.Keller is ready to let Danny go, but Danny makes the first move and quits. He packs his stuff and flips his desk over to show his disapproval before telling Keller to go fuck himself.During a little stroll around town, Debbie sees a puppy that she really likes. She wants it but Danny doesn't seem on board with the idea. She puts the dog back in its cage.The couple hosts a Thanksgiving party with their friends. Debbie is starting to feel annoyed with Danny due to his lack of support toward her and an overall lack of courtesy. Joan gets mad when she sees Bernie bringing a woman wearing the exact same dress as her. She continues to trash-talk the woman to Debbie because she keeps saying "Enchante" to the male guests. Joan smokes a joint to calm herself, even letting Debbie take a few hits. Before anyone even gets to eat, Joan and Bernie get into it again, having a huge fight in front of everybody before they both storm out. Debbie, too high to function, tosses the turkey out the window.Debbie wakes up the next morning thinking she had a bad dream, but Danny tells her that she really did act out in front of their friends. However, he surprises her when he brings out the puppy she had her eyes on. They name him Pacino.While Danny walks Pacino, he runs into Casey and asks him for a favor. Danny earns himself a job as a bartender for Casey. Although Debbie shows support, Danny doesn't treat it like that and he brushes her off when he gets home.One evening, as Danny is working, Alison shows up at the bar. She still seems to think that Danny hasn't gotten over her, and she ends up getting really drunk. Out of pity, Danny takes her back to his place so he can call her a cab. Alison tries to make a pass at him, but he sends her out after she quickly kisses him. Meanwhile, Steven takes Debbie home and he tries to kiss her. She reminds him that she is with someone and that she loves him. Steven notes that he'd have to be an idiot not to love her back.Debbie confronts Danny about not using coasters when having a drink, but she gets more agitated when he mentions that he saw Alison. She thinks he slept with her, which he denies. She asks if he wanted to, to which he says he could have if he did want to.WINTERIt's New Year's Eve. Danny and Debbie have a quiet dinner at their place. Bernie calls his friend up and tells him that there's a party going on at the Broadway. Debbie knows that Danny wants to go, so they make a trip there. Danny gets excited to see Bernie and starts to drink. Bernie comments that Danny looks like he got out of jail, and he replies that it feels like it. This hurts Debbie, and she goes to the bathroom where she runs into Joan, happy to see her. She expresses her frustration with Joan and tells her that she's done. When they go back to Danny, he's already drunk and makes a rude remark about Debbie being boring. He adds that it is Joan and Bernie who should be fighting, angering both of them. Danny admits he preferred to go hang out with his friends than to spend the night doing what he thinks they'll be doing for the rest of the year - fighting. The couple leaves, but Bernie and Joan stay as the bar counts down to the new year. He tries to get a kiss from her and she splashes her drink in his face, but the two of them laugh about it.Debbie packs her stuff and tells Danny she'll retrieve the rest of her belongings the next day. She tearfully asks him if he ever loved her, but he never responds. It's clear to both of them that their relationship is done.Danny continues to improve Casey's by helping Casey build a grill in the place to bring in more business. This proves successful. However, both Danny and Debbie are depressed after the break-up. She moves back in with Joan and cries in her lap. Danny tries to call her to meet up one afternoon, but she hangs up on him.SPRINGBernie and Joan have rekindled their relationship, even though it is mostly sexual. Bernie tries to convince Danny to go back to chasing other women now that he's single again. Danny almost has sex with another woman, but he can't stop thinking about Debbie. Likewise, Debbie isn't interested in another man she goes on a date with. Joan knows she misses Danny, and tells Debbie to call him because that's what she wants.Debbie goes to dinner at Bernie's after being invited by Joan. When Joan isn't looking, Bernie tells Debbie to throw the food into a Ziploc bag because Joan's cooking is awful. When she gets back, she and Bernie rub their relationship in Debbie's face.In the final scene, Bernie and Joan go to meet up with each other at a bar for Joan's birthday. They each invited Danny and Debbie with the intention to set them up again. They continue to trash-talk each other before saying "I love you" to each other. Meanwhile, Danny is out walking Pacino, when he runs away from him through the street. The dog runs to Debbie. After she and Danny chat it up, they arrange to see each other again and reconnect. They lock arms as they did when they first met and walk Pacino together.
