After being fired from the affluent country club for bad behavior, a former tennis star takes a job at a public racquet club where he leads a ragtag group of oddball pros to a showdown against a rival team of his former co-workers.
Owen "Game Set" Match is one of the top tennis pros in town, employed by the prestigious Fountain Club, with sun-bleached hair, gimp knees, and tan lines that make the women swoon. But when a history of bad decisions finally catches up to him, he's forced to pick up the pieces of his faltering career at the local YMCA club, where dysfunction is the norm. At the Y, a gang of culturally diverse, potentially psychotic, ADHD, OCD, and potentially half-special pros eagerly await Owen's tutelage. Owen immediately takes a liking to his new boss, Sherry, and befriends her son Jake in an attempt to hook up with the mother. But can Owen find meaning in life in the most unlikely of places? Can T-Shirts really talk? How many hard-boiled eggs can a tennis pro eat? Can an arm really die? What's it like to crap in a van with no windows? Owen reunites with his crazy high school coach, bringing inspiration and folly to the Y, sparking a series of showdowns, Chinese buffet throw-downs, and borderline smack- downs with his former pros at the Fountain Club. The final score will be settled in a classic duel with his ex-boss and high school nemesis, Charles, during the Combo Cup Tournament. With plenty of old man locker room nudity and chest bumps from local strippers, Owen will lead the Y out of the shadows and never hesitate to get all up in somebody's kitchen. 'Cause when it comes to anything Fountain club, "It's so on!
When former tennis pro Owen "Game Set" Match gets fired from his cushy job instructing the blue bloods at the affluent Fountain Club, he's forced to take a position at the gritty public courts at the Derby City Recreation Center. Under the leadership of Sherry, a strong-willed single mother with a teenage goth son (and secret tennis hopeful) named Jake, Owen sees a chance to get back his self-respect and the respect of his new co-workers, a ragtag group of tennis pro misfits. It won't be easy, especially since it includes the Coach he fired on his climb up to the pro circuit. As Owen begins to win over his colleagues, repair his friendship with Coach and help Jake fix his serve, he finds a romantic connection with Sherry, despite her insistence that she doesn't date tennis pros. Just when things seem to be going well, Owen's former Fountain Club boss and court nemesis, Charles, challenges the Derby City club to a showdown in the Combo Cup, an annual tennis tournament at the Louisville Boat Club, located on the scenic Ohio River. As he leads his team of misfit pros and Strippers and oddball amateurs, Owen will learn the most valuable lesson of all. Whether you're on the court or off... everybody gets a 2nd Serve.

