Janardhan Jakhar chases his dreams of becoming a big Rock star, during which he falls in love with Heer.
The film follows Janardhan Jhakar in a series of flashbacks and flash forwards, how the small collage boy became an international rock sensation "Jordan". To chase his dreams of a rockstar, the wanna-be singer his counseled that music and feelings only come with pain. In the process of which, he meets Heer, a tough on the outside and popular college girl, the both become friends, and as time passes by his dreams of music fade away as they spend time together. When heer moves away, Janardhan is thrown out of his house because of family misunderstandings. As he bides his time at a local mosque, his passion for music comes back to life. He is soon signed by a record label, where he makes more enemies than friends, his tour takes him to Prague, where he is reunited with a married Heer. Things go awry when the two share an intimate moment, and Jordan his deported to India on trespassing charges filed by Heer's husband. Now an angry painful and lonely JORDAN embarks on his journey to become a ROCKSTAR
There was a star good at heart, fine-spirited with expectations. He grew with zeal for his music, simple yet conducive of his nature which was cheerfully accepted by his close friends and family. He set out to the streets with his guitar in search of a passion for art, running after the glory of Jim Morrison's fame; his eclectic persona charmed all who listened to his music, his aria. But there was a twist in his role that was played by 'Janardan', the protagonist; he did not see any side of romance since. He was imbued with the thrill of stardom by his mentor who said him the change in every true artist's life started with a pain; an urge which led him instrumentally to an overture of a failed love and a falsely attained conspicuous success as an established musician. He was thrown out of his own family, which was filled with wrath and hatred for him based on distrust. The movie had several prominent human emotions sprouting up one after another and used a 'stream of consciousness' as it progressed keeping the capriccioso of the music tracks in harmony with every node of changing emotions--- It started with 'peace' for Janardan as his life had simplicity while he set out for his journey. Following it were feelings of 'love', when he fell for the beauty and lust of the dancing diva of the college Heer- gorgeous, arrogant and snobbishly cynical. Whilst these emotions marked the rungs in the story, Janardan turned into notorious 'Jordan' and his fan-following grew overwhelmingly as he contracted a leading music enterprise. Then came along 'despair', as Heer's marriage was certain to an affluent family; both of them had very little to do about it, but Jordan's parlous love began to be requited. Going along the flow, despair was replaced with 'anger' and 'fury' in Jordan's life; his heart started bleeding when he saw her closeness with her Prague-based spouse Jai and felt she already belonged to him. The next emotion had to be 'frustration', while gradually a sturdy possession worked up in him for his ladylove and it turned up in torrents. An outcast, Jordan was charged with numerous criminal offences including resisting arrest and publicly assaulting on the media. Slowly but surely, his pure feelings for Heer took to lust, a sin which he was the last person to resist.Jordan, with his guitar and simple music and a pure serene heart transformed into a frenetic "rock-star" with hysterical rock music, a dark heart, failed love and proving frustration; his love for career was defaced- took a wrong turn, as his repressed love Heer, the second side of the coin, went to coma.The last emotion 'peace' is symbolic of a crux, marked by the painful track "tum ko pa hi liya..." reeking of a constant unfathomable pain, rebel and frustration for Jordan and a climactic ordeal for Heer.The movie is drenched by stunning music tracks suiting and marking every emotion distinctively-- courtesy : the maestro A. R. Rahman.
