An anthology of five short films exploring the impact of breast cancer on people's lives.
The groundbreaking original movie Five is an anthology of five short films exploring the impact of breast cancer on peoples lives. Five highlights the shared experience each short films title character endures from the moment of diagnosis, through an interconnected story arc that uses humor and drama to focus on the effect breast cancer and its different stages of diagnosis have on relationships and the way women perceive themselves while searching for strength, comfort, medical breakthroughs and, ultimately, a cure.CHARLOTTEDirected by Demi Moore and written by Stephen Godchaux. On the night in July 1969 when man first walks on the moon, a young Pearl (Ava Acres) is more concerned about why her family is not letting her see her mother, Charlotte (Ginnifer Goodwin), who lies in her bedroom dying from breast cancer. When she sneaks in to see and ultimately say goodbye to her mother, Pearl develops a lifelong passion to help others afflicted with the disease and eventually opens an oncology clinic where she will treat the women we meet throughout Five. Charlotte also stars Jeanne Tripplehorn, Josh Holloway, Annie Potts, Jennifer Morrison and Bob Newhart.CHEYANNEDirected by Penelope Spheeris and written by Howard Morris. Sexy young stripper Cheyanne (Lyndsy Fonseca) and her handsome newlywed husband Tommy (Taylor Kinney) struggle to redefine their passionate relationship, as well as who they are as individuals, when Cheyenne is shocked with a breast cancer diagnosis. Looking at a severe prognosis, Cheyanne's aggressive treatment ultimately results in the removal of both of her breasts, which have defined her life physically, financially and emotionally.LILIDirected by Alicia Keys and written by Jill Gordon. Lili (Rosario Dawson) is a fiercely independent, career-minded woman, who recruits her sister (Tracee Ellis Ross) to help tell their hard-nosed mother (Jenifer Lewis) that she has breast cancer. As they work through their past issues, Lili's mother and sister ultimately become her strongest allies when she needs her family the most. Also staring Jeffrey Tambor as a male patient diagnosed with breast cancer.MIADirected by Jennifer Aniston, written by Wendy West. A survivors tale that highlights all of the highs and lows of Mia's (Patricia Clarkson) two-year journey from diagnosis with breast cancer. During this time, she gives away all of her worldly possessions, holds a hilarious mock funeral while still alive and enters into a second marriage to Mitch (Tony Shalhoub), the new love of her life. Also starring Kathy Najimy as Mia's friend Rocky.PEARLDirected by Patty Jenkins and written by Deirdre OConnor, Pearl (Jeanne Tripplehorn) is a successful oncologist we have followed from childhood, who suddenly finds herself in the patients seat when she is diagnosed with breast cancer. Through this process, she finally understands what her parents experienced that night in 1969 and finds the strength to tell her young daughter that everything is going to be OK something she never heard as a child. Also starring Patricia Clarkson, Tony Shalhoub, Jeffrey Tambor, Bob Newhart, Rosario Dawson, Tracee Ellis Ross and Jenifer Lewis.
