The world's top bodyguard gets a new client, a hitman who must testify at the International Criminal Court. They must put their differences aside and work together to make it to the trial on time.
With his reputation in tatters after the painfully unsuccessful delivery of a distinguished Japanese client, the former triple-A protection agent, Michael Bryce, is now reduced to a mere second-class bodyguard for hire, two years after the disgraceful incident. Under those circumstances, Bryce would do anything to prove his worth, and, before long, he accepts an offer from Interpol to escort the international assassin, Darius Kincaid, from Manchester to the Hague. The task seems simple: Bryce needs to transport him from point A to point B; nevertheless, the trip to the Netherlands is long and hazardous, and Kincaid--as the only one with the guts and enough hard evidence to testify against a tyrannical Belarusian dictator--is an obvious target. Undoubtedly, it's a tough job, as the mismatched duo will have to put aside their grudges, and race against the clock in a non-stop concerto for bullets. Can the hitman's bodyguard carry through the most important mission in his career?
Belarussian dictator Vladislav Dukhovich is standing trial for genocide. The trial is not going well for the prosecution - their witnesses tend to turn up dead. They have one trump card though - hitman Darius Kincaid is willing to testify against Dukhovich. Interpol try to get Kincaid to the trial but after the convoy is ambushed, Interpol agent Amelia Roussel, aware that there is a Dukhovich spy in her own organisation, calls in outside help - professional bodyguard Michael Bryce. One problem - Bryce and Kincaid hate each other.
Private UK-based bodyguard Michael Bryce is hired to protect Takashi Kurosawa, a Japanese arms dealer. All apparently goes well, until Kurosawa is shot in the head through an airplane window. Two years later, Bryce, fallen into disgrace, ekes out a living protecting drug-addicted corporate executives in London. Meanwhile, Vladislav Dukhovich, the ruthless and bloodthirsty dictator of Belarus is put on trial for crimes against humanity at the International Criminal Court. The prosecution is unable to make headway against him, as they are unable to substantiate their allegations with physical evidence and Dukhovich assassinates any witnesses who could do so. The prosecution's last hope is notorious incarcerated hit-man Darius Kincaid, who agrees to testify against Dukhovich in exchange for releasing his wife Sonia from prison..

