When a new toy called "Forky" joins Woody and the gang, a road trip alongside old and new friends reveals how big the world can be for a toy.
Woody, Buzz Lightyear and the rest of the gang embark on a road trip with Bonnie and a new toy named Forky. The adventurous journey turns into an unexpected reunion as Woody's slight detour leads him to his long-lost friend Bo Peep. As Woody and Bo discuss the old days, they soon start to realize that they're two worlds apart when it comes to what they want from life as a toy.
Woody and the gang go on a road trip with new toy Forky, who's convinced he's trash and doesn't yet understand his role in the world. Along the way, Woody is unexpectedly reunited with independent spirit Bo Peep and finds himself faced with a decision, and a future, he never imagined.
In a flashback to nine years ago (between the events of the previous two films) R.C. is being swept down a storm drain. Woody and the other toys mount a successful rescue operation, but while they are busy, a mysterious man buys Bo Peep; despite Woody's efforts to prevent the sale, Bo reassures him that it is part of being a toy to be taken away.Two years after Andy donated his toys to Bonnie, Woody and the other toys are content in their new life. Worried that Bonnie will feel overwhelmed at her kindergarten orientation, Woody - who Bonnie has been neglecting - sneaks into her backpack, and his fears come to light as Bonnie becomes shy around her new classmates. Woody covertly places a spork and other items from a trash can on Bonnie's table during arts and crafts, and she turns them into a handmade toy-spork she names "Forky". After Bonnie places Forky in her backpack, he comes to life, much to Woody's shock.After Woody introduces him to the rest of Bonnie's toys, Forky experiences an existential crisis, believing that he was made to be trash and not a toy, and the other toys prevent him from throwing himself away. On a road trip with Bonnie's family and her toys, Forky - still believing himself to be trash - jumps out of the window, prompting Woody to go after him. Woody convinces Forky of the joys of being a toy, and they journey to the RV park where Bonnie and her parents will be staying.Reaching the town, Woody spots Bo's lamp at an Antique Store. Searching for Bo inside, he and Forky encounter a doll named Gabby Gabby and her sycophant puppets, the Bensons. Gabby Gabby offers to take them to Bo, but soon reveals her true plan to obtain Woody's voice box, since her own is broken and no child will purchase her. When Bonnie and her parents enter the store, Woody and Forky try to escape, but Forky is captured by Gabby Gabby. By the time Woody escapes the shop, Bonnie's RV has left without him, and he realizes that he has left Forky behind. Woody reunites with Bo, who has become a nomad adventurer helping lost toys find owners. With Bo's companion, a miniature cop named Giggles McDimples, they take a route through a nearby carnival to rescue Forky from the antique store.Meanwhile, Buzz searches for Woody on his own, seeking guidance in the button-induced phrases from his own voice box. Buzz finds himself as a prize in a carnival booth and escapes with plush toys Ducky and Bunny. Buzz finds Woody and Bo, and they recruit Ducky and Bunny to help rescue Forky, promising that they will become Bonnie's toys, along with Bo's old friend from the antique store, Duke Caboom, a Canadian stuntman toy.At the antique store, the toys' plan to rescue Forky fails. Woody, the only toy still determined to save Forky, has a falling out with the other toys, and indirectly insults Bo. As Bo, Duke, Giggles, Ducky, and Bunny return to the carnival, Woody gives up his voice box to Gabby Gabby in exchange for Forky. Gabby Gabby is desperate to be adopted by Margaret (the store owner)'s granddaughter, Harmony, but Harmony is creeped out by Gabby Gabby's new voice and rejects her. Buzz returns to Bonnie's RV and cries out to retrieve Bonnie's backpack, which she left at the antique store. Woody comforts Gabby Gabby, and Bo and her gang return after a change of heart.After Bonnie returns for her backpack, the toys follow her and her parents. Through Duke's motorcycle skills, Buzz and Forky make it back to Bonnie, who is overjoyed to have Forky back. Taking Woody's advice, Gabby Gabby sees a little girl crying and gives her comfort, and is finally adopted. As Woody and Bo say goodbye, Woody becomes hesitant in returning with Bonnie. With some encouragement from Buzz, Woody decides to stay with Bo and help lost toys find owners. Buzz and the gang give Woody and Bo a goodbye hug and the two groups go their separate ways.In the mid-credits scenes after Woody and Bo travelling with the carnival, one year has passed and Bonnie has entered first-grade. Jessie brings home a new friend Bonnie created: Knifey, a decorated plastic knife. Instantly smitten, Forky offers to shepherd her in her journey through life as a toy instead of trash. When her first question is "Why am I alive?", he is stumped.
