A feature-length documentary about the history and future of nuclear power. The film explores how and why mankind's most feared and controversial technological discovery is now passionately embraced by many of those who once led the charge against it. Operating as history, cultural meditation and contemporary exploration, PANDORA'S PROMISE aims to inspire a serious and realistic debate over what is without question the most important question of our time: how do we continue to power modern civilization without destroying it?
Scientists have known this information for about 20 years but the general public has not been informed. The movie came out in 2013 as we were recovering from the big recession-few people cared to watch it. This is a healthy story of scientific nuclear power told to the general public. It is not a nerd movie; every day people will understand it. The movie flows along well with environmentalists, nuclear scientists and critical sites from all over the world. The movie includes interviews from environmentalists who have demonstrated against nuclear power. The movie tracks all of the radiation from the power plant failures from Chernobyl to Fukuyama in the history of power plants. The data, shown in real time, is surprising as your mind tries accommodates to what you previously assumed. The general public's fears of nuclear along with the real results of all nuclear power plants in the world are covered. France gets 80% of their power from nuclear and have a carbon footprint of only 10. You get more natural radiation from higher elevations. So flying in a plane is more than twenty times the radiation than the people get that are now living in Chernobyl. No one has ever died from nuclear power plants in the US, but 10,000 die per year just from coal dust. The US developed a FNR rector that could shut itself down under similar conditions that caused Chernobyl and Fukuyama to explode-It was abandoned by political pressure and the lack of public global warming knowledge. What about proliferation? About 30 countries have the technology to develop nuclear weapons but only nine have done so. Most countries don't want to have a "bomb". The US buys nuclear war heads from Russia and recycles them for fuel in reactors. There is little waste from new reactors as they recycle their material. Today, they are renewable. Nuclear power is by far the safest cleanest source of world power. The only source that we have that can stop the world weather effects of co2 emissions given our need for power to improve everyone's lives.

