Katniss Everdeen is in District 13 after she shatters the games forever. Under the leadership of President Coin and the advice of her trusted friends, Katniss spreads her wings as she fights to save Peeta and a nation moved by her courage.
With the Games destroyed, Katniss Everdeen, along with Gale, Finnick and Beetee, end up in the so thought "destroyed" District 13. Under the leadership of President Coin and the advice of her friends, Katniss becomes the "Mockingjay", the symbol of rebellion for the districts of Panem.
Katniss Everdeen becomes the symbol of the rebellion after she shoots a force field into the arena of the Quater Quell. She now lives with the rebels in District 13 after President Snow destroyed the other districts except for District 2. She agrees to become the Mockingjay but her main focus is to save Peeta after he was captured by the Capitol in the Quater Quell and is being "hijacked".
After the bombing of District 12, Katniss Everdeen finally accepts the request of President Alma Coin and her adviser Plutarch Heavensbee and becomes the symbol of the rebellion, the Mockingjay. However, President Snow in the Capitol broadcasts a message of Peeta Mellark live contradicting Katniss. She believes that his life is in danger and convinces President Coin to rescue Peeta and the other Victors. But she has a surprise with his reaction.
After surviving the Quarter Quell, Katniss Everdeen is approached by Plutarch Heavensbee and the mysterious President Alma Coin to becoming the face of the Rebellion as the Mockingjay. But President Snow has plans for Katniss as he uses Peeta Mallark as his weapon to use against her. Desperate to help, Katniss demands that Peeta and the other Victors be liberated or she will quit being the Mockingjay. But President Coin seems to have other ideas for Katniss.
The Games are destroyed and Katniss went back home to see the ruins of her District which is caused by President Snow. With Peeta being captured, the Capital hijacked him with a trackerjacker vemom and is forced to kill his own love and has no idea what he is saying. President Coin beleives Katniss will be the ideal to be the symbolic Mockingjay and lead her people to revolution. Defying the Capital and the execution of President Snow.
The Hunger Games saga continues in this sequel that finds Katniss Everdeen faced with a decision that could sway the fate of a nation. In the wake of the Quarter Quell, the Hunger Games have been changed forever, and Katniss ends up in District 13. Her courage having inspired a nation, the brave young heroine heeds the advice of her friends, and sets out to save Peeta (Josh Hutcherson). Meanwhile, Katniss' fragile alliance with President Coin could lead to disaster..
Katniss Everdeen (Jennifer Lawrence), victor of the 74th and 75th Hunger Games, has been brought to safety in a large underground facility together with Gale (Liam Hemsworth), her mother (Paula Malcomson) and her sister Primrose (Willow Shields). She is being tormented by nightmares from her double ordeal in the arenas. Her co-tribute Finnick Odair (Sam Claflin) is also at the base, apparently suffering from post-traumatic stress, while fearing for the life of his girlfriend Annie. Katniss is summoned by general Boggs (Mahershala Ali). He tells her that District 13, where they are currently residing, was bombed by the Capitol 75 years ago in retaliation over their part in the rebellion. However, unbeknownst to the Capitol, the survivors managed to build an underground bunker below the ruins. Katniss is brought to District 13's president Alma Coin (Julianne Moore), Plutarch Heavensbee (Philip Seymour Hoffman), former Capitol Gamemaker who turned out to be an unexpected ally to the rebels, and Beetee (Jeffrey Wright), her fellow victor who is now wheelchair-bound. Coin expresses her admiration for Katniss' bravery, as well as her sympathy for the destruction of District 12. She explains that Katniss destroying the live feed during the previous Hunger Games has sparked a mass rebellion in the Districts. However, she believes that a war can only be successful if all Districts are fully united against their common enemy, the mighty Capitol. Beetee reveals that he once worked on designing the Capitol's defenses and broadcast system, and has therefore found a way to communicate with other Districts, and hack into the Capitol's news channel. Since Katniss has become the embodiment of the Mockingjay, the unofficial symbol of the rebellion, Coin and Heavensbee want her to do a series of propaganda films to win over those people who do not yet dare to take sides against the Capitol. Katniss angrily refuses, reproaching Heavensbee for leaving Peeta in the arena at the mercy of the Capitol. He convinces Coin that Katniss should be allowed to take a look in the ravaged District 12 to see the importance of her participation. When she leaves, Coin voices her doubts about Katniss' resolve; Heavensbee replies that she simply needs to be reminded who the real enemy is.President Snow (Donald Sutherland) is preparing a speech to address the nation. He decides to downplay the significance of the rebellion in order to show off his strength, according to his philosophy that one should never be seen bleeding by one's enemies. Furthermore, he has several captured rebels publically executed, and proclaims that any association with the Mockingjay symbol is henceforth punishable by death.Katniss is taken to District 12 by plane, where she discovers to her horror that hardly any building is still standing, and the bodies of numerous dead people are still lying between the rubble. Her former house in Victor's Village has been spared; she finds her sister's cat and some personal belongings, which she takes with her. Suddenly, she discovers a fresh white rose in a bouquet of wiltering flowers, similar to the one given to her by president Snow the year before. She immediately remembers the threat he made to her about hurting her loved ones, and leaves.Katniss returns to District 13 and gives the cat to her sister, stating that she probably cannot keep it. Suddenly, there is a broadcast from the Capitol; Peeta Mellark (Josh Hutcherson) is giving an exclusive interview to Caesar Flickerman (Stanley Tucci). Apparently in good health, he states that he and Katniss knew nothing of the plans to sabotage the Hunger Games, and that Katniss was drafted into inciting the rebellion; he urges people to surrender and lay down their arms, as civil war could lead to their destruction. He is immediately branded a traitor by the inhabitants of District 13.Katniss has a nightmare that night about Peeta, and fears for his safety. She goes to Coin to tell her she agrees to be the Mockingjay, on the condition that Peeta and the other prisoners of the Capitol are rescued and pardoned. Coin refuses, as District 13 believes in fair trials; Peeta's broadcast may persuade people to lay down their arms, so he should answer for his betrayal. Katniss furiously retorts that the Capitol may be abusing and torturing him into cooperation, and refuses to participate if he isn't rescued; her determination convinces Coin and Heavensbee that she has re-found her old vigor. Coin agrees to her terms as long as Katniss provides results (she also grants Katniss' request that Primrose can keep her cat).Effie Trinket (Elizabeth Banks), who has also been brought to District 13 where she loudly complains about the lack of luxury, is summoned to be part of Katniss' stylist team. That night, Coin officially announces Katniss as the face of the rebellion to a cheering crowd. Katniss learns from Primsrose that many people, including Coin's husband and child, have died several years back during an epidemic that plagued the facility. Coin further announces her intention to free the captured tributes; the crowd seems dismayed by her concession to pardon Peeta, but she stresses that this will only happen if Katniss holds up her part of the deal. Plutarch implies afterwards that Coin could have been less hard on Katniss, but Coin seems to believe otherwise.Effie meets up with Katniss and brings clothing designs from Cinna, who was killed by the Capitol, but not before he designed a Mockingjay costume for Katniss that emphasizes her role as the symbolic leader of the rebellion. Katniss starts shooting a propaganda film in a studio under the direction of Heavensbee, but her improvisation skills are far from convincing. Haymitch Abernathy (Woody Harrelson), who has been following a mandatory rehab program, notices that Katniss always makes the strongest impression in spontaneous situations, so he suggests that she be sent into the field as a soldier, under protection at all times, where a crew can shoot propaganda footage of her while in action.Before leaving, Katniss visits Beetee who has made a sophisticated bow and explosive arrows for her to use while on tour. Gale will come along as her bodyguard. While leaving, Katniss learns that District 13 has been stockpiling weapons for years, preparing for a possible war with the Capitol. Upon questioning Boggs why District 13 did not come to the aid of the other Districts sooner, he answers that they weren't strong enough to survive a counter-attack from the Capitol yet, and would have been wiped out. Katniss retorts that Peeta said a similar thing, and was branded a traitor for it.Katniss meets her film crew, led by Cressida (Natalie Dormer) and her team of Capitol refugees who include her assistant Messalla (Evan Ross), director Castor (Wes Chatham), and cameraman Pollux (Elden Henson), who is an Avox and therefore cannot speak since The Capitol had his tongue cut out. They fly over to District 8 where she visits a hospital full of wounded rebels. They are visibly surprised and delighted by her visit. One person asks about Katniss' baby; after some hesitation, she answers that she has lost it. She praises the rebels for their courage and encourages them to continue the fight, but then an incoming squadron of Capitol jets starts bombing the compound. Katniss and Gale successfully fight off the jets, but the planes manage to destroy the hospital, killing everyone inside. An emotionally devastated Katniss gives a powerful speech to the camera, telling Panem that president Snow will stop at nothing to win, even killing innocent victims, and can only be stopped if everyone supports the rebellion. She also assures him that all his acts of cruelty will be avenged.On the way home, Katniss implies that she is having a hard time being the poster girl for the rebellion, drawing thousands of people into the war and into their deaths. Back at District 13, the video is broadcast. It shows immediate effect: an entire squad of Peacekeepers is wiped out by rebels in District 7 the next day. Katniss and Gale are allowed to go hunting outside. Katniss takes aim at a large elk, but refuses to kill it, as the animal has apparently never been hunted before and refuses to run. They share a moment of intimacy before being called home. As they return, Peeta gives another interview. He now shows clear signs of being mistreated, but restates his opinion that Katniss is used as a symbol of the rebellion against her will, and urges her to stop supporting the uprising. Gale calls him a coward who sells out his comrades, but Katniss disagrees; Peeta once defended Gale when he was being tortured, and they have no way of knowing what the Capitol is doing to him. In an emergency meeting, it is decided that Katniss should make a video in District 12; showing Peeta what atrocities Snow has done there may change his mind.At District 12, Gale tells on camera that on the night of Katniss' victory at the 75th Hunger Games, he heard how all the Peacekeepers withdrew from the area. Knowing what would come, he tried to evacuate as many people as possible, but as District 12 was bombed, over 9,000 out of 10,000 people perished in the destruction. While taking a rest near a river, the crew notices a flock of mockingjays flying nearby that imitate every melody. Katniss is asked to sing a song, and she is filmed while singing "The Hanging Tree". The footage is broadcast on the news channel, and within a day, all rebels have adopted the tune as their protest song. A large group of people in District 5 destroy a large dam near the Capitol that provides electricity to the city. The main power of the Capitol is cut off, and with only back-up generators working, the city's defenses and broadcast capabilities are severely weakened.That night, Peeta gives another interview to Ceasar Flickerman. He looks even more emaciated and abused than before, yet again, he calls out at the rebels to stop the destruction and submit to the Capitol; however, when he notices that Beetee is disrupting the broadcast with Katniss' propaganda film, he suddenly realizes she is still alive, and warns her that Capitol planes are flying towards her location. He is silenced and the broadcast is suddenly interrupted. President Coin orders an evacuation drill. All inhabitants of District 13 are quickly evacuated to the lower levels where they will hopefully be safe from bombings. As several squadrons approach and bombs start falling, Katniss notices that her sister has not come along to the shelter. She gets back to the upper level to find Primrose having returned for her cat. They get back into the shelter just before it locks down, with a long night ahead of them. Meanwhile, Heavensbee urges President Coin to fire back; however, Coin decides to sit the situation out, not yet wanting to reveal to the Capitol that they aren't as defenseless as they may seem.In the shelter, Primrose tells about how she is being trained as a doctor in District 13's hospital. Katniss shares a realization with Finnick that President Snow is using their loved ones as torments against them; Finnick replies that he now sees that Katniss has a deep love for Peeta, something she no longer has to fake as a survival strategy.The next morning, the bombs have stopped and District 13 has survived the attack. President Coin asks Katniss to tape another promotional film outside, to show the Capitol that they are still there. She also says that thanks to Peeta, they had an eight-minute head start which ensured a successful evacuation, something she won't forget. While going outside into a bomb crater, Katniss notices that hundreds of white roses have been dropped into the area. She interprets this as a threat from Snow to kill Peeta, and refuses to do any additional filming. She goes back inside, where Haymitch talks back some courage in her. He also tells her that in recognition of the personal risk that Peeta took, Coin has authorized a rescue mission to the Capitol to save him and the others, with Boggs leading and Gale coming along.Finnick takes Katniss' place in the promotional video, which is used to distract the Capitol's defence network while the rescue team crosses into the city by helicopter, without resistance. He tells the nation that he and other victors of previous Hunger Games were often prostituted to rich Capitol citizens; refusal resulted in the death of loved ones. However, it enabled him to learn many secrets. One of them is that President Snow rules by poison; during his rise to power, Snow systematically killed all those who could oppose him by offering them poisoned drinks, which he himself drank as well in order to not arouse suspicion. He used counter-agents to neutralize the poison, but their effect was incomplete, leaving him with permanent bleeding sores in his mouth; to neutralize the smell, Snow is always surrounded by scented flowers.In the meanwhile, the rescue team has arrived at the Tribute Center. They enter and while making their way to the tributes, they traverse a sophisticated lab that seems to contain several torturing devices. When arriving at Peeta's location, the power to the Capitol is suddenly restored, and Beetee can no longer get into the power grid. Fearing the worst for the rescue team, Katniss wants to make an attempt to distract President Snow. She allows Beetee to connect her to Snow himself, who eventually responds. She tries to convince him that she isn't the Mockingjay everyone claims her to be. It was never her intention to sabotage the Games and incite a rebellion, she just wanted her family and friends to be safe. She even offers to stop and take Peeta's place as prisoner. Snow seems almost sympathetic to her words, but he sees right through her deception. He cryptically remarks that it is the things one cares about that becomes one's downfall. He tells her that he no longer believes this charade of innocence, and makes it very clear that he knows about the current rescue attempt being undertaken. The transmission is cut off immediately; Katniss is devastated, and convinced she is losing both Gale and Peeta.President Coin comforts Katniss as they wait for news. Suddenly, she learns that the rescue team has miraculously returned and was successful. Boggs and Gale have rescued everyone, but they are at a loss to explain why the Capitol allowed them to escape unharmed. Joanna Mason (Jena Malone) is back, apparently mistreated but feisty as ever, while Finnick is reunited with his girlfriend Annie. Katniss is being taken to Peeta, who looks emaciated but is otherwise fine. She tries to hug him, but he suddenly assaults her and chokes her within an inch of her life; Boggs can just barely knock him unconscious.Katniss awakes, badly bruised. Heavensbee tells her that Peeta has been 'hi-jacked': through psychological torture and hallucinatory tracker jacker venom, he has been conditioned to experience nothing but fear and hatred at the sight of Katniss, hoping she would die by his hands as Snow's ultimate revenge. They will start to work on him, but his recovery, if any, will be long and arduous. As Coin announces the successful liberation of the prisoners to the people of District 13, and expresses her hope that the Districts will now unite against their mutual oppressor, Katniss sneaks into the medical facility where Peeta is being treated, and realizes to her horror that he is kept in isolation, completely psychotic and screaming in agony.To be continued......After the end credits, the Mockingjay logo from The Hunger Games appears, turns into the Mockingjay logo from The Hunger Games: Catching fire, and then turns into the Mockingjay logo from The Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part 1..... to finally transform into the free and flying Mockingjay logo in the book.
