An ex-cop is hired by a pimp to find missing call girls and the man responsible behind their abduction.
Orphaned at a young age, former officer with Goa Police, Arjun Vishnu Bhaagwat, now lives alone, though he has a sweetheart in gorgeous model, Priya. Amidst reports of police extending their search for missing prostitutes, specifically the Caucasian daughter of a high-profile Russian Diplomat, Arjun is hired by a gangster, Sameer, and for a fee, must not only locate missing call-girls but also their abductor. Unable to get any clues, he than enlists the assistance of Sameer to recruit a bait, Reshma, who comes from an impoverished family, for the killer. Shortly thereafter Reshma goes missing, and Arjun loses contact with her. Guilt-ridden, he decides to use all possible resources to try and locate her before she herself becomes included in the official 'missing persons' list.
A pimp teams up with suspended cop Arjun when his girls start disappearing.Arjun lays a trap on doubtful customer but realizes that the girl whose fallen prey is very young girl Reshma from a poor family whose in he trade to support her family.Reshma finds that the killer is a psycho eunuch who as killed the disappeared girls.Arjun is hurt as Reshma's life is at risk and wants to save her anyhow which also effects his relationship with Priya as they aren't able to spend time together.Arjun manages to capture the psycho eunuch Dheeraj Pandey who believes in killing prostitutes as message of god.Thou he is in police custody Reshma's whereabouts are unknown.
Arjun Bhagwat (Emraan Hashmi) is a money-hungry ex-police officer involved in crime. An atheist, he regularly visits church to donate money to orphans. Priya (Jacqueline Fernandez), a model, is in a passionate but confused relationship with Arjun. Priya is in love with Arjun, who lusts after her and uses her as a sex toy.Arjun makes a deal with a gangster and pimp, Sameer, in order to solve the mystery of unexplained disappearance of his prostitutes. While investigating, Arjun finds a phone number linked to the missing girls. He tells Sameer to send a prostitute to the number. Sameer decides to send Reshma (Sulagna Panigrahi), a 17-year-old college newcomer in the business, who has entered prostitution to feed her family, though keeps this a secret from them. Reshma is sent to the house of Dheeraj Pandey (Prashant Narayanan), who is actually a psychopathic murderer responsible for torturing and killing the missing hookers. He decides to do the same with Reshma and throws her in a dark well, with the intention of torturing her till she dies.Arjun finds out that Dheeraj is the murderer and tells the police. While Dheeraj is held in jail, the commissioner calls a psychiatrist to extract his confession. Dheeraj tells the doctor that he kills women because he thinks they take advantage of men. He also reveals that he castrated himself and became a eunuch to get rid of his sex addiction, with the help of a fellow eunuch and big-shot politician, Nirmala Pandit. Dheeraj is eventually let out under Nirmala Pandit's influence. Meanwhile, Reshma escapes from the well and tries to find her way out through the forest.Arjun meets Dheeraj's family, who reveal that Dheeraj used to beat his wife. He next meets a private dancer, Sonia, who had also been tortured by Dheeraj, but managed to escape. Arjun then meets an idol-maker who used to work with Dheeraj. The maker tells him that Dheeraj used to make idols of devils instead of deities and killed the factory-owner who tried to stop him. Inspector Sadaa (Sudhanshu Pandey) informs Arjun that Dheeraj is free, and the police try to track him down as quickly as possible. Nirmala and Dheeraj enter the same temple where Reshma is hiding. Nirmala and the priest, who had both been unaware of Dheeraj's true nature, are killed by Dheeraj, but not before the priest reveals that Reshma is there. Dheeraj finds the terrified Reshma and brutally murders her, escaping just before Arjun and the cops arrive. Arjun finds Reshma's body and breaks down, feeling guilty and responsible for her death.Dheeraj targets Priya next whom he calls for a photo shoot and tries to torture, but Arjun saves her, engaging Dheeraj in a fight as police officers show up. They request Arjun not to kill Dheeraj. Dheeraj then plays the tape he recorded when he was torturing Reshma. Hearing Reshma's pleading cries, Arjun, tormented by her death and blaming himself for it, furiously kills Dheeraj, ending his reign of terror once and for all. As the film ends, Arjun visits a church with Priya, implying that he had a faith in God and Priya's near death has made him realize his love for her.
