Human race is at edge of the end. Robot race is at edge of the beginning.
2044. The climate change and a series of solar storms have turned in a desert the surface of the planet and annihilated to the 99.7 % of Earth's population, leaving alive 21 million people across the world in a single city covered by mechanical clouds (zeppelins anchored to the city) to make rain. Trying to rebuild the world again, a robot company named ROC Corporation create Automata Pilgrim 7000 with two security protocols: 1st, a robot cannot harm human beings, and 2nd, a robot cannot alter himself or another robot. But this situation changes when police officer Sean Wallace shoots and destroys a robot claiming that it was altering himself. With the company worried by the possible implications if the case were known by the people, insurance agent Jacq Vaucan is chose to investigate the happened, while Vaucan tries to convince his boss, friend and brother-in-law Robert Bold to transfer him and his pregnant wife Rachel to the coast, with Bold accepting the request if Vaucan solves the case. Going with Wallace to a brothel, they meets a robot in blue wig named Cleo, who is shot by Wallace in the belief that Cleo will go with the mysterious repairman that Vaucan calls The Clocksmith. However, Cleo travels a mechanical workshop property of Dr. Susan Dupré, who informs Vaucan about a terrible possibility: that the robots can alter their second protocol themselves to acquire self awareness, implying a non-human intelligence that easily it should overpass the human brain after a test where she mixed a biocore from the Wallace's shot robot with Cleo's own biocore. Vaucan reports secretly Bold about it, but ROC's chairman intercepts the message. When Dr. Dupré is killed in front of Vaucan by a ROC's squad group, he and Cleo run from the assassins, ending outside the city, lost in the white desert that surrounds the city. Forced to meet ROC's chairman, this reports Bold about the secret of the two protocols: that the Pilgrim 7000's prototype was created without them, and due to its unlimited intelligence and learning, he overcame to its human owners just eight days later. After to escape, all the next Pilgrims were created with the protocols to limit their capacity in order to have them under control. Fearing the extinction of human race if all the Pilgrims evolve beyond the protocols, ROC's chairman blames Vaucan of Dupré's assassination and the alteration of the robots to cover up to the public, and Wallace is hired to find Cleo and Vucan and kill them. According Vaucan, Cleo and three robots more travel across the desert to the forbidden and radioactive zone to meet The Clocksmith, Vaucan will find himself as witness of something that it would change the world as nobody could imagine.
In the future, solar flares make the earths surface radioactive, killing many people. People build robots, the Automatas, to help them rebuild in harsh environments. The robots have two inalterable protocols: the first obliges them to preserve human life; the second limits them from fixing themselves. Jacq works as insurance claim checker for the company that makes the robots, ROC. One day he investigates a report from a cop Wallace who shot a robot claiming it was fixing itself and looked alive. The next day He follows a robot which was stealing parts, and when Jacq find it hiding outside the walls, it intentionally burns itself. He takes the burned robots brain core. Jacqs friend Robert tells him that there might be someone, a clockmaster, who somehow succeeded to alter the second protocol.Jacq shares this with Wallace. He brings him to a place with robots as prostitutes. When Jacq shares that he need to contact a clockmaster, the cop shoots at the hostess robot Cleo, saying it will lure Cleos clockmaster. Jacq meets Cleos clockmaster Dr. Dupre but gets no valuable info, so he leaves the parts he found to her. The next day however, Dupre called Jacq and showed that Cleo began repairing herself after she installed the used core in her. Jacq messages Robert about it, but ROC intercepts it and sends a hit squad to kill them. Dupre dies but Jacq hops into the car as Cleo escapes with it. Jacq wakes up the next morning in the radioactive area with two other robots. They dont obey his command to take him to the city, but the first protocol makes them carry him with them and save him from dehydration.At a canyons cable car station, Jacq meets another robot. After a philosophical talk with him Jacq surrenders a nuclear battery that the robots need. They use it to build an insect-like robot. ROC forces Robert to track Jacq with their henchmen. Unable to find him, they kidnapped Jacqs wife and newborn daughter, and shot Robert as he disagrees with it. Meanwhile, the robots have repaired a truck for Jacq so he can return to the city. But Jacq goes back to the robots place after finding the dying Robert and knowing his family is in danger. The henchmen find the robots place and kill two of them dead and damages Cleo. Jacq arrives and crashes the truck killing two henchmen, but at last hes cornered by the lead henchman Vernon. The insect robot comes and emits a sound that pushes Vernon off the canyon cliff to his death. Jacq reunites with his family and Cleo thanks him.
