After the death of his girlfriend at the hands of terrorists, Mitch Rapp is drawn into the world of counterterrorism, mentored by tough-as-nails former U.S. Navy S.E.A.L. Stan Hurley.
Twenty three-year-old Mitch lost his parents to a tragic car accident at the age of fourteen, and his girlfriend to a terrorist attack just as they were engaged. Seeking revenge, he is enlisted by CIA Deputy Director Irene Kennedy as a black ops recruit. Kennedy then assigns Cold War veteran Stan Hurley to train Mitch. Together they will later on investigate a wave of apparently random attacks on military and civilian targets. The discovery of a pattern in the violence leads them to a joint mission with a lethal Turkish agent to stop a mysterious operative intent on starting a world war in the Middle East.
Mitch Rapp and his girlfriend Katrina Harper are on vacation in Ibiza, Spain. Moments after Katrina accepts Mitch's proposal of marriage, a jihadist cell lands on the beach and begins to attack the civilians with assault rifles. Amid the carnage, Rapp frantically attempts to find Katrina, but his fiancee is killed by the terrorists. Eighteen months later, Rapp, now consumed by his desire for vengeance, frequents an internet message board where the terrorist responsible for his girlfriend's murder quizzes Rapp on aspects of Islam and jihad. Having secured an invitation to meet him face to face in Libya, Rapp prepares to take his vengeance on the man responsible for his girlfriend's death, but before he can kill the terrorist, the cell is suddenly ambushed by U.S. Special Forces. Upset over the perception that he has been denied his vengeance, Rapp repeatedly stabs the terrorist he was after, who is already dead from the ambush, before being dragged out by the U.S. forces..
Black ops recruit Mitch Rapp is reeling from the death of his fiancée in a terrorist attack when he is assigned to shadowy CIA figure Stan Hurley to receive special training in tracking terrorists. Rapp and Hurley are then dispatched to join a Turkish agent on a mission to stop a mysterious operative from unleashing chaos of international proportions.
While vacationing in Spain, Mitch Rapp (played by Dylan O'Brien) proposes to his girlfriend. She accepts but a few minutes later a jihadist cell lands and slaughters all tourists. The purpose was to make Americans see how it feels to have your loved ones killed. Mitch's fiancee is one of the dead but Mitch escapes. The attack had the opposite effect: Mitch wants to hunt down and kill those responsible.Mitch physically trains to be ready for the confrontation. Unknown to him, the government is impressed with his training. CIA agent Irene Kennedy (Sanaa Lathan) recruits him for a 'black ops' team and sends him to Dan Hurley (Michael Keaton), a former Navy Seal for further training.World events are moving faster than expected so Dan takes Mitch to Istanbul. In Turkey they meet with CIA agent Annika (Shiva Negar). Mitch and Annika pretend to be newlyweds in order to cover their real mission: prevent jihadist construction of a nuclear bomb. Things don't go according to plan but Mitch improvises. Mitch disobeys direct orders but his improvisation works.Further complicating this, Ghost (Taylor Kitsch) now a mercenary but a former member of Dan's group is working for the bad guys. In another plot twist, Annika is working with the Iranian government. Too many things go wrong - the operation is now joint CIA and Mossad (Israel intelligence). The final chase scene ends with the bomb headed for a navy fleet.Mitch throws the bomb overboard and detonates deep in the ocean. In the aftermath, an Iranian military man blames the problems of his country on the U. S. which he promises to eliminate. He then gets on board an elevator. Standing behind him is Mitch - the American Assassin.
