A young boy helps his father and grandfather harvest stars from the moon.
A fable of a young boy who is coming of age in the most peculiar of circumstances. Tonight is the very first time his Papa and Grandpa are taking him to work. In an old wooden boat, thats called "la luna" ,they row far out to sea, and with no land in sight, they stop and wait. A big surprise awaits the little boy as he discovers his family's most unusual line of work. Should he follow the example of his Papa, or his Grandpa? Will he be able to find his own way in the midst of their conflicting opinions and timeworn traditions?
A young boy (Bambino) is in a boat named La Luna (the moon) with his father and grand father. All three have caps on and since the two elders wear them differently, they both place Bambino's (Bam's) hat on his head to match their own. Then as a full moon rises, grandpa gives Bam an anchor and his dad pulls out a long ladder. Bam is sent up to the top with the anchor and throws it to the moon. The anchor takes him all the way to the moon's surface. Bam soon discovers that the moon's light comes from millions of small stars. As a new one lands on the moon's surface, his dad and grandpa pull themselves up to the moon. As they start to sweep the stars into a pile, a gigantic star lands, and pierce' s the surface. The two elders try to lift the huge star to no avail. Then, Bambino gets a small hammer and climbs to the top of the star and taps it. Suddenly the big star breaks up into little stars &amp; Bambino lands safely. All three get to work and finish sweeping the stars into a pile and the return to the boat. Before they row away, Bambino is praised by both for his innovation. As the boat rows back to their home, a bright crescent moon is shown in the sky above.
On his first-ever night working with his father and grandfather, young Bambino is excited, as both Papà and Nonno, are going to show him the ropes. So, without delay, off they go in the middle of the night on their small wooden boat, rowing as far as the eye can see, until they reach where the full moon almost touches the sea. There is a lot of work to be done tonight, but first, Bambino needs to make an important decision: will he be forever under the shadow of his family?
A young boy (Bambino) is in a boat named La Luna (the moon) with his father and grand father. All 3 have caps on and since the two elders wear them differently, they both place Bambino's (Bam) hat on his head to match their own. Then as a full moon rises, grandpa gives Bam an anchor and his dad pulls out a long ladder. Bam is sent up to the top with the anchor and throws it to the moon. The anchor takes him all the way to the moon's surface. Bam soon discovers that the moon's light comes from millions of small stars. As a new one lands on the moon's surface, his dad and grandpa pull themselves up to the moon. As they star to sweep the stars into a pile, a gigantic star lands, and pieces the surface. The two elders try to lift the huge star to now avail. Then, Bambino gets a small hammer and climbs to the top of the star and taps it. Suddenly the big star breaks up into little stars Bambino lands safely. All three get to work and finish sweeping the stars into a pile and the return to the boat. Before they row away, Bambino is praised by both for his innovation. As the boat rows back to their home, a bright crescent moon is shown in the sky above.
