In Tel Aviv, six friends who are appalled by the Israeli entry in the UniverSong competition record their own song on a mobile phone, then are shocked to learn their recording is selected as Israel's entry for next year's competition.
When a group of best friends in Tel Aviv gather to watch 'UniverSong', they are less than impressed by the official Israeli entry. Believing that they can do better, they spontaneously create and record their own song on a mobile phone. Little do they know, their performance is seen by the 'UniverSong' judges and soon they are reluctantly thrown into the spotlight as Israel's next official entry. After initial reservations about their new found celebrity status, they decide to just go for it and find themselves on the road to international stardom. They embark on a flamboyant journey that brings about hilarious end results as they go head to head with the Russian entry in the 'UniverSong' final. From director Eytan Fox comes this extravagant and unashamedly entertaining Eurovision parody featuring a feel-good soundtrack provided by Babydaddy from the Scissor Sisters. With bright styling, irresistibly catchy tunes and a gloriously uplifting storyline, this laugh-out-loud comedy is a refreshing ode to music, friendship and romance.
As light and tasty as its title suggests, the latest from Eytan Foxs (Yossi &amp; Jagger; Walk on Water) is a charming comedy which takes a Eurovision-style song contest as a jumping-off point for a sweet and unabashedly nostalgic evocation of a time when, as one character puts it, "you borrowed a cup of sugar from your neighbor and stayed for coffee."??In contemporary Tel Aviv, six diverse friends gay, straight, successful, not so successful gather to watch the Universong competition. Like most viewers, they are appalled by the winning song, and taking the trials of one of their group whose marriage is splitting up as a subject, they jokingly compose "A Song for Anat" (actually the work of Babydaddy, from Scissor Sisters). They are as surprised as anyone when it is chosen as Israels entry for next years competition. (Source: psfilmfest.org)
