1921. An innocent immigrant woman is tricked into a life of burlesque and vaudeville until a dazzling magician tries to save her and reunite her with her sister who is being held in the confines of Ellis Island.
1921. In search of a new start and the American dream, Ewa Cybulska and her sister Magda sail to New York from their native Poland. When they reach Ellis Island, doctors discover that Magda is ill, and the two women are separated. Ewa is released onto the mean streets of Manhattan while her sister is quarantined. Alone, with nowhere to turn and desperate to reunite with Magda, she quickly falls prey to Bruno, a charming but wicked man who takes her in and forces her into prostitution. And then one day, Ewa encounters Bruno's cousin, the debonair magician Orlando. He sweeps Ewa off her feet and quickly becomes her only chance to escape the nightmare in which she finds herself.
In 1921, Ewa Cybulska and her sister Magda arrive from Poland at Ellis Island, full of guarded optimism. But things go wrong immediately: doctors quarantine Magda, and Ewa discovers that she has been branded a "woman of low moral standing" during passage. Scheduled for a deportation hearing, she is rescued by the enigmatic and hot-tempered Bruno Weiss, who seems to have questionable connections with the immigration authorities. Bruno can secure Magda's release, and Ewa is so desperate to earn the money to do so that she reluctantly assents to join Bruno's stable of prostitutes... even as Bruno seems to be falling for her. Things are complicated further when Bruno's cousin Emil, aka "Orlando the Magician," meets Ewa and is instantly smitten. But with the suffering Ewa at the center, this will be no ordinary love triangle.
The year is 1921. Polish sisters Ewa (Marion Cotillard) and Magda Cybulski (Angela Sarafyan) are seeking a brighter future when they board a boat bound for New York City. Upon arriving on Ellis Island, however, Magda is placed in quarantine after receiving a grim and unexpected medical diagnosis. A stranger in a strange land, Ewa falls under the spell of the malevolent Bruno (Joaquin Phoenix), who forces her into prostitution. Yet a ray of hope soon comes in the form of Bruno's cousin Orlando (Jeremy Renner), a suave magician whose romantic interests in Ewa may be her ticket to a life worth living..

