Skipper, Kowalski, Rico and Private join forces with undercover organization The North Wind to stop the villainous Dr. Octavius Brine from destroying the world as we know it.
Super spy teams aren't born - they're hatched. Discover the secrets of the greatest and most hilarious covert birds in the global espionage biz: Skipper, Kowalski, Rico and Private. These elitists of the elite are joining forces with a chic undercover organization, The North Wind. Led by handsome Eurasian wolf Agent Classified (we could tell you his name, but then - you know). Together, they must stop the villainous Dr. Octavius Brine, from destroying the world as we know it.
The penguins from Madagascar get their own film in this DreamWorks Animation production. When a villainous octopus named Dave (voice of John Malkovich) hatches a plan to eliminate the penguins, Skipper (voice of Tom McGrath), Kowalski (voice of Chris Miller), Rico (John DiMaggio) and Private (Christopher Knights) must team with a clandestine animal organization known as North Wind to thwart the diabolical plan..
Following the events in Madagascar 3: Europe's Most Wanted (2012) and after a botched attempt to break into Fort Knox, the resourceful Antarctic friends--Skipper, Kowalski, Rico, and Private--find themselves in the middle of a well-planned conspiracy. It seems that the slimy geneticist, Dr Octavius Brine, has come up with a devious plan to outshine penguins everywhere, and only the elite undercover force known as the North Wind and its leader, Agent Classified, can save the day. Will the fearless interspecies team thwart the mad scientist's plans?
In the Penguins of Madagascar, audiences will discover the secrets of the most entertainingly mysterious birds in the global espionage game. Skipper, Kowalski, Rico and Private now must join forces with the chic spy organization, the North Wind, led by Agent Classified (we could tell you his name, but then you know) to stop the cunning villain Dr. Octavius Brine from taking over the world.
