In a world where animals have turned on humanity, a teen travels across the country in search of the girl of his dreams.
Teenage pizza delivery boy Wolf, and his friend Jake deliver pizzas to a party that several of their classmates are attending. They discover that their car is broken down, and are forced to spend the night at the house. Wolf is met by his former girlfriend Samantha, who had recently moved away, and is back for her cousin's birthday party. They have sex before Wolf fixes the car, and awakens next morning to find Samantha missing, and party goer Melissa being stared down by a deer. She goes outside to pet it, although it bites her hand off. Wolf kills the deer before the two head back inside with the other party goers.As more deer begin attacking the house, the remaining party goers, among them Jake, gather in a backroom. The deer attempt to break in, and everybody is killed with the exception of Wolf, Jake, and party goer Rachel. The three leave in Wolf's car, and hear over the radio that animals all over the world have turned against humans. Wolf finds Samantha's phone, and listens to a voicemail on it that explains that she was picked up by a friend, although the phone dies before he can listen to the rest of the voicemail. They drive to the neighborhood where Wolf, and Rachel live in an attempt to find a phone charger for Samantha's phone, where Wolf meets up with his grumpy old grandfather, whom he lives with. Angry at Wolf for not coming home the night before, Wolf's grandfather makes an attempt to prevent the trio from leaving by trying to shoot out the car's tires, in the process killing a police officer. Several other police officers then shoot, and kill him as a result.With the phone charging, Wolf listens to the rest of the voicemail, in which Samantha states that she's staying at a friend's farmhouse. She lists the address in the voicemail, and they go to rescue her. Along the way, Rachel kills a horse while doing her business in the woods, and a gorilla attacks them while they're driving, although they manage to fend it off. Wolf, Rachel, and Jake later fall asleep while they're driving, and crash the car. They spend the night in the car, during which Rachel discovers that Samantha was cheating on Wolf with another man named Brian. However, she doesn't tell Wolf.The next morning, the trio attempts to walk to the farmhouse, although are forced to cross a river. They find a canoe with a dead fisherman, and his son in it, and take it downriver. Wolf manages to call Samantha, and Samantha reveals to Wolf about her cheating. A group of turtles attack the boat, resulting in Wolf losing the phone, and Jake being knocked overboard, where he is eaten by a crocodile. Wolf, and Rachel continue on land, and eventually reach the farmhouse. Rachel is then shot by Brian, and knocked unconscious, having mistaken her for an animal. It is revealed that Brian's grandfather owns the farmhouse, and Samantha, and Brian are engaged. A bear then arrives, and eats Brian, and Samantha before Rachel decapitates it with a sword. Wolf, and Rachel then kiss before hot wiring a car in order to escape. They then hear on the radio that hundreds of nuclear strikes are being planned, and decide to head down to Florida.
