A group of Russian soldiers fight to hold a strategic building in their devastated city against a ruthless German army, and in the process become deeply connected to two Russian women who have been living there.
Stalingrad has become hell and paradise for those who were worthy of awards, but the only reward they managed to get was love. How they won, and how they were not defeated, who they were and who was on the other side of the street, what secret they have taken away with them - the movie will tell this story.
The plot is based on "a dramatic love story against the backdrop of a grand battle". The action takes place in 1942 when the German troops occupied the bank of the Volga river. Having failed while attempting to cross the Volga and launch a counter-offensive on the German army, the Soviet troops were forced to retreat. However, a few soldiers managed to get to the shore of the enemy. They remain in the minority, and hide in a coastal house, where they met a girl. The Germans occupied her home, and she did not have time to leave the front line. Against the backdrop of the most bloody battle in the mankind history develops a love story, and from that moment the soldiers have to protect this girl at any cost.
In the present day, a Russian rescue team is saving lives in Japan after a tsunami. They find survivors and their leader calms a youngster down by telling the story of his five fathers. In 1942, a group of Russian soldiers holds a strategic building in Stalingrad against the German troops to protect the Volga River for the crossing of their comrades. They meet the seventeen year-old teenager Katya and she becomes the pride and joy of the band. Meqnshile, the German Captan Koln falls in love with the Russian Masha, who resembles his deceased wife. But love in time of war may be tragic.
This Russian film is mis understood because of its grand title,its much more, though not in a violent sense.Yes, it has scenes of bloody action,what film about urban warfare wouldnt ? However at its heart,its a film of rebirth in violent times,what could be more topical today?
Beginning in the turmoil of the Fukushima disaster, a Russian rescue team is trying to save some trapped young German girls in whats left of a buildings rubble.Therein starts a flashback retelling of a band of Russian soldiers and a girl mixed in with a German officer and his forced young Russian girl lover,both squaring off over a building in rubble.Ah symmetry and could be corny right ? WRONG !!! Perhaps its being forced to read those subtitles,it is in Russian spoken word,that invests you in the story.It brings to mind two other films,Enemy at the gates,and Miracle at St. Anna,however a far more intense experience for me.
Not wanting to tell much more,it is a rich emotional portrait of simple lives in the middle of all encompassing war.If you just want bang for your buck,you might be disappointed as there are films with more mindless violence BUT if you a story of hope in the middle of despair THEN enjoy.
