Railroad owner Dagny Taggart and steel mogul Henry Rearden search desperately for the inventor of a revolutionary motor as the U.S. government continues to spread its control over the national economy.
The global economy is on the brink of collapse. Unemployment tops 24%. Gas is $42 per gallon. Railroads are the main transportation. Brilliant creators, from artists to industrialists, are mysteriously disappearing. Dagny Taggart, COO of Taggart Transcontinental, has discovered an answer to the mounting energy crisis - a prototype of a motor that draws energy from static electricity. But, until she finds its creator, it's useless. It's a race against time. And someone is watching.
It's 2018: the global economy is on the brink of collapse; unemployment has risen to 24%; gas prices have risen to $42 per gallon, which results in rail becoming the nation's primary means of transportation. The consequences of oil entrepreneur Ellis Wyatt's earlier disappearance is a severe national oil shortage. And the government, led by the State Science Institute's Dr. Robert Stadler, is incapable of duplicating Wyatt's ability to produce oil. Dagny Taggart, Vice President in Charge of Operations for Taggart Transcontinental, is shouldering the burden of the nation's crisis. In spite of decreasing profits and increasing government regulations, she struggles to keep her family's railroad alive and the economy moving. But her brother and CEO, James Taggart, stands in her way at every turn, siding with Washington and its cronies. Unbeknownst to society's looters, Dagny uncovers what may very well be the solution to the energy crisis. Deep in the ruins of a once productive factory, Dagny finds a revolutionary motor that could seemingly power the entire World, let alone the struggling nation. But the motor is dead and no explanation of its design can be found. But Dagny faces an even bigger mystery: why are all the country's greatest minds vanishing when the world needs them most? Why, when Dagny reaches out to these important creators, industrialists, and entrepreneurs, are they refusing to offer any explanation? And why is Francisco D'Anconia, Dagny's oldest friend, delivering cryptic messages and purposefully driving his centuries old family business into the ground? The answers to these questions are in a choice. And as Dagny races across the country to find the inventor of the motor -- the one person she believes to be the antidote to her enemies' tactics -- she will discover that the choice is hers. When the motor of the world is slowing to a halt, what is she supposed to do? Who is John Galt?
Dagny Taggart pilots an airplane in pursuit of another plane. Dagny asks herself, "Who is John Galt?" before apparently crashing into a mountainside. Nine months earlier, Dagny is trying to understand the abandoned prototype of an advanced motor she and her lover Hank Rearden have found. Scientists across the country have been disappearing under mysterious circumstances, but Dagny is able to locate Quentin Daniels, who agrees to help from an abandoned laboratory in Utah. Dagny's brother James Taggart, president of the family railroad company, meets store clerk Cherryl Brooks and brings her to see a renowned pianist, who disappears during his performance, leaving a note asking, "Who is John Galt?" Later, at James and Cherryl's wedding, Dagny's friend Francisco d'Anconia argues with other guests about whether money is evil, and secretly informs Rearden about devastating explosions at his copper mine-the next day. Rearden spends the night with Dagny. Later, he is confronted about the affair by his wife Lillian, but when he offers a divorce she declines, in order to maintain her position in society.

