A male stripper teaches a younger performer how to party, pick up women, and make easy money.
Mike Lane is a thirty-year old living in Tampa, Florida. By day he works as a roofer while at night, as Magic Mike, he is the star attraction of the Kings of Tampa, a group of male strippers. Secretly he wants out in order to further a projected furniture-making business but his credit rating precludes a bank loan for this despite his considerable savings. One night Adam, a teen-aged work-mate of Mike, follows him to the club and, when one of the acts is unable to go on, he is prevailed upon to strip - becoming a huge hit. However success goes to his head and his foolish actions not only threaten to jeopardize his sister Brooke's relationship with Mike but Mike's ambitions as well.
Tampa based Mike Lane has long worked several jobs to reach his life goals. Of those jobs, he would like solely to design and build custom furniture, his dream to start his own business doing so. But the job that pays the biggest bills is that of stripper, he now the star attraction among the stable of men working at Xquisite, a male strip club owned and operated by Dallas, a former male stripper himself who has his own dreams of a having a strip club empire. Mike has no issue with the stripping job, but knows he can only do it for so long. At one of his other jobs in construction, Mike meets naive nineteen year old Adam, who is looking for his own place in life as he, at the start of his adult life, is currently living with his protective sister Brooke, on whose couch he sleeps. Mike introduces Adam to the life of stripping, initially much to Brooke's chagrin, although Mike promises her and him that he will be Adam's protector in this life. Although slow to warm to the idea, Adam, also with Dallas' support, eventually becomes enamored with all that comes with the job, from the good to the bad to the very bad. Mike, Adam, Brooke and Dallas' lives play out against this backdrop as they strive for their own individual goals, sometimes at the expense of others, while they watch out for the ones they love.
When your life is a fantasy, how do you deal with reality?As a male stripper, Magic Mike (Channing Tatum) has everything he could ever want parties that last all night, hot girls and superfluous money. He takes a younger performer under his wing, teaching him the ropes on how to be the best. As he keeps at the top of the game in the clubs, Mike struggles with trying to develop a relationship with a girl he really likes. Will he have to choose between his dream world and real life?The dramatic comedy screenplay was inspired by Tatum's work as a 19-year-old stripper before he made it in Hollywood.
