In a post-apocalyptic future, a biological warfare program gone wrong leaves only four survivors defending themselves from "the infected" - mindless killers. As they struggle to survive and make sense of what is happening, they find another survivor, intent on revealing the truth.
The movie is a post-apocalyptic horror/science fiction film. the setting is in a near post apocalyptic future where a biological warfare program goes wrong, and turns most of humanity to mindless, murderous creatures (hence forth - "infected"). There are five characters, which are still uninfected, trying to survive constant attacks by the infected. each one of them represents in some way a different aspect of human existence, a different world-view, but most important, a different moral view about the world and his/her place in it - The Colonel - A professional soldier. represents the political-military-economic establishment, which sees life as a constant violent struggle for power and resources. The Doctor - Represents a commitment to love, justice and non-violent struggle against all wrong. The Wizard - A young man, an inventor and an autodidact scientist, who looks at life as a puzzle to be solved. he strives to discover, understand and invent, with no thought as to the consequences. The Daughter - A simple girl with simple ambitions - sailing through life enjoying every comfort, while ignoring or unaware of bigger and more profound issues. The Mouser - A murderer and rapist, evil in the most banal aspect of the word. The plot takes place during their last six days. all along, as the characters evolve, they listen to a daily radio program dealing with the extinction of the dinosaurs, finding correlating themes to their own situation. as the protagonists move and try to survive, and as their world views and correlations to the situation are gradually reveled, the following themes are explored: the essence of evil, the boundaries of moral responsibility, species (and humankind) extinction, love, grace, euthanasia and more.
The movie is a post-apocalyptic horror/science fiction film. the setting is in a near post apocalyptic future where a biological warfare program goes wrong, and turns most of humanity to mindless, murderous creatures (hence forth - "infected"). There are five characters, which are still uninfected, trying to survive constant attacks by the infected. each one of them represents in some way a different aspect of human existence, a different world-view, but most important, a different moral view about the world and his/her place in it - The Colonel - A professional soldier. represents the political-military-economic establishment, which sees life as a constant violent struggle for power and resources. The Doctor - Represents a commitment to love, justice and non-violent struggle against all wrong. The Wizard - A young man, an inventor and an autodidact scientist, who looks at life as a puzzle to be solved. he strives to discover, understand and invent, with no thought as to the consequences. The Daughter - A simple girl with simple ambitions - sailing through life enjoying every comfort, while ignoring or unaware of bigger and more profound issues. The Mouser - A murderer and rapist, evil in the most banal aspect of the word. The plot takes place during their last six days, a clear analogy to the six days of creation. all along, as the characters evolve, they listen to a daily radio program dealing with the extinction of the dinosaurs, finding correlating themes to their own situation. as the protagonists move and try to survive, and as their world views and correlations to the situation are gradually reveled, the following themes are explored: the essence of evil, the boundaries of moral responsibility, species (and humankind) extinction, love, grace, euthanasia and more.

