A family gathers for a happy reunion and marriage announcement on Christmas Day at an isolated mansion in the Philippine mountains only to encounter a series of bizarre, demonic, and tragic events.
"Darkest Night" has its roots in horror styles and moods from many eastern and western traditions. Filmed in a "found video and documentary" style, "Darkest Night" depicts a family holiday reunion at an isolated home in the Sagada Mountains. The family's celebration is shattered by bizarre, supernatural and tragic terrors no one can explain. This film is a psychological horror story with intense family drama, suspense, action and shock.
The film is presented as a part-documentary by a TV announcer, Danny Valencia, from "found videotape" he discovered at the site of a 2003 tragedy in the Philippine Sagada Mountains. There are a few interview scenes at the beginning, but most of the film is the main story. On December 25, 2003, an upscale Filipino family gathers at a remote place in the mountains, some distance from any town, for a Christmas Day reunion dinner. Their holiday is disrupted by a series of bizarre, supernatural, and deadly events. The group is cut off from civilization and plunged into darkness by forces that defy natural laws and shut down all modern technology. One by one, the family members die or disappear in weird and horrific ways. The few who are left, including the main character Susan, struggle for survival and against family conflicts, to find out what is happening to them and how to survive. Finally they discover to their own shock, who their true tormentor is, as well as how and why these terrible things are happening. Is it too late to keep the rest of them from dying? Is the fate that awaits them even worse than death or hell? Does a mystical book they find hold the key to controlling the dark forces that threaten to unleash ghosts and demons of an evil past? And finally, can they trust each other, or even themselves to contain the fears that threaten to destroy them? Suspense and mystery keep you unsettled and guessing till the very end, when the fate and outcome of all is finally revealed.
Filmed in a "found video and mock-documentary" style, Darkest Night depicts a family holiday reunion at an isolated home in the Philippine Sagada Mountains. The family's happy time is shattered by bizarre, supernatural and tragic horrors no one can explain. Their house is cut off from civilization and plunged into darkness by forces that shut down much of modern technology. Strange events rapidly spread fear and panic. The area becomes totally isolated.Then, one by one, the family members die or disappear in weird and terrifying ways, defying natural laws. The few who are left, including the main characters, young Susan and her fiancé Ken, struggle for survival amid family conflicts and dark terrors. They must find out what is happening to them so they can escape this deadly trap.Shocked, they finally they discover who their true tormentor is, as well as how and why these terrible things are happening. Is it too late to keep the rest of them from dying? Is the fate that awaits them even worse than death or hell? A mystical book they find seems to hold the key to controlling unseen dark forces that threaten to unleash ghosts from an evil past.In the end, survival depends on Susan and Ken. Can they trust each other, or even themselves, to contain the fears that threaten to destroy them? Suspense and mystery keep you unsettled and guessing till the very end, when they uncover and confront their real enemy.This film is a psychological horror story with intense family drama, suspense, action and terror. It contains a minimum of gore, violence or graphic special effects. There are no cliché or oft-used thrill gimmicks. The viewer is led step by step into a dark, demonic world of sinister and fantastical events, where the familiar meets the supernatural, and your most cherished loved one could be your mortal enemy.On the surface, Darkest Night is an entertaining and truly scary thriller, in the best traditions of Asian and American horror films. However, for those who want to probe deeper, the story has multiple layers of dramatic family conflicts, character motivation and thematic depth. The film also provides insightful commentary on modern society and technology, as well as how their elements have a corrupting influence on family relationships.Darkest Night reveals the darkest side of family "togetherness." Even the most outwardly happy of modern families can hide painful and twisted emotions. The sins of one good-intentioned relative can damn and destroy an entire family.
