A thriller centered on a con artist, his wife, and a stranger who flee Athens after one of them is caught up in the death of a private detective.
1962. A glamorous American couple, the charismatic Chester MacFarland (Mortensen) and his alluring younger wife Colette (Dunst), arrive in Athens by boat via the Corinth Canal. While sightseeing at the Acropolis they encounter Rydal (Isaac), a young, Greek-speaking American who is working as a tour guide, scamming tourists on the side. Drawn to Colette's beauty and impressed by Chester's wealth and sophistication, Rydal gladly accepts their invitation to dinner. However, all is not as it seems with the MacFarlands and Chester's affable exterior hides darker secrets. When Rydal visits the couple at their exclusive hotel, Chester presses him to help move the body of a seemingly unconscious man who he claims attacked him. In the moment, Rydal agrees but as events take a more sinister turn he finds himself compromised and unable to pull himself free. His increasing infatuation with the vulnerable and responsive Colette gives rise to Chester's jealousy and paranoia, leading to a tense and dangerous battle of wits between the two men.
Adventurer Rydal, Stanford-graduated rebel son of an archaeology professor, earns his living as Greek-speaking guide to foreign tourist with some side scams using his charms. In 1962 his latest arks are cynical US businessman Chester MacFarland and his foxy wife Colette, who has an instant crush on handsome Rydal, and vice-versa. Returning to their hotel a bracelet she probably left in the taxi as an excuse, Rydal bumps into Chester disposing of the corpse of Paul Vittorio , the Yankee P.E. sent by his mobster clients to recuperate the fortune he lost with incompetent 'safe investments', an agrees to help them escape, without 'worrying' Colette', even after learning the creep didn't faint but was killed in a fight. Trough a friend he arranges for fake passports to be delivered in Crete, where she becomes his mistress after learning the truth and jealous Chester leaves Rydal unconscious near the accidentally death-fallen Collette. Both escape from Greece as involuntary allies but the truth catches up, with the police, in Istanbul.
In early-1960s Greece, during a visit to the eternal ruins of the Athenian Acropolis, the sophisticated couple of the affluent holidaymaker, Chester MacFarland, and his elegant young wife, Colette, have a chance encounter with the streetwise American tour guide, Rydal. Yearning for MacFarland's comfortable lifestyle, the petty conman accepts the fashionable couple's generous invitation to dinner; however, Chester's murky past comes back to haunt him, and, suddenly, the mysterious death of a prying private investigator binds them together. Now, Chester has no other option but to trust Rydal, as a dangerous cat-and-mouse game leads them to Istanbul. Can Rydal trust either of the cryptic MacFarlands?

