A quietly frustrated woman finds her life changed by a secret admirer sending letters bearing lavish gifts and increasingly strange instructions.
In Toronto, Nicole is feeling depressed with her pharmacist job with an overbearing boss and her family life is a mess. In that gloom, Nicole starts receiving letters from a secret admirer bearing sympathy, gifts and instructions if she still wants the correspondence. Intrigued, she follows the directions and they invigorate her even as the letters become more bizarre. Eventually, Nicole figures out her admirer's identity and things take a disturbing turn with a difficult plea. Now, Nicole must decide how willing is she to fulfill it and whether there is more to this situation than it appears.
Forty-one year old Toronto area pharmacist Nicole Trestman receives at her home a hand delivered letter - signed only from "a friend" - that seems to tap into her innermost feelings. She is completely dissatisfied with her life, from the micromanagement of her by-the-books boss Stu, to the neglect of her actuary husband Michael due to his workaholic nature, to the treatment by her teen-aged children Kat and Josh of her solely as their cook and chauffeur. The letter writer implies that he/she can help her, in return for helping the letter writer on his/her current unspecified journey. Intrigued, Nicole decides to follow the instructions in the letter for further anonymous contact. Subsequent correspondence from the writer includes extravagant gifts of a personal nature specific to Nicole - but which somewhat indicate that the letter writer has no intention of breaking up her marriage - as well as gifts that seemingly break Nicole out of her shell. As Nicole embarks on this journey while trying to figure out who her letter writer is, her own family life changes for the good and bad. She is also asked to do things by the letter writer that places her on the giving end of that pseudo-stalking that she herself is currently facing by the letter writer. Nicole has to decide if she will see this journey to whatever the letter writer's intended conclusion, especially as it has the potential to break up her marriage, and as that end point becomes clearer and clearer.

