A pair of former high school sweethearts reunite after many years when they return to visit their small hometown.
Amanda and Dawson are soul mates who met as teens and were from different backgrounds. But circumstances would force them to part ways. 20 years later they are brought back together by the passing of a mutual friend. So they go back home to fulfill his final wishes and they run into each other. While Amanda is married, albeit unhappily, she still has feelings for Dawson but can't forgive him for pushing her away.
Based on one of many Nicholas Sparks novels, "The best of me" is the story of two high school lovers Amanda and Dawson. They both are separated by life but after 20 years destiny brings them back together and gives them a chance to revive their feelings for each other.
After an accident Dawson gets a call saying that an old friend had died. When he go's back to his home town to hear the reading of the will he sees his high school love, Amanda. Something rekindles the flame they once had but something is holding Amanda back.
After 21 years, high school sweethearts Dawson and Amanda run into each other when they're both called to hear the will of a mutual friend who has passed. With Amanda now married and Dawson not sure his purpose in life, the two are distant until they realize that their feelings have not changed over the past 21 years. As soon as they rekindle their love for each other, they are pulled apart once again and tragedy strikes, drawing them apart yet also closer than ever before.
Approaching forty, Dawson Cole, a Gulf coast oil rig worker who miraculously survived a recent explosion on the rig on which he was working, and Amanda Reynolds née Collier, a housewife and mother, were high school sweethearts, they having gotten together in their senior year. Their relationship was despite the differences in their social standing, Amanda coming from an upper middle class family, and Dawson being from the backwoods, he who was physically and emotionally abused by his drug running father, Tommy Cole. After not seeing each other for twenty-one years, Dawson and Amanda are reunited in returning to their small Louisiana hometown upon the death of their mutual friend, mechanic Tuck Hostetler, at age ninety-two, he who was the father that Dawson never really had. It was due to tragic circumstances that Dawson and Amanda never stayed together past their senior year, and as such there are unresolved emotions each has about their relationship. However, them getting back together has many obstacles, most specifically in overcoming the tragedies that led to their separation, and Amanda's current marital status. Regardless of Dawson, Amanda may have already potentially left her husband, Frank Reynolds, due to his drinking and non-supportive nature, if it wasn't for their son, Jared Reynolds, who is just graduating from high school. In marrying Frank, Amanda never completed her post-secondary schooling, her dream at the time to become a lawyer. But in returning to their hometown, Dawson may be most affected by his unsavory past, which may come back to haunt him.

