Shy, sensitive gymnasium (high school)-outsider Jakob Moormann is miserably lacking immaterial support at home, where his strict father, uniformed cop Claas, and selfish mother are too busy breaking up to be there for him. Jakob focuses on class dream-girl Hannah, without much luck. His secret recording of himself masturbating gets into class bullies Henry and Erik's hands through the mother's thoughtlessness. The rascals blackmail Jakob and post the video on Internet. After a raging lecture phase, dad stands up for Jakob, but his life is already wrecked more than anyone realizes.
Jakob is a normal teenager who is dealing with a lot: his parents are on the verge of divorce and he is trying to work up the courage to get to know Hannah, a girl he likes. There is a group of boys at school who are generally somewhat thuggish - play fighting and making trouble in class. He makes a video of himself masturbating and talking to Hannah with a handheld camera. When he is not home, his mother loans the camera to his friend, without realizing that Jakob's "homevideos" are on the media card. His friend shares the videos with Henry, the "ringleader" of the gang of mini-thugs. Henry posts them online for all at school to see. Jakob and his family have to deal with the fallout. His parents separate, and have a hard time not fighting constantly. They are in part initially unable to realize the seriousness of the event or help Jakob because of their strained relationship. Jakob confronts the boys at school about posting the videos, and they just laugh at him. He ends up fighting with one of the boys and hitting a teacher who tries to break up the fight. He is expelled from school. Hannah's parents complain to the school that he has "molested" their daughter in these videos. Jakob's parents find him a new school that looks promising, but then it appears a kid there also already knows about these videos. Hannah comes to see Jakob again and all looks well, until they kiss and he becomes aggressive with her and she runs away, frightened. Desperate and feeling alone, Jakob takes his own life.
