Jim Moriarty hatches a mad scheme to turn the whole city against Sherlock.
Moriarty comes close to stealing the Crown Jewels to prove it might be done but allows himself to be caught. Sherlock gives evidence at the trial where Moriarty has scared the jury into acquitting him and later visits Sherlock, camply taunting him with his superior computer skills, seemingly capable of any crime. Sherlock rescues two children abducted by his enemy, but his brilliantly accurate deductions, leading police to believe he may have been an accomplice in the kidnapping, get him arrested, going on the run with John. After a further encounter with Moriarty, who has persuaded a journalist to publish that he is an innocent actor paid by Sherlock to masquerade as his enemy for Sherlock's own glory, the two meet atop a very high building.
Sherlock has developed something of a public profile having successfully recovered two kidnapped children. A tabloid journalist is after him and makes it quite plain that she can either be a friend or a foe. Sherlock soon realizes that he is up against his old foe, the master criminal Moriarty, who assists others in the criminal underworld in planning their crimes. Moriarty soon has him in the frame, with the police believing not only that Moriarty is a figment of Sherlock's imagination but that it's Holmes who is the real criminal mastermind. With Moriarty having turned his world inside out, Holmes decides that there is only one course of action left open to him.
Sherlock Holmes' nemesis, Jim Moriarty, is in the news again. He has just managed to access the Crown Jewels, stored in the Tower of London, open the vault of the Bank of England and open a prison, simultaneously. He is arrested, wearing the Crown Jewels, and doesn't managed to achieve anything financially from the endeavors but the feats are very impressive and represent a boast. Holmes testifies against him at his trial but Moriarty is acquitted. What follows is an intense cat-and-mouse game, with Moriarty setting out to smear Holmes' name, making him out to be a fake and all his solved cases elaborate schemes. With the weight of evidence against him, Holmes appears to be backed into a corner.
Short version :Moriarty manages the simultaneous break-in of the Tower of London, the Pentonville Prison, and the Bank of London. He is captured and put on trial, where, even without a defense, he is found not guilty and released. He visits Sherlock Holmes who determines that Moriarty's scheme was to advertise to his criminal clientele that Moriarty has a computer code that will open any door or access any account. Moriarty admits that that is part of his plan, but that he still needs to solve a problem he has with Holmes. Months later, Holmes uses his skills to solve a kidnapping chase, but Moriarty, who had been hiding out, plants seeds in the minds of Lestrade and his detectives (and maybe even Watson), that Holmes is a fraud who may have instigated the kidnapping so he could solve the case and look good in the press. Meanwhile, a tabloid reporter has written an expose on Holmes using Richard Brook as a source. Holmes finds that Brook is actually Moriarty, who has convinced the reporter that he is an actor hired by Holmes to play Moriarty. In addition, all the crimes Holmes has been solving were actually instigated by Holmes in the first place. Holmes calls Moriarty to a showdown on the roof of St. Bartholomew Hospital. Moriarty has conned his clients into thinking that the computer code actually works and is of any value. The real plan involved a deal with his clients that if Holmes commits suicide (having been revealed as a fraud), the lives of Watson, Mrs. Hudson and Lestrade would be spared. Holmes sees through this, but then Moriarty tells him that if HE (Moriarty) were to die, the assassinations would be back on. Moriarty produces a gun and kills himself. Just as the assassins are preparing their kills, Holmes jumps from the roof. Watson sees Holmes bloody body; the assassinations are called off. At the gravesite, Watson says aloud that he never believed Sherlock was a fraud, and begs that he still be alive. Sherlock, very much alive, watches this from afar.Long version :Watson is meeting with his shrink. Its been eighteen months since he's seen her, and she is curious as to "why today?" Watson asks if she's read the papers or seen the television. When she presses, he is all choked up as he says : My best friend, Sherlock Holmes, is dead."CREDITSThree months earlier.A small crowd is gathered at a museum as the gallery director points to a painting (Turners The Falls of the Reichenbach) and thanks Sherlock Holmes for its safe recovery and return to the museum. The director gives Sherlock a wrapped gift, which Sherlock immediately deduces is a set of diamond cuff-links. He huffs to Watson (within earshot of the puzzled director) that all his cuffs have buttons. Watson tells Sherlock to thank the director.Scene change two newspaper articles headlined, Hero of the Reichenbach and Top Banker KidnappedA man is giving a press conference outside his home, accompanied by his family and Sherlock and Watson. He thanks Sherlock for his deliverance. The man's son hands Sherlock a wrapped gift which Sherlock immediately deduces is a tie pin. He huffs to Watson that he does not wear ties.Scene change Reichenbach hero finds kidnap victim, Ricoletti evades capture.DI Lestrade is giving a press conference. He declares that Ricoletti, number one on Interpol's most wanted list, has been captured with the help of Sherlock. He presents Sherlock with a barely-wrapped gift, a deerstalker cap. The Sergeant Sally Donovan and Detective Anderson standing in the back of the room snigger. As the reporters urge Sherlock to put it on, Watson suggests to Sherlock to get it over with. Sherlock puts the cap on as camera flashes fill the room.Scene-change Boffin Sherlock Solves AnotherAt 221B.Sherlock is bemused by his tabloid nickname, Boffin Sherlock, and as Watson sloughs it off, he reads that HE is being called Bachelor John Watson which does not suit him well. As Sherlock examines the deerstalker cap (wondering why there are two fronts), Watson realizes that now that Sherlock has become almost famous, he is not a private detective anymore and Sherlock risks having the press turn on him. Watson suggests Sherlock keeps a low profile and take on a little case.At Tower of London, 11 AM.A man steps out of a tour group to take pictures on his cell phone. Inside the Crown Jewels display, he puts on some ear buds and listens to music as he basks in front of a royal throne display. This is all captured on security cameras.At Bank of England, 11 AM.The bank director, looking at the days numbers on his computer, thanks his assistant for bringing him some tea.At Pentonville Prison, 11 AM.The warden puts a stack of files on his desk and tells his guards that they'll be refusing all paroles and bringing back the rope.Quick-cutting between Tower of London, Pentonville Prison, Bank of London, Police HeadquartersThe man selects an app (icon, a crown) on his phone and activates it, causing the alarm to go off, the security cameras to go haywire, and the tour group to head for the exits. He stays, and when a guard comes to lead him out, the man sprays something at the guard, who passes out.Lestrade is notified of the break-in as he is having his tea break.The man selects another app (icon, a piggy bank).The Bank of London director sees a warning on his computer that the Bank's vault has been opened.Lestrade and Donovan are on their way when they get they get a call on another break-in . . .The man writes "Get Sherlock" onto the glass display case of the royal throne.The warden is informed that the security system at the prison is failing.. . . at Pentonville Prison.The man sticks a wad of gum onto the display glass, and then pushes a cut diamond stone into the gum. He takes a fire extinguisher from a wall and dances over to the display in modified box-step. He smashes the glass with it.As Lestrade rushes to the Prison, the museum guards storm the display room and find the man, sitting in the throne display, decked out in the crown jewels and robe. He says, No rush. The man is James Moriarty.At 221B.Holmes cell phone gets a text. Watson picks up the phone and tells Holmes, He's back. The text reads : Come and play. Tower Hill. Jim Moriarty x.Sherlock, Watson, and Lestrade watch the security footage, most notably where the man wrote Get Sherlock on the glass.Scene change -- The tabloids blare Crime of the Century and question how the Tower of London, Pentonville Prison and Bank of England were all broken into at the same time, by the same man, James Moriarty. An article entitled Jewel Thief on Trial at Bailey announces that Sherlock has been named as a witness for the prosecution and that the crime is attracting huge international attention. Amateur detective to be called as expert witness.At 221B.Sherlock and Watson dress and leave for court and are confronted by a huge crowd of reporters and gawkers at their front door. Once in their car, Watson reminds Sherlock that he (Sherlock) has been told to keep it simple and brief. Sherlock riles Watson by saying, he'll just be himself.As Moriarty is escorted to the courtroom, reporters outside parrot that this is the Crime of the Century.As Sherlock freshens up in the wash room, a groupie wearing a deerstalker cap and a homemade I (heart) Sherlock button comes in. Sherlock deduces shes a newspaper reporter and she introduces herself as Kitty Riley. As she slips her business card into his jacket pocket, she warns him that the press may soon turn on him and that he will need someone on his side. He offers her a quote, and speaking into her recorder says, You repel me, and leaves.On the stand, Sherlock calls Moriarty a consulting criminal, meaning he gives advice to criminals planting bombs or staging assassinations. He then corrects the prosecutor when she asks a leading question, and wonders if they taught her this in law school. Sherlock calls Moriarty a spider with a vast criminal web. The prosecutor asks how long he has known Moriarty and when the judge challenges him that five minutes is not enough to become an expert on someone, Sherlock turns to the jury and deduces what each of their professions are, their marital status, and what they ate recently. This upsets the judge who warns Sherlock to keep it brief and to the point and that anything else will be considered showing off and in contempt of the court.Cut to . . . Sherlock being led to a jail cell.Sherlock is released and Watson accompanies him back to 221B. Sherlock asks him what he observed of the defense, and Watson says the barrister just sat there the whole time. Watson thinks despite breaking in to three of the most secure locations in England, that Moriarty is not going to mount a defense. Watson stops and accuses Sherlock of showing his we both know whats REALLY going on face, but Sherlock denies having such a face. Sherlock says that if Moriarty wanted the Crown Jewels or the release of the Pentonville prisoners, he would have done it. Sherlock deduces Moriarty WANTS to be in prison.As predicted, the defense calls no witnesses and rests. Moriarty glares up at Watson. The jury comes back in six minutes, finding Moriarty not guilty.Watson calls Holmes with the news and warns him that Moriarty surely will be coming for him. Sherlock hangs up before Watson finishes and puts on tea for two. As he plays his violin, Moriarty enters.Moriarty compares himself to the villain in a fairy tale and that Sherlock needs him because without Moriarty, hed be nothing. Sherlock states that Moriarty got to the jury, and Moriarty confirms that he influenced the sequestered members through their individualized cable TVs.Moriarty says he has one final problem, and that hes already told Sherlock what it is, but he wonders if Sherlock was listening. Holding his saucer, Moriarty sets down his teacup and taps absent-mindedly with his free hand on his knee. Moriarty asks Sherlock if hes told his (Sherlocks) friends why Moriarty broke into those places and did not take anything. Moriarty wants to know if Sherlock knows. Sherlock states that Moriarty needs nothing from those places because what he has, the ability to open and locked/secure place, is better than anything he can steal. Sherlock continues that this whole display was to make Moriarty attractive to unstable countries, terror cells, etc., who could use his services. Sherlock wonders why Moriarty would do this given that he (Moriarty) has no need for money or power. Moriarty confesses he likes watching people and how they behave in order to get money or power. And, also, Moriarty still has that one final problem to solve. He reminds Sherlock that he (Moriarty) owes Sherlock a fall and leaves.Sherlock picks up the red apple that Moriarty has been toying with and sees that he has gouged out an I (circle) U, the circle being a round bite out of the apple. [I (heart) you? I (h/ate) you? I ('o'we) you? ]Scene change Moriarty Walks Free, Shock Verdict at Trial, How Was He Ever Acquitted, Moriarty Vanishes, What Next For the Reichenbach HeroTwo months later.Watson is at an ATM. There is a problem with his card and the machine calls him by name, John. A car pulls up and takes him to the Diogenes Club. Watson enters a room with some very old men reading newspapers. When he asks to be directed to Mycroft Holmes, the old men freak. One pushes a button and two men dressed in long coats (and hazmat booties) chloroform Watson and take him away.Mycroft tells Watson that there is a tradition of silence at Diogenes. Watson sees an issue of The Sun tabloid and is surprised that Mycroft reads it. Mycroft says that issue caught his eye and when Watson picks it up, he sees an article about Sherlock, written by Kitty Riley. Mycroft says there will be a big expose in Saturdays issue and the information came from someone called Brook. Watson does not know who that is.Mycroft gets to business and hands Watson a file. It is of a person who has moved into a flat, two doors down from 221B. Mycroft says it is a known assassin from Albania. He hands Watson another file of a known Russian killer. She moved into a flat down in the opposite direction. Two other professional assassins have moved in nearby as well. Mycroft asks Watson what is going on. Watson asks if Mycroft thinks its Moriarty. Mycroft asks if its NOT Moriarty, then who?Mycroft is not confronting Sherlock with this because of their personal issues, however, he wants Watson to, if its not too much trouble. Watson leaves.At 221B.There is an envelope at the front door. Watson opens it and pours out what appears to be wood shavings. A man carrying a ladder pushes his way past Watson. Upstairs, Lestrade and Donovan are with Sherlock. The son and daughter of the Ambassador to the US have been kidnapped from their boarding school. The Ambassador personally asked for Sherlocks assistance. Sherlock bristles when Donovan calls him the Reichenbach Hero. We see this from the perspective of a security camera that has been mounted over the fireplace.At the boarding school, Sherlock rips into the housemistress, but he only does this so she would speak quickly. In the girls room, Sherlock finds an envelope with a copy of Grimms Fairy Tales. The envelope has a wax-seal like the envelope Watson found at the 221B door. In the boys room, Sherlock notices the doors opaque window and deduces the boy would be staring out at the shadows all night and would recognize what each shadow was. Given that the boy reads spy novels, Sherlock asks, rhetorically, what the boy would do if he saw a threatening shadow cross the door. He finds a bottle of linseed oil and calls for the crime-tech. With a black light, he sees the boy has written HELP US on the wall and left a trail of foot and shoe prints out the door and down the hall but then ends abruptly. Sherlock scrapes up some of the flooring from under the adult shoe print.At the Crime Lab.Sherlock and Watson catch Molly Hooper as she is leaving for a lunch break. Sherlock tells her he has something for her from her boyfriend. Molly is defensive and says she only went out with Moriarty three times. Sherlock examines the samples from the shoe print the oil will have preserved everything the shoe has been in contact with recently and that will lead them to Moriarty. There is chalk, asphalt, brick dust, vegetation, and a chemical he cant determine.Molly says that when her dad was dying, she noticed that he had on a happy face when someone was around but when he thought he was alone, she saw he was sad. She tells Sherlock she knows hes been sad, too, and that he can talk to her if he ever needs to.Watson looks over the crime scene photos and sees the wax-seal. He shows the envelope from earlier to Sherlock the contents were bread crumbs. Sherlock refers to Hansel and Gretel in the Grimm book and remembers what Moriarty said about fairy tales needing a villain.Sherlock realizes the chemical is PGPR used in making chocolate.At Police Headquarters.Lestrade gets a fax that says, Hurry Up Theyre Dying! Sherlock shows him the list of items from the shoe print and determines the matching location to be in Addlestone.Addlestone.In an abandoned factory, Sherlock finds a still-warm candle and a lot of candy wrappers. He licks one of the wrappers and tastes mercury. Moriartys plan is to kill the kids over time, and he wont even need to be there for their deaths. Donovan finds the kids who are taken to a hospital. After the police interview the girl (the boy is unconscious), Sherlock and Watson are called in, if Sherlock can not be himself. Upon sight of Sherlock, the girl screams her head off and Sherlock is pulled from the room. As the detectives muse about what just happened, Sherlock looks out the window to another building and watches as the interior lights turn on, revealing a message painted onto the windows : I O U. Lestrade laughs that he sometimes feels like screaming when Sherlock walks into the room. Donovan congratulates how Sherlock was able to determine where the kids were from a shoe print . . . and that its almost unbelievable.Watson hails a cab, but Sherlock takes it and tells Watson to hail another because he might talk.Donovan looks over the crime scene photos with thoughts of Sherlock.In the cab, the passenger TV is showing a shopping network. Sherlock asks the cabbie to turn it off, but an image of Moriarty flickers on the screen, offering to tell a story.Donovan is hooked on the shoe print and how lucky Sherlock is. Lestrade shrugs it off as Sherlock being CSI:Baker Street. Donovan thinks there is another explanation.On the cab TV, Moriarty is telling a childrens knights story with a Sir Boast-a-Lot, the subtext being the one knight blabs about successful exploits, thus irritating the other knights who begin to wonder if the exploits are true. Then the other knights go to the King to try to convince him that Boast-a-Lot may have been lying about his exploits.Donovan and Detective Anderson try to convince Lestrade that Sherlock may have been involved in some of the crimes.Moriarty tells Sherlock that this is a problem, but not the final problem. With that, Sherlock demands the cabbie to stop and he busts out of the cab, banging at the cabbies passenger-side window. When the cabbie shows his face, its Moriarty, who zooms off, leaving Sherlock in the middle of the street. As another car is about to hit Sherlock, a man pulls Sherlock to safety. Sherlock offers to shake his hand but the man is shot dead from afar. Watsons cab pulls up.Watson recognizes the man as the Albanian killer. Sherlock says he died because he shook his hand. Back at 221B, Sherlock wonders if the killers were brought here to kill him, or to protect him. He wonders what he has that needs such protection. He calls up Mrs. Hudson to ask what has been cleaned/dusted recently. Sherlock looks around and finds a hidden camera. Lestrade comes to the door and Sherlock deduces he is there because of the detectives suspicions and recognizes that it was Moriartys plan to make Sherlock look guilty. Sherlock thinks part of the plan is to get a tabloid to run a picture of Sherlock being brought in for questioning -- a game of slow death. Lestrade leaves. Watson worries that people will think Sherlock is a fraud. Sherlock thinks Moriarty has planted a suspicion seed in Watson as well, but Watson swears he knows Sherlock is for real because no one can fake being such an annoying dick all the time.Lestrade and his detectives are at the Chief Superintendents office seeking advice on whether to bring Sherlock in. Lestrade is hesitant but when the Chief Superintendent hears that Sherlock has been brought in to consult on scores of cases, thus being privy to lots of classified information, he demands that Sherlock be brought in immediately.Lestrade warns Watson that they are coming over. Mrs. Hudson has a package from earlier in the day. Its sealed with the same wax-seal and has a burnt gingerbread man inside.Sherlock puts on his coat and scarf as the cops come in. Watson and Lestrade exchange words but Lestrade threatens Watson with arrest. Sherlock is put in cuffs and taken away for kidnapping. Donovan reminds Watson that the first time they met, she warned him that this might happen with Sherlock, that solving crimes wasnt enough and that he now needs to create crimes so he can solve them. The Chief Superintendent wanders in and says hes thankful that the weirdo vigilante has been arrested.Cut to . . . street-side. The Chief Superintendent holding his nose with his head tilted back; Watson being thrown against a police car, next to Sherlock, while he is being cuffed. A call comes over the radio and Sherlock squeezes the squelch button. The resulting feedback which gets picked up by their earpieces, causes all the cops to cringe and let go of Sherlock and Watson who are handcuffed together. Sherlock grabs a gun and orders everyone to their knees. With Watson as his hostage, they run from the scene. With sirens going off all around them, Watson notices they are being followed, but Sherlock recognizes the man as one of the killer-neighbors. Sherlock tells Watson he is going to get some answers and leads Watson to stand in front of a bus as it is speeding toward them. As Sherlock deduced before, the man is there to protect them, and he pushes Sherlock and Watson out of the way just as the bus passes. As they land in a pile, Sherlock grabs the mans gun and demands to know why he is after Sherlock. The man says that Moriarty had left his computer codes to access everything at 221B. The man is shot dead from afar.Sirens come closer and Sherlock and Watson hide in an alleyway. Sherlock thinks the Get Sherlock message Moriarty scrawled on the Crown Jewels display was to tell Moriartys clients where to get the computer codes. They need to get back to 221B to look for the codes. Watson sees a newspaper with Kitty Rileys expose. The subheadline is : Close Friend Richard Brook Tells All.Kitty Riley comes home and notices her front door unlocked and open. She turns on the light and Sherlock and Watson are sitting on her couch. As they pick the lock on the handcuffs, Sherlock demands to know who her source was. A disheveled man comes in with a bag of groceries its Moriarty but Riley introduces him as Richard Brook, an actor hired by Sherlock Holmes to be Moriarty -- there never was a Moriarty. Watson is incensed but Brook keeps babbling about how Sherlock had hired him and Riley produces printed copies of newspaper clippings about Brook, the actor, along with different versions of his c.v. Sherlock takes a step towards Brook, demanding he stop it but Brook runs and gets out of the building. Riley tells Sherlock that he repels her.Outside, Sherlock figures Moriarty has taken over every aspect of his life and that he has sown doubt in everyones minds and that there is only one way to end this game. But he has to do it without Watson.At the Crime Lab, Sherlock surprises Molly. He tells her he thinks hes going to die and when she asks what he needs, he says, You.Watson is sitting in Mycrofts office when he walks in. Watson notes that since there are only two names in Sherlocks (metaphorical) address book, Watsons and Mycrofts, and since Watson did not give Moriarty all that info on Sherlocks life. It must have been Mycroft, and since Mycroft was also the one who gave Watson the heads-up on Rileys expose, that Mycroft must have realized that whatever info he gave to Moriarty was a mistake.Mycroft, using the pronouns we and they, meaning, his agency, has been keeping track of people like Moriarty, and when they knew he had the computer codes, they captured him and tried to beat it out of him. Moriarty did not cooperate at all, except when Mycroft was doing the interview, and then only a little bit at a time, and then only in exchange for info about his brother, Sherlock.Watson sums it up by saying Moriarty wants Sherlock destroyed, and Mycroft gave Moriarty the perfect ammunition. Mycroft says hes sorry, as Watson storms off.Watson gets Sherlocks call and finds him in the Crime Lab. Sherlock says the key to all this is the computer codes, so they have to find them to create destroy all of the false history of Richard Brooks, thus recreating Moriarty. The codes are somewhere in 221B but Sherlock cant think where. Watson taps his fingers on the lab table and this gives Sherlock an idea. Without letting Watson see, Sherlock sends a text : Come and play. Barts Hospital rooftop. SH / PS. Got something of yours you might want back.Later, Watson has nodded off while Sherlock is fingering a handball. Watson gets a call that Mrs. Hudson has been shot and is dying. Sherlock tells Watson to go, as he is busy. Incredulous, Watson storms off. Sherlock gets a text from JM : Im waiting . . .Moriarty is listening to Stayin Alive on his cell phone as Sherlock makes it to the rooftop. Moriarty says staying is so boring and tosses his cell phone. He says hes spent his life looking for distractions, found Sherlock, and now he doesnt even have Sherlock because hes beaten him. Moriarty is glad Sherlock got the Richard Brook reference Reichenbach in German. Moriarty is also glad Sherlock got his computer code as he watches Sherlock, hands behind his back, tapping out the computer code with his fingers. Sherlock realizes this is why the killers were protecting him because the computer code was in his head. Sherlock says its just a matter now of using those codes to wipe away the existence of Richard Brook.With this, Moriarty erupts. The computer code is useless and made-up. Its a derivation of the Bach violin piece Sherlock was playing when Moriarty went to 221B. The perfect crimes were committed the old-fashioned way, with the help of accomplices (like one of the security guards at the Tower of London). Moriarty is upset that, as usual, Sherlock shows his weakness of looking for clever explanations rather than simple explanations. Moriarty IS impressed that Sherlock knew to pick a tall building for this meeting the perfect place for a suicide -- as Sherlock has been proven to be a fraud and would understandably want to commit suicide.Watson runs into the flat and sees Mrs. Hudson, healthy, chatting with a handyman (the same man carrying a ladder from before). Watson runs back out to re-catch his cab.While Moriarty eggs him on to jump, Sherlock grabs him by the lapels and pushes him toward they ledge. Moriarty warns him that if Sherlock does not jump, all his friends (Watson, Hudson, and Lestrade) would die. Moriarty has already instigated the deaths of the killer-neighbors and it would be just as easy to kill Sherlocks friends. The only way out of THAT would be for Moriartys clients to see Sherlock kill himself. Your death is going to call off the killers; Im certainly not going to do it.Sherlock steps on the parapet and asks for a moment of privacy. Moriarty walks away. Sherlock turns back and steps off the parapet, laughing. Moriarty demands to know what he (Moriarty) missed. Sherlock cites, Im certainly not going to do it, which he takes to mean that there is something Moriarty can do, a safety-switch of sorts, to stop the scheduled murders of Sherlocks friends.Moriarty says that as long as HE is alive, Sherlocks friends are safe. Moriarty pulls out a gun, puts the barrel in his mouth and shoots a bullet through the back of his head. In separate scenes, we see a sniper setting up his gun and Watson headed toward the hospital in the cab; Mrs. Hudson giving the handyman a cup of tea and the handyman looking down at his gun in his toolbox; and, a detective at his desk, looking at Lestrade in his office.Sherlock is absorbed in thought on the roof and then steps onto the parapet and calls Watson on his cell phone just as the cab pulls up. He tells Watson to look up and when Watson sees him, Sherlock confesses that everything the detectives had determined is true. Sherlock says he is a fake and to tell Lestrade, Mrs. Hudson, and Molly. Watson refuses to believe him, remembering how Sherlock, when they first met, made correct deductions about his sister. Sherlock (lying) says he had investigated Watson beforehand, says goodbye, drops the phone, and jumps. As Watson runs to the scene, a bicyclist knocks him over, leaving Watson rolling on the ground and disoriented. Watson stumbles over. Sherlock is a bloody mess. The sniper packs up his gun.Back at the shrink, Watson still cannot bring himself to say Sherlock Holmes is dead.Watson and Mrs. Hudson are graveside. Mrs. Hudson remembers the gross things she found in their refrigerator. She leaves to give Watson a moment. Watson says he still does not think Sherlock was a fake, and asks Sherlock for one last miracle, to not be dead. He touches the headstone and walks away. Sherlock watches from a distance.CREDITS
