A young FBI agent infiltrates an extraordinary team of extreme sports athletes he suspects of masterminding a string of unprecedented, sophisticated corporate heists.
A young FBI agent infiltrates an extraordinary team of extreme sports athletes he suspects of masterminding a string of unprecedented, sophisticated corporate heists. Deep undercover, and with his life in danger, he strives to prove these athletes are the architects of the mind-boggling crimes that are devastating the world's financial markets.
A former extreme sports athlete, Johnny Utah, joins the FBI. While not even a full agent, he is sent to infiltrate a gang of extreme sports athletes who are attempting a series of death-defying challenges called the Ozaki 8. They use the challenges as a front to pull off daring robberies and are lead by the charismatic, fearless Bodhi.
Extreme sport athlete Johnny Utah (Luke Bracey), and his friend Jeff (Max Thieriot), are traversing a steep ridge-line on motorbikes. The run ends with a jump onto a lone stone column, where Jeff overshoots the landing and falls to his death. Seven years later, Utah is an FBI agent candidate. He attends a briefing on a skyscraper heist, in which the criminals steal diamonds, escaping by parachute, in Mumbai. A similar heist happens over Mexico where the criminals unload millions of dollars in bills over Mexico, then disappear into the Cave of Swallows. Utah's research concludes that they were done by the same men, who are attempting to complete the Ozaki 8, a list of eight extreme ordeals to honor the forces of nature..
Forced to renounce his former adrenaline-charged life after the untimely death of a dear friend, the extreme sports enthusiast, Johnny Utah, shifts focus to become an F.B.I. field agent. Before long, Johnnie will have to put his athletic background to good use, when a highly trained team of thrill-seekers use their expertise to perform impossible robberies--and then, like modern Robin Hoods--give away everything. As Utah picks up where he left off to infiltrate the gang of the dauntless daredevils, more and more, it becomes clear that there is a pattern, and that the fellow athlete, Bodhi, knows more than he's letting on. Will Johnny get to the bottom of it before he blows his cover?
Extreme poly-athlete Johnny Utah and his friend Jeff attempts a stunt traversing a steep ridge peak line, ending it by leaping onto a lone stone column. Jeff over speeds his bike and falls. Seven years later Utah is a FBI Agent candidate. He attends a briefing about a skyscraper heist where the criminals parachute down their escape. Another heist happens where the criminals unload Dollar bills mid-air over Mexico then simply disappear. Utahs research concludes that they were done by the same men, who at the same time attempt to complete the Ozaki 8; a teaching of doing eight extreme ordeals to honor the forces of nature. They already cleared three, and Utah predicts theyll attempt the fourth on a rare sea wave phenomenon in France. After presenting his analysis, Utah gets sent undercover to France under a field agent Pappas. They reach the place and Utah gets help from others to surf the tall tube wave.But as he goes in theres already another surfer in the wave, leaving Utah with unstable wave. Utah gets sucked into the wave and faints but the other surfer bails and rescues Utah. He wakes aboard a yacht with the other surfer Bodhi and his team Roach, Chowder, and Grommet. They leave him to enjoy the party and he gets acquainted with a girl Samsara. The next day Utah finds the men in an abandoned Paris train station after he overhears them about the location. Bodhi gives him an initiation fight and soon hes in the circle. They travel to the Alps for the next ordeal, wingsuit flying through the cliffs. The four succeed in their attempt then have some time together with Samsara. The next day they climb the snow peaks for the sixth ordeal, snowboarding through steep wall of snow. They reach their spot but Utah decides to extend his line so the others follow him. But Chowder slips and falls to his death. Utah gets depressed about it. After a party Samsara explains about her and Bodhi.Next they travel to a gold mine where Bodhi detonates some explosives Grommet and Roach planted. After blowing his cover, Utah chases Bodhi, managing to trip his bike. But Bodhi escapes as Utah cant stand up after the crash. The FBI freezes Bodhis sponsors assets so Bodhi plans to rob a nearby Italian bank on a mountain top. Utah and the police intercept the group, resulting in a crossfire that kills Roach. As the group flees, Utah chases and shoots one of them but it turns out to be Samsara. Utah finds the next ordeal location, solo rock climbing with no safety besides a waterfall. he finds Bodhi and Grommet and chases them on the climb, but Grommet cramps and falters, falling to his death. Utah catches up to Bodhi but he leaps down the waterfall, completing the last ordeal. But Bodhi has to redo the fourth ordeal as he bailed out on the wave. 17 months later Utah finds him in the Pacific facing another giant wave. But ultimately Utah lets Bodhi go and attempt it. The wave engulfs Bodhi and Utah comes back home.
