A young French chef with a fondness for America and a life in shambles pushes the limits of the American Dream by converting a Chicago pizza shop into an escort-service for the super-rich with the help of a suburban slacker who dwells in his parents' basement.
Alex Montrieux is lonely. When he meets an American girl online, and the two fall in e-love, it's only natural that he comes for a month-long visit. But minutes after he lands, the young lady changes her mind and dumps him at a rundown suburban motel. Alex is on his own in America. During a night of despair and cheap whiskey, he meets Ron, a good-natured, overweight Burger King junkie who spends most of his waking life in his parents' basement. Ron cheers up Alex with a tour of Chicago-its hot dogs its skyscrapers, its weed, and the bustling life on the street. But later in the week, desperate and alone again, Alex meets a surprisingly complicated girl named Helena that suddenly makes his trip worthwhile. Faced with the prospect of returning home, Alex decides to stay and build his own business in the States-based on a simple premise: offer enough pleasure and you can charge any price. Along with Ron and Helena, Alex partners with Bob, Ron's best friend, a dim witted ex-convict with political aspirations, and Reza, an Iranian entrepreneur who owns a small pizza shop. The business explodes and Alex quickly finds himself something of an underground kingpin, despite being increasingly conflicted between the two sides of his relationship with Helena, his girlfriend and employee. When Bob's greed and jealousy raise the stakes to a dangerous level, Alex is faced with a choice between a better self and his high rolling life.
Alex, a young French chef with a fondness for America, pushes the limits of the American Dream by converting a Chicago pizza restaurant into a luxury entertainment service for the super-rich. When Alex meets an American girl online and falls in e-love, it's only natural that he comes to America, but minutes after he lands the young lady changes her mind and dumps him at a rundown motel. During a night of despair and cheap whiskey, he meets Ron, a good-natured, overweight, burger junkie who spends most of his waking life in his parents' basement. They make an unlikely pair but instead of Alex returning home broken hearted, they devise a business with a simple premise; offer maximum pleasure and you can charge any price. Their business explodes and Alex quickly finds himself something of an underground kingpin but he must make a choice when faced with the decision between a better self or his high rolling lifestyle. Featuring Patrick Zielinski (Public Enemies and Fred Claus).

