School's out. Summer vacation is on. However, Greg may not have the best summer vacation ever. What could go wrong?
Summer vacation started, and Greg has his own way to enjoy it with video games. However, his father wants him to go outside and stop playing video games, and his mother has her own plans, including a reading club. In addition, Greg can't get along with his father. The only thing they have in common is the hatred for the Lil Cutie Comics. Things only get worse after the stay at the beachside cabin goes totally wrong. Will anything go right? At least there's Holly Hills.
When Greg's Dad (Steve Zahn) threatens to send him to military school if he dosen't stay out of trouble, Greg finds all-new ways to land himself In the Doghouse! For starters, Greg's in over his head when he pretends to work at a swanky country club where Rowley's family has a membership. Things don't go much better on a father-son camping trip with the Wilderness Explorers, and then there's the Heffley's new dog, Sweetie, who fetches even more trouble for Greg.
Summer vacation is supposed to be a lot of fun and a great time-unless of course, you're Greg Heffley. Greg finds his satisfaction for summer elsewhere-inside an air-conditioned house playing video games. The only obstacle in his way is his father, who insists on Greg spending his summer like a normal kid, playing outside and doing something manly. But Greg is not built to spend the summer with the outside world, especially after a few incidents with his family and best friend, Rowley. So after this time, Greg does everything he can to impress his father not only to be a good son, but to avoid military school, leading to crazy and sometimes dangerous accidents
In this third film in the Diary of a Wimpy Kid series, Greg Heffley (Zachary Gordon) wants to spend the summer before eighth grade playing video games and maybe, if he can finagle it, getting closer to his crush Holly Hills (Peyton List). The former plan goes out the window when his dad Frank (Steve Zahn) decides to ban video games from the house. In order to connect with his young son, Frank schedules a number of fishing trips and signs the boy up for Scouts. Greg has more luck on the girlfriend front when his best friend Rowley (Robert Capron) invites him to go to his family's country club, where Holly works as a tennis instructor. Soon, in order to avoid spending so much time with his dad, Greg lies to his parents and says he works at the club, a deception that his older brother Rodrick (Devon Bostick) uses to blackmail him and gain access to the establishment.

