A hitman invites the wrath of his boss after beating the latter's son to death for killing an innocent woman.
Jai, an orphan, is taken in and nurtured into a hitman by a gangster named Bhagwan. When not busy kicking the hell out of rival gangs, he escapes his lovelorn life by running a nursery with his pal Chotu. Meanwhile, Jai runs into a Greenpeace activist Sandhya and sparks fly between the duo. When Jai couldn't bear Munna's manic activities, he confronts him. Bhagawan, father of Munna is enraged and is hell bent on revenge. An ultimate face-off between loyalty and morals ensues.
Jai (Pawan Kalyan) is an accomplished hitman and the most trusted aide of Bhagavan (Jackie Shroff), the supreme don of Kolkata. Jai remains loyal to him as he helped in seeking revenge with the people who raped his mother and sister when he came to Kolkata in his childhood after his father's death. They share a business rivalry with Kulkarni (Atul Kulkarni), who aims to overthrow Bhagavan. Things are smooth until Bhagwan's son Munna (Adivi Sesh) returns to India. He is a psychotic and highly impulsive youngster. He has his eyes on club dancer Jahnavi (Anjali Lavania), but she rejects him as she adores Jai. Meanwhile, Jai comes across Sandhya (Sarah-Jane Dias), a soft-spoken environmentalist and tree lover. A mutual admiration for each other leads to a romantic involvement between the two. Munna, however, continues to go crazy about Jahnavi, and a tragedy ensues.Sabhapathi (Paruchuri Venkateswara Rao) works for Bhagavan. Munna mistreats Sabhapathi, but Bhagavan does not care. Sabhapathi joins Kulkarni's gang to protect himself. Jai kidnaps Sampath's (Sampath Raj) son. Munna kills Sampath's son due to laughter over Jahnavi loving Jai. Munna confronts Jahnavi at Jai's apartment and brutally murders her. Jai kills Munna by throwing him from his flat. This scene is seen by Guravayya (Tanikella Bharani), an associate of Bhagavan who is an informer to Kulkarni. He reports this to Bhagavan to get rid of Jai.Jai is forced to decide whether to retaliate or leave Kolkata completely. He chooses to leave out of loyalty to Bhagavan and heads to Palasa, Sandhya's village where her brother Ashok (Subbaraju) is a valiant, kindhearted cop. He comes across S. I. Paparayudu (Brahmanandam), and he solves the problems of the village by cleverly using Paparayudu. Jai cannot hide the truth from Sandhya anymore. He tells her about his life in Kolkata and that he made it look like that Paparayudu solved the village's problems. Since Jai told the truth, Sandhya still loves him.On the other hand, Bhagavan cannot rest until he seeks out Jai for revenge. Firstly, he kills Chotu (Ali), Jai's best friend and associate. Meanwhile, Sandhya gets kidnapped and taken to Kolkata. In a fit of rage at losing Chotu and Sandhya, Jai returns to Kolkata and starts hunting his rivals. He goes to Kulkarni's house with heavy ammunition and kills everyone except Kulkarni, as Jai promised him that he would not kill him. Kulkarni dies in his attempt to kill Jai. Later, Jai kills Guruvayya, as he gets information that the latter was responsible for this saga. At last, Jai reaches Bhagavan, who kidnapped Sandhya. Although Jai tells Bhagavan that Munna killed Jahnavi, Bhagavan still believes that Jai should not have murdered Munna. After an emotional sequence, Jai shoots Bhagavan in his chest as the latter shoots Sandhya. Sandhya survives, but Bhagavan dies. Jai unites with Sandhya, and they both start a new and happy life.
