A shocking surprise awaits a man who marries a seemingly perfect woman.
When Philadelphia-based Bryant Meyers is convinced by his neighbor to try online dating, he doesn't think it will go anywhere. He's had trouble meeting the right woman since his divorce from Virginia and spends most of his waking hours taking care of his 10 year old daughter Regan, and working as an exec. But when he comes across the profile for a woman in Los Angeles, Georgia, he becomes intrigued. She's beautiful, fun, quirky, and successful. They strike up a long-distance relationship traveling back and forth for several months before Bryant decides that Georgia is the perfect woman for him. He proposes, Georgia moves across the country, and within two more months, the couple is married. But this union is a far cry from newlywed bliss as the closer the couple gets, the more possessive and jealous Georgia gets. She will let no woman get in the way of her happiness. Even if it means murder.
Advertising executive Bryant Meyers and stylist Georgia Marisette have just gotten married in Philadelphia where they have decided to live. Their whirlwind relationship included meeting on an online dating site, having a long distance courtship - he living in Philadelphia, she in Los Angeles - before meeting in person, and quickly deciding to tie the knot. Bryant's remarried ex-wife Virginia, with who he has a good relationship, has a stake in who Bryant married if only because they share custody of their ten year old daughter, Megan. A small red flag about Georgia is raised in Virginia's mind when she learns that none of Georgia's friends or family came from Los Angeles for the wedding. That red flag is warranted as Georgia, below the surface, has had a lifetime of emotional issues, stemming largely from a dysfunctional relationship with her long deceased mother, who poisoned her mind with thoughts of inferiority and that men are all liars deep in their hearts. As such, Georgia has no close friends, just a bunch of friendly acquaintances who really do not know her beyond what they see on the surface. Georgia's primary emotional issue is jealousy, she believing that the most innocent of interactions between whoever her boyfriend at the time and any other woman is the first step in cheating. Bryant's platonic relationship with one of his coworkers, Zenya Ivanski, who he dated for a short time following his divorce from Virginia, and voices from Georgia's past, one who reenters her life, may be the tipping points in Georgia displaying just how far she will go to protect what she believes are threats to her marriage.

