Keshya, a simple villager believes that god has arrived in his village but everyone disbelieves him. Later when the politics plays its part things take a drastic change.
In the rural areas of Maharashtra lies a peaceful village called Mangrul. One day Keshav (Girish Kulkarni), a village youth, sees lord Dattatrey (Datta) in his dreams while taking a nap under a tree. He makes a hue and cry in the village saying God made an appearance for him. Anna (Dilip Prabhavalkar), most respected figure of Mangrul, advises him against announcing such personal matter as it's a question of faith. However, it is too late as a journalist (Kishor Kadam) sensationalizes the news about Lord Dattatrey making an appearance in Mangrul. There is now a demand for a Dattatrey temple. Bhau (Nana Patekar), a political activist, doesn't approve it as he wants the funds to be used for better purposes but he seems helpless. The temple is built and the village becomes a holy place. Mangrul goes through a 360 degree change due to commercialization but nobody is complaining except Anna. Soon, blinded by the commercial progress, God is forgotten. Every village has a right to progress commercially but how ethical it is to use a temple and its God to achieve it? The question is raised by Writer Girish Kulkarni &amp; Director Umesh Vinayak Kulkarni's latest offering 'Deool', without being judgemental. While it does this, the audience is treated to some quality cinematic experience which is enlightening.
Mangrul is a peaceful village one day while flocking cows Keshya takes a nap below a tree and dreams that God Datta has arrived in his village he goes and gives the news to everyone but know one believes him finally when news becomes public to media the villagers believe that God has chosen their village to arrive and demand a temple in his name on a vacant land, Anna whose a respected villager is against it has he wants a hospital to be constructed out there has villagers have to travel far away in case of emergency,Bhau a politician also wants the village funds to be used for good purpose few villagers take the help of politics and demand for a temple to be constructed, Anna's pleas go unanswered and later he shifts to Bangalore ,Bhau also becomes helpless in front of big big politicians and the temple gets erected,The poor village soon becomes a holy place and a tourist spot villagers now make big money in name of God but forget to worship him which does not go well with Keshya one day in dark of night he steals the God's statue and goes far away from village.the villagers then decide to take strict action against him but Keshya is found now where in the end they established a new statue in the temple but things don't change villagers are still making money in name of God.

