In a post-zombie world, where the infected live normal lives, their retroviral drug is running out.
In a world where a deadly zombie virus has infected mankind, a single cure has been found. The cure, a treatment called the "Return Protein" which stays the effects of the virus in its host. With injections every 36 hours, the "Returned" are able to live as though they were never bit, despite the virus still coursing through their veins. When it is discovered that the protein stock is running low, chaos hits the streets. Returned who run out of the protein turn to zombies and wreak havoc, protesters turn to murderers as they try to rid the streets of the returned, and right in the middle of it all are Alex and Kate. Kate a leading doctor in the field of zombie virus' and Alex a musician with a dark secret, he is a Returned. As death and fear run rampant, Alex's secret becomes known and his dosage runs low, he and Kate must fight for a chance to live before he becomes a zombie.
After a zombie outbreak, the infected people survive due to a vaccine made of the the spinal fluid of dead zombies and they are called "Returned". Dr. Kate works in a hospital and is responsible for the wing of Returned". There is a rumor that the vaccine is running out and Kate secretly buys vaccines from Eve, who is the responsible for the storeroom. Kate's beloved husband, the musician Alex, was infected and only Kate and Alex's brother Jacob and his wife Amber knows. When the vaccine runs out, the government brings the infected people to quarantine centers while research a synthetic vaccine. However, Alex and Kate flee to Jacob's house in the countryside expecting that Alex survives until the synthetic vaccine becomes reality. But when Alex's wallet is stolen, Kate's last hope is to get some vaccines from the director of the hospital where she works. Will she succeed?
Twenty years ago, an initial outbreak of a new virus occurred, which turned its victims into flesh and blood ravishingly zombies. One hundred million people died in that initial outbreak. Ten years ago, a natural protein was discovered at least to be a way to manage infections, as that protein, administered initially within thirty-six hours of infection with a booster every twenty-four hours keeps the virus at bay. Any missed dose of the protein leads to irreparable damage by the virus in its host, turning him/her into a zombie. There is still no known cure for the virus. Researchers are working on creating a synthetic version of the protein as the medical community is aware, but what is only rumored to be the case within the public consciousness, is that there are depleting sources of the naturally occurring protein. Those infected are treated at special hospitals and clinics to control the distribution of the protein, and so that the authorities can track those infected, who are called The Returned. Kate, a physician who treats The Returned and advocates for research funding, knows the dire situation of needing to develop a synthetic alternative of the protein. She has a personal connection as her live-in boyfriend, music teacher Alex Green, is a Returned, information which only those that need to know are aware, they only recently having told his longtime best friend, Jacob. Kate has been purchasing doses of the protein on the black market just in case. There are already those who are vehemently anti-Returned and want draconian measures to deal with them, but if the rumors do come to the public consciousness regardless of their accuracy, all out paranoia may ensue, which may place both Kate and Alex's lives at risk, especially if it is discovered that Alex is a Returned and that Kate is stockpiling the protein for Alex's use.

