'Divorce Invitation' centers on Mike Christian, a happily married man who runs into his high school sweetheart Alex, and after all these years, sparks still fly. When Mike is determined Alex is his true soul mate, he realizes he has a huge problem-he signed an iron-clad pre-nuptial agreement and his wife will not let him out of the marriage.
Mike Christian falls in love with a Jewish girl, Dylan. Her grandparents disapprove, but finally agree to their marriage after Mike converts to Judaism. Dylan's parents divorce has badly affected her and she comes up with a long prenup which Mike signs without reading. They honeymoon and return to the house the grandparents have bought for them. After four months of marriage Mike comes up with the idea of franchising the family business to make money, he is joined in this by his best pal Scotty. After putting together a business plan they approach a large business only to find the CEO is on her way to a golf/business week. Dylan takes out a new visa card to allow Mike to track the CEO down and broker the business deal, because this will make or a "happy husband". Mike tracks the CEO down and find she is actually Alex, the girl he was supposed to take to prom 13 years earlier and did not happen due to interference from her dad. The spark that was there before reignites and they start a relationship. Mike e-mails Dylan to ask for a divorce and immediately afterwards finds out she is pregnant. Dylan refuses the divorce. Following the prenup Dylan refuses the divorce. The prenup has a clause that a divorce can only happen with a formal divorce ceremony with everyone from the original wedding and the bride and groom in their original clothes. This has to be followed by a formal ceremony paid for by the person wanting a divorces. Also the person bringing the divorce has to explain the reasons.Mike spends a lot of time organising the ceremony and getting people to attend. On the day he decides he loves Dylan and apologises to Alex and stays with his wife.
