Circumstances force a young divorcée to move back in with her parents in suburban Connecticut, where an affair with a younger guy rejuvenates her passion for life
Following the break-up with and imminent divorce from her entertainment lawyer husband David, thirty-something Amy moves back in with her upper middle class parents Ruth and Stan Minsky in Westport, Connecticut. David asked for the divorce following an affair he had with who Amy considered a friend. Knowledge of the affair and David asking for the divorce came out of left field for Amy, who thought she had the perfect marriage. In her surprise and shock about David, she left David basically with the clothes on her back, and has not asked for anything in the divorce settlement. Three months later, she is still in a depressed state, not leaving the house and not knowing what to do with her life. She has no real job experience, has only a liberal arts degree, and abandoned her Master's degree studies in Photography to marry David. She believes her parents have mixed feelings about her return. Although they have both welcomed her back, she believes Ruth is critical not so much about what she does but more about what she doesn't do. Focused Ruth has a perfectly laid out plan for the twilight of her and Stan's lives, which largely is to complete the renovations on the house and travel the world, and didn't include Amy moving back in with them. Conversely, Amy believes Stan is the only person who loves her unconditionally, despite he admitting he never knowing the right thing to say to her. To her surprise and reluctance, Amy enters into a clandestine relationship with nineteen year old Jeremy, an actor with a modicum of success and fame. The reason for not telling anyone of the relationship is due to a combination of the differences in their ages, and the fact that Jeremy's stepfather Larry is a potential client of Stan's, Stan who feels that he needs Larry as a client to be able to retire, something he has already postponed due to market forces working against him. As much as both Amy and Jeremy become emotionally invested in the other's life - Jeremy who is facing his own issues, despite the overwhelming support from his therapist mother, Gwen, who is his biggest champion in whatever he does - Amy is still reluctant to classify what they have as a relationship. As certain realities come to light within this collective of people, Amy may come to some conclusions about the post-David phase of her life.

