As he struggles with Alzheimer's disease, country-music legend Glen Campbell embarks on his farewell tour in the U.S., Australia, and Europe.
This powerful portrait of the life and career of great American music icon Glen Campbell opens to the viewer the world of the singular talent who created hits like Rhinestone Cowboy, Wichita Lineman and Gentle on My Mind. Glen won the Grammy for Lifetime Achievement and is a member of the Country Music Hall of Fame. In 2011, when Campbell was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease, he joined forces with his family to fight the biggest battle of his life. Glen and his wife, Kim, made history by going public with the diagnosis - the first time a major American celebrity would share this experience with the world. The Campbell family then embarked on a short "Goodbye Tour," but the three-week engagement turned into an emotional and triumphant 151-show nationwide tour de force. This epic human drama about the undying bond between Glen and Kim, and their unwavering caring for each other, chronicles a story of love, resilience and the power of song. GLEN CAMPBELL...I'LL BE ME is the true tale of how America's greatest country star would not give up his music or his family, against all odds. The film features those who know and love Glen, including Bruce Springsteen, Bill Clinton, The Edge, Paul McCartney, Jay Leno, Vince Gill, Jimmy Webb, Blake Shelton, Sheryl Crow, Keith Urban, Brad Paisley, Steve Martin, Chad Smith and Taylor Swift among many others. Rare vintage footage and extraordinary new performances of Glen's most beloved hits immerse this moving cinematic account in the overwhelming talent of this humble family man. With joy and a tireless sense of humor, Glen and his family live each moment in the present while preparing for the future, all while playing their music to sold out venues on a star spangled voyage spanning the country from Carnegie Hall to the Hollywood Bowl.
This powerful portrait of the life and career of great American music icon Glen Campbell opens to the viewer the world of the singular talent who created hits like Rhinestone Cowboy, Wichita Lineman and Gentle on My Mind. Glen won the Grammy for Lifetime Achievement and is a member of the Country Music Hall of Fame. In 2011, when Campbell was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease, he joined forces with his family to fight the biggest battle of his life. Glen and his wife, Kim, made history by going public with the diagnosis - the first time a major American celebrity would share this experience with the world. The Campbell family then embarked on a short "Goodbye Tour," but the three-week engagement turned into an emotional and triumphant 151-show nationwide tour de force. This epic human drama about the undying bond between Glen and Kim, and their unwavering caring for each other, chronicles a story of love, resilience and the power of song. GLEN CAMPBELL...I'LL BE ME is the true tale of how America's greatest country star would not give up his music or his family, against all odds.
At the age of seventy-six, country music icon Glen Campbell, who is largely credited for bringing country music into the mainstream in the 1960s and 1970s, is diagnosed with Alzheimer's. Before the diagnosis, he himself attributed his forgetfulness solely to emptying his brain of what he considered information past its usefulness in his life. Because of the diagnosis, it coincides with the release of what will probably be his last studio album, Ghost on the Canvas. Regardless, his wife and many of his children, who form part of his current band, feel he still has the obligation to promote the album, a tour which was already in the works. His wife, Kim Campbell, and he decide the best way to handle the situation is to go public with the medical diagnosis so that the public would not be surprised by whatever may happen at any given public appearance, whether it be a performance of some sort or anything else. As tour performances are presented, the question of if the tour was the appropriate thing to do based on how well he performs and audience reaction, is answered. These performances are interspersed with commentaries by friends, colleagues and/or fellow musicians, who talk about this tour and what influence he has had on their lives, especially in light of the tour.

