When a man accidentally kills his brother with an ax, his fiancée is determined not to let even murder stand in the way of their happiness.
Todd (Labine) wants everything to be just perfect at the family cottage where he plans to propose to Cammie (Akerman). But things go awry with the arrival of Todd's slacker brother Salinger (Petronijevic) and his free-spirited girlfriend Masha (Punch). When Todd accidentally dispatches his irksome sibling with an axe, Cammie is determined not to let murder stand in the way of their happiness.
Mid-thirty-somethings Todd Chipowski and Cammie Ryan are planning on taking a week-long vacation at Todd's family's lakefront cottage in Haliburton County. Subservient Todd even set up a website for family members to book the cottage so that there will be no confusion as to who will be there at any given time. This week is meant to be special as Todd plans to ask Cammie to marry him, the island in the middle of the lake the spot where he will pop the question. Cammie, who has a plan for everything, planted the marriage seed in Todd's brain, she who knows what is supposed to happen down to the locale. The planned vacation hits some figurative bumps in the road, first with Todd having to stay late at work for a boss he hates resulting in their trip being delayed by a day, second with they almost running over a seeming vagrant on the road en route, and third, and perhaps worst, Todd's slacker younger brother Salinger Chipowski and his on-again, off-again, on-again Eastern European girlfriend Masha showing up at the cottage that same night despite Todd having booked the cottage on the website. While Todd has a closer relationship with his father Earl Chipowski, Salinger has a closer relationship with his mother, Mary Chipowski, who has coddled Salinger all of his life. Feeling that Salinger and Masha's presence is ruining their planned romantic getaway, Cammie wants Todd to speak to Salinger to make him and Masha leave. That talk between the brothers happens when Cammie takes Masha out mushroom scavenging the next morning. What Todd hopes will be a civilized conversation turns into a brawl as Salinger refuses to leave, the brawl ultimately ending with Todd accidentally killing Salinger in a fit of rage. Salinger's death and what to do about it ends up testing Todd and Cammie's relationship primarily in ways Todd would not have anticipated.

