Survivors of an airplane crash find themselves within the borders of a government testing area and pursued by predators.
The film opens with two teenagers flying from New York to Los Angeles on New Years Eve. Their nightmare begins when their plane hits extreme turbulence mid-flight. The relentless weather attack causes panic and terror amongst the passengers until the plane ultimately crashes in a remote government-testing area. The handful of survivors from the crash, bloody and disoriented, are then insistently pursued in the darkness by unknown predators that, unbeknownst to them, are part of the government's top-secret Mesa Experiment.
The film opens with Trish and Jessie going to the airplane, while trying to find their seats Trish says "hi" to everyone she sees as she's walking by. They find their seats two rows from the back and then we see Tom and his wife getting into their seats beside them. Trish then pans her camera to the front of the plane and we see Charlie putting his luggage in the cupboards and Trish makes a comment about him "he's drunk." Trish turns the camera back to Tom who kisses his wife's hand (and we find out she has a fear of flying.) Trish asks her why she's afraid of flying and she says "I don't know, dying." and she likes staying on the ground. She and Trish talk about taking a car which is on the ground. Trish pans the camera to the front again and we see Lois (one of the air hostesses) and tells her to turn off her camera and turn it back on once they're in flight. Trish ignores her and talks to some of the passengers seated close to her after Lois leaves. Later on, Lois has to deal with Charlie (who boarded the plane drunk), he turns around and sees Trish with Jessie's camera and pulls it back in quickly. The film cuts to Jessie reading a book, and Trish pans the camera to the front once again and we see Lois showing everyone what to do e.g. how to fasten your seat-belts and where the fire exits are in case of an emergency. Trish turns the camera to Tom and his wife, but the wife tells her to get the camera away.After taking off and celebrate the arrival of the new year, the passengers are soon sent into shock and alarm as the plane experiences severe turbulence. The relentless weather attack causes panic and terror amongst the passengers until the plane ultimately crashes in a remote government-testing reserve. The filming of this incident and further events that ensue should not be taken lightly or viewed by the faint of heart. It is both engaging and harrowing as well as extremely disturbing.Soon after the crash, the passengers take quick account of the few among them that remain alive, while also awaiting for the assumed rescue that should be minutes away. However, this does not occur. The survivors, bloody and disoriented, are then insistently pursued in the darkness by unknown predators that, unbeknownst to them, are part of the government's top-secret Mesa Experiment. The group of individuals are diverse, which causes difficulty agreeing on which next steps should be taken to move forward and stay alive. Without warning deaths occur and lead each person to assess what they can possibly do to evade such a lethal threat.Almost as soon as plans are hatched, they are just as quickly thrown away. The few passengers who are left are forced to flee to various parts of their wild surroundings where they find shelter in abandoned structures. These structures turn out little help as they are assaulted with violent attacks from the outside. Soon help can be seen coming, but with events that turn for the worse this group once again finds themselves helpless and alone. Running through the dark and being trailed by something that cannot be fully seen, these survivors do the only thing they can, try to stay alive.However, in the following events that come they experience great loss and sadness coupled only with the bleak realization that they may not survive the night. Reacting as most would in this situation each one of them tries to support the other, while of course others are not as well equipped to deal with such events. Handling moments and situations that occur on the edge of human experience this film takes moviegoers on a whirlwind ride, with a twist ending that will leave you breathless, shocked, and terrified. A haunting film that should be prepared for before viewing.The ending shows Trish and Jessie running for their lives, eventually bursting out into bright sunshine only to find out exactly where they have been all night. They see a car coming their way, and talk to the male driver for a few seconds then get in the car and moments later he shoots Jessie in the front seat. Trish runs out screaming with the camera then she gets shot. The man then kneels down in front of the camera and talks to a walkie talkie. He grabs the camera and pans it around and a dinosaur appears and attacks and kills him (blood splatters on the screen, the dinosaur growls and then the movie ends.
