In Manhattan, film-maker Erik bonds with closeted lawyer Paul after a fling. As their relationship becomes one fueled by highs, lows, and dysfunctional patterns, Erik struggles to negotiate his own boundaries while being true to himself.
It's 1998 and New York City is in a state of intense flux when documentary filmmaker Erik Rothman (Thure Lindhardt) first meets Paul Lucy (Zachary Booth), a handsome but closeted lawyer in the publishing field. What begins as a highly charged first encounter soon becomes something much more, and a relationship quickly develops. As the two men start building a home and life together, each continues to privately battle their own compulsions and addictions. A film about sex, friendship, intimacy and most of all, love, Keep the Lights On takes an honest look at the nature of relationships in our times.
It's the late 1990s in New York City. Erik Rothman, a gay Danish documentary filmmaker, long broke off his last serious relationship with a man named Paolo. Since, he has moved from one one night stand to another, many of those connections through a telephone gay cruising service. It is through those means that Erik meets bisexual corporate lawyer Paul Lucy, who admits he is already in a heterosexual relationship. Their initial sexual encounter is meant to be a one time only thing, but they slowly move that one time encounter into a relationship. The roller coaster that is their relationship is presented over the following approximate ten years. The highs are fueled by their sexual passion for each other, the lows largely a manifestation of mistrust, in what the other does when not around, Paul's disappearances, physically and emotionally, which are often, and disagreements about whether Paul has a crack problem, crack which increasingly seems to be routinely incorporated into their lovemaking. Their problems are exacerbated by each turning to comforts in their life, for Paul being more drugs which further clouds his judgment, and for Erik the thoughts of being with other men, either the known such as remembering back to Paolo or the unknown through such avenues as the old telephone cruising line.
In 1998, Erik (Thure Lindhardt), a Danish artist living in New York City, meets Paul (Zachary Booth), a lawyer, through a phone sex hot-line. Clearly attracted to each other, they share an intimate moment and have sex. Erik later visits a man named Russ (Sebastian La Cause) who seems more interested in showing off his muscles to Erik than having sex. Erik sees Paul again, and tells him about how he broke up with his ex-boyfriend Paolo, who was HIV-positive. Erik confides to his friend Claire (Julianne Nicholson) on how he is happier now with Paul than he was with Paolo. Meanwhile, Paul asks Erik to keep quiet about his drug use and gets Erik high. Paul, who was closeted before meeting Erik, sees his ex-girlfriend while visiting an art gallery with Erik, who tries to persuade Paul to introduce him to her. While away from the city, Erik calls his doctor for some test results and learns that he is HIV-negative. Later, Paul throws a surprise birthday party for Erik.
In 2000, Paul catches Erik talking to another man in the street. While confronting Erik about this, Paul argues with him, but they manage to get over it. Paul then briefly goes missing during a dinner with Erik and his friends, and evades Erik's questions about where he was. Erik, away from home working on his documentary, feels lonely and calls a phone sex hot-line. However, he is startled when he is connected with Paul. Erik is left upset. Back in New York, Erik argues again with Paul but they manage to make up in the night. Later, Erik returns home from working on his documentary, he finds an unconscious Paul outside their apartment. Paul is sent to rehab and states that Erik ruined his life. Erik goes to a gay club and meets a painter named Igor (Miguel del Toro).
In 2003, with Paul's release from rehab and Erik's success with his film, Erik assumes everything will be better. Erik's life is rocked when he learns that Paul hasn't been home while he was away for work. However, while his sister comforts him, Erik gets a call from Paul who tells him to visit him in his hotel. Paul displays erratic behavior, trying to pretend he is okay while it is clear to Erik that he hasn't improved since rehab. Erik tries to convince Paul to return home, but Paul remains at the hotel and hires a male prostitute whom he has sex with while Erik watches on. Erik later visits Russ, and the two share some drugs and presumably have sex.
In 2006, after not having seen each other for about a year, Paul meets Erik at a diner, where both seem better than before. He then invites Paul to spend the night at his apartment, to which Paul agrees, only to avoid having sex before going to sleep. Erik later runs into Igor on the street, and the two have a drink at a bar. While spending time together in the countryside, Erik asks Paul how he feels about their relationship, only for Paul to turn aggressive. Paul gives Erik an ultimatum, stating that he has a few hours to decide whether they move in together, or break up. Erik decides that they should move in together, only to drive to Paul's apartment in the city in the middle of the night to tell him that he's changed his mind. He walks Paul to work and Erik admits that he still loves him, although Paul is skeptical. The two hug, and Paul tells Erik to be well.
