I Am ZoZo is a psychological thriller about five young people who play with a Ouija board on Halloween and attract the attention of a malevolent demon. The film is based on real experiences with an ancient and malevolent spirit called ZoZo that attaches itself to people exclusively through Ouija boards. I Am ZoZo was shot last fall on location on San Juan Island, WA and Seattle entirely on Kodak Super 8mm negative film stock.
Home video footage shows friends Monica Olive, Esther Haltom, and Nick Corrado using a Ouija board. After contacting a spirit identifying itself as Zozo, Monica goes into convulsions.Tess writes a letter to reported Zozo survivor Darren Evans. She then recounts her Ouija board experience for Darren.Tess joins her friend Aiden for a Halloween night get-together at Aiden's father's island cabin. With them are old friends Nick and Dean, and Dean's new Wiccan girlfriend Mel. A man named Skip takes them across the water to Paradise Island.The boys settle in as the girls get to know each other while carving a pumpkin. Mel has an asthma attack while telling Tess about a Wiccan holiday that she calls Zoan. The friends discover that the electricity is not working. Nick entertains the group with a card trick before Mel brings out a Ouija board.Mel and Dean use the board while blindfolded, although Dean does not take the séance seriously. Tess transcribes the letters as Mel asks questions to the spirits. After a false start, Tess briefly makes contact with her deceased cousin Adam. The spirit of a boy named Oliver then warns them of a coming danger.A loud bang on the door startles everyone. Aiden investigates, but finds nothing. Mel insists on using the board again. After Mel argues with Dean, Tess takes his place at the board. Aiden replaces Tess as the transcriber. The next spirit threatens and insults Mel. Tess starts asking the questions. The spirit claims that it is Tess' guardian. Tess believes she contacted her mother, but continued questioning identifies the spirit as Zozo. Zozo threatens to kill them. To prove he is real, Zozo then repeats Nick's earlier magic trick by making a card disappear and then tells the group that he is in the bathroom.Everyone goes to the downstairs bathroom where Aiden sees something that frightens him. Nick finds a shirt behind the door that he credits for scaring Aiden. Still unable to find the missing card, the friends agree to call it a night. Something unseen attacks Tess while she sleeps.In the morning, Tess recounts her night terror for Mel. She also tells Mel about a paranormal experience suffered by her mother. Tess' mother had an encounter that paralyzed her and caused her to float along the ceiling until she had a vision of a baby dying in a fire. Tess' sister later died just three days after being born. Mel admits that she continued playing with the Ouija board after everyone went to sleep. She contacted her cousin Adam again, but strangely, he asked questions about Tess.Aiden guts a fish he caught in the lake and prepares to serve it for dinner. Over dinner, Dean reveals that he became friends with Aiden when Aiden was a paramedic who saved his life. Tess and Nick met at school. Aiden pours everyone some of his grandfather's homemade vodka and the group begins partying.Tess awakens during the night and sees Mel using the Ouija board alone in front of the fireplace and talking to Adam. Mel claims that Dean passed out and that Nick and Aiden went outside. Tess retrieves Mel's inhaler from another room and returns to find a jack-o-lantern slashed with a knife. Mel's blanket is now draped over her like a shroud while she sits. Tess removes the blanket. Mel sits in a trance before erupting into laughter. When Mel has an asthma attack, Tess looks for a second inhaler in the bathroom and becomes locked inside. Mel dies. Tess finds the missing card from the night before in a bathroom vent.Now psychologically broken, Tess finishes recounting the story for Darren Evans. Darren leaves Tess at the Beloit View Psychiatric Hospital where he was visiting her and takes the Ouija board with him. An epilogue reveals that Dean was unable to cope with Mel's death and committed suicide one year later.
