Four women band together to get revenge on four young successful players because the guys mistreated them in some way.
Prime Alexander is a professional athlete living the life most men dream of. He has a huge guaranteed contract, beautiful women chasing him and the best friends a man could ask for. He's used to getting what he wants, when he wants it and doesn't believe in explaining himself to anyone, especially Autumn, the beautiful woman he's been dating for a little over a year. Autumn Singletary is a wealthy socialite who doesn't understand the word no. Her relationship with Prime has more to do with appearances than real feelings but that's of no consequence when Prime decides to end their relationship by publicly humiliating her in the presence of his new interest, Skylar. The bond Prime shares with his boys, Lonzo, Kalif and Dallas has been nurtured throughout the years as the main constant in their life. They are always together. They are always taking care of each other. They are a true pact and have the secrets and the code to prove it. 1080 for life. Lonzo, Prime's very best friend, is an actor on the verge of being the next big thing. He's falling in love with the beautiful Katalina, one of Autumn's best girlfriends. He believes he's at the age where he needs to think about settling down and look to his parents' marriage as inspiration. Kalif is the youngest of the crew and is seriously addicted to women, especially his fiancé, Shanita. He's a hot A&amp;R executive and his career allows him the flexibility to juggle multiple women. Kalif and Shanita have been together since their early teenage years and she's the love of his life. He's messed up a few times and has children by other women to prove it. He truly loves Shanita more than anything in the world and he couldn't imagine life without her so he takes all of the steps necessary to make sure she's happy and doesn't go looking for anything. Dallas is a super arrogant playboy without a care in the world who prides himself on the chase. Women are a game for him and he likes to take his time. He loves the strategic nature of the hunt and plays the game a little too well. A chance encounter gives Autumn the ammunition she needs to create an unlikely alliance by which to shut Prime down and she doesn't give a damn who gets hurt. As a woman scorned, she was out for revenge. By forming a coalition, she proved she'd show no mercy. Everyone always wants the riches and the fame professional athletes have. "The Coalition" shows us that all that glitters is certainly not ideal and forces us to question how difficult love is within the confines of the industry and all that money can buy.

