A troubled teen is sent to live with his estranged father, a park ranger. During his time there, he develops an unusual affinity with and passion for the wolves in a local pack.
"On the ragged edge of the world I'll roam, and the home of the wolf shall be my home."
--Robert Service, The NostomaniacSet against the backdrop of the wolf reintroduction program in Yellowstone National Park, Druid Peak is a coming of age story about a troubled teenage boy who finds a home tracking wolves in the wild lands of Wyoming. Sixteen year-old Owen isn't just rebellious-- he's a bully with a mean streak. Growing up in coal country West Virginia, he struggles against the claustrophobia of small town life, lashing out against school and family. But when his actions lead to the death of a friend, Owen is sent to live with his estranged father, Everett, a biologist with Yellowstone's wolf reintroduction program.
At first, Owen wants no part of this new life. Then he comes face to face with a Canadian grey wolf. The creatures deep, penetrating gaze startles him, stirring something long dead inside himself. Sensing the first signs of change in his son, Everett encourages Owen to collect some basic data about the wolf he saw and its family pack-- the Druid Peak pack. Owens small assignment grows into a passion and his own life becomes deeply tied to the Druid Peak wolves and their struggle for survival. When a change in government policy threatens the animals, Owen must decide how far he will go to protect the wolves, his father and the place he has finally come to call home. A coming of age story with a conservation twist, Druid Peak is a film about the human souls need for wild things, and the challenges of holding onto them. Shot on location in West Virginia, Wyoming, Idaho,Montana and Utah, Druid Peak stars Andrew Wilson (Rushmore, The Royal Tennenbaums), Spencer Treat Clark (Mystic River, Gladiator), Rachel Korine (Spring Breakers, Septien) and the wolves of Wasatch Rocky Mountain Wildlife (White Fang, Into the Wild).
