The Smurfs team up with their human friends to rescue Smurfette, who has been abducted by Gargamel, since she knows a secret spell that can turn the evil sorcerer's newest creation, creatures called "The Naughties", into real Smurfs.
The evil wizard Gargamel creates a couple of mischievous Smurf-like creatures called the Naughties that he hopes will let him harness the all-powerful, magical Smurf-essence. But when he discovers that only a real Smurf can give him what he wants, and only a secret spell that Smurfette knows can turn the Naughties into real Smurfs, Gargamel kidnaps Smurfette and brings her to Paris, where he has been winning the adoration of millions as the world¹s greatest sorcerer. It's up to Papa, Clumsy, Grouchy, and Vanity to return to our world, reunite with their human friends Patrick and Grace Winslow, and rescue her! Will Smurfette, who has always felt different from the other Smurfs, find a new connection with the Naughties Vexy and Hackus or will the Smurfs convince her that their love for her is True Blue?
Gargamel is back, and this time he's sending the Smurfs on a wild adventure through Paris in this globe-trotting sequel to the 2011 hit. Determined to harness the magical essence of the Smurfs, wicked wizard Gargamel (voice of Hank Azaria) creates a diminutive race of mischief makers known as the Naughties. But in order to get the results he's looking for, Gargamel will need to get his hands on a genuine Smurf. Enter Smurfette (voice of Katy Perry), the only one of her kind who knows the spell that can transform Naughties into actual Smurfs. Having recently shot to fame in Paris due to his impressive magical powers, Gargamel kidnaps Smurfette, and sweeps her away to the City of Light. With Papa Smurf (voice of Jonathan Winters) and company hot on his trail, however, the scheming wizard quickly realizes that executing his diabolical plan will be easier said than done. Meanwhile, Smurfette's growing sense of insecurity leaves her vulnerable to the scheming of Naughties Vexy (voice of Christina Ricci) and Hackus (voice of J.B. Smoove)..

