The whole "zombie thing" has been hyped up so much that everyone thinks it's the end of the world! Of course, where one man sees the dead rising from the grave, another sees opportunity. Q had a plan: drive the robbery getaway van, deliver everyone to the safe house and get paid - a nice, simple, plan. Unfortunately, life is never really that simple, and to top it all off, this is the first time Q has been a getaway driver. He's coping pretty well though, considering; TONY (the guy who is 'in charge' of the job) is a murderous nut case, DANNY was shot and is now bleeding all over the money in the back of the van, the Sat-Nav has a mind of its own, there's a guy in the back living up to his name "CRAZY STEVE", the safe-house already has police at it, and this whole "zombie thing" seems to be quickly becoming more of a "zombie apocalypse thing". Luckily, TONY knows of another Safe House on the coast. Not so luckily, DANNY dies of natural-ish causes and then rises from the grave. Q and the others have to deal with a recently zombie-fied medieval re-enactment group, a football team that seem hell bent on eating their brains and the van running out of fuel. In their search for refuge and some diesel, TONY spots - of all things - a fortified windmill and the group awkwardly team up with a lovely young woman called CASSIE and her insane, but well armed GRANDMA. As TONY descends into deeper and deeper psychosis, he forces a last stand against a zombie horde, dies horribly and takes GRANDMA with him. Not bad for a night's work. Some men are born into shit-storms, some achieve shit-storms, and some have shit-storms thrust upon them. Q is up to his neck in this one and must now take charge of the group in order to save his own skin - not to mention the much more attractive skin of CASSIE. Finally reaching the coast, the new group must figure out a way off this crazy island - lack of sailing know-how and the walking dead notwithstanding. Just when things couldn't get any worse, one of them suffers an accident and lands Q with a dilemma. In the one hand he holds his own life and in the other the lives of the group. Who does he choose?

