The film begins with the sad state of affairs in a village, where politician turned Industries Minister Patil and his brother with the help of local politician Kulkarni ( Vaibhav Mangale) make the lives of poor farmers miserable forcing them to sale their lands after the SEZ comes into force. Mahesh Manjrekar, Sanjay Khapre, Siddhu The only opposition comes from an ex-serviceman (Satish Pulekar) who refuses to bow down. He is murdered by Kulkarni and his men but his mentally challenged nephew is the mute witness against Kulkarni. His helpless uncle after witnessing the thumb rule, rushes him to the city in search of an elder nephew( Bharat Jadhav) of the ex-serviceman. Thus begins the revenge. The five man Army comprising of those sharp shooters belonging to the gang of Babubhai then proceed to the village. Some of them carry funny names like West Indies, Kanfatya and Paani Kam ( the little boy who serves tea to the five man army). Not realizing the power of the Minister, the Five man army confront directly with Minister's brother and Kulkarni, only to be trapped by the shrewd Minister. When they are about to leave the village, another tragedy occurs, when they all swear to finish off the trio comprising of the Minister, his brother and kulkarni one by one. How they plan it and execute it is all that we see in the second part of the film full of action and thrills. As someone has rightly said, "Kuch Paaneke Liye kuch khona bhi padata hai"; the five man Army put up a brave fight against the corrupt system of the Minister forcing him to resign. The film does not end there, as a thrilling climax awaits for a sweet revenge.
Master Milind finds that his village is come under SEZ zone and before he could make villagers aware about its benefits he gets killed by corrupt MLA Madhusudhan Patil and his brother Bhaskar.They along with Kulkarni then eye Gangadhar's huge patch of land and kill him and term it as suicide which is witnessed by his abnormal son Vithoba.Vithoba goes to Mumbai to take help of his cousin brother Tukaram who works as hit man for gangster Bababhai.Tukaram along with his gang members West Indies,Kanfatya,Salim,Alex and little boy Paanikum arrive in the village and torture Kulkarni.The gang is then arrested by cops due to Madhusudhan's contact and beaten in lock up.Bababhai asks them to return back to Mumbai on their way from village they see that Paanikum who had left to go to Mumbai a night before has been killed by Bhaskar.Alex who was close to Paanikum forgets his tiff with Tukaram and teams up to fight against.Madhusudhan,Bhaskar and Kulkarni.

