His life was torn apart when his wife was murdered by Mafia boss Denny. Filled with vengeance, Adam summoned a demon that endowed him with god-like strength so that he might survive his journey through Heaven's Valley.
Following the suspicious death of his wife, Adam investigates her murder and discovers mafia boss Denny, is involved. Unable to trust the corrupt police, Adam summons a demon who offers him superhuman strength, dark powers, and promises to lead him to the murderer if he does everything the demon asks.
Set in the fictional country of Heaven Valley, the film tells the story of Adam, a man who begins to investigate the suspicious death of his wife and uncovers the involvement of local mafia boss Denny Richards. Unable to trust the deeply corrupt police department, Adam fuelled by anger, summons a demon who promises him superhuman strength and dark powers beyond imagination. Promising to lead Adam to the murderer if he does all that is asked of him, the demon accompanies the man on his quest for vengeance, unleashing a bloody war that will bring Adam and the demon head to head with Denny and his sadistic sons Ben and Derek, alongside the crooked police and a brutal hired killer. The fight will begin, and it will be the most extreme that you have ever seen.
Obsessed with finding the truth, Adam Chaplin discovers that Denny Richards, the evil crime kingpin of the decadent Heaven Valley, is behind the mysterious death of his wife. Blinded with rage and completely distrustful of the totalitarian police state, Adam strikes a dark pact with a malevolent demon to lead him to the unknown killer, provided that he does his bidding. Now, the new and invincible Adam has the power to wage war against the local police, Denny, and his destructive allies. Will Adam Chaplin crush his enemies, or will the merciless demon drag his immortal soul to hell?
Set in the fictional country of Heaven Valley, the film is the story of a man, Adam, who following the suspicious death of his wife begins to investigate her murder and in doing so, discovers the involvement of local mafia boss: Denny Richards.Unable to trust the police, corrupt and controlled by Denny, Adam, consumed by anger, summons a demon who offers him superhuman strength and dark powers. The demon follows him during his trip, promising to lead Adam to the door of the murderer if he does everything the demon asks.This unleashes a bloody war that will bring Adam, the demon on his side, against the police department with all its dark allies. The fight begins and it will be extreme!
