Evgeniy's hobby is to send fake letters to real countries. He has collected a letter from every country except New Zealand, and he sends a letter there. Things turn worst when he actually receives a letter from someone there.
Evgeniy started writing fake letters since he was 6 when he tried writing one to his imaginary friend. Throughout his lifetime, he has accumulated a letter from every country, except New Zealand. He writes a letter to a seemingly fake person in a seemingly fake city in New Zealand. After 4 weeks, he receives a letter back from the fake person stating that Evgeniy and the person have in fact met in real life. A lieutenant comes and searches his house to find a secret code hidden among the envelopes. Evgeniy is shocked and the lieutenant travels with him to board a plane later on. While Evgeniy and the lieutenant are traveling, Tanya (Evgeniy's wife) finds a letter in which the person from New Zealand proves to be true and states that Evgeniy will die in a plane.
Dedicated to the Russian writer and publicist Evgeniy Petrov, Kevin Spacey (Evgeniy) stars in a unique drama that pulls in your heart. Evgeniy had a unique hobby of sending falsified letters to strangers, and had collected return letters from around the globe. Anxiously waiting for his return letter from New Zealand (the finishing piece to his big puzzle), it took more than 3 weeks until it arrived with a mysterious memory written inside that Evgeniy couldn't recall; he replied with an apology for the misunderstanding. During that time, Evgeniy's bitter and disloyal neighbor, Pavel (Anthony Skordi), who needed a promotion, brought a military counter-intelligence lieutenant to Evgeniy's doorstep because of the questionable, falsified letters. Evgeniy never got to read the final reply letter from New Zealand that filled in a missing part of his life.
Dedicated to the Russian writer and publicist Evgeniy Petrov, Kevin Spacey (Evgeniy) stars in a unique drama that pulls in your heart. Evgeniy had a unique hobby of sending falsified letters to strangers, and had collected return letters from around the globe. Anxiously waiting for his return letter from New Zealand (the finishing piece to his big puzzle), it took more than 3 weeks until it arrived with a mysterious memory written inside that Evgeniy couldnt recall; he replied with an apology for the misunderstanding. During that time, Evgeniys bitter and disloyal neighbor, Pavel (Anthony Skordi), who needed a promotion, brought a military counter-intelligence lieutenant to Evgeniys doorstep because of the questionable, falsified letters.
