A woman is made to realize that her prayers and sacrifice to save her boyfriend's life may have led him to a fate worse than death.
Samar Anand, a hard working young immigrant in the city of London, glimpses upon the love of his life, a gorgeous angelic looking girl, (Katrina Kaif). They meet and their bond blossoms into love with time spent together. Samar however meets with a serious accident, and Meera vows to God she will leave Samar forever if he allowed him to live again, their love affair ends as quickly as it began. Samar angered with God and fueled with his love for Meera, declares War against Him. Samar Anand vows to walk into the jaws of death everyday as a challenge to God to keep him alive. He becomes Major Samar Anand in the Indian Army, a bomb disposal chief, defusing bombs without ever wearing a bomb suit. It is here that Major Samar also known as 'the man who cannot die' meets Akira (Anushka Sharma), a spirited vibrant, 'today's generation' Discovery Channel correspondent with a WTF attitude. Aware of Samar Anand's story, Akira is determined to unravel the mystery of love in this intriguing story, whilst herself falling hopelessly in love with Samar. Is Akira able to unravel the mysteries of love, does Samar win the battle or then does God surrender to his love?
It quite turned out to be driving a skeptical audience to predict the entire plot in the first quarter hour, but several twists and grooves kept them absorbed to the center plot in fine. A typical "Yash Raj Films" banner title with four crispy short words and the obvious protagonist Shah Rukh Khan, the swansong of ardent late Yash Raj was drenched in suspense, thrill and sated romance playing hide and seek with the impeccable beauty of Ladakh and London.Akira, Anushka Sharma, a profile photographer journalist in the Discovery was struggling hard to get a footage of Major Samar Anand, Shah Rukh, rescuing her from a false act of drowning. Samar could paint Akira's mind with a hue of his pain in life before edifying her, and left her with the diary of his life's bleak glum past.The movie goes back in time and shows the entire flashback of Samar, a waiter and a young musician, and Meera (Katrina Kaif), an NRI and a high class successful businesswoman. Meera craved to marry a British and was engaged. The NRI caught glimpses of the young musician performing on the streets apart from trading wishes with Lord. Despite promising not to "cross the line", she was all swept off her feet by charming Samar juggling fedora, in a dickered deal that he would teach her Punjabi song and she'd guide her to speak flawless English. They fell in love until the eclectic climax hauled at an accident Samar encountered following which Meera took down her chance of getting along him wishing her last.It twisted to the scene when Major Samar defused another bomb without any safety precautions as he haggled his chances of survival with Lord's choice of bringing Meera back to him. Meanwhile the gutsy prevaricating Akira lounging on her part of romance into Major Samar's unrequited love story, pranced up to the military arena in volleyball shorts, to set up her career in the Discovery chronicling the seemingly Sergeant William James; of course falling for the romance hero and getting reciprocated intermittently. Finally a second accident put up a black rose to his ten-year old memory bedding him at the hospital to retrograde amnesia. Meera was summoned; later she revealed she was not married and kept her love ringing through the last decade while Major Samar proved his charisma aplomb in defusing 98 consecutive bombs without security gears. Meera proved her mettle in the first part in helping him recover and later Akira, the pert with her quirks and pizzazz brought him to present day Major whose memory metamorphosed his ability to defuse a bomb inside a train in London.Major Samar took his final bet on life precariously as Meera succumbed to her emotions and gave into her wisdom of love on the spot of bomb diffusal in a white chiffon saree. Both the shift of persona in the characters of Samar and Akira were glaring towards the latter half as the climaxes play the musical chair. A. R. Rahman's music background did not cater for his cliché in most of the scores, neither the Punjabi song suited SRK's chords, but all-in-all, the three-hour long saga gave us superficial medleys of Baazigar, Veer Zaara and traffic-stopping guitarist "Karan" and "Raj" from the career of the 47-year old romance hero dubbed as a 28-year old in the movie.
