The story of two coalitions -- ACT UP and TAG (Treatment Action Group) -- whose activism and innovation turned AIDS from a death sentence into a manageable condition.
In the early years of the AIDS epidemic, the disease was considered a death sentence affecting communities, like the LGBT ones, whom many in power felt deserved it. This film tells the story of how militant activists like ACT-UP and TAG pushed for a meaningful response to this serious public health problem. As the activists struggled against political indifference, religious hostility, corporate greed and apparently skewed scientific research priorities with determination and sheer audacity, they produced a political wave that would lead to not only an effective treatment regime, but would advance LGBT rights beyond anyone's expectations.
Largely through archive footage much of it home shot video, the work of a group of Greenwich Village based AIDS activists, most associated with ACT UP (AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power), from 1987 to 1996, arguably the height of the AIDS epidemic in terms of the number of fatalities the result of the virus, is presented. New York City was seen as the epicenter of the AIDS epidemic then. Most of the activists highlighted have AIDS and thus their fight is one of survival during an era where an AIDS diagnosis was seen as a death sentence. They faced an uphill battle in what is largely inaction - due to fear, excessive protocol and/or just not really caring in AIDS primarily affecting who are already a marginalized population, gay men - by those who could make a difference, including front line workers, pharmaceutical companies, government agencies and non-government organizations, but especially politicians, most of the blame placed at the feet of all three Presidents who occupied the White House during this time, as well as North Carolina Senator Jesse Helms who was openly hostile toward the gay population. Another group which placed an obstacle to a solution to the overall health crisis was the Roman Catholic Church who believed the use of condoms, which was discovered to reduce the risk of virus transmission, was immoral. Much of the focus of this documentary is the fight for potentially life saving drugs, which were not available legally in the US. Because of this inaction, the activists had to become the experts, far more knowledgeable than many of those dealing with the issue professionally were. ACT UP itself was not without it problems, it which as an organization becoming fractured due to infighting in the early 1990s. As an epilogue to the story, many of the surviving activists - others who had died from AIDS during that era - talk about the change that happened in 1996 and what their lives were like after that change.
"How To Survive A Plague" is the untold story of the efforts that turned AIDS into a mostly manageable condition and the improbable group of young men and women who, with no scientific training, infiltrated government agencies and the pharmaceutical industry, and helped identify promising new compounds, moving them through trials and into drugstores in record time. These drugs saved their lives and ended the darkest days of the epidemic, while virtually emptying AIDS wards in American hospitals.These activists efforts created a paradigm for patient empowerment and health care activism that has since been replicated in the fight against many other diseases from breast cancer to heart disease. And as AIDS spread to Africa, India, and Asia, these activists helped open local groups, exporting AIDS activism to press for better, and more accessible, treatment.Their story stands as a powerful inspiration to future generations, a road map, and a call to arms. Science has yet to find a cure, and without rejuvenated vigilance, transmission is on the rise most remarkably, among young gay men who are ignorant of how AIDS activists beat back a plague, and along the way changed the world.
