Mycroft calls Sherlock back to London to investigate an underground terrorist organization.
Two years after the devastating effects of The Reichenbach Fall, Dr John Watson has got on with his life. New horizons, romance and a comforting domestic future beckon; but, with London under threat of a huge terrorist attack, Sherlock Holmes is about to rise from the grave with all the theatricality that comes so naturally to him. It's what his best friend wanted more than anything, but for John Watson it might well be a case of 'be careful what you wish for'. If Sherlock thinks everything can be just as he left it though, he's in for a very big surprise.
Two years have passed since Sherlock faked his death and left the public eye. Rescued by Mycroft during undercover work in Serbia, he is told a terrorist cell is about to launch an attack on London. Sherlock returns to the capital and, disguised as a waiter, surprises Watson just as he's about to propose to his new-found sweet-heart, Mary. The shallowness of Sherlock's re-introduction does not go down well with John, replacing his profound sense of loss with rage. As the media revels in Sherlock's return, Howard Silcott of the rapid transit system presents him a CCTV video of a man entering a tube train and seemingly never coming out again. Following a bonfire where a kidnapped Watson finds himself nearly burned but rescued by Sherlock and Mary, the two colleagues once again unite. Together they deduce that the terrorists intend to place a subway train in a disused station below parliament and blow it up.
After a two year absence, Sherlock returns to London at his brother Mycroft's request. There has been much speculation since his "death" with many having always believed he was alive and well. While many rejoice, one who doesn't take his return well is John Watson who, after grieving the loss of his friend, moved on with his life both professionally and personally. He's upset that his friend didn't trust him enough to tell him just what he was doing. He's also engaged to Mary Morstan. While he tries to get his old friend onside, Sherlock also has to deal with the main reason Mycroft wanted him back: they have credible evidence that there is to be a major terrorist attack in London.
Two years after his reported Reichenbach Fall demise, Sherlock Holmes (Benedict Cumberbatch) has been completely exonerated of the slander that was caused him at the hands of James Moriarty. The opening scene shows a version of how Sherlock might have faked his death: by jumping from the roof with a bungee cable, bouncing back and entering the building through a window, where Molly stood waiting for him. While Sherlock absconded, members of his homeless network put a mask on Moriarty's face so that he would look like Sherlock, and then dragged him onto the street to the spot where Sherlock would have landed and sprayed him with fake blood. While all this was happening, Watson was lying on the ground, his vision obscured, having just been run over by a cyclist, who was in on the plan and who hypnotized him to give the others extra time to plant the body, this however is shown to be a conspiracy theory of Anderson. Sherlock with the aid of Mycroft returns to London which is under threat of terrorist attack. John has moved on and has a girlfriend, Mary Morstan (Amanda Abbington), whom he intends to propose to in a restaurant, when Sherlock enters, disguises himself as a French waiter with a thick accent and visits John's table a couple of times before he notices who he is.Sherlock reveals that the death was fraudulent to John, who fueled by anger, hits him more than a few times. Sherlock enlists Molly to assist him in the case of an underground skeleton behind a desk containing a manuscript: "How I did it" by Jack the Ripper, revealed to be a fake planted by Anderson (now a conspiracy theorist, driven by guilt over his role in Sherlock's defamation) to lure Holmes out of hiding. Later that day, Mary receives a text telling her covertly that John has kidnapped by unknown assailants and will die if he isn't rescued in time, along with a location. Sherlock and Mary come to his rescue on a motorcycle, and manage to drag him out of a pyre on which a Guy was about to be burned.John and Holmes then return to solving Mycroft's terrorist problem, which is revealed to be planned by an "underground movement" in the most literal sense (i.e. a movement based in the London Underground). They discover that a key figure in the plot is a politician named Moran, who with his organization plots to blow up the Houses of Parliament during an all night sitting on the Fifth of November (Bonfire Night), to vote on a new terrorist law. Near a never used Underground station, they manage to find an Underground carriage that was earlier seen disappearing with Moran on it, and find that it is rigged with explosives. Sherlock manages to defuse the bomb by turning the off-switch, but not before making Watson believe the bomb can't be defused, causing him to panic and reveal to Sherlock how much he has missed him, to his later embarrassment.In a flash forward before Sherlock reveals he has defused the bomb, he is seen visiting Anderson and revealing to him how he faked his death as part of a plan to round up Moriarty's network. An alternate version of the faked death is shown, leaving it ambiguous to which one is true, if any of them. Sherlock tells Anderson that he and Mycroft had anticipated thirteen possible scenarios that could happen on the roof. Each possibility had a code name and a plan of action attached to it. Sherlock however, did not anticipated that Moriarty would kill himself. Thus, Sherlock texts his brother one of the code names ("LAZARUS"). His homeless network shut down the entire street and were at the ready. John, who had no idea all this was happening could be seen in the cab driving towards the hospital. When John came, Sherlock made sure he stood at the right spot so that his view of the bottom half of the building was blocked. The homeless network and Mycroft's people set a large inflated cushion which allowed Sherlock to fall on safely and trick everyone. All the people rushed to pull the cushion away and Sherlock ran to hide. Then, Molly who was near a window threw a body double on the ground (the same person who Moriarty used to frame Sherlock for the abduction of Rufus Bruhl's children). John, who had rushed to the scene, only saw a glimpse of the body before he was intentionally knocked down by the cyclist which stalled him and allowed Sherlock to take the place of the body double and put a ball under his armpit to momentarily give the impression of having no pulse. The people that surrounded him then poured blood around and on him to further make the illusion, thus allowing Sherlock to fake his suicide.In the ending scene, a silhouetted figure with blue eyes wearing glasses is observed watching footage of Sherlock and Mary.
