A girl wakes up after a car crash. Her younger brother has disappeared. As she promised him, she boards a cargo ship to find a new life. Then the shady Gábor crosses her path. A surreal trip on the fragile edge of life and death.
Multi award winning debut feature film by Ricky Rijneke. Young Hungarian Csilla (Orsi Tóth) wakes up inside a crashed car in the middle of nowhere, not knowing where her brother Isti is. He has vanished without a trace. As she promised him, she boards a freighter to find a new life. Then the shady Gábor (Roland Rába), a self-proclaimed businessman crosses her path. Hallucinogenic, surrealist trip in the twilight zone between life and death. For Silent Ones Ricky brought together a selection of prize-winning European film talent, including Berlinale's shooting star the Hungarian actress Orsi Tóth (Delta, Women Without Men), cinematographers Gergely Pohárnok (Hukkle, Taxidermia) and Jean-Paul DE Zaeytijd, the regular DOP of all Bouli Lanners films. Sound by Tamas Zanyi (Taxidermia, Son of Saul). Andrey Dergachev (composer of The Return, The Banishment and Leviathan by Andrey Zvjagintsev) designed the soundscape and composed the music. Actress and singer-songwriter Vanessa Paradis contributed with her famous song 'Joe Le Taxi'.
Young Dutch director Ricky Rijneke examines with meticulous shots the fragile dividing line between life and death in her feature debut. Hungarian Csilla wakes up inside a crashed car, somewhere in the countryside. Her younger brother Isti is nowhere to be found. Dazed, Csilla leaves the spot to begin a second life, as she promised her brother she would. She'll never return. Persuaded by the shady Gabor - he is involved in 'import and export' - she sets off with him in a freighter to Western Europe. During the endless journey, Gabor violates her and Csilla loses her only reminder of Isti. Slowly, she loses her grip. Life on board the freighter is like a vacuum in which Csilla finds herself - a surrealistic twilight zone. For Silent Ones, a former CineMart project, Rijneke brought together dexterously a choice selection of prize-winning European film talent, including Gergely Pohárnok (Hukkle, Taxidermia) and Jean-Paul DE Zaeytijd (Bouli Lanners' regular DOP) for the camera work. Andrej Dergatchev (who worked on The Return and The Banishment by Andrej Zvjagintsev) sets the tone for the film with his dreamy-ominous soundtrack. With her expressive face and few words, the Hungarian Orsi Tóth (Delta, Women Without Men) portrays a young woman fighting herself and her past.

