The true story of Sports' Greatest Underdog.
The Bromley Boys is a funny yet touching coming of age football memoir played out to the sights and sounds of late 60's Britain. Based on the hilarious novel by Dave Roberts, it recounts the author's highs and the lows supporting the worst football team in the country at the time - Bromley FC.
In 1970, as England were preparing for the defence of their World Cup crown, and George Best was delighting crowds with his virtuoso skills, 15 year old David Roberts had become infatuated with a team at the very opposite end of the football spectrum - his local non-league side Bromley FC.Bromley were a team that had seen better days: crowds had dwindled to less than fifty, players were turning up late, if at all, and the team were letting in so many goals that even the taunting opposition fans were losing count of the score. David Roberts was a loner in love with football. Finding it hard to fit in at school, he longs to be ingratiated into the inner sanctum of Bromley FC's fans. These fans include Derek, Roy and Peter, three misfits with less influence at the club than they imagine.The awful season continues being lit up by brief moments of quality from Bromley's 'star' striker Alan Stonebridge who it would appear is destined for bigger and better things with both Manchester United and Leeds United keen to sign him. Or so David believes. With the club in turmoil, Bromley's Chairman and compulsive gambler, Charlie McQueen also starts to believe the rumours. A transfer of this size would save the club!What follows are a series of Chinese whispers that has David and his new friends plotting to find out what's going on at their beloved club - often with hilarious consequences. David also embarks on a seemingly sham relationship with the Chairman's daughter, and aspiring doctor, Ruby McQueen in order to infiltrate the club. A relationship that leads him to a party at the Chairman's house where David has a terrible realisation... all is not what it seemed!Hinged on the Stonebridge deal, in a last chance desperate bid to save the club and Ruby's future, David forges an alliance with the once fearsome Chairman, as the pair plot to dig themselves out of trouble. In a must win, last match of the season Bromley find themselves up against the soon to be crowned champions Enfield FC. With David appointed as Bromley's 'Manager for the Day', and Charlie McQueen clasping a betting ticket that would decide everything. Bromley find themselves at 1-1 in the dying seconds of the game when Stonebridge goes on a darting run and is fouled inside the box - or is he? The rest as they say is history.Based on real events....and some rumours....
