Dale, Kurt and Nick decide to start their own business but things don't go as planned because of a slick investor, prompting the trio to pull off a harebrained and misguided kidnapping scheme.
Fed up with answering to higher-ups, Nick, Dale and Kurt decide to become their own bosses by launching their own business. But a slick investor soon pulls the rug out from under them. Outplayed and desperate, and with no legal recourse, the three would-be entrepreneurs hatch a misguided plan to kidnap the investor's adult son and ransom him to regain control of their company.
Friends, Nick, Dale and Kurt decide to start their own business. They search for investors and the Hansons, a father and son owned company makes them a proposal which requires them to take out a big loan. But the Hansons eventually reveal that they set them up so that they can take over their business cheaply. So unless they can come up with the money to pay the loan, they'll lose everything. That's when they come up with the plan to kidnap the son for ransom which they will use to pay the loan. Of course they are not good kidnappers but the son learns what they are planning and decides to go along with them and ask for more money than they wanted.
Having narrowly avoided prison following the antics of the previous film, Nick (Bateman), Kurt (Sudeikis), and Dale (Day) decide to go into business for themselves. When their breakthrough product, the Shower Buddy, catches the attention of a wealthy entrepreneur named Bert Hanson (Christoph Waltz) who offers to bankroll their initial production run, the eager inventors quickly move into manufacturing. Proudly filling Hanson's initial order before the deadline, they decide to surprise their key investor with the good news, only to get a nasty surprise: A shrewd businessman with a serious lack of ethics, Hanson announces that he is canceling the deal. With no investors to keep the business afloat, the Shower Buddy factory will soon fall into foreclosure, allowing Hanson to scoop up the product at a fraction of the original cost, change the name, and reap the profits. Indignant, Nick, Kurt, and Dale hatch a plot to kidnap Bert's son Rex (Chris Pine) for a healthy ransom, paying a visit to criminal mastermind Dean Jones (Jamie Foxx) for a few pointers on the fine art of abduction. Needless to say, nothing goes quite as planned, and as the police launch an investigation into the elaborate crime, the hapless trio must once again race to stay one step ahead of the law..
The movie picks a little bit after the the first installment. Nick, Kurt and Dale have quit their old jobs and hit quite a break by inventing a shower head product. But the father-and-son crooked businessmen Bert and Rex Hanson swindled them off their own company. The three again think of a crime to exact vengeance on the Hansons. Failed at murder attempts, they turn to kidnapping the son Rex to be held at ransom against Bert. They first sneak into the place of Julia, Dales old boss. Julia comes unexpectedly so Kurt and Dale, who Julia already knew from the first movie, hides in the closet. Nick sacrifices himself to satisfy Julias addiction problem so that Kurt and Dale can escape unnoticed. They sneak into Rexs house with a stash of nitrogen supposedly to gas the owner. But as usual, a mishap occurs, releasing the nitrogen on themselves inside Rexs closet. The next day, Rex pulls a gag on them and then quickly escalates the situation, forcing the three to continue on the kidnapping plan, only with Rex in on it too. Rex marks up the ransom from half a million to five million dollars, claiming that his father will cooperate and not call the police. But the opposite happens as Detective Hatcher suspects the three for the kidnapping.They eventually slide away with it and Rex assists them in making a supposedly fool-proof plan.The plans key is that they would fool the police in doing the ransom drop. Instead of pointing Bert to a drop point, they would kidnap Bert in the drop point while Kurt disguised as Berts body double goes and supposedly continues on to the real drop. They execute the drop plan, and another stupid clumsiness happen where Kurt misplaced the untraceable phone with his own. Already knowing about the break-in at her place, Julia comes to Nick, Kurt and Dales meeting place. They finally subdued her and continue on with the plan. As planned, Bert goes to the basement parking lot where the three hold him at gunpoint. But he doesnt surrender the money. Suddenly Bert gets shot from behind by Rex who then reveals that hes framing the three for the murder and kidnapping. As Rex escapes, Madafaka Jones, whom the three had again consulted about the kidnapping plan beforehand, comes and take them with his car. He tells them to race Rex to the kidnapping spot warehouse. They made it to the warehouse just narrowly after Rex sets himself up as the kidnapping victim, framing the three as police arrive. But Kurts phone, which Rex took from Berts hand, rings. The three appeals to the police in why didnt Rex call the police if he had a phone with him all the time. Defeated, Rex quickly grabs Detective Hatcher hostage. In panic Dale attacks him but Rex shoots him. Det. Hatcher quickly subdues Rex amidst the chaos.Nick, Kurt, and Dale's business goes into foreclosure because Jones had walked away with the ransom money, however, the business is auctioned and the three men get to stay on as managers. It is revealed that Harken bought the business and that they are to report to him every week for the figures. Harken is totally unimpressed at their work and berates them once again, but they laugh and walk away.Jones purchases a candy store business with five million in cash
