A father and a son live in a poor area, near the Bulgarian-Turkish-Greek border.
This is the story of Mityo and his son Vasko, who live in a poor area near the Bulgarian-Turkish-Greek border. Mityo has lost his wife, the respect of his 18-year-old son and the job that enabled him to pay off the loan for his mortgaged house. Desperate, he accepts a proposal from his former military commander (Predrag 'Miki' Manojlovic) to smuggle illegal Syrian immigrants across the border he once had to defend. The road leads across a peak called The Judgment, a place full of dark memories from thousands of years of history, but also from Mityo's own past. The revelation of his terrible secret will force him to face the past, in order to regain his internal peace and find forgiveness from his son.
The story takes place nowadays, in a small and poor village in Bulgaria, which is located close to the border with Turkey and Greece. Mityo lives with his son Vasko. The relations between the two of them are strained after the recent death of Fanka - Mityos wife and mother of Vasko.The situation is getting even worse - the dairy, where Mityo has worked for 15 years, went bankrupt. He remains unemployed and he cant cover the payments on the loan, which he has taken several years ago for the treatment of Fanka. There is a real danger that Mityo and Vasco end up homeless the family house serves as a guarantee of the mortgage. Fallen into deadlock Mityo accepts to work for his former commander from the time when he served in the military - the Captain. His job is to smuggle illegal immigrants through the Bulgarian - Turkish border. The road passes through a fateful place for Mityo - the rock The Judgment located on the border. There, during his military service Mityo had killed a young couple of East Germans who tried to escape to the West. Mityo has been living for 25 years with this memory, and every time he goes with another group of immigrants along that cliff it becomes more difficult to bear his guilt.When Vasko reveals the secret of his father, the conflict escalates. Desperate, Mityo takes over one last, risky assignment. He does not know that this time he will have to face the past, in order to regain his internal peace and find forgiveness from his son.
