Several alumni reminisce about their final year at St. Theresa's College and the events that shaped their lives.
Dean Yoginder Vashisht (Rishi Kapoor), retired, has fallen gravely ill. Several students from his final year at St. Theresa's College rush to his side. In flashbacks, they all recall the events that none of them have gotten over yet, including the dean, and how the "Student of the Year" competition shaped who they were, how they related, and what they've become.
Former principal Dean Yogendra Vashisht (Rishi Kapoor) has aged and fallen ill. He desires to see the students from his last batch, who were part of the "Student of the Year" competition. Some former students arrive to the hospital to meet the Dean and talk about their regrets from ten years ago in college. They hold themselves responsible for the lively Dean having falling ill. The film then goes into a flashback set ten years back at the college.The richest and most popular guy in the college, Rohan "Ro" Nanda (Varun Dhawan), is the son of a huge business tycoon Ashok Nanda (Ram Kapoor). His father wants him to be a businessman like him and disagrees with his passion for music. Shanaya Singhania (Alia Bhatt), a fashion addict and the most popular girl in the campus is Rohan's girlfriend. She is unsatisfied with her family, as her mother constantly divorces and marries rich men. Shanaya gets upset with Rohan's regular flirting with Tanya Israni (Sana Saeed), another student. Abhimanyu "Abhi" Singh (Sidharth Malhotra) arrives at the college and becomes the classy new heartthrob. Abhi becomes the most popular guy in the college. He plays the role of the perfect student and a perfect man. He is an orphan from a middle-class family, and lives with his aunt, uncle and grandmother. His dream is to become a big business tycoon like Ashok. Rohan and Abhimanyu argue at first but soon become best friends. Rohan introduces Shanaya to Abhimanyu, warning Abhimanyu not to get involved with her romantically.Abhimanyu is invited to Rohan's elder brother's destination wedding in Thailand, which Shanaya and other rich family friends are attending as well. In Thailand, Shanaya sees Tanya and Rohan flirting again and gets even more upset when Rohan is rude to her and sides with Tanya. Abhimanyu tells her that they can teach Rohan to respect his girlfriend. At a party, Shanaya openly flirts with Abhimanyu, attempting to make Rohan jealous. The plan works but Rohan discovers she did this to get him back on track.On the wedding day, Rohan apologizes to her and is easily forgiven while Abhimanyu realizes that he is in love with Shanaya. They head back to India, where the "Student Of The Year" competition, which determines the best student with good logical thinking and is a good sportsperson, commences. First round is the quiz in which Rohan, Abhi and most of their friends win. The second round is the treasure hunt. Abhimanyu and Shanaya's team wins the hunt, though Rohan's team also qualifies. Abhimanyu's grandmother falls sick and eventually dies. Shanaya stands by him during this difficult time. Upset, Abhimanyu sends Shanaya away, but now she is also attracted to him, stays back and they happen to kiss. Rohan sees this and is heartbroken, becoming enemies and fighting with Abhimanyu. After having a fight with his father, Ashok disowns Rohan as a son, and he leaves the house.In the third round, the Prom, a confused Shanaya picks Rohan's friend Jeet Khurana (Sahil Anand) as her partner as she can't choose between Abhimanyu and Rohan. Rohan, who disowns Jeet and ends his friendship with him, goes with Tanya and Abhimanyu with Shanaya's ex best friend Shruti Pathak (Manasi Rachh) when she has a spat with Shanaya. Shanaya is disqualified for leaving the dance before it ends. The last round of the competition is a triathlon. Abhimanyu is winning but sees how Ashok doesn't want Rohan to win. He intentionally slows down and lets Rohan win. In the award ceremony, Yogi is abused by a drunken friend of theirs, Kaizad "Sudo" Sodabottleopenerwala (Kayoze Irani) due to which he eventually retires.In the present, Rohan is a pop star but single. Abhimanyu and Shanaya are now married and Abhimanyu in the present day is now a successful investment banker. They all see each other after coming to meet their principal, Abhimanyu and Rohan have a fight and let out everything they were holding back for ten years. They then unite after Rohan discovers the truth about the triathlon. They realize how important friendship is.
