An army captain is on a mission to track down and destroy a terrorist gang and deactivate the sleeper cells under its command.
Jagdish (Vijay), an army captain, is back in Mumbai for a holiday to be with his parents and two sisters. They want him to get married and finds a bride Nisha (Kajal Aggarwal) for him. After the usual bickerings the couple fall in love. Meanwhile Jagadish an intelligence officer in the military, has a mission to crack down on terrorist sleeper cells in Mumbai. How Jagadish moving around as an ordinary person using his brain and brawn in the correct measure, tracks down the terrorist in his own unique way forms the rest of this escapist entertainer.
Jagdish is an army captain, who comes to his home in Mumbai to spend some time with his family, along with getting his marriage fixed with a girl, whom he earlier dislikes and later likes. However, during all this, a bomb explosion in a bus makes him to search and nab down the terrorist, after which he founds out the plan of the terrorist and his gang, and with his entire Army team, manages to thwart the plans of the gang. But this leads to an even bigger battle, as the leader of the terrorist gang arrives in Mumbai, in order to find and kill Jagdish. What will happen now? Will Jagdish be able to win the battle or not? Some more questions like this form the rest of the story as well as the crux of the film's plot.
Jagdish, an army officer, comes home on vacation. His parents want him to get married and have made a choice about the girl, who is Nisha. Initially, Jagdish, thinking that Kajal is too homely decides she is not the apt choice for him. But later, when he sees that Nisha is a boxer, he finds that she is actually a girl with modern outlook and falls for her. One day, while going in a local bus with his friend Balaji, a police officer, a pick-pocketing incident occurs, and the two decide to find out the pick-pocket by checking everyone in the bus. So the bus stops and everyone is made to get down and is checked. A guy, with tensed looks puts something down in the bus, and runs away from the back door of the bus. Jagdish starts to chase him, but later finds the actual pick-pocket is caught at the front door. Thinking that the guy is up to something, he continues chasing him, and when he questions on why he ran away, the bus explodes. Police arrest the guy, who is a sleeper cell and is treated in hospital for his injuires.He escapes from the hospital after killing the doctor, and Balaji, warns Jagdish, to be safe and leave the city the next day, as the escaped sleeper cell might target him. But soon, it is revealed that, Jagdish actually chased him down, once he escaped the hospital and taken him a captive. Jagdish, cuts the guy's finger, and then questions on who was the police officer, who helped in his escape. He then, goes to the police officer's home, and makes him shoot himself. He then finds a sheet of paper with a 12 red-marked dots in the terrorist's bag. He then deduces that those represent various locations in Mumbai city Map. Deducing that the terrorists have planned for a bomb-attack in those locations, he comes to know that the plan is to attack those places at the same time on 12th of that month. On the same day, after attending a marriage of his army friend in a church, Jagdish seeks the help of his army team members. Jagdish, intentionally makes the captured sleeper cell to escape, and Jagdish &amp; team, follow that guy, who meets on the way 11 other sleeper cells. Jagdish &amp; his 11 men team, split and follow each of those 12 sleeper cells, and then shoot all the 12 sleeper cells at the same time.This stirs the anger of the terrorist leader (Vidyut Jamal), who calls the mobile of the captured sleeper cell that was missing from the spot of attack, thinking it must have been taken by the men who were responsible for this. The phone is answered by Jagdish and the terrorist leader warns him that he will track him down and kill him. He deduces that, each of those 12 men who killed the sleeper cells, must be trained physically and also must be good shooters, as all were head-shots. Knowing that everyone was wearing a suit during the assault, he decides that, those guys must have returned from a marriage. With the help of a local corrupt politician, he finds the marriage of an army officer took place on the same date, narrowing down his target to the people who attended that marriage. Jagdish meanwhile, starts thinking on the thread the terrorist leader might follow to track him down, and finalises that he and his men wearing suit during the assault, should be the loop-hole. The terrorist leader, kills the family of the bride, finds from the marriage album that, there were 5 groups of 12 men; he circles out one person in each group photo and decides to kidnap each guy's sister to know which of the groups was responsible. Jagdish reaches the bride's home only to find everyone is dead and sees the album and thinks the terrorist leader might try to target each of the 5 circled guys.But later, when sisters of 3 of those guys are kidnapped, Jagdish finds out the plan and asks his sister to use the scooter of the girl who is about to be kidnapped next. The terrorists thus wrongly kidnap Jagdish's sister. Jagdish then, using his K-9 dog, tracks down the place where his sister is kidnapped and in a subsequent shootout, Jagdish kills all of the terrorists.The terrorist leader in retaliation blasts a shopping complex killing Jagdish's army friend and his family and then blackmails Jagidish that if he does not show up in the place he says, he would kill all other men too. Jagdish, then agrees to him. But he plans to detonate the place where he will meet the terrorist leader, thereby killing the terrorist gang. He asks his friend to follow him using the tracking chip, he inserts in his arm and then plant the bomb in the place where he will meet the leader.The terrorist leader, asks Jagdish to switch between various cars on the way and finally makes him get into a ship. He then reveals, that he has planted bombs in all the cars Jagdish has used in the way and that once the police finds from the surveillance cameras that he is the one who has driven the car to the place, they will brand him a double-agent. When the leader asks Jagdish his last wish, Jagdish wishes to get beaten to death. And after getting beaten very hard, Jagdish challenges him, to uncuff him and then fight him.The leader accepts the challenge and subsequently Jagdish defeats him and escapes with him in a boat, where the both watch the ship getting blasted. Jagdish then shoots the leader saying "Die with the feeling of suspense(of how the ship blasted!)".The film then ends with Jagdish and other army officers boarding a train for the next mission.
