When a US plane is taken down over seas by an unknown assailant, the army is sure it was North Korea and a new war is about to break out. Even worse, the true attacker is an alien armed force and only one old battleship can stop them.
When a fleet of mysterious ships wage war against the Earth, only the crew of the USS Iowa, the last American battleship, can prevent global armageddon.This is an excerpt from Dan's movie report, for the full review go to:American Warships represents a technological leap for The Asylum, the CGI in this film is very good, by low budget standards of course, not distracting at all. I am basing this strictly on lower budget standards, as many asylum films and other lower budget films have much poorer often times wrenching 80s technology CGI.The acting is acceptable, not going to win awards, but Mario Van Peebles (Capt. Winston), Carl Weathers (General McKraken), and Johanna Watts (LT Bradley) are solid in their portrayal of their respective characters. Quite frankly, I am a white male, and I like a diverse multi-ethnic cast in films. Nice to see the two underutilized veteran actors kick ass even if they are older now.The basic premise is the same as the big budget version of the film, Aliens and the navy fighting them, the filming took place in Wilmington NC, and the shooting schedule was limited, but for what they came up with the end result is highly watchable.Cast:
Mario Van Peebles	Captain Winston
Carl Weathers	General McKraken
Johanna Watts	Lt. Caroline Bradley
Nikki McCauley	Dr. Julia Flynn
Tony Basile	Navy seal #9
Elijah Chester	Secretary Of Defense Alter
Brandon Clark	Chief ONeal
Josh Cohen	Weapons Officer Clancy
April Ezell Wilson	Dr. Billman
Gregory French	Navy Seal
James Furey	CPO Rawlins
Rebecca Goudarzi	Jane
Aaron Griswold	Munitions Team Leader
Gray Hawks	Wexler
Chris Hayes	Lt. Anders
Robert Jarvis Jr.	CWO Watts
Sebastian Kelly	Ensign Moore
Jon Kondelik	Pentagon Radio Operator (voice)
Jayson McCardell	Seal
Devin McGee	Lt. Cmdr. Juarez
David Polinsky	Admiral Hollis
Robin Dale Robertson	Major
Steph Robinson	Ensign Moore (as Sebastian Kelly)
Rodney Roldan	2nd Lookout
Jennifer Russoli	Situation Room Attendee
Robyn Shute	Flight Comm Officer
Sean Patrick Smith	1st Officer Bryant
Charree Swindoll	Ship crew member
Ted Thayer	SEAL #1 Johnson
Mandela Van Peebles	Lookout Dunbar
Eric Scott Wilson	Ship Crew Membe
