In Havana, Raul dreams of escaping to Miami. Accused of assault, he appeals to Elio to help him reach the forbidden world 90 miles across the ocean. One night, full of hope, they face the biggest challenge of their lives.
Mired in the nervous desperation of Havana, Raul dreams of escaping to Miami. When accused of assault, his only option is to flee. He appeals to his best friend, Elio, to abandon everything and help him reach his destiny, 90 miles across the ocean. Elio's commitment is tested when he is torn between protecting his sister and his own desire to get out. On this one night, full of hope and fraught with tensions, they face the biggest challenge of their lives.
This movie is based upon the unrequited love that Elio has for Raul and the love triangle that surfaces when Raul decides that he wants to be with Elio's sister Lila. Elio could stay in Havana but instead chooses to flee with Raul because of the feelings that he has for his friend. Raul is forced to leave Habana quicker than anticipated when he is accused of assault after walking in on his prostitute mother, and the man injures himself leaving. When Lila discovers that her twin brother Elio is planning to leave her behind, she tries to sabotage his escape by ruining his raft. However, when she decides to go with the boys to Miami, she faces the consequences of her actions, being that she destroyed the motor that should have taken the three to Miami. Instead, they are forced to row the 90 miles and face dangers such as being unable to orient themselves, sharks, and Lila's inability to swim. During a shark attack, Lila is thrown into the water, and Elio tries to jump in and save her but is stuck attached to the raft. Raul instead goes in after Lila, flipping the boat in the process, and causing Elio to drown, and get somewhat eaten by the shark, though his cause of death is somewhat ambiguous. Raul and Lila float back to Cuba, cold, hungry, and thirsty, but without stopping to get home. Upon his return to Cuba, Raul is arrested for the "assault" that he was accused of before he fled.

