After receiving a bizarre series of encrypted messages, a group of kids embark on an adventure with an alien who needs their help.
"Earth to Echo" follows four young teenagers who find an alien life form that's trying to rebuild its spaceship. Together, the teenagers protect the alien and help rebuild its ship so it can fly back to its home planet.
Shortly after a massive construction project begins driving out the residents of their serene Nevada neighborhood, best friends Tuck (Astro), Munch (Reese Hartwig), and Alex (Teo Halm) notice that their mobile phones are being flooded with a series of enigmatic, encoded messages. Determined to discover the source of the code as their families, too, pack up and prepare to go their separate ways, the trio venture out into the desert and find a diminutive alien they nickname "Echo," who needs their help to get back to his ship. Although their quest is complicated by a group of sinister construction workers on a mission to reach the ailing extraterrestrial first, Tuck, Munch, and Alex soon receive some unexpected help from their classmate Emma (Ella Linnea Wahlestedt). Together with Emma, these three friends might just have a shot at getting Echo back to the stars before he's captured and imprisoned by the shadowy figures who are closing in fast..
Tuck, Munch and Alex are a trio of inseparable friends whose lives are about to change. Their neighbourhood is being destroyed by a highway construction project that is forcing their families to move away. But just two days before they must part ways, the boys begin receiving a strange series of signals on their phones. Convinced something bigger is going on, they team up with another school friend, Emma, and set out to look for the source of their phone signals. What they discover is something beyond their wildest imaginations: a small alien who has become stranded on Earth. In need of their help, the four friends come together to protect the alien and help him find his way home. This journey, full of wonder and adventure, is their story, and their secret.
