An evil wizard, Lord Tensley, seeks the hand and heart of the beautiful princess, Lady Ennogard. When she refuses, he locks her away and releases a deadly dragon, which he controls, to terrorize the land. He vows that, until she accepts his love, his dragon will destroy all who dare display any sign of love throughout the kingdom. Desperate to end the tyranny, she sends an enchanted dragonfly with a mission to find a true "Dragon Warrior" who is fit to release her from her captor and stop the destruction of the dragon. Meanwhile a young warrior, Camilan, braves the attacks of the Dragon and plans to marry his true love, the elf princess Larec. But his parents refuse to give their blessing, as marrying outside of their race would forfeit the family birthright. His only hope is to find a wife for his estranged older brother Ramicus, a rogue bounty hunter. But convincing the wild-hearted Ramicus to settle down and secure the family's inheritance seems a feat as impossible as any heroic quest. Camilan reunites with his brother with the hope that he will be able to soften his heart. His attempts are in vain until Lady Ennogard's dragonfly reaches their camp and relays her call of distress. Enamored by her beauty and lured by the promise of wealth, Ramicus agrees to take on the heroic task. So Ramicus and his Orc sidekick Shokdor, and Camilan and his loyal squire Samton, set off on a journey to rescue Lady Ennogard and put an end to the dragon and the evil reign of the powerful Lord Tensley.
When the powerful wizard, Lord Tensley, is jilted by Princess Ennogard, he vows to rid the land of love. He commands his fire-breathing dragon to destroy any sign of affection seen throughout the kingdom. As the death toll rises, Camilan, a brave but arrogant warrior seeks to marry his true love despite the curse upon the land. In order to fulfill his destiny, he seeks the help of his estranged brother Ramicus, a bounty hunter with no desire to get involved. It takes an enchanted distress message and the promise of great reward from the beautiful Princess Ennogard, to lure Ramicus into the quest to defeat the wizard and his terrible beast. This Fantasy/Adventure Comedy is the 'Lord of the Rings' meets 'The Princess Bride'.

