Peter and Chloe, a young married couple from New York, decide on impulse to take a belated honeymoon on-board a research vessel en route to the icy wastes of Antarctica. Not long into the journey, Chloe begins to feel neglected and betrayed by Peter, who is focused on gathering information for an article he plans to publish on their return about the work of one of their fellow passengers, the whale biologist Roger Payne. After an unforgivable betrayal of trust by Peter, Chloe turns their fledgling marriage upside down by moving into her own room and staking out her independence onboard the ship. Drawing attention to the poles within each of us, the impressionistic story oscillates between the super-confined interiors of the ship and the vast open spaces of Antarctica. In the end, it's not until Chloe and Peter are lost - perhaps literally, perhaps metaphorically - in the Antarctic ice that they discover how essential one is to the other.
American newlyweds Peter and Chloe Harrison, a writer and artist respectively, have decided to take their honeymoon on a research ship, the research to which they have no formal connection or professional expertise, although Peter plans to document what happens in all facets of the trip, including the research. That research, led by Roger Payne, is to follow the migration of the right whales to their summer feeding grounds of Antarctica, the ship setting sail from southern Argentina. The passengers are primarily Payne's research team, but there are also a few family and friends beyond Peter and Chloe, including Payne's wife Lisa Harrow. Peter and Chloe figure that they can still treat the trip as a stereotypical honeymoon in the intimate sense, as all they really need is a bed behind a locked door to fulfill that role. Peter admits he has always had a fascination with both poles since he was a child, which led in part to this trip. Things in all aspects of the trip start off smoothly enough for Peter and Chloe, as well as for the research team. However, an incident somewhat specific to the situation of the Harrisons being with the research team shows some underlying problems in Peter and Chloe's relationship, which is only exacerbated by their physical and emotional isolation. That problem is further complicated by a secret of which Chloe has not informed Peter. The question becomes whether Peter and Chloe's marriage can survive this crack, especially as Chloe has a sympathetic shoulder upon which to lean in the form of Captain Emerson who has generally isolated himself from the passengers otherwise.

