A tour into the heart of a Hollywood family chasing celebrity, one another and the relentless ghosts of their pasts.
The Weiss family is the archetypical Hollywood dynasty: father Stafford is an analyst and coach, who has made a fortune with his self-help manuals; mother Cristina mostly looks after the career of their son Benjie, 13, a child star. One of Stafford's clients, Havana, is an actress who dreams of shooting a remake of the movie that made her mother, Clarice, a star in the 60s. Clarice is dead now and visions of her come to haunt Havana at night... Adding to the toxic mix, Benjie has just come off a rehab program he joined when he was 9 and his sister, Agatha, has recently been released from a sanatorium where she was treated for criminal pyromania and befriended a limo driver Jerome who is also an aspiring actor.
The Weisses are current Hollywood royalty. Father Dr. Stafford Weiss is a celebrity psychotherapist to the stars and self-help guru through his books, videos and seminars. Perhaps more famous is his thirteen year old son, Benjie Weiss, the literal and figurative bad boy star of the hit movie Bad Babysitter and its currently filming sequel. The sequel is a comeback of sorts for Benjie following a highly publicized stint in drug rehab. His career is managed by his mother/Stafford's wife, Christina Weiss. Among Stafford's celebrity clients is actress Havana Segrand, who is also from Hollywood royalty as her mother is actress Clarice Taggart, who died years ago in a house fire. Middle aged Havana is past her star prime, and is hoping her next movie will be the remake of Stolen Waters in the role made famous by her mother and for which Clarice received an Oscar nomination. Havana is largely in therapy because she feels that she was abused by Clarice, who still haunts her as a seemingly real vision, but she may have equally strong emotional issues related to her declining career and how she perceives she is viewed in Hollywood. Through a loose connection with Carrie Fisher, Havana hires new Hollywood arrival, late teen Agatha, as her personal assistant. Havana, Carrie and Agatha believe this connection is karmic as Agatha has physical burn scars on her face and over much of her body, which she hides under her clothes and gloves. Agatha embarks on a friendship/relationship with Jerome Fontana, an aspiring actor/writer who is working as a limo driver until his big break. Like many in his position, he hopes to use whatever life experience to work into his movie career. Although they all have these public issues, there are many secret issues with which they are dealing and which affect their behavior and well being. Agatha's reason for coming to Hollywood in particular may have a profound effect on all those with who she comes into contact.
In the opening scene, Agatha Weiss (Mia Wasikowska) arrives in Los Angeles and employs limousine driver Jerome Fontana (Robert Pattinson) to take her to the site of the former house of child star Benjie Weiss. Agatha has severe burns to her face and body, and is seen taking a copious amount of medication.Meanwhile, Benjie (Evan Bird) is visiting a little girl, named Cammy, who is suffering from non-Hodgkin lymphoma in the local hospital in Beverly Hills. However, the girl later dies right after Benjie leaves the hospital.Benjie's father, Dr. Stafford Weiss (John Cusack), is a TV reality-show psychologist who is treating aging actress Havana Segrand (Julianne Moore) for the sexual abuse she suffered at the hands of her recently deceased mother, also an actress. Havana's agent, Genie, struggles to get Havana a role in a remake of her mother's film 'Stolen Waters'. Havana routinely hallucinates about the deceased younger version of her mother.Benjie and his mother, Cristina Weiss (Olivia WIlliams), negotiate a role for Benjie in a film as his comeback after a stint in drug rehabilitation.At the suggestion of Carrie Fisher (playing herself), Havana hires Agatha, whom she had met on Twitter, as a personal assistant. Agatha continues to see Jerome, and a romance forms, though Jerome appears resistant at first.Stafford learns through Havana that Agatha has returned to Los Angeles, and it is revealed Agatha is actually Stafford and Cristina's daughter however, they shun her completely, with Cristina breaking down at the thought of Agatha contacting her brother Benjie.Using Havana's role in 'Stolen Waters' to gain access to the studio production lot, Agatha visits Benjie on set and it is revealed that she is a clinically diagnosed schizophrenic, and that the burns she suffered were from a fire she lit in her parents' house while they were asleep. Agatha indicates to Benjie that she has just returned from a sanatorium to make amends. When Stafford learns Agatha visited Benjie, he visits her in a rage and warns her to leave L.A.Benjie breaks his sobriety, getting high on GHB, and accidentally shoots the dog of his only friend.Agatha visits her mother, Cristina, to make amends. It is revealed here that Cristina and Stafford are brother and sister.... making both Agatha and Benjie children of incest.... though Cristina insists it was unbeknownst to them at the time. Stafford comes home, and when Agatha reveals she knows about their familial relations, Stafford violently beats her, until Cristina intervenes. During the altercation, Agatha steals Cristina's wedding ring.On set, Benjie is haunted by the girl from the hospital, and, during a hallucination, he strangles his young co-star, Roy. The child survives, though Benjie is fired and now to be replaced in the film.Havana requests Jerome as a driver and seduces him in the driveway of her house, as Agatha watches from the window. Havana enters the house and berates Agatha for her poor performance at work and then verbally humiliates her when she finds that the girl has stained her expensive couch with menstrual blood. Agatha gorily beats Havana to death with one of her awards.A little later that same night, Stafford returns home to see Cristina on fire outside near the pool. Though not explicitly stated, it is suggested this is an act of self-immolation after the series of traumatic events leading to Cristina's depressed state. Benjie goes home, finding his father in a catatonic state and steals his ring. He then reunites with Agatha and the siblings/cousins perform an impromptu wedding ceremony in the back yard with their parents' wedding rings. In order to commit suicide, they take an extreme amount of Agatha's pills together, before lying down to watch the stars.
