The story of the final seven months in the life of German Field Marshal Erwin Rommel.
In November 1943 Hitler moves Rommel and his Army Group B headquarters to Normandy. The task is the defense of the French coast against the long-anticipated Allied invasion. In Normandy, Rommel notices the incomplete state of the defensive fortifications, the slow pace of constructing the Atlantic Wall, and the lack of preparedness of the defending units mostly comprised of poorly-trained conscripts. Appalled by this Rommel urges his troops to hasten the pace of the Atlantic Wall construction and he begs the German High Command to place more veteran battle-hardened divisions under his command. He especially wishes to have panzer divisions and SS divisions at his disposal for a powerful counter-attack against Allied landings. Hitler refuses to release the vital panzer divisions to Rommel's command and to make matters worse, Rommel gets wind of a possible assassination plot against Hitler.
Hoping to ward off an allied Atlantic coast invasion in France before the eastern front cracks, Hitler transfers the popular 'desert fox' field marshal Rommel to take command of Wehrmacht army group B under Western commander von Rundsted. Realizing the Atlantic Wall is too weak and long to boost sufficiently in probably mere months, Rommel comes up with an alternative, digging in his armored divisions, but the Führer is stingy with vital resources and men, while refusing to consider any 'political alternative', even after D-day and the the Soviet break-trough render the situation desperate. In his Normandy castle HQ, Rommel enjoys aristocratic luxury, complete with host-translator countess La Rochefoucauld and a grand German home estate, but is appalled when his devoted adjutant, general Speidel, proves the blind crimes of the SS. Telling the truth diminishes Rommel's credit with Hitler, and he agrees obstinate pride destines Germany for its worst disaster, yet Speidel finds him unwilling to join an assassination plot after which he should take command and settle with the Western Allies against Stalin. So the conspirators concoct a devious plot, staging what they hope to achieve, but after an initial triumph over the SS, the news of Hitler's survival wrecks the dynamic, and Berlin chains arrests and torture-obtained 'confessions' to round up all suspects, even innocent Rommel, who was even medically disabled at the time by a shell on the Normandy front.

