A team of military field operatives and civilian scientists must use untested technology to travel back in time to alter past events in order to change the future and avoid a devastating terrorist attack.
Midtown in New York. There is a bomb in a white van. 9 million people plus fallout will be the consequence if the bomb goes off. A Nobel-Prize man may have been involved with that. A police officer imprisons himself with the man who may know something about it. This man has been hit. He is shown a marriage ring. This man knows that the police officer's name is Mr Knox. He believes the man has not intention whatsoever of giving him the code. In a cheap notebook, there are sketches and scientific representations of slug holes et cetera. Shaun Knox (Shane McRae) wonders by this man is still wearing the ring of his late wife after more than thirty years. In the photograph, she can't age. The man asks if there is a Mrs Knox somewhere. The President of the USA (Kenneth Welsh) is aware of the situation. A local news anchor (Kristi Angus) is explaining that the authorities have no released any information.Meanwhile, Danny Gates (Robbie Jones) answers a call from Shaun's girl, and he advises her to leave the city immediately. He admits that there is a nuclear threat to Jessica "Jess" Knox (Melanie Scrofano); she hesitates because she looks around and can see hundreds of people going on with their daily lives. The scientist tells Shaun that every act of creation is an act of destruction as well. Jess promises to leave when Danny promises to take care about Shaun. The man tells him that he is the only one who can bring his wife back. At that moment, other police officers break into the interrogation room. In the ensuing fracas, the scientist gets a police officer's gun and shoots himself in the head.The deployment officers (Jamaal Grant and Chris Violette) think that they have got to the bomb, but it goes on in spite of having cut the red wire.The bomb goes off.Shane Knox wakes up a month later. He looks unkempt, and crappy. He has nightmares about the bomb, even awake.Ellis (Jeff Fahey) enters a military high-security building. The Security Guard (Matthieu Disna) lets him pass and he presses a red security button. We know see that Shaun is in jail. He is still obsessed with the scientist and his beautiful young wife. Ellis doesn't believe that Shaun was responsible for the bomb of its consequences, but 9 million people is too big of a crime to let it be. Shane is fed-up of trying to make sense about it all, and starts pulling out cutouts from the walls. Ellis thinks that the scientist Benjaming Rourke (David Cronenberg) may have given Shane some kind of clue that only him could read. He has brought a top-secret 48-hour furlong order, so that he can leave and investigate the matter. Jess was thinking about giving Shane another change at their relationship together. Ellis will supervise him. Shaun doesn't want to take it, because he knows how to blow it. Ellis has until the next day to decide, and he will have a second chance to make things right.Danny and Shaun meet Ellis at Sector 2 5.42 after having been escorted by the police.They are building a machine. Dr. Lyndsay Bryc (Jennifer Ferrin) tells Shaun not to cross a line on the floor. Knox says that it's stress which makes people slower. It's a collider and it brought an image. It's an unstable window which changes on its own. They send somebody to England 1934. It's a time and place machine. Shaun will lead a team to meet Dr. Rourke. The machine is not advance or controllable enough to be of use, but with New York destroyed, the economy is in free fall and there may be even wars.John Malcolm (Matthew Bennett) is a specialist soldier, but they also need to let Bryc inside as a scientific adviser. They were only able to send a cat, but then lost it. Priya (Keisha Castle-Hughes) is preparing information about history periods, their rubbish, their taboos, their everyday costumes.The building trembles because the window is changing. General Randall Webb (Paulino Nunes) finally accepts that civilians will need to be involved. They put a robo-insect called Miles through the window. They are in Washington 1929 because they read it in a newspaper. The reader squashes the robo-insect. They think the window will close in about 17 hours. Charlie (Keon Alexander) has designed a program to calculate the effects of killing Rourke's father, and as he was a very important physicist, that will destroy Japan's progress and economy. The military want to save NY, and fuck the rest of the world, but Shaun tries the idea of saving Rourke's wife, which will save New York. They cannot leave any piece of equipment, so a system to destroy everything has been devised by Alex, the technician at the place.Ellis has to see the President in Washington. 1975 Sylvia was killed in a mugging gone wrong. Ronald Marsden (Chris Ratz) was a vagrant man who admited to hundreds of robberies. They want to take him down during a jewellery heist. If they kill him, they will save New York. Shaun hesitates, but Bryc gives it the go-ahead.Priya dresses Lyndsay, Danny and Shaun up for the times. Danny tells her about the break-up of Shaun and his girlfriend. Priya speaks to her young child on the phone. Bryc says that the people who go there will have to kill themselves if they are left behind, as they can't run the risk of changing the time/space continuum. They are carrying each a greenish pill. Priya and Charlie say goodbye to Bryc.Shaun stops Danny and lets Bryc to be the first. In the end, they all three go in at the same time. They become blurry and dizzy. Danny has taken it the worst. Ellis wants to smoke and leave the building. It's a luxurious hotel.They steal the car of a night shift manager, Edgar Ramon. Danny speaks about Tommy, the person who saved him when he was about to drown in a swimming-pool when he was a five year old. Danny insists to drive, as it would look more natural for a black people to be seen at that time driving white people.They may not be back alive, three hours to the deadline. Marsden is keeping watch while somebody else is stealing the store. They get lost. They are among trees close to a train, so Priya is telling them where to go. They get involved in a car accident. The car had no plate and the driver shoots them. There is no ripple because he is a bootleg, and he tries to shoot them, but they run away alive.Marsden see the police arrive. The three future beings are late. Shaun goes in anyway. There is a shootout- the accomplice is killed and Marsden runs away unhurt.They have to leave because the window is changing faster, as their weight has changed the critical mass. They decide to stay behind.Marsden has a younger sister, Jenny Marsden (Skyler Wexler) who is waiting for him. He takes care of her, and promises to take her away the following day.Alex and Priya check on Jenny. She is going to die of tuberculosis two years down the line anyway, so that won't have any effect on the future. Robbie Marsden leaves his home to pee.Shaun tells him that he knows that he plans to rob a bank in June. He tells him that his sister is going to die if he keeps on his bad ways. Jenny wakes up and gets out of the house with his doll. Finally, Shaun takes him from the railway in front of an incoming train. He threatens Shaun "Don't make me come back.".Then, Danny and Bryc show up. She smiles at him. They run back to their car. They have 40 minutes left. New York has just been saved. Marsden is going to become a war hero.They need to return the car first and then kill themselves. The bootlegger was using a hidden road which had been kept secret until it became the first estate highway.34 seconds. They return the car. They enter the hotel when the building in the future starts to tremble. They arrive to the basement in the hotel and they press the button to bring them back.Lights go out in our present.They arrive, get out and the window changes. Danny says that he won't be doing that again any time soon.Everybody cheers for them. They have some beer. Danny promises to tell Ellis everything.Bryc thanks Shaun.Bryc is worried about the future uses of the machine. Bryc wishes Shaun good luck with his girlfriend. He phones her, who is busy. Shaun and her seem to be together again. She complains about her tripping on his staff on the floor. Shaun apologises. The military man is staring at the machine. He takes a warm coat and a gun and enters into the machine, while Charlie, Alex and Priya celebrate. Suddenly, Jess has disappeared and the world starts to change.--- written by KrystelClaire
