Cosette is cursed. Demons Ghouls and Ghosts from the darkest corners of Hell are summoned to bring her to the other side. Now Cosette and Klaus her protector must face an unspeakable evil in an attempt to free her from this demonic curse.
Cosette is a young woman with a big problem. She's cursed. Demons are after her soul. They track and hunt her. And if that isn't enough, a shadowy criminal mastermind is after something only she can get. Her only luck is finding Klaus, a tough as nails reformed enforcer for the mob on a mission to redeem himself using his skills in small arms and hand to hand combat to save her from the soul sucking monsters and waves of commandos launched against her, but he can only delay the inevitable. One day she comes across a Priest who has the answer. The curse she's under can be broken, but only if she finds two talismans, combines them, and sends them back to the netherworld. Unfortunately they also animate two of the fiercest demons hunting her, and must be cut from their dead corpses. Worse, in the wrong hands they can be made to control other demons, and so are a prize for those who wish to wreak havoc on a world they see as undeserving. It ends in a free-for-all in a literal ghost town as demons, commandos, and the undead converge upon her and Klaus. Either they emerge victorious and free her, or die and have their souls condemned for all eternity.
Cosette is a young woman with a big problem. Shes cursed. Demons are after her soul. They track and hunt her. And if that isn' t enough, a shadowy criminal mastermind is after something only she can get. Her only luck is finding Klaus, a tough as nails reformed enforcer for the mob on a mission to redeem himself using his skills in small arms and hand to hand combat to save her from the soul sucking monsters and waves of commandos launched against her, but he can only delay the inevitable. One day she comes across a Priest who has the answer. The curse shes under can be broken, but only if she finds two talismans, combines them, and sends them back to the netherworld. Unfortunately they also animate two of the fiercest demons hunting her, and must be cut from their dead corpses. Worse, in the wrong hands they can be made to control other demons, and so are a prize for those who wish to wreak havoc on a world they see as undeserving. It ends in a free-for-all in a literal ghost town as demons, commandos, and the undead converge upon her and Klaus. Either they emerge victorious and free her, or die and have their souls condemned for all eternity.
