In a futuristic world where gaming is the top sport, a teenager attends a school which specializes in a curriculum of video games in each genre.
The story is about a down on his luck, young aspiring gamer. He has no friends. His cat hates him. His name is Brian. He loves playing video games. One day during a public match the number one gamer the "Law" arrives to do a little bit of showing off. Out of no where Brian manages to kill the "Law". It's like the shot heard around the world. Because of it and all the hype Brian gets invited to Video Game High School. It's about a kid and all the troubles of high school but in a very different way. It's a competitive gaming school. While attending VGHS Brian tries to make it to his dream of playing at the highest level of gaming. Along the way he develops a crush on Jenny Matrix, the JV FPS Captain.
Brian D is your normal gamer. He is passionate about his game and wishes with all his heart to go big league. He finally gets that opportunity when in a public match he is able to kill the greatest player in the world, "the Law". It's the shot heard round the world and the user name BrianD is instantly famous. His fame results in him being accepted into one of the most prestigious institutes of gaming ever established, Video Game High School (VGHS). But when Brian gets their he finds out that not everything at VGHS is fun and games. He not only is thrown into the world of typical high school drama of rivalries and teenage crushes but he also has to deal with VGHS's top player and big man on campus, "the Law", who since their pub match mishap is not to happy with Brian. We watch Brian and his friends Ki and Ted as they mature, find themselves, overcome obstacles, and reach checkpoints all it the fantastical universe of VGHS.
In a futuristic world where video-games are the number one sport and the top players are world-wide celebrities, average gamer BrianD is drafted into Video Games High School after he unwittingly kills "The Law", the #1 player - in a public match stomp gone wrong. The series follows the events of Brian's life inside VGHS as he tries to prove himself worthy, but he's getting no help from his arch-rival, The Law.

