A couple is drawn into a game show with a whooping winning prize. However the game turns into more than a survival for them with no escape.
A couple live a mediocre life and are thrilled to have won an exotic vacation to Fiji &amp; their excitement increases when they get a chance to play "Tell all truth" game for a mind boggling prize money. The game begins and the couple discovers that the game isn't really a game, but is a game of survival.
Unemployed Vivaan and Siya Agasthi strive to make ends meet. The couple wins a trip to the beautiful island nation of Fiji in a lucky draw; the holiday is fully sponsored, with luxurious hotel accommodation and fine dinners. The duo flies to Fiji to celebrate their wedding anniversary and encounter the charming Mr. Khan at the resort. Mr Khan invites the couple to participate in a live game show called Table 21. He tells them that the winner of the game bags a staggering amount of FJ 10 million dollars as prize money. He details the rules; eight personal questions are asked, which must be answered truthfully, and following this, one must complete a task related to the question. The couple decides to enter the game show. At first, the questions seem easy, but as the game progresses, the tasks become increasingly horrific. The gruesome nature of the tasks makes Vivaan think back to his time at college. After a string of tasks, Vivaan's final assignment is to murder an individual. When he goes to murder this person he will get the worse nightmare that will change him and his wife life for a lifetime.
Vivaan and Siya are struggling to meet ends in daily life, they win a trip to Fiji and go to celebrate their anniversary there, they are invited by Mr. Khan for a game live game show titled after the film. The rules of the game are that you have to answer the questions truthfully at the start everything seems to be good. But soon the game turns into a horror which connects them to their past.
The story begins with a couple Vivaan (Rajeev Khandelwal) and Siya (Tena Desae), living a mediocre life, being thrilled to have won an an all expense paid, exotic vacation to Fiji. On reaching Fiji, they are greeted by Abdul Razzaq Khan (Paresh Rawal) whose their host but later on offers them an irresistible game which can give them a cash prize of Rs. 21 crores.This game show has eight questions and a task followed by the question. But as the story continues, the couple realizes that its no more a game show, but a game of life and death, that involves an unsettled grudge between the couple and Khan's son Akram, who was brutally ragged in his college life by the couple and their friends in the past. The ragging was such torturous that Akram loses his mental balance and can no longer live a normal life.The last task offered by Khan to Vivaan was to kill Akram, as he feels he has half-lost his son already. The couple realize their guilt, and Khan tells them this guilt will haunt them for their life forever, and he has taken his revenge for his son's insult and torture.The movie is named Table No. 21 since initially it involves a gamble of life, and 21 signifies Act 21 of Indian Constitution - Right to Live.
