Fioravante decides to become a professional Don Juan as a way of making money to help his cash-strapped friend, Murray. With Murray acting as his "manager", the duo quickly finds themselves caught up in the crosscurrents of love and money.
Murray, the bankrupt owner of a bookstore, is forced to close his family business. His dermatologist, Dr. Parker, dreams of having a threesome and would pay a thousand dollars to have one with her friend Selima. Murray then proposes to his friend Fioravante that they start a male prostitution business, with Murray acting as the pimp. However, when Fioravante meets a Hasidic Jewish woman, Avigal, who is the widow of a rabbi, they fall in love with each other. But a Jewish neighborhood patrolman, Dovi, is in love with Avigal too, and might make life difficult for Fioravante and Murray.
In a predominantly Jewish neighborhood of Brooklyn, elderly Murray Schwartz is forced to close his rare used books bookstore - opened originally by his grandfather - due to poor business, leaving him in financial straits, he already living in a platonic situation with an African-American single mother named Othella and her large brood of children. He stumbles onto a potential opportunity to get out of the hole stemming from a casual social conversation with his wealthy, married dermatologist, Dr. Parker. Dr. Parker and her Latina friend Selima want to engage in a ménage à trois, and want to find that male third, she asking Murray if he knows anyone suitable. Murray responds that he does - for a hefty price. Who he wants to "pimp out" is his long time friend, middle-aged Fioravante, as although Fioravante is not traditionally handsome - something that Fioravante readily admits - he knows how to treat women. Fioravante, too, is in financial straits with his only current income coming from working two days a week at a florist shop, and the occasional freelance plumbing job. To help both himself and Murray out, Murray who would get a percentage of the cut, Fioravante reluctantly agrees, with both Dr. Parker and Selima wanting to take solo test drives with Fioravante before the big threesome. Murray and Fioravante's new oldest profession business becomes a successful one, their clients, including Dr. Parker ad Selima, who adore the fact that Fioravante is not a pretty boy but a real man who focuses more on them than on himself. Although doing it primarily for the money, both Murray and Fioravante have a benevolent side to their business as Murray believes Fioravante's caring nature would benefit an orthodox Jewish acquaintance, Avigal, who has been unable to move on emotionally with her life in a holistic sense following the death of her rabbi husband two years ago. Fioravante's non-sexual service for Avigal would be under the guise of a healing massage. Problems for the business may surface as Avigal embarking on something like this would be against her orthodox Jewish beliefs. Dovi, the head of Shomrim, an orthodox Jewish neighborhood patrol group, he who is Avigal's childhood friend and who has long been in love with her, may suspect that these strange men that he doesn't know - Murray and Fioravante - have led Avigal astray, potentially into an illegal endeavor. Further complications may ensue if any of Fioravante, Dr. Parker, Selima and/or Avigal see their individual business relationship in this regard moving into a more personal one, where true feelings of love begin to emerge.

