A lifelong womanizer gets a taste of his own medicine.
A life long womanizer gets a taste of his own medicine. Timothy Bonner played by Tom Sizemore is devoted primarily to golf, secondarily to sex and finally to drinking. In the end he discovers cheating hurts and he finds what he really wants - love.
Timothy Bonner, 54, thinks he is primarily devoted to golf but he is not. His first interest is sex followed closely by drinking. He is about to discover that he is really looking for love.
Hes missed alimony payments to angry ex-wife Mary, owes tuition to illegitimate son Kyle - the product of an extra-martial affair with Mab and his ad agency is in danger of collapse if he cant secure a half-million dollar loan.As the film opens hes preparing for the one thing he really cares about: winning the San Diego City Championship.But Timothy is flawed while he plays by strict golf rules - he cant say no to a good time and doesnt mind cheating in real life.He blows any chance of winning the Championship the night before by getting drunk and sleeping with stranger, Candy, a sexy, attractive, savvy woman who wants to be more than one of his five hour friends from the golf course.Soon hes surprised when he meets and begins an affair with over-educated, thrice-married Carla, a rule-breaker on and off the golf course.He has strong feelings for her and wants to do things right this time but its not so easy with Carla. Crazy like a fox, Carla thinks nothing of swinging from an endearing and charming little girl when she seduces Timothy to a crazed and jealous tiger ready for a public fight when she decides that Timothy cant commit.Carla grows increasingly needy; increasingly crazy, but when Tim gets a huge offer to merge with another agency, solving his financial troubles, inexplicably he cant reach her.He drives to her suburban home late at night and catches her cheating with an ex-boyfriend.
Timothys learned his lesson cheating hurts and so is inspired to apologize to Mary and present her with a big check.Hes finally learned to care and take his golf honesty off the course.When he sees Candy again, who follows him at the SoCal Championship which he loses when he calls a penalty stoke on himself he knows that hes willing to take a risk on love.
