The Z-Fighters must contend with Lord Beerus, the God of Destruction, but only a God can fight a God, and none of them are Gods. However with the creation of the Super Saiyan God, will the Z-Fighters be able to defeat Lord Beerus?
The events of Battle of Gods take place some years after the battle with Majin Buu, which determined the fate of the entire universe. Bills, the God of Destruction, is tasked with maintaining some sort of balance in the universe. After awakening from a long slumber, Bills is visited by Whis and learns that the galactic overlord Frieza has been defeated by a Super Saiyan from the North Quadrant of the universe named Goku, who is also a former student of the North Kai. Ecstatic over the new challenge, Goku ignores King Kai's advice and battles Bills, but he is easily overwhelmed and defeated. Bills leaves, but his eerie remark of "Is there nobody on Earth more worthy to destroy?" lingers on. Now it is up to the heroes to stop the God of Destruction before all is lost.
The film begins with the awakening of Bills, the God of Destruction. As he has his breakfast, his valet Whis enquires as to why he has awoken ahead of his schedule. Bills explains that hed had a dream of fighting a warrior called a Super Saiyan God. He confirms this dream with a visit to the Oracle Fish, who had predicted the battle (although the Fish cant remember the prediction, she agrees with Bills to avoid trouble).Bills and Whis first head to King Kais planet, where they meet Goku. Goku doesnt know anything about Super Saiyan God, but begs for an opportunity to spar with Bills. An amused Bills agrees, and to everyones shock he defeats Goku in two moves. He then concludes that Goku is not the Super Saiyan God, but heads to Earth to inquire about the other remaining Saiyans. King Kai sends a message ahead to Prince Vegeta, warning him that Bills is on his way to Earth and that not even Goku could stand against him.Meanwhile, on Earth its Bulma Briefs birthday party and everyone has come to celebrate it. Amidst all the festivities, the Pilaf Gang (enemies from Gokus childhood) sneak in to steal the Dragon Balls, enchanted heirlooms of Gokus family that grant your hearts desire. They are caught, but everyone assumes they are putting on an act and play along. Meanwhile, Videl is hiding a big secret from her husband Gohan...Amidst all this, both Vegeta and Bills and Whis arrive at the party. Vegeta immediately sees that Bills is a serious threat and tries to steer him away from the party, but Bulma invites him over to enjoy himself. Although Bills doesnt find any Super Saiyan God on Earth either, he consoles himself with the delicious food provided at the party. He then tries to sample some pudding, but Majin Buu eats it all up; this finally causes Bills to lose his temper and he swears to destroy the Earth. All the Z-Fighters engage Bills, but he defeats them effortlessly. Bulma slaps Bills for ruining her birthday and he slaps her back; this enrages Vegeta and he assaults Bills, but even he is beaten down by Bills.Just when all is lost, Goku arrives on Earth. Instead of a fight, he asks Bills for some time as they try to find the Super Saiyan God for him. He gathers the Dragon Balls and summons the Dragon Shenron, to wish for the Super Saiyan God. Shenron however cannot grant this wish: he explains it is a bygone power. On the Saiyans homeworld, five Saiyans transferred their power to one, creating a Super Saiyan God. This proved to be a divine mode that defeated evil, but was temporary and only lasted for a short while and fell into obscurity. Goku and the other Saiyans (his sons Gohan and Goten, and Vegeta and his son Trunks) try to form the Super Saiyan God, but nothing happens. Whis (who is sampling Earth food throughout the film) works out that Shenrons words were misinterpreted: for five Saiyans power to flow into one, they need SIX Saiyans. Videl solves this dilemma by revealing her secret: she is pregnant with Gohans daughter Pan. Now with the sufficient number, Goku gets a power transfer from the other five Saiyans and achieves Super Saiyan God!Bills and Goku have their long-awaited fight, but despite Goku giving his all Bills still manages to dominate him. He eventually tells Goku to admit defeat, and Goku does. Bills however admits that Goku gave him quite a fight, and lets him in on a secret: his valet Whis is his trainer and is a far better fighter than him. He also reveals another secret: there are 12 universes, of which the one they are residing in is the seventh there are bound to be greater sights and fighters beyond this universe, and in the next ones.A victorious Bills returns Goku to his friends, and proclaims that he shall now destroy the world... and obliterates a few feet of earth. He states hell come back and do the rest later, to Gokus delight and everyones relief. He apologizes to Bulma for slapping her and asks that she invite him to another party (and that there be pudding provided there). Bills and Whis return home, and Whis provides Bills with some wasabi sauce to taste. Its too hot for Bills and it drives him wild, forcing Whis to knock him out. Whis orders him to wake up in three years...The film ends with everyone on Earth returning to Bulmas party. Vegeta swears he will be the Super Saiyan God mode next time and Goku agrees, joking that Bulma should get slapped again to make it more effective. Piccolo deduces that this meant Goku had already arrived to Earth around the time of Billss rampage. Goku protests that he was looking for some means to stop Bills, but an angry Bulma, already upset by the joke, prepares to slap Goku...
