Fast-paced and fiery, this action-oriented revenge thriller follows the transformation of a young man, from an IPS aspirant into fearless Baadshah, an avenging angel wreaking vengeance upon the mafia kingpin, Saadu Bhai.
Rama Rao (Jr. NTR) is the son of Ranjan (Mukesh Rishi) who works as an assistant to Mafia Don Saadu Bhai (Kelly Dorji) is an IPS Aspirant. However, he is rejected from police work due to his fathers connections to the criminal underworld. Meanwhile his brother Siddu (Siddarth Narayan) gets killed in a bomb blast planned by Saadu Bhai. Rama Rao seeking revenge, reunites with his father and becomes Baadshah on the advice of a police officer (Sayaji Shinde). He soon takes Macau from Saadu Bhai. Saadu Bhai, peeved by Rama Rao's aggression and guts, joins forces with his rivals and IPS officers, such as Aadi (Navdeep) and falsely accuses Baadshah of murdering a police officer. Baadshah discovers that Saadu Bhai is planning a series of bombings in India and that Aadi is a culprit. and going to marry Janaki (Kajal Aggarwal). So he decides to save India and also completes Operation Baadshah. So he approaches Janaki and falls in love with her. He enters as Ramji a Wedding planner in Janaki's house. He cleverly fools Padmanabha Simha (Brahmanandam) with "Dream Machine" concept and uses him to collect information about Saadu Bhai. Meanwhile Saadu kidnaps police officer (Sayaji Shinde) and threatens to kill him, Baadshah comes to the location Kills Aadi, Saadu Bhai and Crazy Robert and marries Janaki.
Badshah (Jr. NTR) is a gangster who aims to eliminate the threat of Mafia to India, which has been the cause for several bomb-blasts in the nation for the past several years. He plans to do this by infiltrating himself into the main gangs, through his father, who runs a royal casino and acts as a chief financer to the main Mafia. To get to the main players of Mafia, Badshah had to find out his gang members in India, working for him, specially from the Police department in India.
