In 1988, a teenage girl's life is thrown into chaos when her mother disappears.
Kat Connors is 17 years old when her seemingly perfect homemaker mother, Eve, disappears in 1988. Having lived for so long in an emotionally repressed household, she barely registers her mother's absence and certainly doesn't blame her doormat of a father, Brock, for the loss. But as time passes, Kat begins to come to grips with how deeply Eve's disappearance has affected her. Returning home on a break from college, she finds herself confronted with the truth about her mother's departure, and her own denial about the events surrounding it...
When she was 17, Kat lost her mom Eve who went and disappeared without any word. The story inter-weaves back and forth with flash-backs of her past years. In those flashbacks we see Eve, who was quite a wild girl, gradual changes since her marriage to Brock, an ordinary man who leads an uneventful life. While Kat explored her adolescence with her neighbor and schoolmate Phil, Eve struggles to quench her youthful wildness lost from her past; trying to be sexy when Brock is away, even luring Phils attention. After Eve left, Kat dealt with the ordeal so very ordinarily, even letting her own wild side out once in a while, even flinging with the detective in charge on her mothers case. Now on a college break, Kat returns home and finds her father has been having a relationship with his coworker. She is okay with that.Her detective fling partner informs her of the possibility that Brock killed Eve out of catching her cheating. Kat dismisses this theory, as she did two years ago. But after mentioning the topic to her old friends Beth and Mickey, who assures her that they had proposed that theory even before the cops but Kat didnt pay any attention to it, Kat begins to suspect Phil as Eves cheating partner and confronts him. He tells her that Brock knows where Eve is. She then unpacks Brocks suspiciously locked freezer, but is stopped when Brock walks in on her. She confronts him with the theory and her father answers convincingly denying it. Kat then goes back to college. But it turns out that the theory is true after all. Brock drunkenly admitted killing Eve, and kills himself in his jail cell.
