A young man receives a life-saving face transplant after he is critically injured and his girlfriend murdered in a vicious attack. Unrecognisable to his enemies, he sets out for revenge.
Sathya (Allu Arjun) returns from a coma to take his revenge on Bhai (Rahul Dev) for murdering his love Deepthi (Kajal Agarwal) and comes to know that his face has been exchanged with someone else in order to survive facial burn injuries. Just as he gets his revenge with the help of Shruti (Amy Jackson), he comes to know that there is one more gang pursuing him for his face. Whose face was given to him? Why is a gang pursuing him? Who is Manju (Shruti Haasan)? What is his connection with Dharma (Sai Kumar)?
Satya (Allu Arjun) loves Deepthi (Kajal Agarwal). A local gangster wants her and kills both of them in the process. Satya goes into coma and is treated by a doctor (Jayasudha). As Satya's body is burnt partly, the doctor performs a surgery and replaces his body with a new look (Ram Charan). Satya with new look and identity finds it easy to take the revenge on the people who is responsible for the death of his lover. Just about when he finishes act of vengeance, he comes to know about a bigger purpose in his life. The rest of the story is all about how he achieved the goal.
When a young man's lover is targeted by a deadly criminal, she is killed and he sustains severe burn injuries. Many months later, he emerges from a coma with a new face, ready to avenge his girlfriend's death. Will his new face help him or end up bringing with it a new set of enemies?
Satya (Allu Arjun) loves Deepthi (Kajal Agarwal). A local gangster wants her and kills both of them in the process. Satya goes into coma and is treated by a doctor (Jayasudha). As Satyas body is burnt partly, the doctor performs a surgery and replaces his body with a new look (Ram Charan). Satya with new look and identity finds it easy to take the revenge on the people who is responsible for the death of his lover. Just about when he finishes act of vengeance, he comes to know about a bigger purpose in his life. The rest of the story is all about how he achieved the goal.
