50 writers. 50 filmmakers. One picture.
Fifty Kisses is a crowd created feature film with multiple stories connected by one thing - a Valentines kiss. Irreverent, charming, ridiculous, moving and at times profound, 50 Kisses features everything from love struck zombies, androids, teddy bears to... fatigue-fighting lesbians! 50 Kisses is the world's first crowd generated feature film; a multi-cultural and global reflection of pop culture's vision of love in the 21st century.
In 2012, the London Screenwriters Festival launched a competition to find 50 amazing two page scripts set on Valentine's day and featuring a kiss. Those scripts were then released on the Internet for filmmakers to turn into brilliant two minute short films. The best films were then edited together into a unique feature film set on Valentines' Day. 50 Kisses is the world's first crowd sourced narrative feature film. With a limited cinema release and a premiere date of 13th of Feb 2014, 50 Kisses is a unique project backed by London Screenwriters' Festival and distributor Guerilla Films.
50 Kisses is a crowd created feature film with multiple stories connected by on thing - a Valentines kiss. Irreverent, charming, ridiculous, moving and at times wonderfully profound, 50 Kisses features everything from love struck zombies, androids and teddy bears, to fatigue fighting lesbians! 50 Kisses is the world's first crowd generated feature film; a multi-cultural and global reflection of pop culture's vision of love in the 21st century.
50 Kisses is a groundbreaking project that brought together new talent in a global collaboration with the sole aim of creating an extraordinary feature film. In the summer of 2012 the London Screenwriters Festival issued a challenge to the writing community create a killer 2 page script that filmmakers anywhere in the world will work with you to produce. The best 50 of those films will then be woven together to create a feature length film that will receive a global release. The only guidelines were that the scripts be set on Valentines Day and feature at least one kiss. Out of 1870 script submissions and 127 completed films, the result is 50 Kisses, a ground breaking film showcasing the combined talents of hundreds of new creative voices from around the world. Irreverent, charming, ridiculous, moving and at times wonderfully profound, 50 Kisses features everything from love struck zombies, androids and teddy bears to fatigue fighting lesbians! 50 Kisses is the world's first crowd generated feature film; a multi-cultural and global reflection of pop cultures vision of love in the 21st century.
