Three years after Mike bowed out of the stripper life at the top of his game, he and the remaining Kings of Tampa hit the road to Myrtle Beach to put on one last blow-out performance.
It's been three years since Tampa based Mike Lane transitioned from the life of a stripper - his stage name being Magic Mike - to his dream of starting his own custom furniture business, those three years mixed in terms of the goods and bads for him personally. His ex-troupe, the Kings of Tampa, minus who was their boss, Dallas, stop off in Tampa from their current home base in Miami on a road trip to a stripper convention in Myrtle Beach. As the remaining troupe members are nearing the end of their stripping lives, they, like Mike, who are at an advanced age beyond that of most strippers, they see this convention as their final hurrah in this life. Mike decides to join his old friends on the road trip to this send off. The current troupe members start to have their own dreams about their futures in being with Mike, while Mike has his own envy of his friends in his current life not being everything he hoped it would be. But especially without Dallas at the helm, the troupe members are feeling a bit lost, with Mike trying to inspire them, which he may or may not be able to do. As they make several stops along the way, they encounter many groups of women, which may demonstrate whether their thoughts about what to do at the convention is a good idea in if they still have what it takes. Beyond these encounters with women, the trip itself hits its bumps, with Mike needing to call in some favors and mend some bridges even to make it to Myrtle Beach, it not certain if those at the other end will accept Mike's pleas for help or his apologies.
Retired male stripper Magic Mike (Channing Tatum) decides to help his friends put on one last show, as the crew embark on a road trip to Myrtle Beach to perform at an exotic-dance convention. Along the way, they brighten the lives of several women, including an aspiring photographer (Amber Heard) and a diva (Jada Pinkett Smith) from Mike's past..
Three years after abandoning his life as a stripper, Mike (Channing Tatum) is now running his own furniture business. He receives a call from Tarzan (Kevin Nash) who informs Mike that Dallas is "gone". Believing that his former boss has died, Mike drives to a hotel only to find that his friends, the remaining Kings of Tampa, are enjoying themselves at a pool party. After revealing that Dallas has bailed on them to start a new show in Macau, the Kings let Mike in on their plan: to end their careers on a high note by traveling to Myrtle Beach for a stripping convention. Later, while trying to work, Mike overhears a song he used to strip to and dances. Reinvigorated, Mike decides to join them on their trip.Driving in a fro-yo van owned by Tito (Adam Rodríguez) and Tobias (Gabriel Iglesias), they decide to make their first stop at Mad Mary's. To prove to Richie (Joe Manganiello) that he's willing to commit to the trip, Mike participates in an amateur queen contest. The others join him soon after. They then head down to a beach where Mike attempts to resolve his issues with Ken (Matt Bomer). The two later reconcile. Mike also meets a photographer named Zoe (Amber Heard) who tells him that she's headed for New York. They flirt but Mike decides not to pursue her.Back on the road, Mike suggests that they change their routine. They stop at a gas station where he coerces Richie into trying to make the cashier smile with an improvised striptease which he successfully does. This inspires the others to abandon their old routines. Soon afterwards, Tobias, under the influence of MDMA, passes out while driving and crashes the van. Everyone is left unscathed aside from Tobias who gets a concussion. In the hospital, Mike reveals that his furniture business isn't going that well and that he's no longer dating Brooke.In search of a new emcee, Mike brings the group to a strip club owned by Rome (Jada Pinkett Smith) whom Mike has a history with. Despite proving to her that his skills haven't deteriorated, he's unsuccessful in getting her to help them. However, she does give them a ride to their next stop by having Andre (Donald Glover), a rapper/singer who works at the club, drive them there.The group arrives at a mansion. Tito tells them that he knows the girl who lives there and that she's expecting them. They walk in through the door but are greeted by the girl's mother, Nancy (Andie MacDowell) along with Nancy's friends who are all middle-aged women. Nancy's teasing of the group initially makes them feel awkward but as the night goes on, the mood lightens. During this time, Mike meets Zoe again. Zoe confesses that she was hired by another photographer as his assistant solely so he could get with her. Mike urges her to come to the convention to regain her smile.After sleeping with Richie, Nancy allows the group to drive her ex-husband's car to Myrtle Beach. When they arrive, they are surprised to see Rome. Rome, after having a change of heart, agrees to be their emcee. She also brings along Andre and Malik (Stephen "tWitch" Boss) to help. With their preparations complete, they head to the convention where they manage to squeeze in a spot thanks to Rome and her seemingly romantic history with the organizer of the event, Paris (Elizabeth Banks). The group's performance is a success. During Mike and Malik's performance, Mike brings Zoe on stage. The film ends in celebration, Tobias returning with the fro-yo van and everyone watching the 4th of July fireworks.
