Frank Castle is staying in a bad neighborhood, where he encounters a gang that terrorizes its residents.
Frank Castle, a.k.a. 'The Punisher', wakes up in a run-down neighborhood and leaves his van to do his laundry. On his way to the laundromat, he witnesses a gang led by Goldtooth assaulting a group of prostitutes, but minds his own business. But when the gang mugs a boy named DeShawn, Frank goes to a convenience store to buy a bottle of Jack Daniel's and use it to club the thugs to death before crippling Goldtooth and pouring the whiskey on him for one of the prostitutes to set the gang leader on fire. Frank then collects his laundry and has DeShawn keep one of his signature t-shirts before leaving the neighborhood.
Frank Castle (Thomas Jane) is sleeping in the back of a van, having a nightmare about a child calling his name and gun shooting. He sharply wakes up and comes out of the van with some clothes he has to wash. While going to a nearby coin laundry, Frank sees a gang arriving on cars: the leader of the gang, called Goldtooth (Sammi Rotibi), takes one of the hookers (Shannon Collis) in the street and beats her, then he takes her to a deserted alley and proceeds to rape her. Frank has no reaction, and starts putting his clothes in the laundry while the girl's screams are heard in the background. When the gang leader comes back, a little child, DeShawn (Karlin Walker), has been stopped by the other members of the criminal group: when the doorman (Jack Goldenberg) asks the boy if he wants to work for them, and the boy bravely answers that he doesn't want to sell drugs, the group starts beating him badly, until one of them starts menacing him with a knife at his throat, "suggesting" him to change his answer.Frank slowly comes out of the laundry and crosses the road, to a small shop on the other side. In here, he has a brief talk with the owner Big Mike (Ron Perlman), a man on a wheelchair who's been paralyzed by the gangs when he tried to defend a girl they cornered. Frank buys a Jack Daniel's bottle and walks towards the gang. He then starts beating them with the bottle, killing every one of them but Goldtooth, who he savagely beats, breaking him the right arm and both legs. While the gang leader lies on the pavement, Frank pours all the whiskey on him, and then lightens a Zippo, leaving it in front of the criminal. Frank slowly comes back to the laundry to collect his clothes, and in the meanwhile, the hooker the man previously raped arrives, takes the lighter and sets fire on him.Frank walks to his van, having collected all his clothes. DeShawn stops him, telling him that he dropped a shirt. Frank tells him he can keep it, since it has a hole in it and he doesn't want it anymore. While the van leaves, the boy reveals a black shirt with a white skull on it.
