After a blow to the head, Abby decides she can't do it anymore. Her life just can't be only about the house, the kids and the wife. She needs more: she needs to be Eleanor.
Abby lives with her lesbian domestic partner and their young son. However, Abby and her girl's long stable relationship has become passionless, and Abby is slowly becoming sexually frustrated. Abby's son hits her on the head by accident one day with his baseball and she suffers a mild concussion. This gets her thinking and she decides that she shouldn't repress her urges anymore. She hooks up with a young cute gentle and experienced lesbian prostitute, who sleeps with lonely women, and has a fantastic sexual and emotional experience. She becomes fascinated with the idea of helping other lonely women feel such joy and fulfillment, so she decides to get into the business herself under the pseudonym Eleanor. Her clients are both introverted women, who wish to explore their urges, and sexually aggressive women who know exactly what they and even Abby want. She learns more about herself and others after each sexual encounter. But how long can she live a double life before she's caught.
The film opens with video of women in a spin class at a gym. Underneath is narration of random thoughts of exercisers obsessing about their bodies. Then a quick cut: the main character Abby (played by Robin Weigert) walks quickly to her car in order to get medical care for a bloody forehead. The injury was an accident. A ball thrown by Abby's son hit her in the head. But the wound serves to shock Abby into changing her dull, suburban, 'soccer mom' life. She goes back to work. The work Abby takes up is remodeling apartments then selling them. This goes well but it doesn't stop the boredom, so Abby visits a prostitute she found. The encounter doesn't satisfy Abby. The sex-for-hire aspect intrigues her - she just doesn't like the prostitute she visited. Abby decides that she should adopt the name Eleanor, become a sex worker herself, and use the apartment she is remodeling for her dates. Her handyman Justin (Johnathan Tshaikovsky) then becomes involved as more than a handyman, he's a go-between for Abby/Eleanor's new venture. The new adventure keeps going for a while but then Kate (Julie Fain Lawrence), Abby's partner walks into the apartment following one of the sexual encounters. Kate is disgusted, says "Please put something on." Abby/Eleanor tells Kate "I'll do what you want me to do." What Kate wants is return to the situation as it was before. The film ends with Abby returning to the suburban life - raising the kids, going to the gym, remodeling Abby and Kate's house. Oh yes, and being bored.
