After discovering her boyfriend is married, Carly soon meets the wife he's been betraying. And when yet another love affair is discovered, all three women team up to plot revenge on the three-timing S.O.B.
After discovering her boyfriend is married, Carly Whitten tries to get her ruined life back on track. But when she accidentally meets the wife he's been cheating on, she realizes they have much in common, and her sworn enemy becomes her greatest friend. When yet another affair is discovered, all three women team up to plot mutual revenge on their cheating, lying, three-timing SOB.
Kate is married to Mark and thinks he's a great guy. But in reality he's seeing another woman, Carly who doesn't know he's married. When he tells Kate he has to meet a client and won't come home when in reality he's planning to see Carly. But when Kate says she'll go join him. He tells her he'll cancel the meeting. So he tells Carly he has to take care of something at home. Carly then decides to go surprise him but runs into Kate and she freaks out and walks away. Kate later tracks Carly down and asks her if she and her husband are involved. She reluctantly admits it. And Kate has a breakdown of her own. They later get close and Kate is uncertain of what to do. When Mark comes on to her she thinks there's hope. But she overhears him talking to someone and she thinks it's Carly but she denies it. So they follow him and discover that he's seeing another girl and when they tell her about him, they decide to get back at him. But Kate is still unsure.
In New York, the successful lawyer Carly Whitten is in love with her handsome boyfriend Mark King and she expects to introduce him to her father Frank. However Mark tells her that he needs to travel to his house in Connecticut since his housemaid has just reported a plumbing problem in the basement and he need to fix it. Carly decides to travel to meet him without previous notice and she finds that Mark is married with Kate King. Carly returns to New York and on the next morning, Kate visits her at her job to get information about her relationship with her husband. They conclude that he is a cheater and befriend each other. Soon they learn that Mark has a younger girlfriend, Amber, and they befriend her. The trio decides to team-up and plot revenge against Mark.
Forty-something Carly Whitten is a high powered New York lawyer specializing in corporate acquisitions and mergers. When it comes to love and romance, she and her father Frank are two sides of a similar coin: while Frank marries one wife after another, he currently on divorce number five, Carly does not believe in monogamy, she having several casual sexual partners at any given time. Carly rethinks her beliefs on the matter after two months into a passionate and romantic relationship with Mark King, for who she drops all her other boyfriends. What Carly is unaware of is that back in upscale suburban Connecticut, Mark is married, his wife Kate King who believes happily. In Mark and Kate's decade plus long marriage, Kate has forgone all her own dreams and aspirations to be a stay at home housewife, happily supporting Mark in his life, including what has been his lucrative business in developing start-ups. After Carly and Kate meet and find out about the other in Mark's life, each has an immediate reaction based on their own life: Carly, who is not a home breaker, willingly will never see Mark again despite previously believing he may have been "the one", while Kate, who has devoted most of her adult life to Mark, may have a problem envisioning a life without him. Wanting to understand what has happened and in her fragile mental state, Kate turns to the only person who she feels she can and who may have the answers for which she is looking: Carly. At first, Carly is a reluctant support for Kate. Things change when they find out that they are not the only two women in Mark's sexual life...
Carly Whitten (Cameron Diaz), a New York attorney, has just started a relationship with Mark King (Nikolaj Coster-Waldau), a man she had sex with eight weeks earlier. Carly, planning to introduce Mark to her father, Frank (Don Johnson), is upset that Mark has to go out of town on account of a flood at his Connecticut home, missing their dinner. However, she decides to go over to his house to seduce him instead. She is horrified to meet Mark's wife, Kate (Leslie Mann), whom she'd originally assumed to be Mark's housekeeper. While initially hostile, both of the women befriend each other. Kate then discovers that he is still seeing another woman, who she thinks is Carly who is secretly continuing her previous relationship with Mark. After another fight, they discover together that Mark is seeing a third woman: Amber (Kate Upton). Carly and Kate follow Mark and travel to The Hamptons, where they stay at the house of Kate's brother, Phil (Taylor Kinney). The duo run into Amber on the beach, and the two women inform her that Mark has been cheating on all of them..
The film starts with Carly Whitten (Cameron Diaz) and Mark King (Nikolaj Coster-Waldau) engaging in a one night stand after meeting each other on a blind date. Eight weeks later, they are in a relationship, and Carly is quite happy. Carly, a single career woman, goes to work at a law firm where she tells her friend and secretary Lydia (Nicki Minaj) about the relationship, where Lydia notes that Carly hasn't been with a single man in forever. Little does she know that Mark is married to a chatty and neurotic woman named Kate (Leslie Mann).Mark makes up an excuse to leave town for a few days, telling Carly there's an issue with the plumbing in his house. Carly is upset at this short notice, and she gets into an argument with Mark. He drops her off to have drinks with her dad Frank (Don Johnson), who is seeing a younger woman. He convinces Carly to show up at Mark's place to surprise him. She does so, dressing as a sexy plumber. She walks to his door and is greeted by Kate, who introduces herself as Mark's wife. A stunned Carly stumbles off the steps of the porch and trips backwards, knocking into a giant urn that she breaks.An angry Carly storms into her office the next day and tears up the flowers that Mark left for her. She tells Lydia that he is married, but Lydia suggests this could provide some kind of spice in their lives. Carly is later visited by a distraught Kate, who has a nervous breakdown upon realizing that Carly had slept with Mark multiple times. Despite all of this, Kate continues to find Carly and attempt to bond with her. Eventually, the two become unlikely friends. Kate later takes out her rage by destroying Mark's office with a golf club.Mark comes home and takes Kate out, leading her to feel tempted into sleeping with him. As she's in the bathroom getting herself ready, Mark gets a phone call from another woman. Kate overhears and fakes feeling unwell to not get into sex. The next day, while Kate and her brother Phil (Taylor Kinney) are fixing up the walls, she breaks down and tells him that Carly is probably still having an affair with Mark. She later confronts Carly, who says nothing is happening and she's hurt by the accusation. They figure out that Mark is seeing another woman.The ladies follow Mark to Miami and stay in Phil's beach house as they spy on Mark and his new lady. They find the couple at the beach, and both ladies are shocked to see the new, much younger, and ridiculously hot woman named Amber (Kate Upton). Carly and Kate argue about Mark's change in tastes since both Carly and Kate are in their late 30s, while Amber looks only in her early 20s. Carly runs after Amber as she jogs down the beach, and Kate stops her and the two of them struggle in a cat-fight. Amber sees them fighting in the sand and approaches. Having been caught, Carly and Kate force themselves to tell Amber that she is getting played by Mark. A little later at a parking lot, Amber is also somewhat upset and reveals that she knows who Kate is, claiming that Mark had told her that he was getting divorced, but doesn't know Carly. That evening, all three ladies get together at the beach house where even though they are mad at the same guy, they continue to bond and drink and laugh while Carly starts making a connection with Phil.The next morning, the hung-over Kate says she wants Mark to really hurt, so all three ladies conspire to get the ultimate payback on Mark, utilizing Carly's job as a lawyer, Kate's knowledge of Mark's lifestyle, and Amber's looks to get revenge.Back in New York, Kate starts to mess with Mark by putting hair removal cream in his shampoo and give him loads of estrogen in his smoothies, causing him to grow breasts. Carly meets with Mark on a date, catches him flirting with another woman, and slips laxatives into both his scotch and water. He then shits his pants and has explosive diarrhoea, then gets robbed when trying to get people to get him pants.The ladies consider having one of them take one for the team and sleep with Mark to get more information out of him. They play Rock-Paper-Scissors, leading Amber to decide she'll do it. Things get more complicated when Mark takes Kate out for a romantic dinner with his business partner Nick (David Thornton). She starts to feel romantically connected to Mark, regardless of his adultery. Carly and Amber show Kate the next day a list of companies that Mark has invested in and embezzled money from. Kate doesn't feel the strong drive for revenge as before. Carly exacerbates things by texting Mark to hang out. The ladies walk out on each other.Mark takes Kate to the Bahamas as he plans a business trip. Carly and Amber show up for Kate after Kate has given Carly an envelope with contracts from Mark's businesses, citing Kate as the CEO of the defrauded companies. They follow Mark from a hotel, where he is with yet another woman, whom he takes with him to the bank where he keeps his offshore money.On the day that the ladies plan to make their move, Kate throws her engagement and wedding rings into the ocean. Carly and Amber sit by her side on the beach. They later take her to the bank to resolve the situation.The final showdown comes when Mark is invited to Carly's law firm for a meeting. Lydia guides him to the conference room where Mark is forced to stand face-to-face with all three ladies. Kate immediately says she wants a divorce, but Mark refuses, trying to reel her back in with innocent apologizing. The ladies show Mark that Kate has returned all the money to the defrauded companies, leaving Mark with absolutely nothing while Kate gets the other half of his money. Nick comes in after being told the truth, and he fires Mark. Mark breaks down and loses his shit, throwing the papers everywhere and walking face-first into the glass wall, causing him to bleed. He runs to a computer and sees his bank accounts closed. He walks into a whole glass wall and he ruins his suit. He goes outside the building and sees his car getting towed. He screams in fury, and asks how this can get worse. Frank then comes out and punches Mark in the face, knocking him on his ass.The ladies meet one last time and toast to their friendship. The ending text states that Kate works with Nick now and is the CEO of multiple successful companies. Carly and Phil became a couple and are expecting a kid. Amber starts a relationship with Frank and they travel the globe to keep up with the summer season, though Carly refuses to call her "Mom."
