The Oystermen of Pointe a la Hache, Louisiana. This town of nearly 300 is struggling to survive following the BP Oil Spill that left their crop dead, finances in ruin and culture facing extinction. This community has a history of being overlooked by the State, and therefore, are taking matters into their own hands, to assure their voice is heard so that they may not otherwise vanish.
VANISHING PEARLS is an ongoing, environmental David and Goliath struggle between multinational oil and gas company BP plc and a 300 person, Louisiana Gulf community dependent on oyster fishing. The battlefield is the Gulf coast of Louisiana and the opening salvo was the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
Three years after the catastrophic Deepwater Horizon oil spill, the small fishing community of Pointe a la Hache, Louisiana is on the brink of losing their livelihoods. They band together to confront multinational oil and gas company BP and fight for justice, accountability, and their very existence.
Following the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill, VANISHING PEARLS chronicles the untold story of personal and professional devastation in Pointe a la Hache, a close-knit fishing village on the Gulf coast. The filmmaker delves into the worst environmental disaster in American history just as news cameras leave the scene of the crime. While 49 Million barrels of oil settle in the once vibrant coastal waters, a generations-old community of African-American fishermen pledge to fight for justice, accountability and their way of life.
For over a century, the people of Pointe a la Hache, Louisiana, on the east bank of the Mississippi river at the Gulf, have survived by living off of the plentiful waters surrounding their community. However, over time, the powerful oil and gas industry has put this community's way of life at risk, culminating with the 2010 Gulf of Mexico Deepwater Horizon oil spill disaster. Told from the point of view 'David' - businessman Byron Encalade, we learn how a once prolific fishing community has nearly vanished. The back story is the decade's long intrigue surrounding legislative and policy driven machinations over this important, lucrative crossroads point between between water and land, east and west, fish and fowl. The current story begins with "Goliath", BP and their deadly oil spill which literally took lives at its origin and continues to bleed a community through the effects of a massive oil spill, economic fall out and questionable accountability. Encalade, his small tribe of fisherman and families and a community of Louisiana small business persons continue to fight through legal channels and any other way they can find justice.
