We meet Jesse and Celine nine years on in Greece. Almost two decades have passed since their first meeting on that train bound for Vienna.
It has been nine years since we last met Jesse and Celine, the French-American couple who once met on a train in Vienna. They now live in Paris with twin daughters, but have spent a summer in Greece on the invitation of an author colleague of Jesse's. When the vacation is over and Jesse must send his teenage son off to the States, he begins to question his life decisions, and his relationship with Celine is at risk.
Writer Jesse Wallace is married with Céline and they have twin daughters, Ella and Nina, eighteen years after their first encounter in a train in Vienna. They live in Paris but they are spending summer vacation in Greece in the house of Jesse's friends. In the end of the vacation, Jesse takes his fourteen year-old son Hank to the airport to fly to Chicago, where he lives with his mother. One of his Greek friends offers a hotel room for Jesse and Céline to spend one farewell dream night, but they discuss their relationship instead.
The third "one day" installment in the continuing romantic saga of American Jesse and Parisienne Celine is presented. They met eighteen years ago as early twenty-somethings by chance on a Budapest to Vienna train, and spent a memorable twenty-four hours together in Vienna before parting company at the Vienna train station vowing to meet again at that exact spot in six months' time, that subsequent meeting which never happened. They reconnected nine years later, again by chance, when Jesse, then married to another woman with a son Henry a result of that union, was on a book tour in Paris. Celine happened to notice the advertisement of him speaking at her local bookstore, this his first book, "This Time", an account of their romantic day in Vienna. Another nine years later and living in Paris, they are now married to each other, and have twin adolescent daughters, Ella and Nina. Jesse's Chicago residing first wife, who has sole custody of Henry, still hates him and Celine, and they only see Henry on summer and Christmas vacations, which pains Jesse especially as he feels he needs to be a more constant presence in now fourteen year old Henry's life. They, including their three combined offspring, have spent this summer in Greece at the invitation of Patrick, a literary benefactor who only knew of Jesse previously by reputation. This day, after seeing Henry off at the airport to go home, Jesse and Celine have an al fresco dinner at Patrick's with three other couples, each at different stages of life and at different stages of their coupledom, before they head off to a hotel alone to mark the end of their Greek stay, it a gift from their Greek friends Ariadni and Stefanos. As Jesse and Celine continue their discussions of life and love, both with their friends and alone on their own, they may come to some realizations if they can overcome the pulling priorities in their lives to remain a loving, married couple.
Nine years after Before Sunset, their highly-regarded sequel to Before Sunrise, director Richard Linklater re-teams with Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy for Before Midnight, which finds their characters together raising twin daughters. Jesse (Hawke) attempts to maintain a relationship with Hank, his teenage son from his first marriage, but their bond is strained even though Hank has just spent the summer with his dad and step-family. Meanwhile, Celine (Delpy) must make a difficult decision about her career..
Nine years after the conclusion of Before Sunset, Jesse and Celine live in Paris as a couple, parents to twin girls conceived when they got together. Jesse is also struggling to maintain his relationship with his teenage son Hank, who lives in Chicago with Jesse's (now) ex-wife and who, after spending the summer with Jesse and Celine on a Greek island, is being dropped off at the airport to fly home. Jesse has continued to find success as a novelist, while Celine is at a career crossroads, considering a job in government.When Jesse drops his son, Henry ("Hank") off at the airport, he promises to visit him in the near future so he can see him perform at a school music recital. Henry is reluctant and tries to discourage his father from coming because it will upset his mother. Henry says he isn't worried about his mother getting upset about she &amp; his father meeting face-to-face, but is worried about how it will effect himself. Jesse is left feeling confused. Outside the terminal, Jesse meets up with Celine and the two get in their car and drive home. As the camera pulls back from the driver's seat, we see that Jesse and Celine have twin daughters.
