Two high school students become stranded on a tropical island and must rely on each other for survival. They learn more about themselves and each other while falling in love.
In this passionate modern day retelling of the classic novel, Emmaline Robinson and Dean McMullen are on two opposing sides of their high school world. But when they are caught in a storm at sea during a Caribbean field trip and stranded on a tropical island, these two teenagers will have to come together in ways they never imagined. Without parents, without cell phones and without help, they will learn how to survive on their own or face the ultimate consequences. As they explore and learn about each other, they also learn about themselves while falling in love, while waiting for rescue on the island.
After a boating accident, two teenagers find themselves stranded on a tropical island while on their high school trip to Trinidad. Dean McMullen, a lonely slacker in high school, and Emmaline Robinson, a popular perfect girl who Dean dubs "Prom Queen", learn what it really means to trust someone. While waiting for rescue on the island, Emma and Dean will learn more about themselves and each other while falling in love. On another side, both Dean and Emma's parents with the help of police are trying to find them but they could not locate them even searching again and again through helicopter.
Emma and Dean attend the same high school. They couldn't be more different. Emma is beautiful and popular, while Dean is a loner and often sarcastic. A school trip to Trinidad is organized so that the students can help the local community.The class arrives at the island. They head out to a carnival party on a boat. At one point, the boat is stopped by the authorities. Emma is accidentally knocked overboard. Dean jumps in to rescue her. However, bad weather means they need to take shelter under a tarp. The next morning they find themselves adrift in the middle of the sea. They spot an island and are able to swim to safety. But this is just the beginning of a their adventure.They start wondering around in a hope to find a hotel/resort leaving the boat drifting at shore. Walking all day through the forest on island, they reach complete another end without finding any help. Upset with this they come back to find that there boat has gone and only one flare gun is left with 2 bullets. They built a shelter on the shore again wishing that someone would come finding them.On another side, both Dean and Emma's Parents with the help of Police are trying to find them but they couldn't locate them even searching again and again through helicopter. Finally after a month, their parents and all of their friends leave the hope of Emma and Dean coming back alive thinking they are dead already. The days passes by on the island with Emma and Dean eating fruits from the forest and staying together under a shelter. Through this, Emma and Dean befriends with each other and Dean tells her that he stays quiet at the school because he thinks that nobody neither acknowledge him nor notices him. He and his father stays alone at home since his mother died some years back. Emma discovers other side of Dean which is fun and adventurous.After near a month, they hear sound of a helicopter passing by. Excited with it they run towards the shore and does everything possible to grab the attention They could not locate their flare gun (which is stolen by a Capuchin on a tree) and due to this they miss the chance. Emma gets angry and frustrated thinking that they would never be able to reach home. Dean tries to sooth her which ends as both have sex.Their parents thinking they are dead and Emma and Dean having fun - the schedule goes such a way for almost 100 days after which finally one day another helicopter passes by and this time using the flare gun (which the Capuchin returned) they grab the attention and are returned home. But in middle of all attention given to Emma (because of her popularity), Dean is left alone. He tries to speak to her but she couldn't because of the crowd (although it looks like Emma herself does not want to talk to him).There comes the prom night, where everyone but Emma have a Date. Dean's father asks him if he wants to go to the prom night in his father's tux. Dean decides to go to Emma. Emma finds him standing outside in the rain and goes to him. They clear their differences with a kiss. The movie ends when Emma says to Dean: "We are pouring!" and Dean replies : "We've been to worse"
