In this disturbing, realistic debut a determined young female soldier interrogates an officer. Contrary to her colleagues' advice she accuses him of beating up an Arab family. She perseveres against the abuse of power in the army. A female Israeli soldier is ordered to interrogate an Israeli officer who is alleged to have abused an Arab family. Lower in rank and also a woman, she is barely taken seriously by the haughty man; he only gives her sarcastic answers. Her colleagues, including her lover, advise her to stop the case - because it is too political, too complex and too notorious. Instead, she fastens her teeth in it, in the hope of getting justice for the victims. In the meantime she has the thumbscrews tightened by her lover and his intended. All the interrogations take place in room 514, where the sound palette is formed only by voices and the air conditioning. Room 514 is a courageous, hyper-realistic, low-budget drama that provides a worrying and critical picture of Israeli Army culture, where young soldiers discover that good and evil, black and white, don't exist. This debut film filled with expressive, hand-held shots was recorded in only a few days.
Anna spends much of her life in stark Room 514 in the building in which she works, it her office and in a job she will be leaving in three weeks. It is there that she conducts most of her interviews in her job as a military police officer, specifically as an interrogator, for the Israeli Army. Her current case is investigating the unwarranted beating of a Palestinian civilian in front of his family in the Occupied Territories by an unknown person in the Israeli Army. It is there that she and her casual boyfriend, her commanding officer Erez, have their quickies, both who are having some issues with commitment, but each in slightly different ways. And it is there where other issues in her personal life invade, such as the continual telephone calls from her dependent mother who wants her to deal with the increasing minutiae in their collective lives, or a young woman named Michali barging in unannounced somewhat accusing her of sleeping with her boyfriend. Much like the four walls of the room are confining in a physical manner, they may also be confining in a holistic manner, the things that happen there which have far reaching consequences beyond that space and her own life which she may not realize. She may be able to break free in an emotional sense once she is discharged, that is if she does make out of that space.

