An acclaimed writer, his ex-wife, and their teenaged children come to terms with the complexities of love in all its forms over the course of one tumultuous year.
Meet the Borgens. William Borgens is an acclaimed author who hasn't written a word since his ex-wife Erica left him 3 years ago for another man. In between spying on Erica and casual romps with his married neighbour Tricia, Bill is dealing with the complexities of raising his teenage children Samantha and Rusty. Samantha is publishing her first novel and is determined to avoid love at all costs - after all she's seen what it has done to her parents. In between hook ups, she meets "nice guy" Lou who will stop at nothing to win her over. Rusty, is an aspiring fantasy writer and Stephen King aficionado, who is on a quest to gain 'life experiences'. He falls for the beautiful, but troubled Kate and gets his first taste of love and a broken heart. A tale of family, love (lost and found), and how endings can make new beginnings. There are no rewrites in life, only second chances.
Published novelist Bill Borgens has a modicum of fame, especially within literary circles. He has fostered in his two offspring, nineteen year old college student Samantha Borgens, and sixteen year old high schooler Rusty Borgens, a love of writing in he making them keep journals since they were young to express whatever was on their mind, he never reading them unless asked. Bill himself has stopped writing in obsessing over his ex-wife, the children's mother, Erica, who left him for a younger man, Martin. While he does have a steady f*** buddy in married Tricia Walcott - sex with him which Bill believes is solely to fill her time - Bill doesn't date in having every expectation that Erica will return, he even setting a place for her at the Thanksgiving dinner table every year. Sam hasn't spoke to her mother in over a year in her hatred for her in blaming her for their parents' split. That split has resulted in Sam being a cynical young woman, who protects herself from being hurt by embarking on promiscuous sex with no strings. That cynicism is reflected in the novel she started writing after her parents' break-up, that novel which has just been published, her first published work. Louis, one of Sam's classmates who is unlike anyone she's ever slept with, tries to change Sam's perception of relationships between people as he pursues her romantically. Conversely, Bill doesn't feel that Rusty, who wants to be the next Stephen King, has yet exposed himself enough to life to be a successful writer. As such, Rusty opens himself up in his pursuit of classmate Kate, part of the popular crowd and who has a boyfriend within that crowd, but she being a young woman with troubles of her own.

