A secret cabal, The Shadow, works to bring about the return of Goth Azul - the Undead God - in the rich world of SAGA, populated by elves, orcs, dwarves and dragons.
A ruthless elven bounty huntress (Nemyt) shoots down the dragon ridden by the fugitive orc shaman, Fangtor Bloodmoon. When Fangtor refuses to surrender quietly, the huntress must battle for her own life against the dangerous villain, and comes away with more than just his head.
Somewhere in time and space, there is a battle between the evil and the good. The Prophets of The Order are trying to restore civilization while The Shadow is trying to revive the God of Death. The female elf bounty hunter Nemyt Akaia fights against the criminal Fangtor Bloodmoon and kills him. However she is cursed by him with the Shadow mark on her wrist. When she goes to the nearby castle to collect her reward, she is arrested because of the mark and sentenced to death. Meanwhile the human Ambassador of Light Keltus the Wanderer chases the dwarf Gyarmuck to find the real intentions of the Shadow and he learns that the orcs have a powerful vessel that they will sell to the Shadow representative. Keltus heads to the castle where Nemyt is imprisoned and he finds that she has discovered where the orcs are going. He brings her with him to seek out the horde of orcs and promises that the Prophetess would help her to get rid off her mark. On the beginning of their journey they find Kullimon the Black that was left behind tied up to two trees by his former horde after being betrayed by the orc Mulgrut. The unlikable trio teams up in a journey to avoid that the God of Death returns life and destroys the civilization.
On an alternate world, in the Second Age the Order, a desperate alliance of men, elves and dwarves are led and advised by prophets. Together they finally end the war against the orcs and dark elves. As the Order struggles to restore civilization, an ancient evil is rekindled in the Western lands. Operatives of a syndicate of conspirators known as The Shadow emerge from the lawless borderlands. The Order dispatches agents of its own to discover the origin and intentions of The Shadow Cabal.Meanwhile, in the wastelands the elven bounty huntress Nemyt Akaia (Danielle Chuchran) has been looking for the fugitive orc bandit Fangtor Bloodmoon (Adam Abram). Fangtor is shaman, a dragon rider. Using a ballista Nemyt shoots down the monster and its rider but Fangtor survives the crash. After an intense fight Nemyt cuts off his head. In death Fangtor curses Nemyt with the mark of The Shadow Cabal, which appears as a black sigil on her left forearm.Keltus (Richard McWilliams), also known as Wanderer, an agent of the Order and ambassador of the Prophetess of Arialia (Bailee MyKell Cowperthwaite), tracks the dwarf Gyarmuck (James C. Morris) to his cave seeking information about the Shadow. Unfortunately, Gyarmuck is already serves the Cabal and the two battle. Gyarmuck brags that the God of Death will awaken a few days hence and that using mystic vessel, to be delivered by Kullimon's raiders, not even the Gods will be able to stand against the power of the Shadow. Having told us what we need to know, Gyarmuck tries to kill Keltus with a homemade bomb, but the explosion blows off his arm and apparently kills him.Elsewhere, orc raider Kullimon The Black (Paul D. Hunt), finds out that the orc horde he has been leading has attacked a human friary, strictly against his orders. Moreover, the leader of the raid is his first deputy Mulgrut (Kyle Paul), who is working for a shadow agent. Kullimon tells the orcs that he has always wanted his men to be honorable warriors and not thieves or murderers. But Mulgrut divides the horde with promises of wealth. Disgusted, Kullimon and his loyal orcs attempt to leave, but they are attacked by Mulgrut's traitors orcs. Kullimon alone survives and is taken prisoner.Keltus, not knowing what to do next prays to his prophetess to report his findings and to get new orders. The prophetess tells him that the Gods are preparing their return but that they must not succeed. If the death god Goth Azul is unleashed from the underworld, life will end. She informs Keltus that General Drennon (Danny James) keeps a Shadow agent in his outpost's dungeon. Keltus' mission is to question him by any means necessary to get new information.Nemyt enters that outpost just before Keltus. He sees that the elf is cursed and follows her but Nemyt only wants her bounty for Fangtor's head. Drennon dismissively refuses to pay the full amount offering a lesser sum instead. Enraged, Nemyt replies that she should more rather than less for having been cursed and demands a cleric to remove the black sigil. The mark can't be removed, Drennon replies, in fact, she will now be considered a Shadow agent. His men seize her. Nemyt puts up a good fight but is finally knocked out and put into jail. Keltus now enters Drennon's office and they discuss the problem that dwarves, and now even elves, are being drafted into the Shadow Cabal. Keltus asks to interrogate the imprisoned Shadow agent Maggut Gulbrow (James C. Morris) as soon as possible.In the jail Nemyt has been chained in the same cell as Maggut. He becomes impressed that an elf is now a part of the Cabal. He confides in her, revealing that if she is able to get free she must retrieve a box of gold and take it to Garret's Crossing at a specific time. There she must exchange the gold with Kullimon's raiders for the sacred vessel, an artifact the Shadow is seeking. Nemyt asks where she can find the gold and Maggut tells her that she can find it close to the bleeding stone. She must also collect the blood from the altar but only at dawn. When Nemyt asks, where the bleeding stone is Maggut becomes suspicious that maybe the elf is a spy. As a Shadow agent Nemyt should already know the place. Maggut tries to kill her, but he is no match for the huntress. Keltus enters the cell and finds Maggut's body and asks Nemyt if Maggut spoke before he died, but the elf refuses any answer. Changing his tactics he takes her into his custody by authority of the prophetess. The duo is stopped by a veiled woman (Eve Mauro) with a handcart as they prepare to leave. The woman tells Keltus that death is upon him, that a hero is known by his deeds but is judged by his heart. She asks him who his heart belongs to and leaves.Once in the wilderness Keltus takes off Nemyt's handcuffs,but the elf attacks knight immediately. To quiet her, Keltus assures Nemyt that a priestess of the Order will remove the mark IF Nemyt is willing to help him infiltrate the Shadow. Knowing that the mark will kill her at some point, she agrees and tells Keltus, that they have to go the bleedng stone.On the way Keltus learns that Nemyt is a high elf of the GaruunDan, who survived the Orc Wars as a child.explaining her violent hatred of orcs. Crossing forest they discover Kullimon tied to a cross but still alive. The elf wants to kill him, but Keltus stops her and frees the Orc in exchange for information. Kullimon tells them that Mulgrut has attacked a monastery of mendicants to steal the bone-vessel for the Shadow. The artifact contains the holy ashes of Amun-Khan. Disbelieving, Keltus asks for the place of the exchange. Kullimon offers to take them there to get his revenge on Malgrut, but Nemyt reveal the place and time--Garret's Crossing at new moon. Kullimon notices the elf's mark of the elf, refuses accompany them any longer inciting Nemyt to attack him. The fight ends in a draw. Keltus, acting as mediator, gets them to agree to work together for the common good.Together they reach the Bleeding Stone, an ancient meeting place for warlocks. Nemyt tells the others that she is supposed to collect the blood dripping from it. Kullimon thinks that it must be important for the Shadow. Keltus decides they might need the blood at some point of their mission. While they wait Nemyt sneaks away to collect Maggut's gold, hidden close by. In her absence a horde of undead and an Abomination attack her two companions, wounding Keltus. They are outnumbered and held by the hulking monster. Upon Nemyt's return the undead stop fighting, recognizing her as one of them. Kullimon takes advantage of the respite and kills the monster. Nemyt kills all the rest.Keltus discovers the gold, enraging the elf again. She asks, if the prophetess will really able to help her. Keltus affirms his previous statement, calming Nemyt. He sees that she is beginning to change. They collect the blood and leave to Garret's Crossing.Kullimon expresses the thought that Nemyt must be evil since she was cursed and the Shadow can only claim souls, which are filled with murder and hatred. But Keltus defends Nemyt. He tells the orc about Fangtor's fate, his curse for Nemyt and also that Nemyt is a child of the GaruunDan. Kullimon understands, and is also thankful, that she killed the shaman, since Fangtor turned Malgrut evil.At Garret's Crossing they wait for Malgrut's orcs, who should bring them the bone-vessel. Keltus wants Nemyt to pretend that she is the Shadow agent, who is buying the vessel with Maggut's gold. After the exchange the Order should destroy the bone-vessel. Without the two others knowing Keltus prays again to his prophetess to report his findings and his plan. He tells the prophetess that he promised, that a priestess of the Order will remove Nemyt's mark. The prophetess disagrees and orders Keltus to kill Nemyt, when she gets useless. As a murderer and servant of Goth Azul she has to die. Keltus agrees.
When the orcs arrive, Nemyt meets them at the crossing. Mulgrut is sceptical, but the elf can persuade him with the gold and her sword to make the exchange. Just when she is leaving, the real Shadow agent appears, and the orcs stop Nemyt, wounding her seriously. The agent takes the vessel, curses the orcs and tells them to come to the Dimwood pass. Then he leaves. Mulgrut is happy about being immortal now and serving the Shadow. The orcs leave for the Dimwood pass together with the injured and captivated Nemyt.
Keltus decides to follow the agent for the vessel, while Kullimon wants to follow the orcs. The orc is disapointed, that Keltus is leaving Nemyt to a terrible fate after she did her part to help him. Keltus excuses his behaviour with his responsibility to the prophetess.Keltus can catch up with the Shadow agent, who tells the knight, that he will belong to Goth Azul, since his soul is empty. Keltus wants the vessel back and attacks the agent. He loses and is stabbed. In addition he is cursed with the mark and unable to attack the agent any longer, since his faith is too weak. The agent goes away with the blood and the vessel, leaving Keltus to die and to become an undead servant of Goth Azul. Keltus prays to his prophetess to save him, but she and their goddess turn him down and forget him.Meanwhile Kullimon gets closer to Mulgrut's horde. He has to cross a lake and is nearly killed by evil mermaids. Mulgrut's horde is taking a break, and Mulgrut wants to abuse and torture the captive Nemyt. Kullimon arrives just in time, challenges Mulgrut and kills his former captain. He refuses the cursed horde, and tells them that his revenge is now complete. Mulgrut suddenly comes back to life. As a shadow warrior he can't be killed, he explains. Kullimons frees Nemyt and wants to leave. But the elf wants her sword, takes a knife from Kullimon and runs to the horde. She stabs Kethku (James Gaisford), Malgrut's captain, several times insanely, since that orc hurt her badly at Garret's Crossing and also intended to abuse her. She gets to her sword, kills many more orcs and leaves with a bewildered Kullimon. During their escape she is shot in the back, but Kullimon carries her and they can escape.Keltus is dying. The veiled woman with the handcart approaches him and tells him that he is now so very alone with an empty heart. She drops her cloak and reveals that she is a prophetess of the goddess Tarsa or even Tarsa herself, the god of light. She explains Keltus, that she is his oldest and only friend, that she has been watching and judging him, but that he is unable to defeat Goth Azul. She claims Keltus as her own and explains that Goth Azul has no power over the living. She takes his arm and enchants him.Kullimon is taking care of Nemyt's wound, while she is unconcious. She awakes and is disappointed that Keltus is not there. Kullimon admires Nemyt's resistance to the curse and is sad, that his men are lost to the Shadow. Nemyt offends the other orcs again, but she admits, that not all of them seem to be bad. She thanks Kullimon for saving her and wants to go after the Shadow. Kullimon insists on helping her.On their way to Dimwood Pass they are ambushed by the dwarf Gyarmuck, who did not die in the explosion during his fight with Keltus. Nemyt and Kullimon are not able to defeat the heavily armed dwarf. Nemyt is nearly killed and unconcious, while Kullimon is defenseless. The dwarf wants to kill Kullimon, but is beheaded by Keltus. Keltus heals Nemyt's wounds with his magic given by Tarsa. He admits, that he was wrong about her, and that he lied, when he said, that her mark can be healed. Nemyt does not get angry and promises to resist the curse as long as possible. Keltus explains, that when the Shadow mixes the ashes and the blood at the pit of demons, an entrance to the underworld, an avatar of Goth Azul will arise to lead an unstoppable undead army. Nemyt leads the trio to the pit for their final battle. The elf notices that Keltus has changed, and he confesses that he now follows Tarsa and shows his new mark of light. Nemyt gets hurt by the sight, but Keltus tells her that there is still hope for her to be healed.At the pit of demons they decide a suicide mission to stop the ritual. While Kullimon and Keltus should distract the horde, Nemyt should approach the Shadow agents and steal the ashes or the blood to stop the ceremony. Nemyt wants Keltus to swear to kill her, if the curse overtakes her. Nemyt and Kullimon shake hands. She tells Kullimon that her vengeance on the orc kind is satisfied. She is happy that she did not kill him and leaves for the pit.
Nemyt is able to get close to the agents and the ceremony. Mulgruts detects her, when Kullimon and Keltus start their attack. The elf leaves her cover and wants to attack the agents, but the main agent is able to intensify her curse and orders the elf to commit suicide with her own sword. Suprisingly she is still strong enough to resist, but is shot by Mulgrut in her side. The ceremony continues and the blood is spilled into the pit. Mulgrut tortures Nemyt again, but Kullimon can get Mulgrut away from her. Nemyt gets angry again, pulls out the bolt and starts killing the agents in the ceremony. While Keltus is still fighting the horde, Kullimon cuts of Mulgrut's head, killing him once and for all. In the meantime Nemyt got to the final main Shadow agent and forces her sword into his head. In death the agent pulls the sword out, strikes Nemyt seriously and falls into the pit together with the ashes.
The remaining horde stops attacking, and Kullimon helps Nemyt. She tells him that she failed, but the Orc calms her down and tells her that it is now Keltus' turn.
The avatar of Goth Azul rises and starts killing everyone with a large black spear of shadow. Keltus stabs the monster with his sword but without effect. The avatar sends another spear after Keltus but misses. The knight picks up the spear and with Tarsa's magic it turns into a spear of light. Keltus throws the spear right into Goth Azul's chest and destroys the monster.
Keltus finds Nemyt and Kullimon and notices that Nemyt's marks is gone and that she is now free. Nemyt dies in Kullimon's arms. Keltus prays to Tarsa to give Nemyt back, and the elf comes back to life. Nemyt picks up Mulgrut's gold and they leave the battlefield, discussing how to split the money,
