Producer Samuel Booker has acquired the remake rights to a Russian "noir" movie. He has also acquired the services of writer-director Nicholas Crawley to translate the Russian version into an updated thriller. Ultimately actress Elizabeth Seitz is cast in the part. For her it is the role of a lifetime. Delving deeper into the role Elizabeth becomes obsessed with the Russian model for her character. An eerie madness ensues that turns the making of the remake into a suspense thriller in and of itself.
THE LAST MOVIE opens with whispered voices, a darkened house and the sound of gunshots. A mysterious lady in a diaphanous nightgown appears - blood on her hands. This is the opening of a classic Russian noir film to which producer Samuel Booker has acquired the remake rights. He has also acquired the services of writer-director Nicholas Crawley to translate the Russian version into an updated thriller. Crawley views the Russian film NOCH'YU (At Night). He follows the intrigue of that mysterious lady, Nastya, and her lover Pavel as they plot the murder of her husband Alexei. It is all done in glorious black &amp; white in classic noir style. Simultaneously we follow the intricacies of the new production through the eyes of the director and his constant battle to focus on the creative elements of suspense played out in the Russian movie. The key for Crawley is the casting of the new leading lady - a femme fatale who orchestrates a web of intrigue and murder. Ultimately, actress Elizabeth Seitz is cast in the part. For her it is the role of a lifetime. Director Crawley encourages her to bring her own background and psyche into the character she is about to play. Elizabeth does. Delving deeper into the role Elizabeth becomes obsessed with the Russian model for her character as she too watches the original Russian film from a different perspective. An eerie madness ensues that turns the making of the remake into a suspense thriller in and of itself. THE LAST MOVIE is unlike any thriller you'll ever see!
Producer Samuel Booker has acquired the remake rights to a Russian noir movie. He has also acquired the services of writer-director Nicholas Crawley to translate the Russian version into an updated thriller a low budget thriller.
We follow the intricacies of the production. The key for Crawley is the casting of the new leading lady a femme fatale who orchestrates a web of intrigue and murder.
Ultimately actress Elizabeth Seitz is cast in the part. For her it is the role of a lifetime.
Director Crawley encourages her to bring her own background and psyche into the character she is about to play. Elizabeth does.
Delving deeper into the role Elizabeth becomes obsessed with the Russian model for her character. An eerie madness ensues that turns the making of the remake into a suspense thriller in and of itself.
