Minions Stuart, Kevin, and Bob are recruited by Scarlet Overkill, a supervillain who, alongside her inventor husband Herb, hatches a plot to take over the world.
Ever since the dawn of time, the Minions have lived to serve the most despicable of masters. From the T-Rex to Napoleon, the easily distracted tribe has helped the biggest and the baddest of villains. Now, join protective leader Kevin, teenage rebel Stuart, and lovable little Bob on a global road trip. They'll earn a shot to work for a new boss, the world's first female supervillain, and try to save all of Minionkind from annihilation.
The "revolutionary" minions: Kevin- the leader, Stuart- the rebel and Bob- their lovable little brother left the "Minion Tribes"- which have served their ex-masters, from the famous dinosaur T-Rex to Napoleon the Great; and went seeking for a new "master". Finally, their journey ends in London after being recruited by a female super villain named Scarlet Overkill and her husband Herb in Orlando, who wanted to rule the world. Now, the three minions must face a new challenge: saving all of the Minion tribes from a huge plan of Minion annihilation.
Upon not being able to satisfy their core duty of serving an evil master, three minions, Stuart, Kevin &amp; Bob set out from their Antarctica base to the USA in search of a master. By sheer chance they get to visit the Villain Con where they get a chance to impress the meanest Villain of all, Scarlett Overkill.
Since the origin of mankind, the minions are seeking out the most despicable master to serve. In 1968, Kevin, Stuart and Bob head to New York and Florida expecting to find a new boss while the rest of their tribe waits for them in Antarctica. They search for the evil Scarlet Overkill who travels to England with them and assigns the trio of minions to steal the Crown of the Queen. However things do not go as planned.
From loud and gigantic T-Rexes to strong and hairy cavemen, and from haughty pharaohs to even the great Napoleon himself, the minuscule banana-yellow creatures known only as the "Minions", exist only to serve the most villainous boss they could get their hands on. However, after a long string of ill-served masters, the well-meaning but utterly inept beings will find themselves without a purpose, as an entire headless tribe must pin their hopes on three little minions, Kevin, Stuart and Bob, to discover the most despicable evil lord. Rumour has it that the infamous international villain and the first woman in the trade, Scarlet Overkill, might be the one they have been looking for all their lives; nevertheless, is she really what the minions have been waiting for?
The movie starts with a narration about the minions, how they have existed since long ago, seeking the most evil entity to serve. The change from master to master is due to the fact that they often cause their masters' demise. One day they find themselves isolated in an ice cavern and thrive as a tribe. But as time passes they lose spirit in living because they don't have a master. A minion Kevin decides to go to the outside world to find a master. He gets Stuart and Bob as his companions. They arrive in New York and after some time wandering around they find a secret villain TV channel that announces the Villain Con in Orlando. Hitching a ride with the Nelsons, who turn out to be villains also, the minions reach Villain Con. There they see Scarlet Overkill, then the worlds most notorious villain, who turns out to be seeking henchmen. Bob accidentally wins the contest to become Scarlet's henchman.The minions follow Scarlet to her castle and Kevin phones his fellow minions to come. She tasks the minions to steal the royal crown from Queen Elizabeth of Britain. With gadgets from Scarlet's husband Herb, the minions succeed in stealing the crown but get caught red handed so they run from capture, until Bob accidentally releases the sword in the stone from the Excalibur legends. Thus Bob is crowned king. Scarlet is infuriated by this and visits the minions. They happily give the crown and the kingship to Scarlet. But Scarlet instead sends them to a torture chamber. But somehow the minions are immune to the torture equipment and they sneak back into Scarlet's coronation ceremony to apologize. But again theiy bodge it, as instead they crash an ancient chandelier onto Scarlet's head. Scarlet sends the other villains from Villain Con after the minions. Stuart and Bob get captured.Kevin escapes and stumbles onto Herb's secret weapon, which transforms him into a gigantic minion. He saves Stuart and Bob while battling Scarlet, while the rest of the minions arrive. Kevin swallows Scarlet's rocket but prevents her escape, blowing her up and returning Kevin to his size. Kevin, Stuart and Bob are rewarded by the Queen. But Scarlet is still alive and returns to steal the crown, only to be stopped by young Gru, who takes the crown and gains the minions as his servants.
