A dealer of illegal guns is bullied into being an informer for a cop who wants to put an end to this racket.
Jannat 2 revolves around a smuggler Sonu Delhi KKC who deals in illegal guns. ACP Pratap Raghuvanshi is a sincere police officer who has taken the oath to demolish the illegal guns business. The entire movie moves around Mangal Singh Tomar, the gang leader dealing with the illegal guns and how Sonu Delhi and ACP Pratap Raghuvanshi fight back to demolish the gun smuggling business. Sonu Delhi falls in love with Jhanvi Tomar and how he manages to save his love.
Sonu Dilli (Emraan Hashmi)(KKC Kutti Kamini Cheez ) is a street-smart, small time arms dealer in Delhi who has the gift of gab. When he is interrogated by a tough cop, ACP Pratap Raghuvanshi (Randeep Hooda), he turns informer for the latter.Although helping ACP Pratap puts Sonu in jail for a little time, he continues to purvey the ACP with information about illegal arms racket as he has no other choice. But when Sonu falls in love with a doctor, Jhanvi Tomar (Esha Gupta), and manages to woo her, he wants to leave the life of crime and settle down. ACP Pratap, who is hell bent upon finding who the leader of the arms racket is, persuades Sonu to continue being his informer by promising him protection and a good life afterwards. Sonu, unknown to his wife, joins a bigger gang of arms traders.Sonus world is shaken to the core when he realises, after his marriage to Jhanvi, that Jhanvis estranged father, Mangal Singh Tomar (Manish Choudhary), is also the leader of the arms business in Delhi. However, Sonu manages to convince Mangal that he is a corrupt and shrewd person who will be of use to his gang. Mangal embraces Sonu as his next in command.ACP Pratap, who knows this, blackmails Sonu to give him information on upcoming arms deals, so that he can catch Mangal Singh red handed. Sonu, caught between the devil and the deep sea, starts playing a double game. He neither gives information to the ACP, nor tells Mangal the truth about him being a police informer. Secretly he plans to run away with Jhanvi, so that he can live a peaceful life with her.
