A mother and her daughter embarks on a desperate journey to find her missing husband. She met an guy who promised to help her for money. With limited money it become difficult to continue the search which leads to anxiety and despair.
The film follows Kamala, a young woman from Chitkul village and her girl child Manya, who embarks on a journey leaving their native land in search for her missing husband. Along this journey she encounters Nawazudin, a free spirited army deserter who helps them to get to their destination with his own selfish motive.
The canvas of the film stretches from a small village on the mountains called Chitkul in Himachal Pradesh (India), which borders China to small town like Shimla and bigger and vast industrial zones like Delhi / Chandigarh.It's about a young mother, Kamla, her 3-year-old daughter and her daughter's pet goat from a tribal community who embarks on a journey leaving their native land in search of her missing husband. Along with this journey, she encounters an army deserter (Nawazuddin) who tried to help her when two truck driver tried to tease her. The truck driver beat the man badly and also snatched his gun. He stood guard the whole night and decides to accompany them briefly to the bus station. Kamala faints and Nawazuddin helps her. Nawazuddin is attracted to her but Kamala is on her guard. When the bus conductor did not let the lady to enter the bus with a goat, she asked for help to the man. Nawazuddin demands 600 rupees in exchange to help her, but finally agreed with 500. Then they took a bus to Shimla. On the way, Nawazuddin evade the suspicion of army check-post as three of us appeared to be a family. Finally Kamla reaches her husband's bosses's house and meets with the bosses's wife. The boss is a contractor who brings poor people to construction site as laborer. Kamla finds out that the boss is away and suspects that the wife is hiding something from her. She took the address where her husband is working now and left the contractor's place. She immediately tries to cut ties with Nawazuddin and pays him less than what he had asked for. Nawazuddin gets angry and slaps her for what she did. Later Nawazuddin follows her and bring tea for her in the train station. She decides to go Delhi in search for her husband and tell this to Nawazuddin. He try to accompany them in order to keep them safe. He convinces her and asks for the gold bracelet on her hand, apparently the last resource she had left. After a train journey from Shimla to Chandigarh (Haryana), they took a bus to Delhi. On the way to Delhi, Nawazuddin earned some money by playing Liar's Dice game with the fellow passengers. As they arrive in Delhi they try to rent a room. The Hotel manager is suspicious and greedy and overcharged them for keeping the goat. The hotel manager further suspects the relationship between them as they don't appear to be a normal Husband and wife. Nawazuddin sleeps downstairs during the night. In the morning, Nawazuddin found that Kamla went out alone for collecting food. He warned her not to do this again as the locality is not safe for lonely woman. He leaves in search for her husband's whereabouts and promised to be back soon. The whole day passes and the hotel management forcefully evacuate Kamla and also take the goat as a collateral saying the money was insufficient. Nawazuddin then comes late and realizes that hotel management has chased Kamla out of the room and taken her goat. So he fights with the management before fleeing from them. He desperately searches for them and finally found her with her daughter. He then hugs her as she looks tired, exhausted and depressed about the situation. She breaks free from him and they move to another place. Nawazuddin then again tell her that he has to look for her and goes out leaving his bag. Kamla tries to calls her husband's phone and this time she finally hear it ringing. To her immense surprise, however she heard the ringtone coming from Nawazuddin's bag. She opens his bag. Inside a paper packet, she finds her husband's wallet, his watch and his belongings which indicates that her Husband is no more and the company including the contractor was trying to cover it up. Nawazuddin found this the day before but could not say it to her. The film describe how the companies which hire poor people to work for them in very bad conditions but don't take responsibility for their lives. Later in the film, Nawazuddin works as a constructor, the same job as Kamla's husband. Both him and Kamla working at the same place. This shows that there no justice and choice for people living in poverty.This film talks about a sense of futility; anger against the system and also explores the dynamics of a man woman relationship. It's a linear narrative travel story with a more alarming backdrop of the sociopolitical conditions of India today.
