Red Crow Mi'kmaq reservation, 1976: By government decree, every Indian child under the age of 16 must attend residential school. In the kingdom of the Crow, that means imprisonment at St. Dymphna's. That means being at the mercy of "Popper", the sadistic Indian agent who runs the school.
Red Crow Mi'kmaq reservation, 1976: By government decree, every Indian child under the age of 16 must attend residential school. In the kingdom of the Crow, that meansimprisonment at St. Dymphna's. That means being at the mercy of "Popper", the sadistic Indian agent who runs the school. At 15, Aila is the weed princess of Red Crow. Hustling with her uncle Burner, she sells enough dope to pay Popper her "truancy tax", keeping her out of St. Ds. But when Aila's drug money is stolen and her father Joseph returns from prison, the precarious balance of Aila's world is destroyed. Her only options are to run or fight - and Mi'kmaq don't run.
1976. Fifteen year old Aila, a Mi'kmaq Indian living on the Red Crow Reservation, has had to grow up quickly, ever since a tragic incident in and of itself in 1969 led to her mother committing suicide and her father, Joseph, being sent to jail. Aila still has a strong spiritual connection to her mother, while she has complicated feelings toward her father, who she believes has done some good things for the wrong reasons, and some wrong things for good reasons. By law, Aila is supposed to be attending residential school - an oppressive and abusive environment toward all Indians - but she has been able to avoid such by regularly paying off the truant officer, Popper, those payments which he calls a truancy tax. She amasses her money by operating a grow op with among others her paternal Uncle Burner, which Popper is well aware. Burner justifies Aila leading the operation in that she is under age and thus more immune to whatever the law may throw their way. Although Aila tries to keep on Popper's good side, she no where closely considers him a friend or ally. An incident with some of Alia's associates leads to the proceeds from her drug deals going missing. Based on the story, she knows that it was all orchestrated by Popper. Despite Popper now having all her money, she knows her life is threatened if she cannot come up with her regular payments to him. A such, she decides the best course of action is to steal the money back from him, being caught by him which could lead to negative repercussions more serious than non-payment. Her plans are affected by the return of her father, who has just been released from jail and who has his own long antagonistic history with Popper.

