A single woman in her 50's devotes her vacations to doing Catholic missionary work in Vienna, descending into violent self-punishment as part of her faith.
Anna Maria, a single woman in her 50s, devotes her summer vacation to doing missionary work, so that Austria may be brought back to the path of virtue. On her daily pilgrimage through Vienna, she goes from door to door, carrying a foot-high statue of the Virgin Mary. When her husband, an Egyptian Muslim confined to a wheelchair, comes home after years of absence, her life is turned upside down.
A lonely wife has become obsessed with Catholicism (although we find out early on that she was originally married to a now-missing Muslim man). As her loneliness increases, so does her religious fervor, to the point where she spends her vacation time walking through different (and sometimes dangerous) neighborhoods in a quest to re-convert all of Austria to Catholicism. Carrying her statue of the Virgin Mary and endlessly repeating the rosary, she eventually begins to engage in ritualistic physical punishment, such as self-flagellation, purportedly out of her love for Jesus. But a nagging undercurrent of repressed sexuality and transference looms large in her masochistic behavior, and when her Islamic husband returns by surprise, we see the real extent of her "Christian" behavior.
Anna Maria (Maria Hofstätter) is a middle-aged Austrian woman who lives alone in a well-knitted house in Vienna. When she doesn't work in the hospital then she clean her house thoroughly. But she doesn't feel alone; she has Jesus; she loves Jesus; This unconditional love to god, empowers her to overcome the temptations of her flesh, by praying and by using methodically all sort of self- punishments.But she is not alone in her quest; she is member of a small ultra-religious group which tries to bring back the Catholic faith to Austria; when she takes a break from her work instead of going to vacations, she tries door to door, to bring God to the poor neighborhoods, which are occupied mostly by immigrants.Although her faith is strong, it is going to be challenged not only by the various reactions of the people that she tries to approach, but also back home, where her past is vividly back. Her crippled Muslim husband is back and demands a share of her love, who offers gladly only to Jesus.
