The paths of a desperate man and an imprisoned young woman cross unexpectedly in the den of a mysterious killer.
The film opens with Chloe (Caitlin Stasey) lying on a motel floor tied up, gagged and unconscious. As she comes to she realizes that she is in her underwear and is not alone. There are more women tied up and gagged around her. As she struggles to get free another female's hand dangles from the bed and hits her in the face. She rolls her body to the other side to find another female Emma (Leah McKendrick) tied up just like her. As she stars at Emma, Emma awakes and looks back at her. Realizing their situation both women begin to whimper. A door opens to the room and the women can see a man (Kevin Cassidy) in army boots walk in. The man stands over the 2 women with an ax in his hand. Chloe quickly pretends to be knocked out as Emma cries. The Tormentor grabs Emma by her feet and drags her into the bathroom. Chloe hears what sounds like a crank turning and stretching Emma as she cries in pain. Then a loud bang is heard repeatedly and the crying has stopped.
Next scene we see and hear a cell phone alarm going off on a wooden table. A man Andrew (Markus Taylor) wakes up from the couch and checks the phone. His phone then rings while he is in the shower. From the one sided conversation heard Andrew appears to has lost a job he applied for. Disappointed he finishes his shower then looks at himself in the mirror with anguish.
Andrew is now seen walking down the street and calling his ex-wife Lindsay (Katie Owsley). He asks her to talk to his daughter Zoey but Lindsey tells him no she doesn't want her to be late to school. They argue for a second and Lindsey hangs up on Andrew. Next we see Andrew waiting for the bus and Lindsey calls him. She tells him his check bounced and if he wants to be in his daughter's life then maybe he should pay the money that he owes for child support and hangs up on him.
Chloe still lying on the floor is grabbed by Angela (Sorel Carradine) who somehow got untied. She takes the gag out of Chloe's mouth. As she begins to untie Chloe a knife being sharpened is heard in the bathroom. This spooks Angela and she rolls herself under the bed. She tries to signal Chloe to roll under the other bed but Chloe doesn't understand. The door to the other opens and the tormentor drags Emma's dead bloody body out of the room. Angela quickly comes out from under the bed and starts to untie Chloe. Chloe asks what is going on. Angela states she doesn't know anything. She tells Chloe to untie her feet because you never know how long the tormentor will be gone. Angela checks the door to the room and it is locked. She turns and see's Chloe still sitting there in shock. Angela quickly unties Chloe's feet. Chloe asks her how long has she been there. Angela states "I worked on my bonds all night lucky for me not the other girl I was able to hide." Chloe asks "He forgot about you?" Angela looks at Chloe and gets up and frantically searches the room dresser drawers. Weak Chloe tries to stand up. As she does the site of 7 other women bond and gagged lying around the rooms makes her fall to her knees. Angela finding nothing in the drawers grabs Chloe and they both try the room door again. All of a sudden the door is knocked and the 2 women scream and jump back. The latch on the lock is then heard being opened. Angela grabs Chloe and they run into the bathroom. They shut and lock the door. Chloe then realizes all the blood around the bathroom. The crouch down and try and behind the door. The tormentor barges in and grabs Angela. Chloe hears him throw Angela around the room into the walls. He then comes back and grabs Chloe by the hair.
Andrew is now scene doing odd jobs for cash. A man sitting in his car is watching Andrew. Andrew gets home to see a package with an envelope attached to it in front of his apartment door. Inside the envelope is cash and a note stating "Half now, Half upon delivery and a phone number. Baffled by this he looks around his complex to see if he sees anyone. He brings both into his apartment. Andrew calls the number and a Russian man answers the phone. The Russian man wants Andrew to deliver the package to him and he will make another $200. Andrew uneasy about this deal tells the man "I'm not a mailman). The Russian tells him to keep the money and leave the package outside his door and he will take care of it and no hard feelings. Now curious Andrew asks him what is in the package. The Russian tells him to open it. Andrew quickly says "I don't want to do get involved in anything that is..." the Russian cuts him off and tells him it's nothing bad, open it. Andrew opens it and it is books. Andrew doesn't understand why the Russian couldn't deliver it himself. The Russian is looking for good help and Andrew looks like a man he can trust. Andrew asks to think about it and the Russian tells him he will be in touch. The next morning Andrew is woken up from the Russian man calling him asking him if he wants the job. Andrew does. The Russian gives him an address and tells him a new package is in front of his door. Half the payment is with it and when the package is delivered he will get the rest. Andrew wants to know what about the books. The Russian tells him to keep them; the new package is in front of his door and hangs up. Andrew grabs the new one and the scene fades to black and then back to Chloe.
Chloe is thrown back into the room on the floor from the bathroom and pretends to be unconscious. The bathroom door is shut. Bathroom door opens and the tormentor is seen dragging Angela's dead bloody body out of the room. Chloe gets up and starts to explore the room. She tries to open the room door and it is locked. She then tries the closet. It is stuck because there is another unconscious woman in it. Chloe goes to the window and tries to remove the wood boarding up the window. Next she goes back into the bathroom to explore it. She sees a chain with a hook attached hanging in the shower. She tries to open the bathroom window but it only opens a crack. She tries to scream for help but no one can hear her. Another woman starts to moan from the bedroom. Chloe slowly investigates the noise. She sees Ashley (Rachel Melvin) slowly moving and whimpering. She removes Ashley's gag. Chloe tells Ashley to be quite. She hears a noise. Realize no one is there she gags Ashley once more so she can move the dresser in front of the room door. Now she unties Ashley and tries to help her up but Ashley tells her she can't feel her legs. The tormentor comes back but now can't get into the door. Chloe looks around and sees a ceiling vent. She moves and end table to it and climbs up to pull the vent down. She grabs for Ashley but she doesn't move. Chloe jumps into the vent and tries to pull Ashley up. Ashley doesn't move quickly enough because her legs. The tormentor is struggling to get in. Ashley finally gets to her feet only to fall to her knees which allowed more time for the tormentor to get in. He watches as Chloe pulls Ashley into the vent. The vent shaft not being strong enough to hold both of them begins to collapses. Chloe lets go of Ashley to try and save herself. The tormentor grabs Ashley and ties her back up. He then takes a pitch fork and starts stabbing the vent shaft. Chloe in a panic tries to get to the other vent and kick it open. As she is doing this the pitch fork stabs her through her ankle. She tries to slowly crawl back down the shaft and uses the holes the pitch fork made as a peep hole. When she looks through the hole the tormentor stabs the fork up again and catches her in the shoulder. Thinking quickly she starts to push on her wound to make more blood come out. She does this to make the tormentor think he killed her. The tormentor then goes back to taking another woman (Ashley) in the bathroom.
Andrew is now seen sitting in a restaurant eating with a package on the table. The Russian calls Andrew. Andrew now working for him picks and says "Sir". The Russian asks how he is doing and about the business with his daughter. Andrew tells him everything is good and he can't thank the man enough for helping with his daughter. Andrew asks if he can do anything for his new boss. "Yes you can there is another delivery. The package is in the usual spot. He tells Andrew to be careful with this one and it is very important. Andrew is now seen leaving with the package in his hand. He is jumped by 2 men and loses the package. The Russian calls him asks what happened. He tells him he was jumped and lost the package. He searches and searches for them and package but has no luck. He calls the Russian man back and apologizes for losing them. The Russian say he is disappointed and now he needs to find someone new who can trust. Andrew begs for another chance. The Russian man gives him the address where the 2 men are. He tells Andrew to make sure they never steal from him again. Andrew walks into the back with a baseball bat and smashes the 2 men over and over with the bat until they are dead and retrieves the package.
Chloe slowly makes her way out of the vent and into the room again. She sees a metal clamp hanging from the vent shaft. She goes to the closet and takes bonds off the women to tie up her shoulder and ankle. Now she makes her way back to the bed and starts to drag the dead women into a pile by the bed and unties all of them to make a long rope. She moves the end table under the bed to raise it up. She ties the rope to the bed and makes a noose.
Andrew calls the Russian and tells him he did it. The Russian is pleased and impressed. Now the Russian wants to talk about Andrew's future with the Russian's boss. If he accepts the job it will be 6 figures in pay but the boss wants to meet in person. A car is sent for Andrew. Andrew arrives at a mansion and is greeted by the maid. The boss is seen standing at the top of the stairs. She is Elizabeth (Holly Twyford). She wants to know what Andrew wants out of life. Andrew wants a better life for himself and be able to take care of his daughter. Andrew wants to know why he is there. Elizabeth asks don't you want to know what I want? Andrew asks and Elizabeth tells him. She wants her dead husband back who she lost in the war. Andrew then asks what she needs. She explains she found a way to stay young. She needs Andrew to drain blood of young women. Andrew says he won't and gets up to leave. Elizabeth uses his daughter as leverage to convince him to do it.
Chloe looks out the peep hole of the room door and sees the masked tormentor. She runs back to the noose. As he enters the room she threatens to hang herself. As he moves the closer she puts the noose around her neck. He runs to her to cut her down. She made a trap for him. He trips on a rope she tied up and falls forward. Chloe puts the noose around his neck as he is falling and he starts to hang. He struggles to free himself as Chloe watches. As he struggles the bed begins to rise up. Chloe puts the dead bodies of the women in the room on the bed to weigh it down. She then pulls the rope to strangle him more.
Turning back to Andrew he accepts the job and Elizabeth is pleased caused a vacancy has just opened up referring to Chloe killing the previous one.
Chloe opens the door to a lawn of a mansion. FADE TO BLACK!!!!!
