20 years after a horrific accident during a small town school play, students at the school resurrect the failed show in a misguided attempt to honor the anniversary of the tragedy - but soon discover that some things are better left alone.
Twenty years after an accident during a small town high school play results in death, students at the school resurrect the failed stage production in a misguided attempt to honor the anniversary of the tragedy - but ultimately find out that some things are better left alone.
Students from Nebraska discover some strange things that have happened to their school. Charlie Grimille, a innocent high school student that went to the same school as the victims earlier in the plot line was in a play called "Gallow." He was supposed to be standing on a thin wooden board with his neck around a loose rope. That board fell through and caused Charlie to die on the spot. Many years later, these high school students decide to reenact the play in Charlie's honor. When the lead role gets a bad case of stage fright, they decide to go to the school the night before to ruin the set so the play wouldn't happen. Little did they know what would happen after that..
20 years after after a terrible accident caused the death of an innocent student Charlie Grimille during a school play called The Gallows, the same school decides to reenact the play as a way of honoring Charlie. However, when four students at that school decide to break in and sabotage the play Charlie has some other grisly ideas for the unsuspecting students.
On October 29, 1993, Beatrice High School student Charlie Grimille is accidentally hanged and killed after a prop malfunction during a presentation of the play "The Gallows." His parents, along with the whole audience, witness the tragic event. Twenty years later, on October 28, 2013, the school attempts to put on a new performance of "The Gallows." Reese Houser is excited, as this gives him a chance to grow closer to his crush Pfeifer Ross. His friend Ryan Shoos is dismissive of the play, and comes up with the idea to vandalize the set. Reese is reluctant to take part, but agrees when Ryan promises that he'll be able to console Pfeifer afterwards, giving them a chance to kiss. Later that night, Reese, Ryan, and Ryan's girlfriend Cassidy Spilker sneak into the school, only to run into Pfeifer, who saw Reese's car. Knowing they cannot vandalize the sets with Pfeifer there, the group tries to leave, but finds that they have been locked inside, and there is no cell phone reception. Disturbed, Cassidy admits the trio's real reason for being in the school, which angers Pfeifer. As the group tries to look for a way out of the school, they find news coverage of Charlie's death that includes an interview with his girlfriend Alexis. They also discover that Charlie was not supposed to have performed that day, and was only on stage because he was the understudy for the main actor, Reese's father Rick..
Twenty years after the accidental hanging of high school student Charlie Grimille during a failed school play called "The Gallows", a small town Nebraska high school prepares to remount the show in which Charlie died. But when the lead actor gets a bad case of stage fright, he and his friends decide to prevent the show from happening and break into the high school the night before the performance to sabotage the set. Little do they know that Charlie has other plans.

