A divorced woman who decides to pursue the man she's interested in learns he's her new friend's ex-husband.
A divorced and single parent, Eva (Julia Louis-Dreyfus) spends her days enjoying work as a masseuse but dreading her daughter's impending departure for college. She meets Albert (James Gandolfini) - a sweet, funny and like-minded man also facing an empty nest. As their romance quickly blossoms, Eva befriends Marianne (Catherine Keener), her new massage client. Marianne is a beautiful poet who seems "almost perfect" except for one prominent quality: she rags on her ex-husband way too much. Suddenly, Eva finds herself doubting her own relationship with Albert as she learns the truth about Marianne's ex.
Divorced Eva is a Los Angeles based masseuse, whose only child, teenager Ellen, is going away to college, Sarah Lawrence, in the fall, leaving Eva as an empty nester. As such, Eva slowly turns her motherly focus to Ellen's best friend, Chloe, without even realizing it. Not one for confrontation, Eva quietly accepts certain foibles of her clients without dealing with them as issues, such as Martin with halitosis, constant chatterbox Cynthia who Eva just tunes out, and young Hal who never offers to carry Eva's heavy and bulky massage table up his long and steep front set of stairs, but who she in turn never asks. Accompanying her married couple friends Sarah and Will to a party where she knows no one, Eva meets divorced Marianne, a poet, who hires Eva to be her masseuse. That professional relationship turns to friendship as both Eva and Marianne are looking for single friends who they can unburden themselves, mostly about their love lives and the disasters that were their first marriages. Also at that party, Eva meets divorced father, Albert, who, like Eva, will soon be an empty nester as Albert's daughter Tess is also going away to school back east in the fall. Despite the two of them indirectly stating at that party that they are not attracted to each other, Albert asks for Eva's number which leads to a date. That date slowly leads to a relationship which looks like it could be the second chance for both in terms of a loving committed relationship. With her relationships with Marianne and Albert on firm ground, Eva learns indirectly that Albert is Marianne's ex-husband, the man who Marianne has bad-mouthed time and time again in her and Eva's private conversations. Rather than confront the coincidence head on, Eva decides to remain silent about her finding to both Marianne and Albert. The subsequent private conversations that Eva has with Marianne and Albert could taint her feelings about the other. But if Marianne and/or Albert were to find out that Eva knew the situation without telling them, it could ruin the relationships Eva so needs at this crucial time in her life.
Eva (Julia Louis-Dreyfus), a masseuse, a mother of a teenage girl and a divorcee attends a party in Pacific Palisades with her friends, married couple Will (Ben Falcone) and Sarah (Toni Collette). She meets a poet, Marianne (Catherine Keener), and Will introduces Eva to his friends, Jason (Phillip Brock) and Albert (James Gandolfini). After the party, Albert asks Will for Eva's number and though hesitant, due to the lack of physical attraction, Eva agrees to go on a dinner date with Albert, which goes well. Marianne contacts Eva for a massage, Eva takes an immediate liking to Marianne, and they become friends.Eva finds herself more and more fond of Albert and they have lunch with his teenage daughter, Tess (Eve Hewson), who, like Eva's daughter, is graduating from high school and moving away to attend college. A few days later, Eva goes to her massage appointment with Marianne and realizes that Albert is Marianne's ex-husband after she tells her a story about how he eats guacamole - the same story Albert told her. Tess then arrives at the house and Eva's suspicions are confirmed. Marianne tries to introduce Eva to Tess, but she hides behind a tree to avoid the meeting. Eva continues seeing Albert, keeping her friendship with Marianne a secret; likewise, she does not tell Marianne she is seeing him.Eva encourages Marianne to complain about her ex-husband Albert so she can identify potential problems in her relationship with him. To the encouragement of Eva, Sarah and Will invite her and Albert to a dinner party, which goes badly after Eva begins finding fault with Albert, which upsets him. At another appointment with Marianne, Eva is exposed when Albert arrives to drop Tess off at her mother's. He is angry that Eva kept her friendship with Marianne a secret, and breaks up with her.Eva and her ex-husband take Ellen to the airport for her flight to college. A few months later, on Thanksgiving Day, Eva drives by Albert's home and stops in front of the house on her way to pick up Ellen from the airport. He sees her and she awkwardly waves. He eventually comes outside, to Eva's surprise, and sits with her on the porch and they begin to renew their relationship.
