In the Iranian ghost-town Bad City, a place that reeks of death and loneliness, the townspeople are unaware they are being stalked by a lonesome vampire.
An Iranian Vampire Western, shot in black&amp;white and with a killer soundtrack... it's a love story about two tortured souls in a desolate Iranian Ghost-town called 'Bad City', where a lonely vampire is stalking the towns most depraved denizens.
The film opens with a scene of a vast wasteland, Bad City, populated with oil drilling machines and a palpable sense of being a quasi ghost town. Here, Arash a lonely teenager with a drug addicted father who consistently owes money to a dealer, tries his best to make a living working as a gardener for a rich family. Unknown to him, the city is inhabited by a lonely young vampire whose name we never learn. She acts as a sort of vigilante, choosing to feed from those who she considers "bad", killing them without mercy. When one night she runs into Arash, she will finally know the possibilities that love offers, and that even in Bad City, shines a small glimmer of hope.
In Bad City, Arash is a young man that lives with his father Hossein, who is drug addicted, and he brings a stray cat home. Arash has a car that he bought after working for many years. One day, the drug dealer Saeed, who is also a pimp, takes Arash's car to pay the debts of his father. Saeed abuses of the prostitute Atti and soon he meets a young lonesome woman and takes her home. However she is a vampire that attacks abusive men and homeless and she kills him. Meanwhile Arash steals a pair of earrings from his employee and goes to Saeed's house to get his car back, but he finds Saeed dead. He brings his car and a wallet with drugs and money with him and starts dealing drugs with the users. He goes to a party dressed of Dracula and two girls give drug to him. Arash wanders through the streets completely lost and he stumbles with the vampire that brings him home. The vampire meets Atti and then Arash schedules to meet her during the night in a sort of date and he gives the pair of earrings to her. In the morning, Hossein trashes the pictures of his wife and Arash gives money to his father and expels him from home. Hossein takes the cat and goes to Atti's house and abuses of her, forcing Atti to use drug. The vampire attacks Hossein and kills him. Soon Arash finds the body of his father dumped in a wasteland and he decides to go away from Bad City with the girl. When he meets her, he finds the stray cat at her home. What will Arash do?
What happeneds when you accidentally meet a good guy on his first night off his face - and you've been the girl protecting the women and children in a bad city from bad men - Well, you fall in love, or do you, or do you simply gain a new perspective? As a lonesome young female vampire who's had to get a bit creative with the locals from time to time. Do you let this get in your head? Shot in black and white with slow direction and fantastic lighting this modern vampire love story gives a slightly different interpretation on the popular teenage vampire genre. Pay attention to the small props the director pays to past Vampire and Dracula classics. One such moment will flash a smirk across the face of anyone who's ever watch Bram's Dracula. It's brilliant. If Fellini made a teen vampire love story, I'm certain it could look a little like this. Grab a fork and sit forward for a dark, but enchanting Iranian version, of a spaghetti western teen vampire flick. But bring your own cheese. It's meaty.
It is almost night at the Iranian city of Bad City.A young rockabilly-looking youngster picks up a cat (Masuka the Cat). It is young Arash, (Arash Marandi), an Iranian young man. On his way back to his car, he is bothered by a begging kid (Milad Eghbali). He is despondent and leaves, claiming to have no money.An unkempt middle-aged man is watching TV. It is Hossein ((Marshall Manesh), Arash's father, He shoots himself with a needle on one of his toes. Hossein doesn't have the money to pay his heavily-tattooed pusher, Saeed (Dominic Rains), who also happens to be the local pimp. When he says that it was the pusher's fault that Hossein got hooked on the first place, he just picks up the cat and asks for its gender and name. The pusher says that Hossein is an everyday man who just can't afford his vices, like drugs and women. The pusher takes the son's car away. Arash decides to go after the pusher, but it is too late.A young woman called Shayday (Rome Shadanloo) calls Arash in. She looks to be her employer, as Ashar is doing a little gardening. She looks like she has had a nose surgery job and an obnoxious brat. She is on her mobile phone speaking to somebody about going out. Arash sees a pair of earring and thinks of stealing them to pay for his father's bills. He finally takes them.Saeed is showing off his car in front of a prostitute called Atti (Mozhan Marnò), who gets into his car. They have sex in the middle of a deserted parking lot. The Girl (Sheila Vand) passes them by without bothering them, but Saeed seems to notice in an unconscious way. The Girl is wearing a hijab veil and silently walks by. This startles Saeed, who pushes Atti out of the car without paying her, telling her to stop crying and calling her a hag.The Girl leaves a convenience store.A young girl is dancing to the music and applying kohl to his eyes. It is the Girl without the hijab veil.Saeed and the Girl cross paths on a deserted street at night. He throws away his cigarette and speaks to her. He makes a sign with his head and takes the Girl to his apartment. It is a quite modern flat. He immediately resorts to snort cocaine and turns the music up. Then, he shows off pulling weights. So far, the Girl has said nothing at all. He unbuttons his sweatshirt and showcases his dance moves. The Girl doesn't reply, and seems interested in looking at the decoration of the flat. He goes to her to make love to her. When he caresses her mouth, her fangs can be seen. She smiles at him seductively and takes seductively his finger in her mouth. Suddenly, she just bites it off. Saeed screams in pain. The Girl jumps to him and feeds on him. When she has finished feeding on him, she stays around some time checking his CD's. Outside, Arash has gone to call on his father's pusher by bicycle, and wants to trade the pair of earrings for his car back. He leaves a message in Saeed's answering machine - which the Girl hears - without knowing that Saeed is already dead.Ashad waits outside while smoking a cigarette. he sees the Girl leaving the flat. They stare at each other silently. The Girl leaves and Arash enters the flat. He stares at Saeed's blood-stained dead body. He uses the opportunity to retrieve his car keys. In a attache he finds cocaine and a gun.Back home, he takes a glass of water to his father, who tells him that he should die and leave him alone. Arash pets Masuka while the attache and its contents are by its side.Meanwhile, the Girl is having a bath.Oil drilling machines are polluting all the scenery. Arash throws Saeed's body and starts selling the material on the streets. The street boy stares at him and wonders. Arash pays for his doctor in cash. The Princess takes off his nose plaster. Hossein walks nervously around. He needs a fix, but doesn't have it, while Masuka stares at him.Hossein speaks to Atti, but she is trying to ignore him. Atti won't have sex with him for free. Hossein sees the Girl and thinks about approaching her. They start walking in the same direction. He thinks of approaching her, but decides to press on. She mimics him, moving an arm, walking and stopping alongside him. Hossein gets scared about it and finally runs away. The Girl doesn't pursue her.The Girl goes after the beggar boy, who stops to eat something. He feels something behind him and stares back, but there is nobody there. The Girl is now on the boy's way. She won't let him pass,but he runs away. A short way down the street, he bumps onto her. The Girl asks him if he is a good boy. The boy says that he is, but she presses on. She insists that he should not lie to her, because she could take his eyes out and feed them to the dogs while showing off her fangs. She tells the boy that she will be watching him until the day he days, so that she will come for him if he isn't a good boy. The terrified boy says that he has heard her and he runs away, but only because she has lets him go.The Girl skates by in the night.Arash takes some hot soup to Hossein, but his father is rude and only wants his "medicine", that is, his drug dose. Meanwhile, dressed up as Dracula with a cheap black cape, Arash has gone to a disco costume party. Shirin (Ana Lily Amirpour), wearing skeleton makeup and Atti request Ashar for a pill. Atti wants more. She convinces Ashar to take one of the pills. Finally, Arash crosses the line and then stares at the lights while weird looking people around him dance in the dance floor. Arash tries to kiss her, but he gets rejected and she dances with somebody else. That depresses Arash.The Girl keeps on stalking the illuminated nights. Arash is staring at one of the street lamps.The Girl skates by but stops in front of him. A drugged Arash asks the Girl where they are, as he got lost. She replies that they are in Bad City. He says that he lives in Bad City, but that this street is not familiar. Arash introduces himself as "Dracula". He says he won't hurt her, and leaves. The Girl follows him in silence. He stops and asks her why she is in Bad City. Arash takes her hand and hugs her. Arash tells her to sit down with him on the street. The Girl says that they can't sit down in the middle of the street, but he could go to her home as she lives nearby, but Arash is felling so badly that he can't walk. The Girl pushes him on her skate and takes him to her home.She puts on some music while Arash is still drugged out of his mind and plays with a disco ball. Arash slowly approaches the Girl. It is implied that they have sex.It is already morning.A balloon floating by is everything that remains from last night's party. /// is playing and dancing with it.Hossein wonders why Arash won't eat his fried eggs for breakfast. Arash tells that he has known a girl who he doesn't know her name of. Hossein calls him an idiot.Atti scratches Arash's car with a key. The Girl is watching her, so Atti gets a move on. Atti realizes that the Girl is stalking her, but she stops when she stops. Atti faces her and asks why she is following her. The Girl shows her expensive jewelry and Arash's stolen watch from Saeed. Atti takes the Girl to his home. The Girl sits down on a sofa and plays with an apple that Att has given her instead of eating it. Atti assumes that the Girl is a washout person who wants to become a prostitute. The Girl doesn't speak at first, but then she says that Atti doesn't like her job. Atti asks her why she is following her, and the Girl replies that she knows everything about her and that Atti doesn't know what she wants anymore, and that she can't even remember really wanting something. The Girl says that Atti is saving money but doesn't know what she wants it for. Atti asks if the Girl is a thief, and she replies "no".Later at night, the Girl feeds on an anonymous homeless man.When she returns home, she finds Arash's note stuck outside her house door, telling her to meet him at the power plant the following day at 10.00. He signs Dracula.Arash dreams of himself walking through a dark tunnel, the only light at his back. He stops.The Girl and Arash meet outside the power plant. Arash has brought her a hamburger. She doesn't eat it while Arash has already started munching his. The Girl says that he doesn't know her. She doesn't tell him her name, but tells him that yesterday's song was Lionel Richie's.He says that sometimes sad songs hit the stop. Arash says that he knows something else about her. He caresses her ear and he tells her that her earrings are not pierced. He gives her the earrings he stole, and says that it is pity that she can't wear them. The Girl gives him a safety pinto make a hole in her ears.Arash hits the pin with his lighter and creates the hole. The Girl turns her head around and can't avoid to show her fangs in a reflex act.She controls herself and offers her other ear. This time she knows what she is going to feel so her reaction is more subdued. Arash says that they are lucky earrings. He is about to kiss her when she says that she has done many bad things. She wants to leave but he puts himself on her way. She seems to ponder what to do or say next, but just leaves. At that moment, a train passes by.The next morning, a stray dog is walking around the place where Saeed's corpse is.The following morning Hossein is freaking out. He screams at the cat. He looks at the photographs of Arash's mother and starts blaming her for all her problems. He throws everything to the floor.Arash shows up to see what all that racket is about. He is fed up so he tells his dad that if he is only interested in getting his medicine, he wants him to leave the house and never come back.He throws some money to him in two wads.An obviously distraught Hossei, who can't take care of himself takes the cat and leaves.
A bent spoon over a small flame.Drugs are cooking. Hossein tells Atti that he wants to see her. Atti dances around a little bit. Hossein wants to inject her.Hossein pushes her onto the bed to inject her when she says she doesn't want. Hossein injects her and then he injects himself.He sobs once and hugs Atti.The Girl was passing down and she feels that they are both going to overdose, probably because Masuka is watching everything.She jumps in from outside the window and pushes Hossein away from Atti. Atti and the cat see as the Girl feeds on Hossein. Atti doesn't look particularly terrified.She helps the Girl to get rid of the body. They are scared of a shadow from inside a window.The Girl smokes a cigarette and tells the Girl to take the cat with her.The boy shows Ashar Hossein's body. Ashar asks the boy if he saw somebody. The boy says he doesn't know. Ashar presses on forward, probably feeling guilty.Arash drives away. The same dream-like sequence of Arash in the dark tunnel. This time, the camera is approaching him.He wakes up startled.Arash waits outside the Girl's door. She lets him in. He tells her to pack her staff in and leave the city with him. He begs her not to leave him alone.The Girl stays silent and gives him the back. She undresses and puts on a different t-shirt. She picks up a big handbag.Ashar notices Masuka passing by. He realizes that it was the Girl who killed his father. He stares at the Girl,who puts the jewelry. She puts on her cape and she is ready to leave.Ashar drives away in the night with the Girl and Masuka on the co-driver's seat. He stops in the middle of nowhere and gets out of the car. He nervously walks in front of the car's lights. Finally, and in complete silence, he gets in again.The Girl puts on a cassette on.The cat is in the middle.The Girl and Ashar stare at each other. Arabic music begins.Ashar drives away in the night.
