40 years after the first haunting at Eel Marsh House, a group of children evacuated from WWII London arrives, awakening the house's darkest inhabitant.
40 years after Arthur Kipps' experience at Eel Marsh house, a group of children under the care of two women, escaping from war-torn London, arrive to the house and become the next target for The Woman in Black. With the help of a fellow soldier, the women and children must fend off the spirit, and end her presence once and for all.
When a group of orphaned children are forced to move from their home in London, caretakers Eve and Jean bring everyone to the desolate and eerie British countryside. 40 years after Arthur Kipps left, a new group arrives in the now abandoned Eel Marsh House; an odd but seemingly safe location. It isn't long before Eve starts to sense that this house is not what it appears to be as the children in her care begin to disappear. As their house of safety becomes a house of horrors, Eve enlists the help of a handsome pilot to help investigate what is happening. Eve soon discovers that it may not be a coincidence that she has come to reside in the house inhabited by the Woman in Black.
As it turns out, the woman in black had orchestrated the living circumstances by luring orphans and other youths to seek shelter and a safe haven during the war. After discovering that an unexplained evil may have been responsible for their being there, the children, along with the elders who took care of the needs of the frightful children, started vanishing one by one. It is at this point all theories and stories of the woman in black are no longer just stories. This begins the investigation into the legends of the manor and reveals more untold secrets and another chapter of evil tricks &amp; truths of the menacing Woman in Black!
At the height of WWII, Eve faces a double threat: German bombs are falling on London, but the dilapidated country mansion where Eve and Headmistress Hogg have evacuated the school children under their authority is haunted. With the help of an RAF pilot, Eve must find a way to keep the children safe from the vengeful ghost, who has taken a personal interest in a traumatized war orphan and in Eve's own past.
More than three decades after the black-veiled femme's dreadful apparitions in The Woman in Black (2012), the kindly schoolteacher, Eve Parkins, along with the stern headmistress, Jean Hogg, and a small group of children take cover in the isolated Eel Marsh House during the devastating London Blitz. However, in the dark heart of the bereaved spirit's realm, shameful and well-guarded secrets conjure up the manor's grim ghost, who takes interest in Eve's shy pupil, Edward. Under her unbreakable spell, the malevolent spirit feeds off her helpless victims' fear and agony. Can Eve and Edward appease the wrath of the evil Woman in Black?
When a group of orphaned children are forced to move from their home in London, caretakers Eve (Phoebe Fox) and Jean (Helen McCrory) bring everyone to the desolate and eerie British countryside. 40 years after Arthur Kipps (played by Daniel Radcliffe in the first film, The Woman in Black) left, this supernatural horror film introduces this new group to the now abandoned Eel Marsh House; an odd but seemingly safe location. It isnt long before Eve starts to sense that this house is not what it appears to be as the children in her care begin to disappear. As their house of safety becomes a house of horrors, Eve enlists the help of a handsome pilot (Jeremy Irvine) to help investigate what is happening. Eve soon discovers that it may not be a coincidence that she has come to reside in the house inhabited by the Woman in Black.
