Dinkar Maruti Bhosle, a common Marathi man with an identity crisis ends up being the Crusader against threats to his existance &amp; identity as a 'Marathi Maanus'. In his battle against all odds &amp; evils, he is assisted by Shivaji Maharaj.
Dinkar Maruti Bhosale represents thousands of 'Marathis' who feel they have lost their identity in cosmopolitan Mumbai. Dinkar feels Mumbai is in Maharashtra but there is no Maharashtra left in Mumbai. He always complains about the lack of respect a Marathi receives in Mumbai, feels he is victimized everywhere because he is a Marathi, little realizing that he himself has brought this situation upon himself. Matters go from bad to worse and in a state of sheer frustration Dinkar gets up one day cursing himself for being born a Marathi. He feels his 500 ancestors must have committed a heinous crime for him to be born a Marathi. This outbust of Dinkar reaches Pratapgad and the spirit of Shivaji Maharaj is aroused. Dinkar has to now face a seething Shivaji Maharaj, who is furious at him. Shivaji Maharaj fires Dinkar for his Shallow thinking. Tells him he has to command respect, and not demand it. Blames his thinking for the sorry state of Marathi's. "Before blaming other communities for your short comings, look within and see if you have done anything to keep the Marathi pride intact," he roars. Dinkar realizes his mistake but do Shivaji Maharaj's thoughts arouse him to rectify his mistakes? Does the Marathi pride surface again? 'Me Shivajiraje Bhosale boltoy...!' has all the answers. A truly amazing story of an underdogs fight against the evil in society, to re-instate his identity and keep his pride.
Dinkar Bhonsale is a simple middle class Maharashtrian man he finds himself a loser being born a Maratha, He is insulted everywhere and not even respected by his family and above all he is frequently harassed by a builder Ramniklal Ghosalia to sell his house as he wants to build a big tower on it depressed with all this once a drunk Bhonsale insults his Maratha community which badly hurts the Maratha king Shivaji Maharaja, Shivaji Maharaj along with Raiba arrives in Bhonsale's house takes him along with him.Dinkar Bhonsale complains to him that he cursed his caste because the Maharashtrian community has always stayed behind and the places in Mumbai are ruled by other caste,Shivaji Maharaj asks him while the other caste people were making name for themselves why did you people stay behind why didn't u take initiative be where these people are today,Dinkar Bhonsale realizes his mistake and fights for rights of Maharashtrians and also gains respect in his family which does not go well with Gosalia seeing him turn a hero to Middle class people he sends a gangster Usman Parker to scare Dinkar Bhonsale 's family at one point he gives up for the safety of his family but he is given back the confidence by Shivaji Maharaj and there is no looking back for him.

