Two surfing lovers, whose doomed relationship is nearing to a close, find themselves swept into a a dimension traversing wave that sends them into a beach movie musical in the 60's.
Life's a beach for surfers Brady and McKenzie -- until a rogue wave magically transports them inside the classic '60s beach party flick, Wet Side Story, where a full-blown rivalry between bikers and surfers threatens to erupt. There, amidst a sea of surfing, singing and dancing, Brady and Mack accidentally change the storyline, and the film's dreamy hero and heroine fall for them instead of for each other!
Life is a dream for Brady and Mckenzie in the water and on the beach. Two surfer lovers who enjoy the water and to surf. It's like paradise until Brady finds out Mckenzie is moving away to go to a new school. But when Mckenzie finds out that there's going to be 50ft waves the next day she tends to surf one last time before she's gone forever. But things tend to take a turn, Brady and Mckenzie get wiped out and end up in a 60's beach turf war movie and in order to get home their going to have to wait until the movie is over. But when they accidentally change the movie their going to have to get the movie back on track before they get stuck in the movie forever.
Teen surfing sweethearts Brady and McKenzie are swept into the movie musical "Wet Side Story" when they crash beneath a wave. In the film, bikers and surfers battle for control of a local hangout, and Brady and McKenzie inadvertently alter the movie's romantic story-line when a handsome surfer falls for McKenzie and a cute biker girl swoons for Brady..
Teen Beach Movie" introduces confident McKenzie "Mack" (Maia Mitchell) and her carefree boyfriend Brady (Ross Lynch), a fan of the retro surf musical movie, "West Side Story." On the morning of Mack's scheduled departure for boarding school, she and Brady catch one last epic wave which mysteriously carries them right into "West Side Story," circa 1962, where they meet Seacat (Jordan Fisher), Giggles (Mollee Gray), Rascal (Kent Boyd) and Cheechee (Chrissie Fit), among others. Amidst the spontaneous song and dance, there's trouble in paradise -- it's bikers versus surfers for control of the local hangout, but Mack and Brady unwittingly interfere with the movie's star-crossed plot, one that would pair a surfer, the teen matinee idol Tanner (Garrett Clayton), and a biker, Lela (Grace Phipps), the sister of Butchy (John DeLuca), the biker gang (The Rodents') leader. Typical of the teen beach movie genre, a kooky subplot has mad scientists Les Camembert (Steve Valentine) and Dr. Fusion (Kevin Chamberlin) scheming to alter weather patterns, take over the local hangout and then, the world.
