After being denounced as an outcast in school and frightened away from home by his mother's developing schizophrenia, there is no other way out for Johannes but to start improving his life by reforming himself.
Johannes, son of a schizophrenic mother who frequently avoids her meds, transfers to an elite high school to help his career as a poet (and remains the only family member willing to live with his mom). His school reputation soon becomes wrongfully tarnished by a former classmate. Now aggressively blackballed, he also falls victim to plagiarism by a visiting graduate music producer. Furthering his troubles, ne'er-do-well pals from the streets get him trouble with the law and lend no support as Johannes runs afoul of a hot-tempered street hustler. When you hit bottom, it's time to climb and determine who your true friends are.
Tamm family at dinner: mom Ema, her husband, son Johannes, youngest daughter Kreete. Ema, mentally unstable and off her medication again, expresses her opinion that the world would be better without her, that her own family hates and picks on her, and that her husband has wound up her son against her. Things escalate into a heated episode with Ema going into paranoid hysterics. Kreete phones eldest daughter Ege (living elsewhere with a family of her own), who drives over to take Johannes and Kreete out of their unhealthy home. Ema objects and, escaping the room they shut her in, chases after her children, trying to pull Kreete from the moving car.One year later. Johannes's father helps move his son (a high school senior) closer to his new school. After saying goodbye to his school chums on his last walk out (all friendly and gregarious), Johannes passes by Kristiina's room, noticing a crude sign taped to her door saying "Baby Killer." As he pulls it from her door, she opens it, mistaking his act of removing it as an act of hanging it up. He tries to explain but she shuts the door on him, twice.In the car, Johannes shares his new, unfinished poem with his father, titled "Hold My Hands for a While" (his first foray into writing poetry in English).Arriving at the apartment in Tallinn where he'll be living, his dad declines to come up but hands over some spending money for Johannes. Street buddies Bert and Esko espy them and come over. All is friendly. The father drives off and Bert and Esko help Johannes carry his belongings to the apartment elevator. Before Johannes heads up, Esko asks to borrow money from Johannes. Aware that Esko has yet to ever pay back, Johannes forks over twenty-five bucks.Turns out the apartment belongs to Ema, and Johannes is the only relative willing to live with her and her small dog Jessica. Her calm friendliness indicates she's on her meds.With small trepidation, Johannes approaches his new school. He's stopped in the hallway by a wary adult monitor who does not recognize him as a student. He explains it's his first day, having transferred in the middle of the period.In the 12a coatroom, Bianka and Paula greet him (Bianka enthusiastically, Paula less so).In the classroom, Bianka introduces Johannes to his other 12a classmates, among them: Karmo, Raimo and class president Liisa. Liisa takes over the introductions, pointing out Paula, and (with lesser interest) Peep, Stinvald and Robi (adding that he needn't talk to them). For that, Stinvald boldly slaps her ass.Johannes explains that he originally came from the Lasnamäe area but went to the country and attended Noarootsi Gymnasium for a time (where there were constant parties rather than peaceful pastures) before coming here to TRG (aka The Swedish Gymnasium). Liisa mentions Kristiina, a girl from their class who moved to Noarootsi. Johannes acknowledges knowing her.Teacher Pille enters and the students stand by their seats. Teacher Irina pops in for two quick announcements. First, to formally introduce new student Johannes. Second to have Liisa announce tomorrow's visitation of music producer Gunnar Post (a graduate of TRG who produces for the band Red Spots), of politician Ester Pajupuu, and of author Jaan Kunning.Irina exits and Pille begins her Swedish language class (where only Swedish is spoken).At the end of class, Pille instructs Liisa - best student in class - to hand over her notebook to Johannes for him to catch up on what they've been doing so far. Johannes must also compose a half-page report about himself.Once home, Johannes begins looking through Liisa's notebook and begins his oral report.On Skype, Johannes converses with Kreete, who currently lives in Thailand. She encourages Johannes to share his poetry with Gunnar when he visits, calling it an opportunity not to be missed. Johannes shares his latest poem. Kreete laughs at the girly title.As Johannes leaves his room to get food from the kitchen, Ema (apparently off her medication again), enters his room to water his plants. Johannes returns to find the planets over-watered, with Liisa's notebook soaked and his computers and printer in danger of damage. He soon begins using a hairdryer on Liisa's sodden notebook.Heading out for a run, Johannes asks Ema to use less water when watering the plants.He happens upon Bert and Esko exiting a convenience store with drinks. Since it's a school night, Johannes declines their invitation to their friend Zaiid's party, so the buddies grab him and physically carry him to it.Under Zaiid (son of a brothel owner), Bert and Esko have become drug dealers. Esko asks Johannes to steer anyone at the posh school wanting recreational drugs his way. Johannes says they're all good kids and he doesn't want this kind of atmosphere around him.Next day, Johannes leafs through Liisa's dried notebook as he prints out his poem, writing his name and number on the page.Brushing his teeth, Johannes discovers that Ema hasn't been taking her meds. This is clearly evident in the kitchen when Ema shares her feelings of persecution. Despite Johannes talking calmly, Ema feels hounded over the wet notebook incident. She reveals plans to visit his grandmother's (where his father has been living). Will he come too? No, he has school. Johannes asks why she's not taking her medication. Neither will indulge in the other's topic, and Johannes leaves for school.Johannes returns Liisa's damaged notebook, with chocolates and apologies. She calls him an idiot.In class, Liisa introduces Gunnar Post, who speaks of developing The Red Spots by not chasing after the "average listener."Afterwards in the hallway, Johannes hands his poem to Gunnar and asks him to appraise its worth at his convenience. Gunnar accepts it and moves on. Liisa passes by and tells Johannes to stop harassing Gunnar.In science class, Bianka reports that Paula's party is canceled as her parents won't be leaving town after all. Paula overhears Johannes say his mother won't be in town over the weekend and immediately announces a party at Johannes' house, inviting everyone to it. The science teacher enters and, not recognizing Johannes, straightaway thinks he's in the wrong classroom.In the cafeteria, Liisa shares what she's learned from Kristiina, about her abortion, and about Johannes hanging a "Child Killer" sign on her door, making a private matter public. Obviously, Johannes is someone they all should strictly avoid. Bianka finds this hard to believe as Johannes doesn't come across as malevolent at all.It's the weekend evening. Outside Johannes apartment, Bert and Esko hang out with a few other delinquent friends. They spot Peep and Stinvald (looking for Johannes' address) and Esko tries to shake them down for cash. Johannes, prepping for the party, looks out his window, spots the problem and quickly comes to their aid, explaining to Esko that they're classmates come for a study session. Esko laughs it off, saying next time they should say they're going to "the Poet's," which leaves Peep and Stinvald confused. Johannes asks when Bert's gonna pay his debt. Smirking, Bert puts a small bag of marijuana in Johannes' coat pocket and tells him to sell it to get his money back.In the apartment, Robi arrives. Johannes learns they are the only ones coming, that Liisa's put out the word that Johannes is a dork who's not worth knowing. Though Johannes is confounded by this turn, the boys enjoy some whiskey together.In school gym class, Johannes gets odd looks from classmates. During a basketball game, Karmo deliberately throws the basketball in Johannes' face, sidelining him with a bloody nose.In Swedish class, Johannes finds Karmo in his seat, with a nod for Johannes to sit with the rejects (Peep, Stinvald and Robi). Stinvald tries to engage him with an odd question, but Johannes knows something's very wrong though not what, the extent of it, or who all is involved. As Pille begins class, a note starts passing around, eventually passed to Johannes. "Write something about Johannes for the yearbook" it says, followed by the most vile words imaginable. Angered and without time to process this, Johannes gets called to deliver his autobiographical report. (The class is highly interested in what will happen; only Paula smiles about it.) As Johannes, striving to contain his anger, mispronounces his Swedish, Pille's corrections become sharp and critical.Pissed, Johannes leaves school, nearly to be hit by a car. In anger, he kicks the mirror off the passenger side. He runs away but is detained by citizens and turned over to police.At the station, he's searched, whereby they discover Esko's forgotten marijuana bag. Having been contacted, his father appears and gets his son out of jail. Being asked how this (behavior) is taking care of Ema does not go over well with Johannes, who is sick and tired of walking on eggshells all the time - him, the only one exhibiting any sense of family responsibility. Dad calmly says he'll fix the police problem; Johannes asks that he leave Bert and Esko out of it. Dad reluctantly agrees.Back home, Johannes discovers that Ema continues to avoid her medication, now leaving out opened wrappers for him to find while throwing the pills in the trash. He interrupts her TV program to discuss it. She tries to ignore him, asking for some peace. Unhappily, it's what he wants, too. Unable to get anywhere, he leaves her to watch her show.Returning late for Irina's class, Johannes finds that Paula refuses to sit next to him. She moves away but Irina insists that she return. Rather than obey, Paula leaves the class. (Johannes has become a pariah.)After class, Irina privately asks Johannes to be friendlier to the other students, not realizing the matter isn't simply between Paula and him. Johannes only reveals that he gets the impression others don't care to speak to him. Irina scoffs at this, finding him very likable.Friendless and hiding out in a toilet stall, Johannes, unseen, discovers Karmo and Raimo sharing gay kisses, realizing they are closet lovers.Outside the school auditorium, Johannes sees Bianka rehearsing with her band, losing her smile at the sight of him (not knowing what to think of him).After a run, Johannes Skypes Kreete, who wishes him a happy birthday. In the conversation, Johannes labels his classmates complete psychos, avoiding details. He admits that moving back with Ema may not have been a good idea. Everyone else is comfortable living apart from her. After the call, it seems Ema was listening in and doesn't want Johannes anywhere near her.Next morning, she's still crying, and Johannes is late for school.In the school bathroom (hiding out in a stall again while doing homework), Johannes finds a younger student listening to a new Red Spots song incorporating Johannes' lyrics. He's been plagiarized. It's too much to take in, and he can not sit calmly in Irina's class to take a test, crumpling up his paper and walking out.He calls Post Records from home, only to be told that Gunnar isn't in and to try again later.Calling later from the street, he's told Gunnar is in a meeting.Calling even later from a cafe, he's told Gunnar went abroad for a week. Johannes begins to suspect he's being avoided.Visiting the record company personally, he's told Gunnar will be gone for two weeks. A guitarist enters and is buzzed into a glass-enclosed waiting room. As Johannes tries to schedule a time to meet with Gunnar, Gunnar emerges from his inner office to greet the guitarist. Gunnar sees Johannes and scoots quickly back into his office, confirming Johannes' suspicions. Johannes insists the secretary get Gunnar to come out. She threatens to call security but Johannes stands his ground. Tired of being put in the middle, the secretary makes contact, whereby Gunnar finally agrees to talk to Johannes over the phone. Still on his phone, Gunnar comes out (keeping the glass partition between them), claiming he himself wrote Johannes' lyrics and telling secretary Marvi to call security.As Johannes walks the streets, pondering over what to do, Esko spots him from a nearby party and invites him over. Johannes stops at a liquor store before going over, where he finds Bert and a comrade wearing Nike hats and jackets.Johannes relaxes at the party, where he is recognized by and dances with Riina under the watchful eye of party host/gang leader Zaiid (Riina's ex who isn't ready to relinquish control of her). Zaiid gets alarmed when Bert and friend arrive wearing Nike gear from their recent heist and bags the merchandise immediately. Amped up by this, he accosts Johannes upon his return from a liquor run with Riina. Johannes runs from a further beating, but Zaiid follows, with Bert and Esko trying to calm him down. Johannes runs, Zaiid catches up, they fight, Johannes gets the better of Zaiid, delivers a few punches to keep him still then flees - all while Bert and Esko stand by, caught between loyalties to their new boss and to their old friend.Back home and bloodied, Johannes finds Ema waiting to tell him that the school called about his leaving class, summoning him to the headmaster's office. Upon seeing his bloodied face and citing his trouble at school and staying out late, she wonders aloud what kind of son she raised. This is the last straw for Johannes, who fires back that she hasn't been able to take care of herself, let alone raise anyone else at all, and that he's had to raise him himself. He'll be fine in the morning but she'll be the same schizoid mess. She's stunned, feeling that if it weren't for her he'd have no home at all and nothing to eat, and begins trashing his room. He throws her out, barricades the door, and steps out on the porch for some fresh air. He has reached the zero point, the bottom.He leaves his bedroom, putting on his shoes while Ema screams that he's attacked her.He runs.He awakes on the sofa in sister Ege's living room, his face bandaged over his left eye. As he prepares for school, the pop song "Hold My Hands for a While" plays on the radio.Johannes meets with a journalist and turns over evidence of his ownership of "Hold My Hands for a While" lyrics.Almost ready to re-enter school, Johannes calls to meet with teacher Irina at a cafe. She's alarmed at his facial injuries, which he only refers to as the result of "bad company." He won't go to the police about it as it would result in his lynching - which may come about anyway. They have tea. He reveals that he has had trouble at home with his mother's severe depression and has since moved in with his sister. Irina encourages him to continue making connections at school, where all prime ministers have started. His attitude is good and she says the school likes pupils like this.While on his next run, Gunnar calls, irritated by a journalist's recent call. Gunnar asks why all this should appear in the newspapers and demands Johannes rescind his story. Johannes finds Gunnar's statements to be remarkable and continues his run.It's New Years Eve and Ege's husband and others set off small fireworks outside the apartment building before midnight arrives. Riina spots Johannes and apologizes for Zaiid's earlier bad behavior. It's all friendly till Zaiid (accompanied by his gang) spots and hails Johannes. Johannes runs to the apartment building where he lets himself in and keep Zaiid out. Zaiid says he just wants to talk, but Johannes isn't stupid and keeps the door shut. Zaiid and gang walk away. Johannes phones the police to say he knows who robbed the sports store.Sitting in the principal's office, Johannes is given one more chance to stay in school, study hard, and graduate, under condition that he skip no more classes. He agrees. Irina says she believes him. Johannes exits, and the principal chuckles over his presented sternness with the boy.In the hallway, Johannes returns the friendly greeting from the rejects (Peep, Stinwald and Robi) as the group of elitist students look on. Karmo quickly gets unpleasant, but Johannes handles him tactfully.In Irina's class, Liisa makes a snide comment against Johannes, which prompts Johannes to ask why she finds it so painful to be in the same room with him. Irina tells them to handle the matter during recess and not in class.In the cafeteria (as Bianka and others look on), Johannes confronts Liisa, and Liisa finally reveals what Kristiina said about him. He didn't write the Baby Killer sign on her door but Kristiina says he did, and since she's an old friend, that's all Liisa needs to hear. Johannes explains that the guy who got her pregnant borrowed money from everyone for the abortion. All knew and anyone could have written that sign.Back in the hallway, Johannes spots Karmo and Raimo entering an equipment closet together. He follows and takes a cell phone picture of them snogging. Karmo demands Johannes erase that photo. Johannes refuses, Karmo attacks, and Johannes returns the punch in the nose Karmo earlier gave him with the basketball in gym class, ending their encounter by stating that Karmo will be polite with him from now on or else see the photograph displayed across all forms of public media.Back in class early, Johannes finds himself alone with Bianka. He breaks the icy silence with a frightening bark, which instantly turns to playfulness between the pair. Their mutual attraction has survived his ostracism. He makes funny faces to amuse her and introduces her to his two imaginary friends. She invites him to her birthday party on tomorrow night.Outside school, Gunnar waits for Johannes. When Johannes refuses to get into his car, Gunnar comes out to talk, offering a cash bribe and an apology for Johannes to rescind his earlier statements to the press. Johannes refuses and walks away. Gunnar threatens to call the police. Not to worry, says Johannes, he already has.Johannes buys a newspaper with a front page headline announcing Gunnar's theft of a schoolboy's lyrics.Though he has a key, Johannes rings the doorbell of his mother's apartment. She contritely lets him in (obviously back on her medication). She offers coffee but he takes tea. She sincerely apologizes. He shares the newspaper for her to read about Gunnar.Johannes arrives at Bianka's birthday party with flowers and a vinyl record, which she gladly accepts. He's late but others have been talking about his lyrics and "his song." She sends him into the room while getting a vase for the flowers. He sits and Raimo begins asking questions about Johannes' recent radio interview and the plagiarism issue. Johannes explains that it was never about the money but about proper credit for his lyrics. The matter will likely end up in court.While shopping at the grocery store, Johannes gets accosted by two security guards - Bert and Esko. Zaiid crowed like a peacock when arrested by the cops, snitched on his dad, and now his gang boss father is out to nail his son's hide to the wall. Bert and Esko escaped severe punishment by serving eighteen months of public service as grocery store security guards. The only downside is a watchful boss who won't let them goof off. Under that watchful eye, they let Johannes "off with a verbal warning for now."At gym class, Johannes again tells Liisa he didn't hang the rude sign on Kristiina's door. She's willing to let him have his say without bothering to agree with it or act on it. He subsequently finds her "pointless." How dare he judge her. Why, because apparently that seems to be her exclusive job? Everyone else falls silent to watch these two. Liisa suggests that being in the papers makes Johannes think he's cool now. Bianka steps forward to say she may be exaggerating things. No, it's Johannes who's exaggerating.Johannes walks Bianka home. She invites him to attend her concert. He can even bring his imaginary friends. Oh, but he doesn't hang out with them anymore. They started having imaginary friends of their own, which he found to be rather sick.It's a cool jazz bar, and Bianka sings beautifully. Afterwards, she asks what he's most afraid of. In return, he asks what her favorite color is. He walks her home. They kiss.He runs again.Months passed. Johannes and Ema watch a TV news report on the court case against Gunnar's plagiarism.On Skype with Kreete, Johannes learns she's never coming back to Estonia to see Ema. It's graduation day, and she wishes him a happy graduation.At the graduation ceremony, Ema (still on her meds) and Johannes' father attend together, both proud. Johannes gets his diploma with special honors in literature (Bianka for music, Karmo for gymnastics).As the small group of twenty-five seniors ready for their graduating class photo, Paula tells Johannes that the group is gathering at Hiiumaa on the weekend for swimming and grilling. Liisa adds that everyone is coming - even Bianka is invited. (No doubt Paula accepts Johannes now that he's famous.) Fully recognizing her hypocrisy (and that of her elitist inner circle) in inviting him along as if nothing happened, he whispers to her - the last to be paid back - "fuck off." He and Bianka smile radiantly as Paula turns (blocking her face with her long hair), Liisa turns disbelievingly, Raimo scowls and Karmo looks on somewhat oddly - and the photographer snaps the class picture, capturing the moment for posterity.
