An alien on Earth loses the only device he can use to communicate with his spaceship. His innocent nature and child-like questions force the country to evaluate the impact of religion on its people.
P. K. is a comedy of ideas about a stranger in the city, who asks questions that no one has asked before. They are innocent, child-like questions, but they bring about catastrophic answers. People who are set in their ways for generations, are forced to reappraise their world when they see it from PK's innocent eyes. In the process PK makes loyal friends and powerful foes. Mends broken lives and angers the establishment. P. K.'s childlike curiosity transforms into a spiritual odyssey for him and millions of others. The film is an ambitious and uniquely original exploration of complex philosophies. It is also a simple and humane tale of love, laughter and letting-go. Finally, it is a moving saga about a friendship between strangers from worlds apart.
PK the alien being, a gentle one who encounters the other side of God and religion on earth, in India. He comes across as a simpleton, an innocent being who represents his kind from a distant planet. He meets Jaggu, Anushka Sharma, an the plot unravels soon. Of how the contemporary society has been taken over dogmatic preachers from all major religions. Of how the universal message of God is forgotten and of how people are manipulated by the so-called religious leaders, aptly called as Managers by PK. The movie is symbolic of how convoluted our belief system is, be it Hinduism, Islam or Christianity.
An alien from a distant galaxy, drops in on our planet Earth to study the inhabitants. What he encounters here, surprises him. It's about how major religions in contemporary religions have been hijacked by religious zealots, whom he, PK calls as Managers.
A human like Alien from a distant civilization arrives on the earth to conduct a research for his people. Within few minutes of his arrival, his remote control to his spaceship gets stolen and he gets stranded on the earth. Now how should he go about finding his remote control in a completely alien world? The only unanimous advice he seems to receive from the people of the earth is that only God could help him. Not having any clue about the concept of God, he sets off on his mission to search for him. He comes across different religions with different Gods which only help him to fall into a confusion. What God should he follow? Which religion does he belong to? Will he ever find God? Will he get to get back to his home?
PK is an Alien who visits earth to understand about its 'intelligent' inhabitants, but the very first lesson is a painful one when the remote control of his spaceship is stolen. Hence he now faces myriads of problem in a planet where he is alone unaware and can't even speak its language. But he is helped by a noble soul named Bhairon Singh and hence his search takes him from Rajasthan to Delhi. Here he learns that his remote control can only be returned to him by the heavenly intervention and from here on his tangle with the 'organized religion' starts as he tries various religious solutions but when all of them fails he not only criticizes them as a tool used by the 'managers' of religion to exploit the helpless but also seek refund and in the end redefines religion as something which is Rational , Compassionate and Humane , Not the Superstitious , Hateful, and Heartless one currently propagated to the masses which he calls as the 'Wrong Number'.
An alien (Aamir Khan), with a body similar to the human body, lands on Earth for a research mission on the human world. He gets stranded in Rajasthan as his spaceship's remote control device gets stolen by a villager. The alien chases the man in an attempt to retrieve his device back but only manages to take the radio recorder of the thief. He later learns that roaming naked on Earth isn't deemed natural. Thus, he begins stealing clothes and money from couples having sex in cars with open windows.The alien befriends Bhairon Singh (Sanjay Dutt) who assumes the alien is simply a person suffering a memory loss. Singh helps the alien get accustomed to the village. The alien has the ability to transfer a person's memory to his own brain by holding that person's hands and, hence, he attempts to learn the local language through this technique. However, he finds out that just grabbing the hands of a stranger, whether male or female, is not accepted, and since he does not speak the language yet, he is unable to explain what he wants. Singh, who interprets this alien's behavior as sexual interest, takes him to a brothel. Over there, the alien holds a prostitute's hand for several hours, and thus learns the language.The alien travels to Delhi as he is informed that it is most likely the place where his stolen device would be sold. Due to his strange behaviour, the people in the city assume him to be tipsy and refer to him as PK. Delhi turns out to be a very large city, and people tell him that only God can help him find the device. However, PK is confused by the various religions and their own different understandings of God. PK later discovers that a godman, Tapasvi Maharaj (Saurabh Shukla), has his device. However, the godman falsely claims to have attained it from the Himalayas, and refuses to return it to PK.Meanwhile, TV reporter Jaggu (Anushka Sharma) meets a man named Sarfaraz (Sushant Singh Rajput) while both are in Bruges. Although Jaggu's father is strongly against a relationship between them due to Sarfaraz being from Pakistan, Jaggu decides to marry Sarfaraz anyway in Bruges. While she waits for Sarfaraz in the town hall, a boy delivers a letter to her that states that the marriage is off due to their differences, with a request to refrain making contact. Jaggu, very disappointed, leaves, discarding the letter by leaving it there on a chair.Later, back in India, Jaggu sees PK distributing leaflets about a missing God. As a reporter, she is interested in this strange man, and makes contact. PK tells her the whole story. Jaggu convinces her channel head (Boman Irani) to make a TV show with PK, exposing Tapasvi. People in masses get connected to the show and open their eyes against the fake godmen. Tapasvi comes to the studio for a confrontation with PK. In the same TV show, Tapasvi brings up Jaggu´s personal matter of her bad experience with Sarfaraz to prove a point. Due to PK's request, Jaggu reluctantly tries to contact Sarfaraz which leads her to call the Pakistan Embassy in Belgium. The embassy tells Jaggu that Sarfaraz calls them daily to inquire whether Jaggu has called. It turns out that the message in Bruges was a case of mistaken identity by the letter delivery boy. After Jaggu left the town hall, Sarfaraz had arrived and assumed the message was from Jaggu, for him. The misunderstanding between them gets cleared. After hearing this, Tapasvi reluctantly gives PK his device back.In this whole process, PK falls in love with Jaggu but chooses not to tell her as she loves Sarfaraz. Recording tapes with her voice in them, he fills his suitcases with batteries to be constantly able to hear them on his home planet. While departing, he lies to Jaggu regarding the content of the tapes. Jaggu, having found out the true content of the tapes, painfully keeps quiet.Jaggu later publishes a book about PK and, at a book reading, claims that she misses him deeply due to the memories he has left her with and the impact he had made on her life.The movie ends with PK coming back on Earth a year later for more research with another alien (Ranbir Kapoor).
