A teen drama set during the fall potato harvest in a small northern Maine town.
The story of Casper (Emory Cohen) and Dominic (Callan McAuliffe) - two best friends that are fiercely loyal to one another, as they come of age in a small farming town in Maine. During harvest break, Casper is drawn into smuggling drugs across the Canadian border with his outlaw father, Clayton (Aidan Gillen). Meanwhile, Dominic works his final potato harvest, hoping to earn the money he needs to buy a car and take them away towards a better future. But with Casper's life unraveling before their eyes, their friendship and loyalty are put to the test as they are forced to mature and make very adult decisions that will forever alter the course of their lives.
Seventeen year olds Casper and Dominic are best friends who grew up together in the US-Canada border town of Van Buren, Maine, where they still live. Irresponsible Casper is belligerent toward authority, he having grown up in a broken home with his mother, Kim, who he doesn't much like, and a houseful of younger half-siblings. He gets along better with his drug dealer father, Clayton, perhaps more out of the economics of the situation, where he sometimes provides his father with prescription drugs for sale, largely stolen from family, friends and acquaintances. Casper is close to being expelled from school. He has also gotten his fifteen year old casual girlfriend Tasha pregnant, she who is pressuring him to step up to the plate and take full responsibility for them. Conversely, Dominic is the model of responsibility, he a good student who the school's guidance counselors expect will go into post-secondary studies. He is a hard worker according to George, on whose farm he has worked for the past two years doing grueling manual labor. People who know Casper and Dominic don't understand why they're friends. For Dominic, it's because when he's with Casper he knows something will always happen as opposed to the boring nothing that generally is the norm in Van Buren. For Casper, it's because Dominic is the only person who truly believes in him. What most know except many that would benefit from such information is that Dominic's sole purpose for working is to earn enough money to buy a car so that he and Casper can move to Boston, just so that they can escape their respective lives and thus problems in Van Buren. Beyond going to see the Red Sox, Dominic has not thought out what his or their life will be in Boston. This vague plan may be affected by what happens in their lives just before Dominic is able to buy the car. For Dominic, he and his most recent girlfriend Emma are trying to figure out the status of their relationship as they will probably diverge following graduation. And for Casper, he is getting sucked into his father's illegal business - most specifically in aspects regarding the smuggling of drugs across the border - without knowing that there are bigger factors in play in what is going on.
Two teenagers sitting outside. Dominic () says to Casper () "So, she's not your girlfriend anymore?"The two are then seen in high school shop class making metal dice and joking.Casper's girlfriend Tasha () pulls him aside and asks why he hasn't returned her texts. She says they need to talk. Outside, she tells him she is pregnant. She says she needs him. Long pause. He asks for time to figure it out and tries to reassure her. He says he will call her and leaves.On the same day, both boys are in a classroom. A teacher talks about twins who were separated at birth met up at age 39 and had similar lives. He makes the point that some things are out of our control. The teacher asks how this compares to the character Pony Boy from the book The Outsiders. Casper gets in a verbal argument with the teacher. The teacher kicks him out of class. As Casper leaves the he says "Ponyboy. Good people make bad choices" and slams the door.Dominic is in the high school guidance counselor's office with a "Perseverance" poster on the wall. She says "So...you and Casper would move to Boston...together?" Dominic shakes his head but says yes. She then asks about his plans for college.Simultaneously, Casper is in the principal's office getting lectured on how he might "throw it all away." Principal says to take some "time off" but when he comes back to apply himself and behave or don't bother coming back.The two boys are back in the trees right next to the school. Casper says he's not going back to school, but that the principal loves Dominic. It's clear this is not the first time Dominic has heard this. Dominic then leaves.Casper is alone and breaks into a house and takes meds from a bathroom.A ragged looking guy ( as Jesse) cautiously approaches a house with a prescription medication drug dealer inside. The dealer has security cameras and sees him. The dealer ( as Clayton) gets a gun. The dealer says through the door "Badger is down at Tulsa." The ragged guy says "Is that you Clayton?" Dealer says "Go there Jesse."At a C-Store called Tulsa, Jesse is in a truck buying drugs from Badger (). Jesse asks why he can't get drugs direct from Clayton. Badger says "My brother only deals with family."Casper pulls up on an ATV and goes into the dealer's house. He gives Clayton the drugs he stole. We find out the dealer, Clayton, is Casper's father but they do not live together. Clayton is not fond of his ex-wife.Casper is at his Mom's house, holding a homemade potato gun and talking to his toddler step-sister. Casper asks his Mom's boyfriend if he's ever been shot with a potato gun. His Mom is not happy with Casper and says she asked him to not to come by anymore. We now know Casper is 17. He goes into a basement bedroom, which appears to be his, and gets some marijuana.Casper pulls up on the ATV to a remote, rickety, condemned home with no electricity or heat. He changes his shirt from a stack of clothes. It appears he lives there. He then pulls a hidden stash of money and adds to it.Dominic wakes up in his bedroom. A map of how to get to Boston is on the wall. A note on the map says "You are Here. But not for long." We now know the setting is in rural Maine, right on the border of Canada. His mom lives in the same home. No father is mentioned.At a large potato field, a farmer ( as George) gives a speech to the harvest crew which is made up of half a dozen high school kids. It's hard, seasonal work. Dominic is shown working on some farm equipment and the farmer named George says he is smart and always has a job there. By now we know Dominic is very mechanically inclined. A teenager named Emma () is working with Dominic and is flirting with him. They are classmates but don't really know each other well. She asks about if he's friends with one of their co-workers. Dominic explains they are just "harvest friends" meaning friends during the harvest season. She is working for college and he says he's saving for a car. She is surprised he is not college bound.Dominic drops by house with a red sports car parked in front. The car is for sale. This is the car he wants. He gets pictures of him and the car together.Back at Casper's abandoned home, he and Dominic smoke some weed and launch a potato through the wall. Just having fun, they push an abandoned car into a gravel pit and launch more potatoes. In an abandoned barn, Casper says that from day one "they" decide who makes it and who doesn't. He bemoans that he never gets called into the guidance counselors office. Dominic says they are wrong. It's clear the two are very good friends.A border patrol helicopter flies over. Clayton drives up in a pickup with a diesel tank in the bed. He meets a biker gang member and buys large quantity of drugs. They discuss if they stick with pot and pills, the Hell's Angels will leave them alone. They have future plans for lots of business up and down I-95 in the U.S.Clayton is coming back across the border from Canada with the drugs. He tells the border guard purpose of trip is he bought a pizza. He get's cleared to go.Clayton meets his brother Badger and son Casper at his house. Badger said Jesse would pay later. Clayton makes it clear Badger has a role in this business and he needs to step it up.Clayton shows Casper that the diesel tank has a hollow spot where they hide the drugs. The spot is surrounded by diesel to avoid odor of drugs. They discuss they will "own" I-95 drug route.Casper and Tasha are in a bedroom. She is making advances to give him oral sex when he says wait. He tells her that he can take care of her and the baby.On the harvest field, Dominic and Emma discuss if she likes the Boston Redsocks. She apologizes for teasing him about Casper and their plan to moving to Boston. She talks about how Casper is always in trouble and got his 15 year old girlfriend pregnant. Like everyone else, she is concerned for Dominic and thinks Casper is a loser.At the abandoned house, they rig a pasta strainer into an antenna and manage to get WIFI.Badger is on a remote road meeting with a DEA agent (). Jesse had worn a wire when he purchased drugs from Badger. It's clear Badger agreed to cooperate with the DEA to avoid prison. And they require Badger to help prosecute his brother. Badger is nervous and contradicted.Badger walks into his apartment and is very edgy. We find out his girlfriend is pregnant and due soon. This explains another reason he wants to avoid prison.Two teenage girls try the old myth of soaking tampons in vodka and inserting them in an to attempt to get drunk.At the gravel pit quarry a large party is raging. Tasha is drunk and Casper is not happy about it. She says he doesn't love her or their baby. She yells she is having Casper's baby.Later that night, Casper, Dominic and Emma are at the party when a pickup drives up and asks if they want to go on a moosafari. Emma does not know what that is. The three get in the back of the truck and end up chasing a moose down a dark, dirt road with spot lights. They are all having fun.Back at the party a band is playing. A drunk guy runs into Dominic and starts to yell at him. Emma instinctively yells for Casper. Casper comes in and beats up the drunk guy. Casper says "Hitting him is like hitting me." Casper kicks the guy out of the party. Casper boldly states to everyone that he runs the county.The next morning Dominic is hung-over and his Mom lectures him that he is better than Casper. He has a good job with George the potato farmer and not to blow it. Dominic says they are starting work late that day so let him be.Badger calls Clayton and says he can't make the drug run that day as he's too sick, but we know he's not.Casper and Dominic show up at an elderly couple's house to buy their prescription drugs. Casper says his uncle Badger could not make it. The seniors like Casper and are very friendly to him. The two make other stops to buy drugs from seniors apparently on Medicaid, as they get the drugs very cheap.After a day on the harvest field Dominic and Emma walk along some railroad tracks. They end up kissing.In his garage, Clayton is explaining to his son how big this drug business could be. He shows him how a hidden air compressor valve is what lifts up the tank to access the hidden drugs.Clayton and his son Casper are in the pickup in Canada. Casper says all his friends are working the potato harvest and he's there on a drug pickup. He likes it.Emma explains to Dominic she will be gone the next day to see colleges in Vermont. They have sex in the woods while the night harvest takes place in the distance. She is not experienced with sex.Casper and Tasha are in her bedroom and she wants to know if they can get their own place. It upsets him. He asks her if she means he will pay for it. In the bathroom he sees her used tampon and realizes she is not pregnant.Back at the harvest, Dominic and Emma are in the afterglow. She asks what he is thinking about. He says Casper. They laugh. He shows her pictures of the car he wants. She says she now understands now how much Casper has his back. Dominic says he always thought if he could get this car then they could leave and everything would be OK, although he thought leaving would be easier.Back in Emma's bedroom, Casper gets very upset at Emma for lying about the pregnancy. She says she didn't want him to leave. He says it's over.At Clayton's garage Badger is teaching Casper how to weld. Clayton says he wants Casper to go with Badger as he needs to know the Canada pickup route. Badger says Clayton doesn't trust him and doesn't want to take Casper. Badger walks out.Emma is explaining the college tour she was on the day before. He says he missed her. She says she is falling for him but doesn't want to give him wrong idea. She says they will have to be 'harvest friends.' He's disappointed.Clayton calls his son Casper and asks if he has his passport as he needs him to run an errand.It's night time. Casper and Dominic meet at a diner and Casper gives Dominic a wad of cash and says to stash it as he thinks they will be going to Boston in only a week or so. Casper asks Dominic if he has his passport as he wants to go to a hockey game across the border.We now know Casper was actually sent to follow Badger on the trip to Canada. This was the same trip Badger did not want to take Casper on. While waiting for Badger to leave, Dominic admits to Casper he slept with Emma in a forest, but explains he was not part of her long-term plans.They follow Badger but he never goes across the border. Instead he stops at a strip club parking lot and gets into the passenger side of a car. Casper calls Clayotn and explains the situation. Casper is told to follow the car and not Badger.Dominic gets frustrated and asks what they are doing and he hopes they guy they are following is going to a hockey game. They follow the car to a double-wide trailer but it's dark and they can't see much. They wait.Dominic is flustered at how stupid this is. He asks Casper if he wants to run errands for Clayton for the rest of his life. They argue. Casper states how much money he can make in the business where just a few hours earlier he said they could leave for Boston soon. Casper rhetorically asks what happens after they move to Boston and the Redsox game ends. Dominic explains that Casper is doing everything that everyone has expected of him his whole life. It was he, Dominic, that always believed in him. Dominic explains they were meant to leave. And that life here in this town will get old.At pre-dawn Casper and Dominic see multiple DEA agents walk out of double-wide. That is who Badger met with.Clayton goes to Canada to get the drugs since it was apparent Badger was not. Clayton stashes drugs in the hidden compartment of the pick-up. The biker guy is helping.It's also pre-dawn on the harvest field as harvesters gather. The farmer asks Emma where's Dom. She doesn't respond.The DEA agents all head out together and drive right past Casper's truck. They call Clayton but it goes to voicemail. They realize that Casper's own uncle (Badger) has snitched and things are unraveling.Badger is in the front seat of the DEA agent's car. He begs for another way than telling him where his brother and the drugs are. He says he loves his brother. The DEA agent calmly admits that Badger is screwing Clayton. But Clayton screwed himself.Clayton gets through the border crossing and back into the U.S. But gets pulled over by the local police. Almost immediately, a K9 unit arrives so Clayton knows it's a drug search and they were waiting for him. But when he built the compartment he surrounded the compartment with deisel fuel for exactly this situation.The DEA agent leaves Badger in the back of a police cruiser handcuffed. We are not sure what he told the DEA agent, if anything.The police escort Clayton out of the pickup and search him and his truck. A tow truck arrives. The DEA agent arrives and is told the K9 did not smell anything. Clayton is relieved and asks if they are done. The tow truck driver pulls out an air compressor to lift the secret compartment. The DEA smirks as they find the drugs.Casper and Dominic go by Clayton's house and the DEA agents are everywhere. They realize they need to get their money and leave town immediately. A weather storm is brewing.They arrive at the abandoned house as the wind-storm hits. Dominic runs upstairs to get the money. A huge gust implodes the house with Dominic inside. Casper barely gets out and makes a desperate phone call. We don't know to who.In the distance a group of trucks are driving rapidly down a dirt road. It's the farmer and his crew. They pull Dominic's listless body and set it on a tailgate. No resuscitation is done as it's clear he's gone.The next morning Casper wakes up in his old bedroom at his Mom's house.At the high school, the students are in mourning as the word has spread. Dominic's empty desk is shown.Emma is shown slowly walking alone down the same railroad tracks that she walked before.Casper is now back at the fallen house. He leaves his hoodie on a board as he has nothing else to leave.Clayton is shown in an orange jumpsuit in handcuffs looking very sullen. The DEA agent arrives. No words are spoken. We don't know if Clayton has even been told about Dominic's death yet.Badger is parked on a dirt road near a small lake. Realizing all he's done, he takes his own life with a gun.George the farmer is inspecting potatoes with the same crew that pulled Dominic from the house. We now see the potatoes are bluish and purple inside and out as they are 'Adirondack Blue' variety. They load them on a potato chip semi-truck. The truck leaves. Harvest is over.We see the view from a car driving down a highway. Sun is setting to the right so we know the car is heading south. It's Casper. He has the bag of money they had been saving for Boston.Dominic's Mom is curled up on his bed grieving.As Casper drives, he is overcome with emotion.Dominic's Mom looks at his map that shows the route from Maine to Boston. There is a note on the map "You are here. But not for long."Casper driving. Now with a look of determination. We now see Casper is driving the car Dominic had been saving for, for so long.G Todd Williams
