When a high school football star is suddenly stricken with irreversible total blindness, he must decide whether to live a safe handicapped life or bravely return to the life he once knew and the sport he still loves.
In the prime of his youth, up and coming football star Travis Freeman lost his sight due to a sinus infection caused by a rare disease. Overnight, he became irreversibly blind and had to cope with all the new trials and changes awaiting him. With the love and support of his family and closest friends he learned to push himself to extraordinary heights. Relying on his other senses and his instincts, he did the unthinkable! Displaying unconditional determination he proved nothing could dampen the spirit of a champion!
When total, irreversible blindness suddenly strikes a high school football star, he must decide whether to live a safe, protected life or to summon the courage through playing football and step back into the world. 23 Blast is based on the amazing, true story of Travis Freeman, who, in the prime of his youth, unexpectedly contracts an infection that swiftly destroys his optic nerve, leaving him blind overnight. Under the influence of parents who love him, a physical therapist who challenges him, a coach who inspires him, and a best friend who cannot leave him behind, Travis shows us what true bravery is by competing on the gridiron, helping his team advance to the State playoffs.
A talented young football player makes an unlikely comeback after losing his sight in this inspirational sports drama based on the story of Travis Freeman. As young boys, Travis and his best friend Jerry Baker bonded over their love of football. Years later, as teenagers at a Kentucky high school, Travis and Jerry have become their team's star players. Then, just when it starts to look like nothing can stop him, Travis suddenly falls ill with a virus that destroys his optic nerve overnight. But while Travis may be blind he certainly isn't alone, and with help from his parents, his unbending physical therapist, his coach, and Jerry, the talented young athlete is soon back on the gridiron and preparing to compete in the state playoffs. Now if Travis can just remain focused on the game rather than getting distracted by temptation, perhaps he will prove to himself and those who inspire him that it pays to hold onto your dreams even in the face of certain defeat..

