A young pickpocket and an unruly CIA agent team up on an anti-terrorist mission in France.
Michael Mason, a pickpocket living in Paris, steals a bag with a teddy bear in it. Not realizing the toy contains a timed bomb, he tosses it aside on a busy street. A few seconds later it explodes, killing four people. CCTV footage reveals Mason's face and the French police tag him as a terrorist threat. The explosion, although botched, was set up by a select group of the French Interior Ministry as a decoy so they can make a half billion dollar digital transfer from a bank (closed on French National Day) -- hence the title Bastille Day. In a separate CIA investigation the unruly agent Sean Briar discovers the real story behind Mason's "terrorist attack". The two men, on different sides of the law, collaborate to bring the corrupt members of the Ministry down.
On the eve of Bastille Day in Paris, an American conman Michael Mason, steals a woman's handbag with a teddy bear inside, unknown to Mason the teddy bear is rigged with explosives. After disposing of the handbag, it explodes, killing four people. The bomb was intended to detonate in an empty office but it fails due to the presence of employees. Mason is subsequently tagged as a terrorist by the French authorities as well as CIA surveillance in Paris.Learning about Mason, CIA agent Sean Briar goes to pursue Mason and the chase ensues over rooftops, Briar captures Mason and heads to the secret interrogation room. Mason explains that he didn't know that the bag he stole contained a bomb, and he got the information of the woman named Zoe through the call log of the phone, which was a;so in the bag with the teddy bear bomb. Meanwhile, Zoe, the woman from earlier, with the help of the man whom she knew as Jean (although we don't know his name at this point), blames herself for the deaths of the four people. The explosion was actually set up by the group of mercenaries led by Rafi Bernard, who told them to plant the bomb at the office. Upon learning from the man who blew the bomb, Jean allows Zoe to escape, realizing that the group will come to kill her.The group tracks the location of Zoe's phone. Briar engages in a fight with the group members, and they subdue Briar, while Mason escapes. Rafi and the group sets another attack by planting the evidence of the bomb at the mosque. They discuss that if the group follows the plan and spreads the chaos, they will have a half-billion dollar transfer from a bank into their encrypted drive. French Interior Minister Victor Gamieux reveals himself as the leader of the mercenary group. Thus, making the people in the mosque falsely accused of being the bombers.After being chased by the authorities and Rafi's forces, Mason is picked by Briar and heads to the safe house of Zoe's friend Paul and his group of men, moments after Zoe arrives. Upon interrogation about Zoe's whereabouts, Zoe and her friends escape and burn their car. Mason and Briar are forced to steal someone's car and head to the bar where Paul are working. Mason successfully gets Paul's ID after he stages a brawl in the bar. The ID card contains Zoe's address.Mason and Briar head to the apartment where Zoe lives. Upon entering the room, Zoe breaks out and takes Mason hostage by aiming her knife onto his neck. Briar then interrogates Zoe where the bomb occurs next, and asks who made that bomb. Zoe tells him that man she knew is Jean, who is having a relationship with her, and discloses his address. While the three heading to Jean's, they are ambushed by Rafi and his henchman but manage to escape. Upon arriving, they discover that Jean hanged himself. Zoe is shocked to see this while Briar discovers his ID showing that Jean is actually the police undercover Fibbert Pascal. Briar then calls his fellow CIA officer Karen Dacre, telling her that someone set up the riots in the city and she sends someone to pick the three up.Karen meets Victor Gamieux - her primary contact back in Libya, discussing that the attack in the mosque was a set up. Learning that Karen has the witness, Gamieux kills Karen by shooting her at point blank range and he calls Rafi to pick them up. As they are picked up, Zoe realizes that one of the two inside the van is one of Rafi's henchmen. When the henchmen are about to kill them, they engage in a fight between the three and the henchmen and manage to kill all of them in the van. Meanwhile, Rafi's forces are planning to attack the bank.Mason, Briar and Zoe head to the bank. Briar realizes that Gamieux killed Karen and discovers his corrupt plans. As the three arrive at the bank with the number of protestors gathered at the front of the bank, Briar poses as cops in order to infiltrate the bank while Mason and Zoe stay. Inside the vault, Rafi makes a transfer of $500 million into the hard drive. Briar exchanges gunfire with the henchmen. When Mason and Zoe realize that Briar is being overwhelmed, they get out of the van and run through the policemen along with the protestors, making Briar infiltrate the vault. At the vault, Briar engages in a gunfight with Rafi and the henchman, killing the henchman but Rafi manages to escape. Learning that his men are overwhelmed, Gamieux calls Rafi to abort the transfer but he refuses, and Gamieux will not help him anymore and Rafi threatens to take down with him for the attack that they made if Rafi apprehends. Upon Rafi get out of the vault, Mason stealthily took his hard drive upon Briar's orders. Rafi then took Zoe hostage and threatens to kill her and Mason if he does not give his hard drive. When Rafi is about to shoot Mason, Briar tackles Mason out but, upon Gamieux's orders, the policemen open fire on Rafi killing him. While Briar is recovering from his gunshot wounds, Mason escapes.Some time later, Mason meets Gamieux at the church, asking for the passport, plane tickets for Brazil and $100,000 cash in exchange for the hard drive. After Mason hands the hard drive to Gamieux, they head to the tunnel where the supposed $100,000 cash is. As they arrive, Gamieux aims his gun at Mason but Briar arrives, aiming his gun at Gamieux too, then he shoots Mason. The other authorities arrive and arrest Gamieux, and Mason reveals that he is wearing a bulletproof vest and hard drive that gave to him is fake. He then hands over the real hard drive to Briar. Clearing his name, Briar tells Mason that he got a job.
