Professional hit-man Charlie Wolfe finds himself in three tales of murder, blackmail and revenge after a botched contract assignment.
Charlie Wolfe is a fixer who, in the middle of a murder, gets a call, to which he answers that he'll be there in an hour. Alice wakes up and arranges an appointment with her dentist Nathan through his wife/assistant Lucy. But instead, Nathan and Lucy drug Alice, kidnap her, and prepare to murder her, all the while Wolfe watches from afar. On the way to a quarry, Nathan stops for gas at Dylan's shop. He fills a liter water bottle with gas. As they prepare to burn Alice's VW bug, Nathan accidentally rolls it into the quarry. They prepare to switch Lucy into Lucy's car, but she wakes and gets away. Lucy pursues her and subdues her. Nathan and Lucy then put Alice in Lucy's car, put Lucy's jewelry on Lucy, set the car on fire, and let it roll into a ravine where it explodes. Driving Alice's car, Lucy spots money in Alice's bag under the seat and keeps it.In a flashback, Alice's husband Jack is jealous of Alice and suspicious that she's having an affair. Jack hires Wolfe to tail Alice, who had previously gone from Jack's place with Jack's money. Wolfe tails Alice and records Alice and Dylan having sex. The next day Wolfe shows the video to Jack, who is angry and tells Wolfe to kill Alice.Meanwhile a policeman, Bruce, who has been extorting money from Nathan and Lucy, comes and muscles out Nathans payment commitment. Wolfe follows Alice for the kill and he spots Nathan and Lucy on their scheme. Its shown that Alice actually wakes up and avoids the explosion. Nathan and Alice quarrel about Alice's money but they keep it. Wolfe meets Jack confirming Alice's death. Bruce finds Lucy's burning car and comes extorting extra money from Nathan. Nathan receives an anonymous message of someone seeing them carrying Alice's body. He then sets up a meeting with the sender, who is Wolfe. At the meeting Wolfe ends up killing Nathan, saying to him that hell complete the work by killing Lucy. Wolfe comes to collect his payment from Jack, Jack finds that his money is gone and assumes Alice has taken it.The next day, Dylan comes barging in asking about Alice disappearing. Dylan ends up killing Jack and leaves. Wolfe comes to Jack's after killing Nathan, only to find Jack dead. Bruce comes and finds Wolfe with Jacks corpse and Wolfe kills him. Dylan didn't really leave, and he follows Wolfe as soon as Wolfe come out of Jack's. Wolfe arrives at Nathan and Lucy's, where its revealed that Wolfe and Lucy had been conspiring together to get all the money, even though Lucy curses him for killing Nathan, which prevents them from claiming the insurance money from killing Alice. They quarrel, and Wolfe says hes leaving her. At the door Dylan comes pointing a gun at Wolfe, but Wolfe slaps Dylan's hand, making him shoot Lucy dead. Wolfe shoots Dylan, but only hits his shoulder. Alice comes out of nowhere and clobbers Wolfe with an ax. Alice and Dylan leave with Jacks money.Wolfe is badly wounded, but he is still miraculously able to talk on phone and get another job.
