The story of Oscar Grant III, a 22-year-old Bay Area resident, who crosses paths with friends, enemies, family, and strangers on the last day of 2008.
This is the true story of Oscar, a 22-year-old Bay Area resident who wakes up on the morning of December 31, 2008 and feels something in the air. Not sure what it is, he takes it as a sign to get a head start on his resolutions: being a better son to his mother, whose birthday falls on New Year's Eve, being a better partner to his girlfriend, who he hasn't been completely honest with as of late, and being a better father to T, their beautiful 4 year old daughter. He starts out well, but as the day goes on, he realizes that change is not going to come easy. He crosses paths with friends, family, and strangers, each exchange showing us that there is much more to Oscar than meets the eye. But it would be his final encounter of the day, with police officers at the Fruitvale BART station that would shake the Bay Area to its very core, and cause the entire nation to be witnesses to the story of Oscar Grant.
Hayward, California, New Year's Eve, 2008. Twenty-two year old Oscar Grant, a black man, and his live-in Latina girlfriend Sophina are the parents of a preschool aged daughter Tatiana. Oscar is not perfect, he being an ex-con - his prison sentence for dealing drugs - having been caught cheating on Sophina, and having lost his job two weeks ago at the local supermarket from tardiness, his current unemployment which he has not yet told anyone in his hope of getting the job back. These bumps are in the process of Oscar truly trying to turn his life around, not only for Sophina and Tatiana's sakes, but his true love for them and of his mother, Wanda, whose support and tough love have fostered that want to be a better person. That love for Wanda and his family in general is demonstrated by Oscar spending much of the day preparing for Wanda's birthday party that evening, and willing to help his sister Chantay out of a financial bind despite he not even knowing if he will have enough money to pay his own rent due tomorrow. That path to a better life takes another more major bump that evening as he and Sophina take the BART into San Francisco to ring in the new year, that specific bump happening in an incident at Fruitvale Station in Oakland on their way home.
The film depicts the story of Oscar Grant III, a 22-year-old from Hayward, California, and his experiences on the last day of his life, before he was fatally shot by BART Police in the early morning hours of New Year's Day 2009. The movie begins with the actual footage of Oscar Grant and his friends being detained by the BART Police at the Fruitvale BART station in Oakland on January 1, 2009, at 2:15 a.m. right before the shooting. The film shows Grant and his girlfriend Sophina arguing about Grant's recent infidelity. It later shows Grant unsuccessfully attempting to get his job back at the grocery store. He briefly considers selling some marijuana but in the end, decides to dump the stash. Grant later attends a birthday party for his mother, Wanda, and agrees to take the BART train to see fireworks and other New Year's festivities in San Francisco since she is worried about him driving..
Fruitvale chronicles the final hours of the life of Oscar Grant, the youth who was shot and killed by a BART police officer on Jan. 1, 2009 after he and his friends were pulled off a train at Oakland's Fruitvale Station in connection with an alleged fight.
