Grace Trey is a phenomenal singer. But at the tender age of eighteen, after she gets the music break of a lifetime and is thrust into the "real world" - her faith is put to the test.
Grace Unplugged is an Inspirational movie starring Amanda "AJ" Michalka as 18 year old Christian singer/songwriter, Grace Rose Trey. Beautiful, highly talented and restless, Grace is so far undiscovered outside church. She performs there each Sunday with her gifted father Johnny, the praise music director at Freedom Community Chapel, a small town Alabama church. A former rock star, Johnny Trey charted a Billboard number one single 20 years before. When the hits stopped coming he crash landed hard, a one hit wonder. Johnny found Christ and a new life for his family, far from the Hollywood Hills. One day without warning, Grace leaves for Los Angeles. She has landed a record deal with the help of Johnny's ruthless former manager and producer Frank "Mossy" Mostin. Mossy sees in Grace a potential pop superstar - the next Katy Perry. Cutting off contact with her parents, Grace seems prepared to walk away from her Christian faith and music to achieve her long-suppressed fantasy of Hollywood super stardom. Will the experience cause her to reject her faith, or rediscover it?
Eighteen-year-old singer Grace Trey (Amanda "AJ" Michalka) is a treasure to her church congregation, but she still longs for the success tasted by her father Johnny Trey (James Denton) 20 years ago -- before he devoted his life to God. Convinced that she has what it takes to storm the charts, Grace packs her bags for L.A., and flees her small town. Later, it looks like her father's ex-manager and producer "Mossy" Mostin (Kevin Pollak) has the insider know-how to get her voice heard, but at what price? With her faith hanging in the balance, Grace soon learns that just when you think God has given up on you, the truth is He's only getting started..
Grace Unplugged is an Inspirational movie starring Amanda AJ Michalka as 18 year old Christian singer/songwriter, Grace Rose Trey. Beautiful, highly talented and restless, Grace is so far undiscovered outside church. She performs there each Sunday with her gifted father Johnny, the praise music director at Freedom Community Chapel, a small town Alabama church. A former rock star, Johnny Trey charted a Billboard number one single 20 years before. When the hits stopped coming he crash landed hard, a one hit wonder. Johnny found Christ and a new life for his family, far from the Hollywood Hills.
One day without warning, Grace leaves for Los Angeles. She has landed a record deal with the help of Johnnys ruthless former manager and producer Frank Mossy Mostin. Mossy sees in Grace a potential pop superstar the next Katie Perry. Cutting off contact with her parents, Grace seems prepared to walk away from her Christian faith and music to achieve her long-suppressed fantasy of Hollywood superstardom. Will the experience cause her to reject her faith, or rediscover it?
