Three interlocking love stories involving three couples in three cities: Rome, Paris, and New York.
Michael (Liam Neeson) is a Pulitzer Prize-winning fiction author who has holed himself up in a hotel suite in Paris to finish his latest book. He recently left his wife, Elaine (Kim Basinger), and is having a tempestuous affair with Anna (Olivia Wilde), an ambitious young journalist who wants to write and publish fiction. At the same time, Scott (Adrien Brody), a shady American businessman, is in Italy to steal designs from fashion houses. Hating everything Italian, Scott wanders into the Café American" in search of something familiar to eat. There, he meets Monika (Moran Atias), a beautiful Roma woman, who is about to be reunited with her young daughter. When the money she has saved to pay her daughter's smuggler is stolen, Scott feels compelled to help. They take off together for a dangerous town in Southern Italy, where Scott starts to suspect that he is the patsy in an elaborate con game. Julia (Mila Kunis), an ex-soap opera actress, is caught in a custody battle for her 6 year-old son with her ex-husband Rick (James Franco), a famous New York artist. With her support cut off and her legal costs ruinous, Julia is reduced to working as a maid in the same upscale boutique hotel where she was once a frequent guest. Julia's lawyer Theresa (Maria Bello) has secured Julia one final chance to change the court's mind and be reunited with the child she loves. Rick's current girlfriend Sam (Loan Chabanol) is a compassionate onlooker.
Against the backdrop of three modern metropolises--Paris, Rome, and New York--unfolds a sad triptych of deception, mistrust, and despair. As the acclaimed Pulitzer-winning novelist, Michael Leary, struggles to overcome his persistent writer's block in his quiet Parisian hotel room, his young showbiz columnist lover, Anna Barr, is anxious to evolve into a book author herself. In bustling New York City, the former soap-opera actress and now a hotel maid, Julia Weiss, is bound to miss probably the most important meeting in her life with her lawyer, for a lost case of child custody. In the end, at the Eternal City of Rome, the shady entrepreneur, Scott Lowry, inadvertently finds himself entangled in a rescue mission, going against his innate selfishness. What could possibly link those stories together?

