Great Patriotic War, early 1940s. After barely surviving a battle with a mysterious, ghostly-white Tiger tank, Red Army Sergeant Ivan Naydenov becomes obsessed with its destruction.
In WW2, after a tank battle, a wounded Soviet tank driver and mechanic is taken to the hospital. He suffers from amnesia and has severe burns on his body. He secretly believes he can communicate with any tank, as if the tank were human. After being returned to duty, the tank-man proves to be one of the best tank-men in his unit. Rumors about a new, invincible Nazi tank, circulate. It's said that a huge Nazi tank often appears out of nowhere on the battlefield and it destroys dozens of Soviet tanks. The mysterious enemy tank is nicknamed White Tiger by the Soviet soldiers. Our tank-man, Naydenov, is convinced that it was the White Tiger that destroyed his Soviet tank and he wants revenge. Naydenov is ordered to find and destroy the White Tiger. But how can one find and destroy a ghost of war?
Rescued from the carcass of his T-34 tank, a barely alive and amnesiac Soviet tank commander receives the name of Ivan Naydenov, and as if by miracle, he recovers, only to return to the war-battered Russian Front, in 1943. In the meantime, with the war nearly at its end, spine-chilling stories about an unmanned, mystical super-Panzer--the White Tiger--that obliterates entire squadrons of tanks and then it vanishes into thin air, begin spreading like wildfire. Under those circumstances, the obsessed Ivan will embark on a mission from God to put an end to the indestructible iron monster's madness, nevertheless, does the White Tiger even exist?
The Eastern Front, 1943. After a fierce battle, a young Russian tank driver is hauled out of his burned out tank, more dead than alive. Miraculously he survives and is made the commander of an elite tank crew. Their mission: destroy the mysterious German tank that is wreaking havoc in the sector, and which was responsible for the death of the tankman's crew: the White Tiger.

