An office worker meets the girl of his dreams and uses a fleet of paper airplanes to get her attention.
An animated short that follows the story of a lonely young man in mid-century New York City, whose destiny takes an unexpected turn after a chance meeting with a beautiful woman on his morning commute. Convinced the girl of his dreams is gone forever, he gets a second chance when he spots her in a skyscraper window across the avenue from his office. With only his heart, imagination and a stack of papers to get her attention, his efforts are no match for what the fates have in store for him.
In New York, an office clerk stumbles with the girl of his dreams on the platform of the train station while commuting. Out of the blue, she takes another train and when he sees, the train in gone with the beautiful girl. During the working hours, the impossible happens: the young man sees his dream girl through the window in the building on the other side of the street. He tries to call her attention with paper airplanes despite the disapproval of his boss. When she leaves the office where she is, the man runs to the street expecting to meet his beloved woman. Will he find her?
On a windy day in the bustling mid-century New York City, George, an ordinary white-collar worker, has a chance encounter with the girl of his dreams on the train platform. As the girl vanishes before his eyes leaving only a beautiful reminder, the dispirited man arrives at work with nothing more than a vivid memory of the lovely stranger, when, suddenly, he spots her through the window in the building across the street. Now, more than everything else in the world, George needs to get her attention, but how? Can love ignite his imagination?
While waiting for a train to arrive, a young man holding some papers, has his attention drawn to a cute girl, clutching an armful of papers. As a train behind them thunders past, one of his papers flies out of his stack, and hits her in the face!Pulling it off, she chuckles, and he sees that her red lipstick has left a mark on the paper. Unfortunately, the moment passes, and she boards a train.At his office, the young man attempts to get to work, but his attention is on the lipstick-smeared paper. As he glances out the window, he is surprised to see the girl in an office right across the street from him!When he attempts to get her attention and fails, he begins to make paper airplanes out of the stack of workpapers he has, but none of them seem to get her attention.With only the lipstick paper left, he attempts to give it one more try, but the wind snatches it out of his hand, and it spirals to the ground below!As it does so, he sees the girl leaving her building, and makes a mad dash outside...but she seems to have disappeared.Finding the last paper airplane on a mailbox, the young man angrily snatches it up, and throws it skywards, before sulking off down the street.The airplane ends up in an alleyway, wherein are a number of the other airplanes that were made. Suddenly, they all begin to take flight, and come across the young man. Pretty soon, they force him to change direction, as the lip-sticked paper flies off!It soon catches the attention of the young woman, and begins to lead her onto a train.When she gets off, she finds the young man, covered in airplanes, has arrived at the same station, and they share a moment.The final images show the two in a coffeeshop, talking about their strange day.As she leaves the office across the way
