A deaf girl is brutalized by a murderous gang who are then hunted by her when the bloodthirsty spirit of an Apache warrior inhabits her lifeless body.
Empowered by love and determined to move in with her long-distance boyfriend, the kind twenty-four-year-old deaf woman, Zoe, summons up her courage for a one-way trip across the vast and desolate American South-west, eager for a fresh start. Instead, Zoe encounters a band of sadistic white supremacists who will torture her, and leave her for dead in a shallow grave. There, in the serene and barren desert of New Mexico, a wise Native-American Shaman performs an ancient ritual of resurrection, unbeknownst to him that the impatient wandering spirits of the dead Apaches always crave for revenge. As a result, a betrayed entity creeps into Zoe, making her a vessel of retribution, to pitilessly destroy all those who wronged her, one by one. Now, Zoe is unstoppable. Can the savaged woman avenge her death?
When Zoe (Amanda Adrienne) tells her mother that she wants to move in with her long-distance boyfriend, her mother is reluctant to let her drive by herself since her daughter is deaf and would be unable to call for assistance. Despite her reservations, Zoe's mother allows her to go alone. This proves to have disastrous consequences when, in the course of bravely helping an injured reservation Indian Apache, Zoe is abducted and brutally raped by several members of a degenerate local redneck family, descendants of the people who wiped out the local Apache tribe inhabiting these lands over 200 years ago. The preserved skull of the Apache chief (Rick Mora) is kept by them as a spoil of war.Once they have finished abusing her, the rednecks kill and bury Zoe, only for an elderly Native American man, graveyard keeper West (Tom Ardavany), to attempt to bring her back through a ritual. However, the resurrection ceremony also brings back the spirit of the Apache Warchief Mangas Coloradas, who was killed by an ancestor of one of the rednecks that raped Zoe. The chief, possessing Zoe's body, starts to hunt down her murderers. West finds Zoe and explains what has happened to her, warning the possessed woman that her flesh will continue to rapidly decay, and for both Zoe and the chief to know peace, they must be avenged quickly.Zoe kills one of the rednecks, the local deputy sheriff along with a bartender and patron at the local bar by brutally stabbing, slashing, disemboweling and scalping them. The next day, Zoe kills another redneck by shooting him with arrows multiple times before scalping him.Aware that Zoe is after them, the remaining rednecks decide to abduct Zoe's boyfriend, Dane, who has followed Zoe's trail in search of her. They succeed, loading-up on weaponry and barricading themselves in an improvised fortress which they surround with myriad traps. Zoe, in return, is gifted with a long-buried tomahawk and a knife, which once belonged to the murdered Warchief. She eventually hunts down all of the rednecks except for Trey (Rodney Rowland), who is the direct descendant of the chief's own murderer. When she tells him to "walk in hell" (the last words spoken to the chief before he was decapitated), Trey realizes what has been happening, and flees to the graveyard, torturing West for information on how to put Apache ghosts to rest. Zoe, meanwhile, murders the rest of Trey's family, while Dane, learning that she is alive, heads to the sacred Apache grounds as well.Trey desperately tries to bury the skull in order to pacify the spirit, but fails to finish before Zoe appears. After fighting her off with a chainsaw, he is defeated and beheaded, completing the Warchief's revenge, but leaving Zoe's body broken and ruined. Dane finds her upper half trying to bury itself. After the tragic pair express their love one final time, Dane, in an act of mercy, cremates Zoe's remains, liberating both souls into the Afterlife.
