A hard-working small business owner and his two associates travel to Europe to close the most important deal of their lives. But what began as a routine business trip goes off the rails in every way imaginable, and unimaginable.
A hard-working small business owner (Vince Vaughn) and his two associates (Tom Wilkinson, Dave Franco) travel to Europe to close the most important deal of their lives. But what began as a routine business trip goes off the rails in every way imaginable - and unimaginable.
After an argument with his boss Chuck Portnoy (Sienna Miller) of Dynamic Systems, Dan Trunkman (Vince Vaughn) decides to leave and start his own business. Tim McWinters (Tom Wilkinson) who was fired for being too old and Mike Pancake who was there for an interview (Dave Franco) follow Dan and join his new company. A year later, Dan's business, Apex Select, has barely gotten off the ground. In a Dunkin' Donuts, Dan gets a message to go on a business trip to Portland to meet with investors Jim Spinch (James Marsden) and Bill Whilmsley (Nick Frost), the latter being a friend of Dan's. At home, Dan's kids Paul (Britton Sear) and Bess (Ella Anderson) are being bullied at school. Paul is ridiculed for his weight and attempts to wear eye shadow to fit in with the goth kids. Bess asks Dan to finish a homework assignment of hers that requires him to describe the kind of person he is. Dan's wife, Susan (June Diane Raphael), wants to put Paul in a private school, despite the pricey tuition, to bring him out of his shell..
Dan Trunkman is living the great American life... and all of the intense pressures that come with it. His overweight son is mercilessly teased at school, he's trying to close the biggest deal of his career, and his daughter's school assignment called Who is your Dad?, has him taking a closer look at himself than his fast paced life will allow. On the eve of closing his deal, he's suddenly forced to go see corporate powers in Berlin. It seems it's just the formality of handshakes and signatures but when Dan arrives in Berlin his competitor is there and now he's desperately fighting for a deal that is fast slipping away, and could mean his financial ruin. He experiences a car wreck on the Autobahn, and a drunken night at a gay festival, all while trying to deal with family pressures via Facetime. Join us on this modern odyssey that will have Dan discovering who he is, what he's made of, and what is ultimately most important to him.
