Jack, a social outcast, is thrust out of his comfort zone when the outside world bangs on his door and he can't contain his violent past.
Jack's in a rut. Depression and severe anti-social behavior has whittled down his existence to sleeping and watching television. He spends his days in a diner, playing church bingo and sleeping. When some hired thugs show up Jack's life is stirred up and the question of his existence comes to light.
This is a horror film with comedic elements. The primary character "Jack" is a man who bears the weight of an incredibly long and violent life, stretching back to the beginnings of human history. As the movie unfolds, we learn his real name is Quayin which, translated from Hebrew is "Cain." As reported in the Bible's Book of Genesis, Cain was the first son of Adam and Eve, the originators of the human race who were cast out of Eden by God before Cain was born.Again, as reported in the Bible, Cain's brother, Habal (Abel), was the second child of Adam and Eve. When the boys grew up, Cain was a farmer and Abel was a sheep herder. They both gave offerings to God as was required at the time. However, God accepted Abel's generous offering and rejected Cain's offering as inadequate. Cain was outraged and subsequently lured Abel to a wheat field where he bludgeoned him to death with a rock.When God asked Cain: "Where is Abel?" Cain replied that he did not know as "he was not his brother's keeper." But God knew of the murder, the first in human history, and sentenced Cain to walk the earth forever. When Cain complained that he would likely be killed, God "marked" him so that he could not be killed and would therefore suffer his sentence of eternal life without end. God also gave Cain an insatiable hunger for human blood and flesh so that he would be forced to eat humans for the entirety of his existence as a final punishment for killing his own brother.The Bible reports Cain's death hundreds of years later in a hunting accident. But he did not die. Hence, the title of the movie. He just moved on.Cain lived in blood and violence, consuming humans for over 5,000 years and was known as "Vlad the Impaler" in 1450 CE as the prince of Romania and its territories Wallachia and Transylvania. He was celebrated as "Dracula" for his brutality and blood-lust. He was reported to be the son of Vlad Dracul (the dragon or devil). Ultimately, he spent 14 years in captivity and prison until he was released and faded into history.Eventually, Cain relocated to the United States and worked at numerous jobs as he continued his life of mayhem, violence and cannibalism. When questioned about his work he responded with the list: boxer, bodyguard, antique dealer, business owner, construction, truck driver, history teacher, soldier, manager, landscaper, bootlegger, wreck diver, miner of coal, silver and gold, movie stunt man, medic, nurse, cook, prisoner, gambler, horse breeder, potter, tinsmith, blacksmith, mechanic, and retail sales. Nowhere does he mention farmer, probably because the Bible reports God cursed his ability to grow food. The response to his long list of jobs was that he was a "Jack of all trades." This might be the origin of the name he was using.All of this backstory is based on brief hints in the movie. Late in the movie a silent old man dressed as a rabbi in a dark suit and hat appears to Jack. Jack curses and shouts at the silent figure and begs for death as he is sick of the world and its distracting, petty humans. The old man apparently represents the Jewish God of the Torah (Tanakh) and Old Testament. Jack asks why is he being punished so cruelly and unfairly. He says, "Is it because of the death of Habal (Abel)? Why is that particular death so important? We were barely men back then. Would murder exist if I didn't kill that little shit?" He then asks why is God showing up now, when he didn't bother to appear for mass murders Jack committed in Egypt and Wallachia. The old man says nothing and stares straight ahead, ignoring Jack. Jack attempts to strike the old man, but curls back in pain. Jack's tormented words say it all. He is indeed Cain and the God of the Old Testament is punishing him with the curse of eternal life and a taste for human flesh.So, what about the movie? Well, at the beginning of the movie Jack has decided that killing and eating humans is no longer his life's purpose. He is depressed and withdrawn. He sleeps most of the day and dreams of horrific chaos. He spends his waking hours walking, watching TV, playing bingo and eating at a local diner. He limits his human contact and refuses to eat meat. He subsists on blood supplied by a paid medic from a local hospital.His dreary routine is interrupted by some local thugs who seek to collect a debt from the medic who supplies his blood. He beats them up in his dead pan offhand way and demonstrates his considerable strength and ability to recover from any injury, albeit by painfully extracting bullets lodged in his immortal self-repairing flesh.To complicate things further, his alcoholic 19-year-old daughter seeks him out. She is the result of his last brief liaison with a woman for "less than a month." His daughter is kidnapped by the bad guy debt collectors and Jack must decide if he cares enough to try to save her.By now the violence and blood-letting has reawakened his taste for human flesh and he is noshing on human fingers and other body parts as well as licking up human blood from the floor with his tongue, soaking up the remaining blood with a sponge, squeezing it into a glass and drinking it, while muttering "This could be bad." One of the more gruesome acts is his use of needle nose pliers to extract a bullet lodged in his brain. So we get it, nothing can kill him and with considerable pain he can recover from any injury.After engaging in some old testament mayhem, Jack interrogates an injured thug and learns that a former criminal associate wants to punish Jack by kidnapping and hurting Jack's daughter. Jack decides to run away and leave his daughter to the bad guys who have already killed her mother. After stuffing a duffel bag with money and precious mementoes of his past, Jack runs from his apartment and ends up sitting in an alley chewing on a bad guy's severed finger and contemplating the contents of his duffel bag. He pulls out an ancient Roman knife and, with a thoughtful look, reads the inscription "leginum convictio scientia veritate" as he hefts and squeezes the knife. The Latin phrase means: "Legion: Certainty of belief and knowledge of truth." When Jack grips the knife and thinks about this quote, he recalls the fellowship of battle when he was a part of something larger than himself and when he fought for things he knew were true. That inspires him to try to rescue his daughter in order to honor his long-ago commitment to do what he knows is right.So, Jack packs the knife in his bag and in the next scene he surprises his "girlfriend" by asking her to help rescue his daughter. Ultimately he confronts his evil former associate and brutally twists and snaps his foot to make him immobile as he hands his beat-up daughter to his girlfriend for a trip to the hospital. He comments that he is not rescuing his daughter for her sake or even in order to confront his enemy. He says, "I'm doing this for me." So, Jack has finally acted with integrity. This constitutes a hopeful note in his struggle to recapture his humanity.The movie ends with Jack's one-sided confrontation with God and his avowed intent to dismember and eat the injured, evil criminal foe. His foe leans on a bar and listens in amazement as Jack yells and curses at an invisible God. He asks Jack who he is talking to since God is visible only to Jack. Just then, Jack's cannibalistic intent is interrupted by a plea to help his daughter get to the hospital. After some verbal abuse from his girlfriend, he realizes his primary responsibility is to his daughter, so he leaves to go to the hospital without consuming his foe. As Jack steps away, he turns to his foe and tells him he will eventually see who Jack was talking to. As Jack leaves, the camera shifts to show God and Jack's badly injured opponent alone at the bar. God stares at the wounded man and in a booming voice says "Hi" as the movie fades to black.This movie is excellent, with amusing dead-pan Jack dialogue throughout. One thing, Jack is shown with angel wings in promotional art and in the movie his back is shown with two vertical scars where apparently the angel wings were cut off. Since Jack is Cain and not an angel, the use of wings and wing scar tissue is not understood, although it is suggested in biblical background references that Cain might be a half-angel.Synopsis Submitted by Joel W. Benson
