10-year-old Eli finds himself at summer camp.
To impress a potential client, financial adviser Ken Matthews signs up to be a counselor at a camp for children in the foster system. He is paired with Eli, a 10-year-old determined to hate camp. However, when Ken discovers Eli's dark past, his apathy turns to compassion. But is he to late to help the scared boy nobody wants? Inspired by true stories of ordinary people providing extraordinary help for abused and neglected children, "Camp" is a tale of hope shining in the dark places for forgotten children. For his performance in the role of Eli, actor Miles Elliot won Best Performance in a Feature Film by a Leading Young Actor at the 35th annual Young Artist Awards.
Eli lives in a small town. His mother is a drug addict who ignores hime, and his transient, abusive father shows up occasionally to see if he can get some money out of his wife. After his mom takes off the evening of Eli's birthday, his dad shows up and when he can't find any money, beats Eli with a broomstick. Eli is hospitalized and removed from his mother's care.Investment adviser Ken Matthews is persuaded by his personal assistant to impress a potential new client by serving as a camp counselor at a camp she supports. The camp director receives a last minute request to admit Eli to camp, and is only able to accept him when Ken volunteers as a counselor. When Ken shows up at camp, he learns that the camp director is the former fat girl from high school, now slimmed down and very attractive. Ken soon learns its a Christian summer camp, but he doesn't pray. Another counselor says he might by the end of week.Eli is sent to the same summer camp after his mother dies of a heroin overdose. Ken and Eli are paired up. Eli is angry and rebellious. He runs away, bad mouths Ken, and talks back to him. Ken and Eli bunk in a cabin with counselor Samuel, back from his second tour of duty in the army, and Redford, a kid who thinks he is an alien. Eli is determined to hate camp, and proves to be way more trouble than Ken can handle.Over the course of camp, Ken's heart is broken as he learns about Eli's dark past. Eli slowly opens up to Ken as he starts to love Eli unconditionally. Eli begins to have hope.Eli is placed in Locustwood, a facility more like a youth prison. In this environment Eli gets angry and depressed.An unauthorized visit from Eli's father to camp sends everything spiraling out of control. Now Ken must decide what he is willing to sacrifice so Eli will understand the meaning of unconditional love.
