A British couple return to Paris many years after their honeymoon there in an attempt to rejuvenate their marriage.
Meg, a teacher, and husband Nick, a philosophy lecturer who may just be about to get the push on the eve of retirement, spend a week-end in Paris to celebrate their thirtieth anniversary. He is staid, annoying his foul-mouthed wife who wants to turn the holiday into a series of exciting new experiences, booking into a hotel that stretches their budgets and running off from a restaurant without paying. She is also averse to his touching her and what was meant to be a belated second honeymoon is a depressing affair, full of arguments - including one about the son who has recently left home to live in squalor and whom Meg does not want to return. By chance they meet an old university friend of Nick, Morgan, an American high-flyer who invites them to a party where Meg can still turn men's heads and Nick has a conversation with Morgan's young son, leading him to believe that he is not as badly off as he had presumed. Ultimately there appears to be hope for the marriage.
After thirty years of marriage, Brummies Nick and Meg Burrows, a professor of Philosophy at a lower rate technical college and a school teacher respectively and recent empty nesters, are solely going through the motions of what it means to be in a relationship, they even unable to discuss rationally what tile to choose for a bathroom remodel. Without divulging key issues in their individual lives which may further damage what semblance of a relationship they do have, they decide to head to Paris for the weekend for their thirtieth wedding anniversary to try and inject that love and romance that once existed. As Paris was the site of their honeymoon, they theoretically want to recreate that experience from thirty years ago. They quickly discover that theory and reality can be two totally different things. The trip also highlights their differences. Nick may solely want to make the marriage work in his fear of the alternative, namely being alone. And Meg feels the need for some excitement and a bit of danger and recklessness in her life, the potential negative consequences be damned. As their up and down weekend progresses in which hints of a loving relationship do exist, things have the potential to be turned on their heads when they attend a party at the home of one of Nick's old American colleagues from Cambridge, Morgan, into who they just happened to run. The party, thrown by Morgan's younger second and currently pregnant wife, Eve, is to celebrate the publication of Morgan's latest book. The party also coincides with the visit from New York by Michael, Morgan's teenaged son from his first marriage, Michael who will have an impact on one of the Burrows.
Technical college philosophy professor Brummies Nick 'celebrates' his mandatory retirement, spending most of their savings on the second honeymoon, back in Paris which his wife, teacher Meg Burrows, dreams of but meanly considers too little too ate to save their aiming marriage, endlessly blaming his short affair decades ago. She keeps spending more money they don't have while spoiling it at least for him. The they are invited to a party by his American academic Cambridge colleague Morgan to a wild, lavish party to celebrate his latest book and pregnant wife Eve. The arrival of Morgan's surprisingly philosophical teen son Michael has remarkable consequences.

