A Canadian doctor finds her sympathies sorely tested while working in the conflict ravaged Palestinian territories.
Chloe is a young Canadian doctor who divides her time between Ramallah, where she works with the Red Crescent, and Jerusalem, where she lives next door to her friend Ava, a young Israeli soldier. Increasingly sensitive to the conflict, Chloe goes daily through the checkpoint between the two cities to get to the refugee camp where she monitors the pregnancies of young women. As she becomes friends with Rand, one of her patients, Chloe learns more about life in the occupied territories and gets to spend some time with Rand's family. Torn between the two sides of the conflict, Chloe tries as best she can to build bridges between her friends but suffers from remaining a perpetual foreigner to both sides. Following up her acclaimed debut-feature Le ring, filmmaker Anais Barbeau-Lavalette delivers with Inch'Allah the moving tale a young woman's encounter with war and its everyday life. Avoiding any political agenda, Chloe's story questions how one can internalize a foreign conflict without incurring any scars of their own.
Chloé is a French-Canadian physician working at a Red Heaven operated medical clinic in Palestine, although she lives in Israel, thus needs to cross the controlled and heavily militarized checkpoint twice a day. As such, she has both Israeli and Palestinian friends and can see both sides of the conflict albeit from her North American perspective. On the Israeli side, her best friend is arguably her neighbor, Ava, a soldier in the Israeli Defense Forces who doesn't much like her current assignment of checkpoint control in the constant conflicts with mostly everyday Israelis and especially Palestinians. On the Palestinian side, Chloé has befriended Rand, one of her pregnant patients, and Rand's family: her mother Soraïda, her militant older brother Faysal, and her adolescent brother Safi. Rand's husband, the unborn baby's father, Ziad, is currently in an Israeli prison awaiting sentencing and who the authorities will not grant Rand a permit to cross into Israel to visit. Chloé doesn't much like the tit for tat violence that takes place, especially from the Israeli side, they who can and more often than not do wield excessive force in being the dominant player in the region, she believing their actions harming innocent Palestinians, including children, without much care. Within this situation, she may only be able to witness so much in her day to day life before she gets caught up in what's going on in taking actions herself.

