An ancient fox spirit embarks on a diabolical quest to become human after escaping an icy prison, and becomes bound to a disfigured princess who seeks the love of a noble guard as her kingdom crumbles in this lavish supernatural epic. Confined to a frozen cell for centuries, malevolent fox spirit Xiaowei (Xun Zhou) regains her freedom and seeks to preserve her beauty by seducing men and consuming their hearts. Should a man offer her his heart willingly, Xiaowei will become mortal, breaking free of the underworld and experiencing living among the living. Meanwhile, as a dark cloud falls over her kingdom, Princess Jing (Wei Zhao) flees, hiding her deep facial scars under a mask of pure gold while seeking the love of her former protector, who remains haunted by his failure to save her years prior. When destiny brings Xiaowei and Princess Jing together, the battle for the princess' heart begins.
A mystical creature fox who was imprisoned from ice was awakened with an unknown creature which is also
a mystical creature bird, the fox lives by seducing men using her beauty and eats their hearts so she can live longer with an eternal beauty, while on the run she met an unknown warrior who can surprisingly resist her beauty and helps her. She was curious about the warrior later that she know the warrior who helped her was a girl with a mask who was also a princess. She envied the warmth of the princess that helps her from getting cold and getting imprisoned by ice again. The princess who was in-love with her royal soldier since she was a kid has some issues about her beauty, they trade skin for a night that turned out a memorable night for the princess. But the princess didn't like the fact that she was using another skin that night, then the fox made a deal that if she'll wish to have the beauty that made the royal soldier fall,. she'll have to give up her heart and become a fox,. later by then they traded bodies the fox said for them to have each others body forever she'll have to eat a human heart for her to live through the ages and maintain her beauty,. the royal guard found out about the princess and the fox through a shaman that has knowledge about mystical creatures and realizes that he was seduced by the fox that day the kingdom was under attack by a tribe who was seeking for a bride for the dead prince who was killed by the fox and eaten his heart and forced the fox which is in the princess' body to come to the kingdom but the kidnapper's have a different plan they wanted to have the heart of the princess to resurrect the dead prince's body the royal guard came to the rescue and saved the princess' body with the fox's body there the royal guard asked for a trade that his willing to give his heart in exchange that she give that princess' body back to the princess so she can be human the fox was touched by royal guard's pure intention for the princess gave the princess' body back without anything in return,. the princess woke up from hunger and weakness in her own body and asked the royal guard why he did what he did then it showed the time when they were still young when the guard started to grow feelings for the princess before the princess was attacked by a bear and scratched her face,. and told her that she still looked as beautiful as the day when they were playing in the icy forest...
