A former Marine stands in the way of the Straw Hat Pirates.
The film opens with Zephyr (who uses the nickname Z), commander of the Neo Marines, launching an all out assault on a Marine base. Z and his men infiltrate the base and steal the Dyna Stones, which are dangerous weapons that cause a massive explosion when they come into contact with oxygen. As the Neo Marines retreat, Kizaru, a Marine admiral, ambushes them. Z then crushes a Dyna Stone, causing an explosion that destroys the island. The Straw Hat pirates, which consists of, Zoro, Nami, Usopp, Sanji, Chopper, Robin, Franky and Brook, led by Luffy, their captain, are sailing on the sea and see Z floating in the water. They rescue him and Luffy and Z have a friendly chat. After discovering that Luffy and his crew are pirates, however, he attacks the ship. The Neo Marines arrive and Ain, a Neo Marine who possesses the power to reverse the age of anyone or thing by twelve years, turns Nami and Chopper into kids, and Robin into a teen. After losing to Z, the Straw Hats escape. The top Marines have gathered together and are discussing Zs motives. They figure that he is going to destroy the three End Points, which will blow up the world. They make Z their top enemy and declare they will stop him. Meanwhile, the Straw Hats have docked at a port, where Franky fixes the ship while Nami suggests they go the next island to gather information on Z. They learn from some Marines that Z is on the island, which turns out to be the second End Point. Luffy confronts him again and loses, while Z succeeds in destroying the island. After heading back to the port, the Staw Hats learn that Z is on a nearby island, which is the third and final End Point. Zoro defeats Ain, which returns Nami, Chopper and Robin to their proper ages. Luffy and Z confront each other again, where Luffy barely manages to defeat Z. The Marines show up to arrest Z and Luffy, but Z, having gained respect for Luffy during their fight, takes on the Marines alone. Luffy and his crew sail off in silence, while Z fights the Marines to his death. The scene then cuts to his crewmates weeping over his grave and we see a flashback to Zephyr as a child, where he defeats some bullies as the hero, Z.
