Twin brothers are unknowingly separated at birth; one of them becomes an iconic rock 'n' roll star, while the other struggles to balance his love for music and pleasing his father.
In 1936, William and Helen Hemsley (Brian Geraghty, Amanda Crew) welcome identical twin boys into the world. But their joy is quickly tempered by a sobering realization; how could they give these children any kind of a life beyond the desperate poverty that haunted many families in the midst of the Great Depression? When evangelist Reece Wade (Ray Liotta) reveals that he and his wife Louise (Ashley Judd) cannot have children, William feels the Lord's prompting to give them one of the infant boys. Both brothers are born with passion, drive and awesome musical talent, but take very separate, yet converging paths. Drexel Hemsley (Blake Rayne) rises like a comet and changes the music world forever. His adopted brother, Ryan Wade (also played by Blake Rayne) struggles to find the purpose for his life. All the way into manhood he wrestles with pleasing Reverend Wade, his loving but controlling father, who is convinced his son Ryan is called into the ministry. Ryan is encouraged by his loving and supportive wife Jenny (Erin Cottrell) and lifelong friends Dino and Avi (Seth Green, Joe Pantoliano) to follow his musical dreams. And oh, can he sing, just like his world famous twin! "The Identical" is a captivating journey spanning five decades from the 1930's through the 1970's. This story is about the restoration and the reconciliation of a family broken apart by culture, creed and tradition. Movie-going audiences will be drawn to this timeless tale of love, hope, and redemption that speaks to all generations.
A pastor's son who feels a call to sing, not preach, learns a shocking secret about his life that explains his past and shapes his future in THE IDENTICAL, a drama set against the backdrop of rock'n'roll's 1950-1970s heyday. RYAN WADE grows up during the Great Depression as the adopted child of a country pastor and his wife, unaware he is not their biological son. Ryan is directed by his father to become a preacher - a life he grows increasingly disinterested in as he embraces his real dream: writing and playing music. Encouraged by his wife and best friend, Ryan embarks on an unpredictable, provocative path - performing the legendary music of rock'n roll icon Drexel Hemsley in sold-out venues all across the country. But when the two men's destinies tragically collide, Ryan discovers Drexel is more than just his inspiration: he's his identical twin brother that was separated from him at birth. A reeling Ryan is left to question everything he's ever believed about his family, his dream and discovering his destiny.
One man's passion for music leads him to question his faith and his identity following a shocking revelation about the family past in this musical drama set in the 1950, just as rock 'n' roll began to dominate the airwaves. All Ryan Wade (Blake Rayne) ever wanted was to make music. Ryan's dreams of performing on the stage before thousands of screaming fans are seemingly dashed, however, when his preacher father (Ray Liotta) and devout mother (Ashley Judd) pressure him to join the ministry. Later, with the support of his wife (Erin Cottrell), his best friend (Seth Green), and his manager (Joe Pantoliano), Ryan finds fame as "The Identical" -- a rock-and-roll singer who looks and sounds just like the legendary Drexel Hemsley. Meanwhile, as Ryan's desire to perform his own music begins to overshadow his hunger for the spotlight, a discovery regarding his origins during the Great Depression leads to a spiritual and existential crisis that threatens tragedy for both himself and the popular rocker he earns a living impersonating..

