Two best friends accidentally take their relationship to the next level and suddenly find themselves saying 'I do.'
Jennifer and Kevin have been inseparable since becoming best friends at age six. So when Jennifer graduates from college and begins building a career in charity, she thinks it's only right to let drop-out Kevin live in her newly purchased house until he gets back on his feet. Seven years later, Jennifer is continuing up the career ladder while Kevin is still golf caddying and waiting for his big break. Jennifer is happy to let Kevin march to his own beat, but her new boyfriend, arrogant corporate manipulator Bryce, wants her to kick Kevin to the curb. Oblivious to his cheating ways, Jennifer is ecstatic when Bryce asks her to marry him after only six months of dating, secretly using her angelic reputation to gain favor with his boss Mrs. Von Hoffman. Kevin catches Bryce cheating and is determined to spare Jennifer an unhappily ever after experience. With a little help from his brother who is in law school, and support from his meddling neighbor Mr. Henderson, Kevin finds out he is legally married to Jennifer in a common law marriage after living together for exactly seven years. Now it's up to Kevin to prove he is Jennifer's equal, forever.
Smart, noble, fun-loving Kevin never concentrated on a career, so he remained a frolicking caddy, unlike his best friend since childhood, Jennifer, who eagerly hosts him as perfect confident, free housekeeper and loving dog-sitter. Now Jen's ruthlessly ambitious colleague Bryce, who needs a suitable wife for promotion to senior partner, proposes to her. Kevin knows it's not love but can't convince her, so he tries his equally 'unsuccesful' brother Jeremy's legal advice to invoke a quaint customary law definition allowing him to prove he's married to Jen. Ultimately, feelings and truth take over.
Ever since becoming best friends at six years old, Jennifer and Kevin have been inseparable. When Jennifer graduates from college and begins building a career in charity, she agrees to let her drop-out best friend Kevin live with her in her newly purchased house until he gets back on his feet.Seven years later, Kevin is still living with Jennifer as purely platonic house mates. While Jennifer is continuing to climb up the career ladder, Kevin is still golf caddying and waiting for his big break. Jennifer is content to let Kevin march to his own beat, but her new boyfriend Bryce, doesn't like having Kevin around. Bryce is an arrogant corporate manipulator and he wants Jennifer to kick Kevin out after asking Jennifer to marry him after only dating for six months. In fact, Bryce is only with Jennifer to use her angelic reputation to gain favor with his boss, Mrs. Von Hoffman.When Kevin catches Bryce cheating, he is determined to spare Jennifer an unhappily after experience. With help from his brother, Jeremy, who is in law school, and support from his meddling neighbor Mr. Henderson, Kevin finds out that he is actually legally married to Jennifer in a common law marriage as they have lived together for exactly seven years, among other requirements. Jennifer doesn't believe his claim at first, but her own lawyer friend, Sally, confirms that Kevin is right.After a mishap at Jennifer's workplace where Kevin unintentionally introduces himself as Jennifer's husband to her most important client, Mr. Fujimura, he is invited to dinner with them. Unexpectedly and to Jennifer's surprise, Kevin gains Mr. Fujimura's favor and successfully helps her with her deal. He even throws a "wedding reception" with their close friends as guests for Jennifer.Upon arriving back home from his work trip at Chicago, Bryce is upset to find out about Jennifer and Kevin's common law marriage. He calls Kevin a parasite and tells Jennifer to get rid of him otherwise their wedding is off. Sally advises Jennifer to try to make Kevin sign papers to waiver the common law claim, stating that he has always been a quitter and will probably back down from the marriage after a little hardship. Jennifer gives Kevin a lot of tasks to complete in hopes of scaring him but he completes them and more. He goes the extra mile and even builds a gazebo.When Jennifer's golden retriever Napoleon gets sick, Kevin gives up his big opportunity to get his game idea to an investor to take Napoleon to the vet instead. On the other hand, Bryce refuses to take time off work (because he will be spending time with his mistress) and says that Napoleon is "just a dog". After consulting the vet, they find out that Napoleon was sick because he swallowed one of Bryce's golf balls. Jennifer apologizes to Kevin for making him miss his big break but Kevin dismisses it, saying that opportunities will come but there is only one Napoleon.Later on, Kevin brings Jennifer's purse to her at a party with Bryce and his business associates, including Mrs. Von Hoffman. He tells Bryce off for treating Jennifer like a dime instead of a rhinestone and the two guys fight. Back home, Kevin apologizes to Jennifer for how things went down at the party. Jennifer nurses the wound that he got from the fight with Bryce and the two share a moment. Kevin admits that he thinks he's falling in love with Jennifer and he doesn't know what to do. However, Jennifer rejects him and says that Bryce is the one she's supposed to marry. The next morning, Kevin signs the documents to waiver the marriage claim. He wishes Jen and Bryce goodwill before leaving.
Jennifer returns home from a day out with Bryce and feels an emptiness without having Kevin around. She slowly sees that Bryce does not really prioritize her at all, and that to him, his business partners and associates are more important. At the wedding run through, Bryce accidentally blurts out that the engagement ring he has given Jennifer is the biggest rock at the jeweler's, contradicting what he previously told her. He doesn't even remember what he told her when he proposed, that the ring was his grandmother's and that his grandfather carried it all the way across the continents and would have gone further for the woman he loved. Jennifer realizes that he has been lying to her and that he is not the one she wants.This feeling is further strengthened when she voices out to Bryce that she doesn't know any of the guests, but he brushes it off saying that they are partners of his firm. Jennifer then asks him what her favorite color is, to which he vaguely responds that he doesn't know and that it doesn't matter. After hearing to his answer, Jennifer drops her engagement ring into Bryce's drink and leaves. She rushes over to Jeremy's house where Kevin is staying at, but Jeremy tells her that he is at the bus station leaving for school to finish his degree. She arrives at the bus station just as the bus leaves. She is disappointed that she didn't manage to catch Kevin but then she finds him still at the station. She admits her feelings for Kevin and the two share a kiss.The film ends with Jennifer and Kevin's wedding. Mr. Davidson, Kevin's investor, is a guest at the wedding and states that he will see Kevin's game at the store by Christmas. Sally and Jeremy put aside their differences and get together. Kevin finally kisses his lawfully wedded wife as their friends and family watch on.
