A cryptic message from James Bond's past sends him on a trail to uncover the exsistence of a sinister organisation named SPECTRE. With a new threat dawning, Bond learns the terrible truth about the author of all his pain in his most recent missions.
A cryptic message from the past sends James Bond (Daniel Craig) on a rogue mission to Mexico City and eventually Rome, where he meets Lucia Sciarra (Monica Belluci), the beautiful and forbidden widow of an infamous criminal. Bond infiltrates a secret meeting and uncovers the existence of the sinister organisation known as S.P.E.C.T.R.E. Meanwhile, back in London, Max Denbigh (Andrew Scott), the new head of the Centre of National Security, questions Bond's actions and challenges the relevance of MI6, led by M (Ralph Fiennes). Bond covertly enlists Miss Eve Moneypenny (Naomie Harris) and Q (Ben Whishaw) to help him seek out Dr. Madeleine Swann (Léa Seydoux), the daughter of his old nemesis Mr. White (Jesper Christensen), who may hold the clue to untangling the web of S.P.E.C.T.R.E. As the daughter of the assassin, she understands Bond in a way most others cannot. As Bond ventures towards the heart of S.P.E.C.T.R.E., he learns a chilling connection between him and the enemy he seeks.
After the events of Skyfall (2012), James Bond (Daniel Craig) has come out a troubled man. His mentor, M (Dame Judi Dench), is dead. MI6 is crumbling under a newer, high-tech organization led by the mysterious Max Denbigh (Andrew Scott). However, while in Mexico City, Bond finds an Italian hitman trying to bomb a major parade, and stops him. He finds a ring on his finger with a strange symbol on it. When he soon realizes that this symbol is showing up at terrorist attacks all over the world, he must traverse the world to find out the truth behind the chilling organization known as S.P.E.C.T.R.E. and his blood-curdling connection to it and its leader, Ernst Stavro Blofeld (Christoph Waltz).
James Bond (Daniel Craig) is back. He is in Mexico pursuing a hitman. He kills the man, but not after making a scene. When he returns to England, his boss M (Ralph Fiennes) is not happy because a government man known as "C" (Andrew Scott) is trying to shut down the 00 network and replace it with a new surveillance system which will essentially put an end to privacy. M tells Bond to stand down, and he has Q (Ben Whishaw) inject him with a tracking device. Bond reveals to Miss Eve Moneypenny (Naomie Harris) why he was in Mexico. He asks her to help him by getting some information on certain people. He asks Q to make sure no one knows he left the U.K. and goes to Italy to talk to the hitman's wife. After talking to her, he goes to a meeting of an organization, and when he's discovered, they try to kill him, but he escapes. Moneypenny tells him who the person he is looking for is, and it turns out to be someone he knows. He goes to him and asks him to tell him about the organization. He initially refuses until Bond realizes he is in fear for his daughter, so Bond promises to protect her. Which he tries to do, but she doesn't want him around. But when someone tries to grab her, he saves her, and she agrees to help him.
After the death of his beloved boss M (Dame Judi Dench), James Bond (Daniel Craig) receives a posthumous message which sends him on the hunt for a deadly assassin. But then a mysterious symbol appears on a ring which sends Bond on a personal vendetta which started in Mexico City. He comes across the widow of his target who gives him information regarding a sinister organization known only as S.P.E.C.T.R.E. Bond's trail leads him to a conversation with an old nemesis while retrieving information on his daughter, Dr. Madeleine Swann (Léa Seydoux), who might hold some crucial information to cracking S.P.E.C.T.R.E.'s secrets. Meanwhile, the new M (Ralph Fiennes) is having to fight political interference from the mysterious Max Denbigh (Andrew Scott) to keep the MI6 spy branch alive. As Bond pieces together all of the clues about S.P.E.C.T.R.E., he finds out a horrifying secret which links him and the enemy whom he must kill.
James Bond (Daniel Craig) hunts and kills a criminal kingpin in Mexico City. It was an unsanctioned kill, and the repercussions are swift and dire. He is suspended and his movements tracked 24/7 via his blood. However, this won't stop our intrepid hero. He is on the track of a massive criminal syndicate, an organization whose name he does not know. All he has is a ring with its octopus-like symbol. It transpires that the secrets to the organization lie with the daughter of a long-time enemy of his, and his own childhood.
After carrying out an unauthorised kill, James Bond uncovers the exsistence of a sinister organisation named S.P.E.C.T.R.E. As M battles political forces to keep the 00 section alive, Bond embarks on a personal mission to discover the connection he has with the group's leader and thwart their global surveillance network.

