An affable underachiever finds out he's fathered 533 children through anonymous donations to a fertility clinic 20 years ago. Now he must decide whether or not to come forward when 142 of them file a lawsuit to reveal his identity.
David Wozniak is a man who is irresponsible and unreliable which doesn't exactly endear him to his family and his girlfriend. And when she tells him that she's pregnant, she tells him, she plans to do it on her own because she can't count on him. One day a lawyer shows up and talks to him about the fact that twenty years ago he was a sperm donor for about a year and his sperm was used to father over 500 children. And now over 100 of them want to know who he is but because he signed a confidentiality agreement, they can't be told who he is. So they are going to court to try to get the confidentiality set aside. His lawyer tells him that they can win this. But when the lawyer who saw him gives him info on the ones who want to see him, he takes a peek at one and decides to go see him and not tell him he's the father. He then goes out and checks out some of his other children and doesn't tell them who he is and connects with them. His lawyer tells him it could jeopardize their case, especially since he can get a big settlement which he can use to pay back some people he borrowed from who "tell" him to pay or else.
An aging slacker and former sperm donor discovers that he is the biological father of 533 children, and that 142 of them have filed a lawsuit to learn his true identity in this Dreamworks comedy starring Vince Vaughn. Aside from the fact that he was a regular visitor at a fertility clinic 20 years ago, there's nothing particularly remarkable about David Wozniak (Vince Vaughn): He drives a meat-delivery truck for his father's butcher business, he can't seem to hold down a relationship, and lately he's taken to growing marijuana as a means of paying off an $80,000 debt. He's so inept at even the simplest things that his girlfriend Emma (Cobie Smulders) can't stand the sight of him after she reveals that she's pregnant with his child. When an attorney tracks David down and reveals that he is the biological father of 533 children, and that 142 of them have filed a lawsuit to learn his true identity, the former donor panics, recruiting his lawyer friend Brett (Chris Pratt) to defend the privacy agreements he signed at the clinic. When Brett returns with an envelope containing profiles of all 142 children named in the lawsuit, however, David can't help but look, and before long he's surreptitiously injecting himself into the lives of his unsuspecting offspring. Meanwhile, as he begins to grow excited at the prospect of having his own child, he finds that sometimes the best fathers are the men who seem the least fit for parenting..

