Norwegian archaeologist Sigurd Svendsen forms a small team and sets off to find the true meaning of the secret runes found carved in rock and accidentally awakens a giant monster.
When the archaeologist Sigurd can't settle on the myth about Ragnarok, the end of the world in Northern mythology, he decides to go on an expedition together with two colleagues and his two kids. This adventure leads them to Finnmark in the Northern most part of Norway, and into "No man's land" between Russia and Norway, where no one has been in modern times. Old runes get new meanings when they unveil the truth. A truth bigger and more spectacular than you would have dreamed.
In Norway, the archaeologist Sigurd Svendsen is obsessed with the mythology of Ragnarok that he had researched with his deceased wife, who died of cancer. Sigurd raises his children Ragnhild and Brage alone and expects to receive a donation for the museum where he works to proceed with his research with runes that had been found in the Oseberg ship but the contributors refuse to donate money for his work. Sigurd meets his colleague Allan, who also researches the myth of Ragnarok, and they decide to go on an expedition with archaeologist Elisabeth and Ragnhild and Brage, who are on vacation. Allan hires the guide Leif and they travel to a no-man's land on the border of Norway and Russia. They cross a lake in a wooden raft and they find some relics in a cave but they are stolen and left behind by Leif. Elizabeth spends the night with the children in a container but Sigurd and Allan continue to explore the cave. Soon they discover that the real meaning of the runes is a warning about the danger in the location where they are.
Archeologist Sigurd Svendsen (Pål Sverre Hagen) has for years been obsessed with the Oseberg Viking ship. The only inscription found on the ship is the enigmatic man knows little` written in runes. Sigurd is sure that the Oseberg ship contains the answer to the mystery of Ragnarok, the end of days in Norse mythology. When his friend Allan finds similar runes on a stone from the north of Norway, Sigurd becomes convinced that the runes are in fact a treasure map. Together they mount an expedition group and their adventure leads to No mans Land between Norway and Russia, which has been deserted for decades. Here Sigurd learns the true meaning of the runes a secret more terrifying than he could possibly imagine.
