Kit, a twenty-something dreamer, receives an invitation that would fulfill her childhood dreams.
Kit (Brie Larson) is a lonely twenty-something dreamer who's reluctant to leave the comforts of childhood and fully embrace adulthood. But when art school sends her packing, Kit is forced to move back home with her parents and take a temp job in a boring office. Just when she's resolved to finally put her Care Bears aside and grow up, a mysterious salesman enters Kit's life and offers to give her childlike heart its greatest desire. Unicorn Store is a love letter to everyone's inner child, and a reminder that no dream is impossible.
A young, charismatic college girl fails her art course after a disastrous and embarrassing display in front of her professors she has to return to her parents house . She falls into a deep set of depression as she realizes her life is falling apart, until a chance arises on the horizon. a new start at a temp job is blocking her real aspirations in life as her sexist boss hovers over every move she makes and her co-workers give her the cold shoulder, thinking that she is taking opportunities away from them and eventually finds herself at the Unicorn Shop, where a flamboyant man offers her a chance she cant deny. If she can prove that a caring and loving environment can be provided the promise of her own unicorn will be seen in the future. this leads her on a journey of discovery as she finds someone who would finally understand her and accepts what makes her different and he agrees to make a stable for the unicorn to live. Her parents begin to worry for their daughters future and find they have not been supporting her enough as they focused on their work most of their life and brings them to a revelation that they should have cared and raised her better. As the offer of a promotion arises at the temp job she embraces her inner creativity and lets her imagination and love for unicorns take over which doesn't go so well leaving her doubtful for her future. Soon enough she realizes it doesn't matter if people don't understand and like her take on life and that she is amazing living the life she wants.
