A biography of Daisy and Violet Hilton, conjoined twins who started as "freaks" in side shows, then went on to be stars of Vaudeville and films.
This remarkable documentary tells the amazing story of Daisy and Violet Hilton, conjoined twins who rose to superstardom at the beginning of the 20th century as sideshow attractions, performing alongside the likes of Bob Hope and Charlie Chaplin. Ruthlessly exploited by their managers, the sisters ultimately sued for their freedom-which they won at a terrible cost. Bound By Flesh puts a touchingly human face on two outsiders who went from the lowest rungs of society to the big time and back again.
They were as close as any two sisters. They sang, danced and played musical instruments. They were the highest paid act in vaudeville. They were Americas sweethearts in the 30s and 40s, the biggest celebrities of their day. And they were Siamese twins. Known variously as The Brighton United Twins, The San Antonio Twins, or simply Daisy and Violet Hilton.Their incredible story begins in 1908 in Brighton, England when their mother sold them to her midwife, so horrified was she that she had brought freaks into the world. What followed was a Dickensian childhood being put on display in pubs and wax museums, traveling the world in carnivals and fairs. They made great sums of cash but never saw the money.They won their freedom from their legal guards in a sensation trial in San Antonio. Now on their own, the girls could indulge in romance. Violet tried to obtain a marriage license, but was denied in dozens of states because she was a Siamese twin. Discouraged, her fiancé vanished from her life. A short time later her manager arranged a marriage for publicitys sake at the 1936 Texas Centennial for a paying audience.The girls starred in Freaks, (listed by the US National Film Registry) and the 1950s exploitation Chained for Life.Here for the first time is the story of their life, a rich history of carnival and circus life, covering early American entertainment from vaudeville, burlesque, sideshows and Hollywood.
