By using a mass-control radio-wave emission, a cannibal dictator brings Taeter City's crime rates next to zero, recycling the criminals' bodies as food. Then, the ultimate mutation emerged. Can the elite police squad clear the mess up?
In Taeter City, there is no crime. Using Zeed radio waves, the city's dictatorship cause criminals to commit suicide. Their corpses are processed and sold as fast-food by conglomerates who nourish the ravenous populace. It was a perfect system - until Zeed started making the criminals stronger.
In Taeter City everything is managed by the iron fist of dictatorship members: THE AUTORITY. They use a special radio wave system called Zeed that lets them distinguish criminals from typical law abiding citizens. These special radio waves alter the demented brain of criminals, forcing them to commit suicide in horrible ways. A special police corps called The Biker's retrieves their corpses and delivers them to massive slaughterhouses. These supply the mega fast food chains with the human flesh products they need to feed the masses, non-stop. Here there are no criminals, no crimes, no riots, no crisis... until now. The Zeed system is no longer functioning the way it is supposed to: the criminals are no longer killing themselves; the radio waves are making them stronger! Follow the crazy mission of three Biker officers (Razor, Shock and Wank) charged with managing this chaotic situation. We give you: an 80's movie vibe, insane technology, manga style, crazy action, adrenaline, violence, blood, blood and again blood. A new Splatter Sci-Fi genre has risen!
In a bleak distant future--after a prolonged crisis in the metropolis of Taeter City--the nefarious political figure known only as the "Authority" comes in to save the day, only to submit an entire nation to his police-enforced dictatorship. Now--by using a highly sophisticated mass-control technology, the Zeed System--the sadistic governor rules the town with an iron hand, forcing the city's scum and the future criminals to commit suicide with his powerful radio-wave emission. Then, nothing goes to waste. Under everyone's noses, the remaining corpses are recycled as food at the monopolised fast-food chain/slaughterhouse to nourish the starving masses. Up until now, the system proved to be infallible, bringing the crime rates in Taeter City next to zero; however, after a catastrophic malfunction, the ultimate mutation, Trevor Covalsky, emerges. Can the elite police squad, the "Bikers", clear the mess up?

