A hopeless young man uses his "Kung-fu" skills and mask to tackle a bank robbery group without revealing his identity.
Anand is a martial arts specialist unluckily unable to use those skills to make a living. Instead, he falls in love with Police Commissioner Gaurav's daughter Shakthi, and tries to impress her and her sister's kids with his martial art skills.
Anand (Jiiva) is a personable but unemployed alcoholic youth who loves kung-fu and adores his master Chandru (Selvaah). Once he lays eyes upon Shakthi (Pooja Hegde), daughter of top cop Gaurav (Nassar), he's instantly smitten. Gaurav has a problem - a rampaging gang of merciless baddies led by Angusamy, a.k.a. Dragon (Narain). Angusamy runs a kung fu school that, by night, goes on rampage robberies, painting the town in blood while leaving no clue behind. Gaurav is given the responsibility to tackle the crime. To impress Shakthi, Anand tries appearing before her in a superhero costume, but a twist of fame forces him to pin down one of the criminals from Angusamy's gang. He is hailed by the media as Mugamoodi, (his true identity not revealed). A sequence of events leads Anand to further battle against Angusamy, donned as Mugamoodi, all leading to a brutal battle between these two martial arts experts.
Though Anand's kung-fu skills are practically second to none, he is, like so many other personable but unemployed youths, deemed worthless. Once he lays eyes upon Shakthi, daughter of special investigator Gaurav, he's instantly smitten and seeks to impress her (with his method and sense of civic duty about to land him in trouble). Policeman Gaurav has been tasked to identify the ruthless gang that has made its way to yet another city, a group of martial art cutthroats that leaves no clues behind as it robs and murders well-off, elderly citizens. No one knows it's Angusamy, a.k.a. "Dragon," a kung fu master who heads this gang, whose students train in his dojo by day and moonlight as smoothly-run thieving executioners by night. In trying to get Shakthi to look upon him heroically, Anand dons a superhero costume. While amusing her along with her niece and nephew as "Mugamoodi" (The Mask), he ends up running down one of Angusamy's men for the police. As the gang tries to identify him (and pin their miseeds on him), Anand's struggle for love, justice, anonymity, appreciation and survival begins.

