Summoned by an unexpected phone call, an elderly woman visits the country cottage she lived in as a child. Memories of an orphan boy she knew 47 years ago come flooding back to her.
An offer to buy her property brings elderly Kim Sun-yi back to the country cottage she briefly lived in during eventful times in her youth. With her granddaughter by her side, Sun-yi recalls meeting Cheol-su, not only a feral orphan from Korean war days but a mute boy genetically spliced with wolf DNA by a rogue scientist, now deceased. She effectively tames the unsocialized lad through dog obedience training, and he soon becomes more than a loyal companion, protecting her from the rude advances of her late father's business partner's ne'er-do-well, spoiled, self-centered son, Ji-tae, who fully expects Sun-yi to marry him someday. He would claim her as his own sooner than that if not for Cheol-su, who transforms into an unbeatable werewolf anytime someone threatens a member of his pack, leading Ji-tae to work towards a permanent solution to this problem.
Summoned by an unexpected phone call, an elderly woman visits a cottage the way she used to when she was a young girl. She remembers a boy she knew half a century before. Moving to a peaceful village when she was a girl she discovered a "wolf boy", hiding his large, contorted body in the darkness. The girl, now a woman, has never been able to purge the images of his wild eyes and animal-like behavior from her mind. She recalls teaching the boy how to wait patiently before a meal, how to wear clothes, how to speak, how to write and other human behaviors so that he could one day live like a normal man. She opened her heart to the innocent boy and he fell in love with the girl, the only person to ever show him affection. However when threatened, he let loose his bestial instincts and became the subject of the villagers' fears. In order to save the life of the boy who risked his to be by her side, she left him with a promise: "Wait for me. I'll come back for you".
