A former DEA agent moves his family to a quiet town, where he soon tangles with a local meth druglord.
Phil Broker is a former DEA agent who has gone through a crisis after his actions against a biker gang went horribly wrong ,and it cost the life of his boss's son. He is recently widowed and is left with a 9 year old daughter, Maddy. He decides to quit the turbulent and demanding life of the DEA for Maddy's sake and retires to a small town. His daughter fights off a boy who is bullying her at school, and this sets in motion a round of events that end in his direct confrontation with the local Meth drug lord. His past with the biker gang also enters the arena, making matters more complex. But he has a mission in his mind to protect his daughter, and he is ready to pay any cost that it demands.
Two years after the raids of a gang's methamphetamine laboratory where his cover was blown, former DEA Agent and U.S. war veteran, Phil Broker (Jason Statham) and his daughter Maddy (Izabela Vidovic) have moved to a small Louisiana town where Maddy's deceased mother grew up. Maddy gets into a schoolyard fight with a bully named Teddy Klum; when Broker comes to the school, Teddy's hostile father, Jimmy (Marcus Hester), picks a fight with him and loses. Cassie Klum (Kate Bosworth) later asks her brother, a drug dealer named Gator Bodine (James Franco), to scare Broker. Broker fights off a few of Gator's thugs at a gas station when they threaten him. While he and Maddy later go horse riding, Gator breaks into their house. He deduces from old personnel files that Broker was the undercover cop responsible for the arrest of Danny T (Chuck Zito) in the raid two years earlier. Hoping to get a wider distribution for the drugs he manufactures, Gator tips off Danny T, who sends members of his gang to kill Broker..
Yearning to start afresh and to disappear with his ten-year-old daughter, Maddy, the former DEA agent, Phil Broker, relocates to Louisiana's warm backwoods. However, Phil will soon find himself neck-deep into trouble, when a violent incident at Maddy's school paves the way for a head-on confrontation with the local crystal meth dealer, Gator, and his cut-throat henchmen. Now, Gator knows of Broker's well-hidden past--and as Phil tries to stay out of trouble--the ruthless drug lord will stop at nothing to get him out of the way, including putting in harm's way the innocent Maddy. Will Broker and his daughter get their lives back?

