A girl who thinks is not good at doing anything has to stay for the holidays with her grandmother at a riding stable. There she discovers her interest in horses, riding and more and what she is good in.
East wind - Together we are free is the incomparably beautiful history of bad schoolgirl Mika, which not only learns in the summer holidays, that she is a good rider, but the language of the horse speaks. For whatever reason it is the only well that can ride the previously untamed east wind, and thereby learns to love above all else. East wind is for all horse lovers, whether large or small, to highly recommend it. The story captivates until the last second. Great nature shots make the film well worth seeing as many also often dramatic twists. Can one or the other critics despise the story to this friendship as cheesy and boring, I am of the opinion that they were not allowed to experience the magic between humans and animals from their own experience in their lives. East Wind - Together We Are Free.
Mika is in rage. Not only did she fail her final exams but she and her best friend Fanny managed to set her teachers car on fire! Accidentally of course, but that doesn't prevent her parents from canceling the previously planned summer camp. Instead Mika is cast off to the countryside, where her strict grandmother runs a stable and will supervise her granddaughter all summer. Even though Mika has never cared for horses in her life, she is not going to spend all summer looked up studying or working under the instructions of stable-boy Sam. Within the darkest corner of the stables Mika finds the wild and skittish stallion WINDSTORM. Neither Michelle, the most qualified Equestrian of the stables, nor Mikas grandmother have managed to tame the ferocious beast. Magically magnetized by the fearful animal Mika sneaks, despite all warnings, into the stallions stall. Igniting an unusual friendship, through which Mika discovers her true passion and talent: She can communicate with horses! But will she manage, against all odds, to tame Windstorm?

