After a family is involved in an accident, they take refuge in a secluded inn where they free a girl locked in a basement without knowing she's an ancient evil spirit.
In Bogota, Colombia, the widow American David Reynolds is ready to travel back to America with his fiancée Lauren and his daughter Jill to get married after the death of his wife Marcela. However Jill has left her passport in the house of her aunt Gina and they travel in a car with Gina and Jill's boyfriend Ramon to the town where Gina lives. They drive through a shortcut but they are stopped on the road by Capitan Morales that warns them that the road is flooded and is too dangerous to drive along, but Gina decides to continue. They have an accident and the car overturns and Lauren breaks two ribs in the middle of nowhere. They decide to walk and find an old hotel that has been closed since 1978. The owner Felipe is reluctant to let them in, but he decides to lodge the group. While bringing some wood for the fireplace, the snoopy Jill and her boyfriend Ramon leaves the room and Jill overhears a cry. They seek out and find the girl Ana Maria padlocked in a wooden box. When Felipe returns with David with the wood and learns that the couple left the room, he runs to the box but is subdued by David. Felipe warns that the girl will kill his family, but they believe that the old man is a pedophile. But soon they discover the truth about Ana Maria.
The film opens as a distraught man leans against a wooden door in the dark. Something inside growls and relentlessly attempts to force the door open and the man recounts the events leading up to that present moment...The man, photographer named David Reynolds, has come to Colombia with his wife-to-be Lauren to find his daughter Jill and convince her to come back to the United States to attend their wedding. Jill is currently in Bogota staying with her aunt Gina who's a news reporter and has become romantically involved with Gina's cameraman Ramon.When the group meets up at a restaurant in the city, David attempts to convince his daughter to return home for the ceremony - something she's reluctant to do as she resents him getting re-married even years after the death of her mother Marcela. After much convincing, Jill relents but states that she can't go anywhere until they retrieve her passport from Gina's home in a neighboring town.Accompanied by Gina and Ramon, the family set out onto the rural roads of Colombia as a rain storm rolls in. As David and Lauren become more and more concerned with the weather conditions, a police car appears behind them and pulls them over. The officer - Captain Morales - warns of the treacherousness of the way ahead and possibility of flash floods, insisting that they turn around. After telling the officer they will do just that, Gina convinces David to keep going as she knows the roads and assures him that they'll come to a safer main road in just a few miles.As time passes, Lauren starts to become wary of Gina's supposed knowledge of the area and soon the car veers off and becomes stuck in the mud. Before they can get out and push the vehicle back on the road, a wall of water rushes down the mountainside and send the car rolling further down the hillside.Banged up but alive, the group escapes the overturned vehicle and Ramon spots a footpath leading to a large home atop a hill. Frantically knocking on the door, an elderly man appears and tells them that the inn is closed and they should seek shelter elsewhere. David pleads for help for his wounded and stranded family and the old man hesitates before allowing them entry.Taking them into the lobby, the man introduces himself as Felipe and acts suspiciously - telling them he does not have a working phone or cellphone and commanding them to not leave the room under any circumstances. The group patches themselves up and recovers, Lauren (who's a nurse) discovering that she has several broken ribs. When David asks Felipe if he has wood for the fireplace, the old man signals him to follow outside to gather some - again warning the four others to not leave the lobby while he's gone.Ramon and Gina poke around the front desk and make two curious discoveries: a phone whose line has been cut and a ledger that says that the last time a guest stayed at the inn was in the 1970s. When Jill states that she needs to use the bathroom and intends to find one, she ignores Lauren's reminder of what Felipe said, and Gina tells Ramon to accompany her.Venturing upstairs, Jill and Ramon investigate the dilapidated home - coming across a little girl's bedroom which looks like it hadn't been lived in, or touched, for decades. When Jill finally finds a rather disgusting bathroom she goes about her business before hearing strange noises coming up through the pipes leading into the basement. Nearing the source of the noise, it sounds like the whimpers and cries of a small child.Jill and Ramon proceed to try and find the entrance into the basement and help the child as David and Felipe return, the latter instantly noticing that two of the group are missing and tearing off into the house to try and find them.Hearing Felipe fast-approaching, Jill and Ramon duck into a closet and hide - watching the old man enter and scan the room before opening a secret door in the floor and checking down the stairs for anything unusual. David and Gina then enter and convince Felipe to calm down and return to the lobby - assuring him that the two just went to use the bathroom and would reappear shortly.With Felipe gone, Jill and Ramon open the hidden door and venture into the basement - coming across a number of unsettling things including a dark, dingy room where Ramon wonders if it's where Felipe sleeps at night. Jill discovers a large wooden door and sure enough, a child is locked inside. The young girl tells them her name is Ana Maria and that the old man has been keeping her locked away for quite some time. Thinking that Felipe is a child murderer/sexual abuser, Jill attempts to free Ana Maria but before she can the old man appears and holds them at gunpoint - telling them to step away from the door.David suddenly appears and knocks Felipe unconscious with a shovel. Asking what's going on, Jill shows her father the door and the girl trapped within and he proceeds to break off the padlock and free her. Returning upstairs, they inform the rest of the group what they've discovered and leave Ana Maria with Lauren as David ties up Felipe in his office which is covered in notes and drawings appearing to be related to Satanism and witchcraft.When the old man awakens he frantically speaks to David in Spanish and unable to understand him, David calls for Jill. When his daughter arrives and translates what Felipe is saying she tells her father he's saying they're all going to die. Perceiving this to be a threat, David tightens Felipe's restraints and gags him.As Lauren checks the girl for injuries and tries to comfort her, Gina takes advantage of the situation and goes into the basement and takes video recordings of the "cell" that Ana Maria was kept inside, discovering numerous symbols etched into the floor, walls, the inside of the door, and ceiling and a skeletal corpse in the corner. When Gina attempts to interview the girl, she's rebuffed by Lauren who tells her to leave the traumatized child alone.While the group attempts to figure out what to do next, Ana Maria sneaks off to confront Felipe. Removing his gag, the girl teases and mocks Felipe about her release and the old man pleads with her to spare the group and take his life instead. As Ana Maria leaves the room Felipe eyes a knife on the desk and begins to loosen his restraints.Back in the lobby, Felipe suddenly appears and screams for forgiveness from God as he lunges towards Ana Maria with the knife. Ramon, who's in possession of the rifle, shoots and kills Felipe before he has a chance to harm anyone. As the group stands around stunned, one notices that the old man sliced his wrists before attacking and question why he would do such a thing.As David puts Felipe's body back in the office, Ramon finds a set of car keys and searches outside for the vehicle. Things begin to take a strange turn when Ana Maria gropes Jill's chest and thighs and tells her she has a "strong body" and later a picture from the 1970s is found that shows a girl who looks exactly like the young girl they've rescued.When Gina searches through the kitchen, Ana Maria appears and holds the reporter's phone asking to interview her. Entertaining the girl, Gina light-heartedly agrees but things quickly turn sinister as girl begins questioning her about her boss - revealing that she inexplicably knows about Gina's attraction to him and how after having sex with him she became pregnant and, not wanting to jeopardize her career, got an abortion without telling him. Horrified and confused, Gina collapses as Ana Maria places her hand upon her stomach and something begins to move inside.Elsewhere, Ramon finds Felipe's car but discovers that the engine is missing.When the others search for Gina they come into the kitchen to find her unconscious and laying next to Ana Maria in the pool of blood. When Gina comes to she tries to explain that the young girl committed suicide in front of her for reasons unknown. David wraps the child's body in a sheet and takes her into the office - lying her next to Felipe.Shaken and confused, the group tries to comfort Gina while trying to figure out what to do next. Suddenly there's a knock on the door and when David answers it's revealed to be Captain Morales. Agitated, Morales holds them at gunpoint and demands to see Felipe. When David takes the policeman into the office and shows him the bodies of the old man and Ana Maria, Morales becomes frantic and ignores David's explanation of events - forcing him, Lauren, and Jill into the basement.When Morales attempts to usher them into the "cell", David attacks and disarms him. The tables now turned, David demands to know what is going on. Eventually, Morales begins to explain everything. He tells them that the hill where the inn stands was once the site of a gallows and long ago a bruja (witch) was hanged there. The bruja swore revenge on the men who executed her - one of which was an ancestor of Morales - and promised to return to not only kill them but their bloodlines as well.In the 1970s, the bruja terrorized Felipe's family - leading to the death of his wife and the possession of his daughter: Ana Maria. Morales and Felipe worked together to try and discover a way to fight the bruja and in doing so made two discoveries - that the witch knows everyone's deepest, darkest secrets and that she could only possess the bodies of those that killed her current host. Not wanting to kill his own daughter, Felipe instead chose to lock her away, close the inn, and attempt to find a way to rid Ana Maria of the bruja.When Morales conducts a test to see if any of the three are possessed, it's revealed that either Gina or Ramon must be.Elsewhere in the house, Gina corners Ramon and begins to make sexual advances towards him - telling him she knows he's always been attracted to her and wants to have sex with her. When Ramon weakly resists, Gina reveals she knows that Ramon is a con man: that he makes young women fall in love with him and then manipulates them into smuggling drugs inside their bodies across international borders. When Gina mentions that a number had died from doing so, she mockingly asks if that's what his intentions are regarding Jill.When Ramon begins to violently vomit blood, he throws Gina into a staircase and she snaps her neck on a railing. Not dead quite yet, she recovers and pursues Ramon outside onto a balcony where he uses the rifle to shoot and kill Gina before she can attack him.Hearing the gunshot, the group realizes that whomever just killed the other is now possessed by the bruja - discovering it to be Ramon when Morales stops him from driving away in his police vehicle and forcing the witch to retreat and find other means of escape. Morales tells the others to leave and let him handle the bruja as he's the one she is truly after.As Ramon attempts to enter the house and terrorize them all, David, Lauren, and Jill flee and drive away in Morales' car. Their escape is cut short however when Ramon crashes through a window and a struggle ensues inside the vehicle which causes it to veer off the road and stop short of a body of water. Using a pair of handcuffs, Lauren restrains Ramon and the three exit the car only to watch as it slowly rolls into the water.When Ramon begins to laugh maniacally, David realizes that if the bruja drowns and dies Lauren will be possessed next as she was the one who handcuffed him. He dives into the water and frees Ramon, dragging him back on land and performing CPR to avail as Lauren starts to experience pain and has seizures.Returning to the house, David and Morales attempt to restrain Lauren only for her to mortally wound the latter by biting a chunk out of his neck. The bruja escapes their clutches and shares David's secret: that he pulled the plug on Marcela's life support because he wanted her to die faster. Jill is overcome with grief and disbelief and David attempts to explain that he did so because her mother was in a lot of pain and there was no chance of recovery. Jill, still upset, flees.When Lauren disappears into the depths of the house after Jill, a barely alive Morales offers to kill the bruja himself if David can lead her to him - the idea being that if she possess him as he dies of his wounds she will finally be defeated (which is why Felipe slit his wrists earlier in the film before trying to attack Ana Maria). David looks for Jill and engages in a cat-and-mouse game with Lauren before finally luring her into a room where Morales waits behind a door ready to strike.Aware of the trap, Lauren kills Morales before he can make his move and tries to manipulate David into killing her - wanting to possess a healthy body as Lauren's ribs are broken. David resists doing so and instead leads the bruja into the basement in an attempt to lock her back inside the "cell". When the bruja changes her form into that of Marcela, David falls to his knees and apologizes to the specter of his late wife. Once more, the bruja tries to get David to kill her and - overcome with emotion - agrees to do so under the promise that she will leave Jill alive. When the bruja agrees, David is about to kill her but Jill appears and does so instead.Realizing the consequences of her actions, Jill tells her father to lock her in the cell before she becomes fully possessed. Sharing one final tearful moment together before the bruja takes over, David slams the door shut it - deciding to do just as Felipe had done in keeping his daughter locked away and attempting to find a means of exorcising the witch.
