The son of a fallen soldier, years after his father's death, tries to reconnect with his grandfather, who is still grieving the loss of his child.
This heartwarming movie tells the story of a local war hero whose son, Tom, goes off to war. Tom's new wife brings Christian, his first son, into the world while the young hero is away at war earning medals for valor. However, the tragedy that ensues on a cruel battlefield will change everyone's life forever. Tom Revere is laid to rest, paying the ultimate price for freedom. Fourteen years pass and Christian grows to be a teenager. Along with his mother, Carrie, he returns to the small town of Mount Columbus, nestled in the Rocky Mountains, to celebrate the holidays with family. Christian &amp; his grandfather, Bob, are not connecting as they continue to struggle with the pain of losing Tom. In this beautiful story of love and forgiveness, grandfather &amp; grandson discover a way to unite and to make a difference in their community by claiming their freedom of expression. Bob, who is both a pharmacist and the mayor of Mount Columbus, realizes that some of the freedoms his son fought and died for, are eroding. The first battle he chooses to fight in his mission to restore the town's freedoms is the right to celebrate Christmas. In many ways, Bob loses his "battle," but his gain is of greater value. Concluding the film is one of the most dramatic orations given in any movie, where Bob challenges the town to "Wake Up" and begin to take back the freedoms that are being lost, one by one.
Bob Revere (Marshall Teague) knows what it's like to fight for freedom. A small-town war hero, he's heartbroken when his own son Tom loses his life defending America abroad. But Tom left behind a son of his own named Christian, and 14 years later, the young boy and his mother move back to Mount Colombus to be with their family for the holidays. Meanwhile, Christian's grandfather Bob, now the mayor of Mount Columbus, begins to notice that his country is heading in a dangerous direction, and that freedom itself is on the line. As Bob rallies the locals to awaken from their comfortable stupor and fight back against the powers that be, Christian learns that sometimes the battle for liberty begins at home.
Last Ounce of Courage is the story of an American hero standing up for his beliefs in a time of cynicism and fear. Inspired by his grandson, a grieving father and courageous youth will rally their community to conserve the freedoms we the people hold dear. Bob Revere is a small town Mayor and combat decorated veteran. He faces a root of bitterness from his past filled with heartbreaking loss. His grandson comes back into his life after many years to ask the most important question, What are we doing with our life to make a difference? Bob had grown apathetic along with an entire town. Now with the help of children, a group of people all band together to inspire hope, take back the freedoms that are being lost and take a stand for truth.
