Aspiring musician Miguel, confronted with his family's ancestral ban on music, enters the Land of the Dead to find his great-great-grandfather, a legendary singer.
Despite his family's baffling generations-old ban on music, Miguel dreams of becoming an accomplished musician like his idol, Ernesto de la Cruz. Desperate to prove his talent, Miguel finds himself in the stunning and colorful Land of the Dead following a mysterious chain of events. Along the way, he meets charming trickster Hector, and together, they set off on an extraordinary journey to unlock the real story behind Miguel's family history.
Young Miguel simply loves music. But his family has a mysterious ban on anyone from their clan performing music. The ban dates back for many generations yet Miguel dreams of becoming an accomplished musician just like his idol, Ernesto de la Cruz. Longing to prove his musical talents, Miguel finds himself in the technicolor Land of the Dead. Along his way, he meets the charming trickster Hector, and together, they set out to find the real story behind his family's mysterious ban on music.
Miguel, a musical kid with a family who's banned the thing he loves in life, takes an accidental trip to The Land of the Dead only to prove to his inspiration that he can be a good vocal singer and guitarist. However, things start to go downhill when his family in The land of the Dead start to look for him and try to take him back.
The rebellious Miguel, a 12-year-old Mexican boy and hopeful musician, is unable to understand the family's continuing ban on all music, especially when his icon and the greatest guitar player to ever live, the deceased Ernesto de la Cruz, is the town's hero. However, an inadvertent mistake on the sacred Day of the Dead will magically transport Miguel to the distant and bustling Land of the Dead, where the scoundrel skeleton, Hector, will lead the way through the vibrant underworld to help the young trespasser find a missing ancestor. But can they do it before sunrise?
An aspiring young guitar player, whose family has a classic hate for music, tries to find answers of his great Grandfather, which leads his search to his entrance to Tierra De Muertos, where all dead people get to live if they are remembered well. In there, the boy will not only discover his family's legacy, but his search will lead him to an unexpected truth in this Disney tale about love, hate, death, music, betrayal -- and most of all: Family.
In a small Mexican town, Miguel is a young boy with dreams of becoming a musician like his idol Ernesto de la Cruz, despite his family's ban on music. When Miguel becomes trapped in the land of the dead, he teams up with the wily Hector and they embark on an odyssey to find out the real story of Miguel's family.
In Santa Cecilia, Mexico, 12-year-old Miguel dreams of being a musician, even though his family strictly forbids it. His great-great-grandmother Imelda was married to a man who left her and their 3-year-old daughter Coco to pursue a career in music,
In Santa Cecilia, Mexico, Imelda Rivera was the wife of a musician who left her and their 3-year-old daughter Coco, to pursue a career in music. She banned music in the family and opened a shoe-making family business. Ninety-six years later, her great-great-grandson, 12-year-old Miguel, now lives with Coco and their family. He secretly dreams of becoming a musician like Ernesto de la Cruz, a popular actor and singer of Coco's generation. One day, Miguel inadvertently damages the photo of Coco with her parents at the center of the family ofrenda and removes it, discovering that her father (whose face is torn out) was holding Ernesto's famous guitar.Concluding that Ernesto is his great-great-grandfather, Miguel ignores his grandmother Elena's objections and leaves to enter a talent show for the Day of the Dead. He enters Ernesto's mausoleum and steals his guitar to use in the show, but becomes invisible to everyone in the village plaza. However, he can see and be seen by his Xoloitzcuintli dog Dante and his skeletal dead relatives who are visiting from the Land of the Dead for the holiday. Taking him there, they realize that Imelda cannot visit as Miguel removed her photo from the ofrenda. Discovering that he is cursed for stealing from the dead, Miguel must return to the Land of the Living before sunrise or he will become one of the dead: to do so, he must receive a blessing from a member of his family using an Aztec marigold petal that can undo the curse placed upon him by stealing Ernesto's guitar. Imelda offers Miguel a blessing but on the condition that he abandon his musical pursuits when he returns to the Land of the Living; Miguel refuses and attempts to seek Ernesto's blessing.Miguel encounters Héctor, a down-on-his-luck skeleton who once played with Ernesto and offers to help Miguel reach him. In return, Héctor asks Miguel to take his photo back to the Land of the Living so he can visit his daughter before she forgets him and he disappears completely. Héctor attempts to return Miguel to his relatives, but Miguel escapes and infiltrates Ernesto's mansion, learning along the way that an old friendship between the two deteriorated before Héctor's death. Ernesto welcomes Miguel as his descendant, but Héctor confronts them, imploring Miguel to take his photo. Miguel soon realizes that Ernesto murdered Héctor using a poisoned drink and stole the songs he had written, passing them off as his own to become famous. To maintain his legacy, Ernesto steals the photo and has Miguel and Héctor thrown into a cenote pit.Miguel realizes that Héctor is his actual great-great-grandfather and that Coco is Héctor's daughter, the only living person who still remembers him. With the help of Dante - who turns into an alebrije - the dead Riveras find and rescue them. Miguel reveals that Héctor's decision to return home to her and Coco resulted in his death, and Imelda and Héctor reconcile. They infiltrate Ernesto's sunrise concert to retrieve Héctor's photo from Ernesto and expose his crimes. Ernesto is crushed by a falling church bell as in his previous life, but the photo falls into the water and disappears.As the sun rises, Héctor is in danger of being forgotten by Coco and disappearing. Imelda blesses Miguel with no conditions attached so he can return to the Land of the Living, where he plays a song for Coco that Héctor wrote for her during her childhood. The song sparks her memory of Héctor and revitalizes her, and she gives Miguel the torn-out piece of the photo from the ofrenda, which shows Héctor's face. Elena reconciles with Miguel, accepting both him and music back into the family.One year later, Miguel proudly presents the family ofrenda - featuring a photo of the now deceased Coco and the restored photo of Héctor and Imelda - to his new baby sister. Letters kept by Coco contain evidence that Ernesto stole Héctor's songs. As a result, Ernesto's legacy is destroyed and the community honors Héctor instead. In the Land of the Dead, Héctor and Imelda join Coco for a visit to the living Riveras as Miguel sings and plays for his dead and living relatives.
