A group of college students, on a trip to the Mountain Man Festival on Halloween in West Virginia, encounter a clan of cannibals.
A small West Virginia town is hosting the legendary Mountain Man Festival on Halloween, where throngs of costumed party goers gather for a wild night of music and mischief. But an inbred family of hillbilly cannibals kill the fun when they trick and treat themselves to a group of visiting college students.
In Fairlake, West Virginia, there is a festival during the Halloween called Mountain Man Festival. A group of college students hits the patriarch Maynard of a hillbilly cannibal family on the road and they are arrested with Maynard by Sheriff Angela. Soon his boys assault the Sheriff Station in a night of crime spree.
Taking place after "Wrong Turn 4: Bloody Beginnings" and before "Wrong Turn", "Wrong Turn 5: Bloody Beginnings" begins with a young teenage couple Billy and his blonde girlfriend Cruz having sex in their tent one morning. As they are going at it, they are approached by a hideous deformed hillbilly with an ax. A startled Billy strikes the assailant, who is revealed to be his friend Gus, executing a prank upon them. It is revealed that they along with Gus' girlfriend Lita and their friend Julian, are coming up to Fairlake West Virginia to celebrate the "Mountain Man Music Festival" for this Halloween. Snooty reporter Kaleen Weber goes for a run through the woods after reporting for the Music Festival Gathering, only to be approached by one of the mutant hillbilly s, Threefinger. Believing him to be a man in a costume, she flips him off with her middle finger, only for him to sever the digit with a knife. Kaleen screams and flees, seeking help from a man in the woods named Maynard Odets who proceeds to hack her to death with an ax. Her severed left hand falls to the ground as the title comes on: "Wrong Turn 5."After the murder, the Hillicker Brothers, Three Finger, Tooth, and One Eye approach and Maynard asks them to give him a hand, to which one of them offers him the reporter'severed hand. Meanwhile, the 5 friends have breakfast and begin driving to the festival only to almost collide with Maynard standing in the middle of the highway. Billy who is driving, swerves out of the way and crashes the car into a nearby tree, Billy, Gus, and Julian approach the fallen Maynard, only for him to attack them with a knife. The three boys fight back in self defense and kick him mercilessly. Three Finger readies a bow and arrow at the boys, but the sheriff Angela Carter arrives with her deputy. Carter arrests Maynard and the teen boys and brings them into town while the deputy stays behind to see about the tow truck to bring away the crashed vehicle. After Carter and the group leave, the Hillicker brothers attack him and shoot him with arrows before cutting off his ears and stabbing him in the head, killing him.After being locked in the county jail, Billy confesses to Carter that he has stashed some drugs which he has been bringing with him. Carter lets Gus, Cruz, Lita, and Julian go, and after doing some research, discovers that Maynard is a serial killer who had been eluding the law for 3 decades. Maynard however, remains calm and rants on and on about how the Hillicker brothers, who he calls "My boys" will rescue him eventually. Carter arranges for Maynard to be handed over to the authorities the next day, despite Maynard telling her that she won't live that long. Gus, Julian, Cruz and Lita stay at a motel for the night. The Hillicker brothers drag down a telephone pole with their tow truck, and attack a power station, killing the security guard by frying him against electric cables causing a power outage through the town. With most of the townspeople at the music festival, Carter has sparse staff with her and is alone in the station with Billy and Maynard and another prisoner Mose in holding cells. Mose asks Carter to call for backup to which she reluctantly agrees. She calls a spare deputy Biggs at the music festival.However, at the music festival, a hot young girl seduces Biggs offering to have sex with him in return for tickets backstage. Biggs is too busy having sex with the girl to answer Carter's call. Cruz decides to visit Billy in the holding cell and leaves the motel, only to be killed by Three Finger who eviscerates her and feeds her her own guts. Later Julian goes to the jail, only to find out that Cruz never arrived. Lita and Gus have sex in the apartment and Gus asks Lita to marry him, which she rebuffs due to her busy college schedule. As she goes to take a shower, Gus sulks on the bed only to hear repeated knocking on the door. Angrily, Gus answers and is kidnapped by the Hillicker brothers who torture him by smashing his legs with sledgehammers to a demented cover of "I've been working on the railroad." The hillbillies drive by the station and dump Gus's body out. He screams and tries to crawl to safety but they run him over with their truck. Lita arrives, having been pursued earlier by Tooth and is traumatized over the death of her boyfriend. Carter gives shotguns to Julian and Mose as well as Billy after releasing him. She deputizes them and calls for help. She reaches a shortwave radio, calling for help but the man on the other end thinks she is joking.Carter's husband arrives to help at the station. Carter sends out Billy and Julian to patrol the streets, ordering them not to look for Cruz, but they don't listen. They find Cruz's corpse but are then captured by the hillbillies. Upon awakening, they find themselves trapped in a soccer stadium with Billy buried up to his neck and Julian chained by the ankle to the goal post. Julian tries to dig Billy out but abandons his friend when Three Finger approaches them in a roaring snowblower. Julian tries to climb the post to safety but Three Finger scares him off. Three Finger then runs over Billy's screaming head slicing it to pieces and then mulches up Julian into a bloody mess. Carter then sends Mose to look for the boys but he gets caught by the hillbillies in a barbed wire trap. The hillbillies then stuff him into a large oil drum and burn him alive. Hearing Mose's calls for help, Carter leaves to help him leaving Lita alone in the station with Maynard who threatens and manipulates Lita into letting him out stating he will spare her if she does.Acting irrationally, Lita lets him free only for him to stab her eyes out with a pen knife. Carter returns and locks Maynard back in his cell after wounding him and bandages Lita. She leaves once more to find her husband locked in a car. She opens it and inadvertently springs a trap inside which disembowels and kills her husband. Maynard taunts and threatens Lita telling her of what he and the hillbillies rape and torture her once he escapes. A blinded and horrified Lita leaves the station. Three Finger attacks Carter and savagely beats her unconscious. Carter awakens tied up to the bars of the holding cell Maynard had previously been in. The freed Maynard and his hillbillies drench the station with gasoline and Maynard explains how he intends to burn down the station with Carter alive in it. However, he has taped a shotgun to her chest with the barrel against her jaw. He explains that if she lets her heels down, it will set the gun off and blow her head off, thus killing herself to avoid a worse death. He leaves her to die after setting fire to the station. Carter screams and screams as Maynard departs into the truck with his hillbillies. The fire burns wildly and begins melting Carter's shoes to which she reluctantly lets her heels down and the gun goes off exploding her head and casting her blood all over the room.A triumphant Maynard hears the gunshot and smiles. As he and the hillbillies drive off, they run into Lita, wandering aimlessly along the road. They pick her up and she recognizes Maynard's voice, screaming in despair. They drive off into the night, with Lita as their prisoner with the cruel intentions Maynard had said he would do to Lita now coming full circle.
