A story set in Santiago and centered on Gloria, a free-spirited older woman, and the realities of her whirlwind relationship with a former naval officer whom she meets out in the clubs.
Divorced for more than ten years, Gloria, a vibrant 58-year-old office clerk in Santiago and mother of two grown-up kids, craves for adventure, refusing to spend the rest of her life in solitude and self-pity. Instead, the vivacious Gloria embraces her freedom, and because of her love for dance and an aching longing for companionship, she will meet Rodolfo, a recently divorced former naval officer, and will daringly decide to give love a second chance. Regretfully; however, Rodolfo comes with baggage, and even though Gloria is sincerely attracted to him, reality's harsh truth will inevitably bring her face-to-face with towering obstacles, rather than undiluted excitement and ardent passion. In the end, Gloria alone, yet surrounded by people, sad but at the same time happy, will she ultimately find the strength to overcome them?
Gloria is a 58 year old divorcée. Her children have all left home but she has no desire to spend her days and nights alone. Determined to defy old age and loneliness, she rushes headlong into a whirl of singles parties on the hunt for instant gratification which just leads repeatedly to disappointment and emptiness. But then she meets Rodolfo, an ex-naval officer seven years her senior to whom she feels romantically inclined. She even begins to imagine a permanent relationship. However, the encounter presents unexpected challenges and Gloria gradually finds herself being forced to confront her own dark secrets.
Sebastián Lelios third feature film is a tragicomedy of fragile hopes and painful truths, a portrait of a powerful woman who manages to assert her own strength and independence in spite of a maelstrom of conflicting feelings. The story unfolds against the backdrop of current political developments in Chile, incorporating the murky waters of forty years of Chilean history.
