In an alternate reality, children learn how lucky they will be (their "frequency"), knowledge which shapes their destiny. The unluckiest boy must parse the mysteries of free will in order to pursue his forbidden love of the luckiest girl.
Imagine that your destiny and ability to succeed in life is actually determined by a certain personal frequency that can never be changed. Imagine also that there was a definite way of determining that frequency at a very young age, thus sealing your fate forever as either a success or a failure.During testing, little Marie (Eleanor Wyld) is discovered to have an impossibly high frequency, making her the luckiest girl in the world. At the same testing, Zak (Daniel Fraser) is discovered to have a frequency so low, it measures as a negative number.Zak feels a certain connection to Marie, and subsequently falls in love with her, while Marie, besides being very curious about Zak and being interested in the results of an ultra high and ultra low frequency interaction, does not have any feelings for him whatsoever. In fact, due to the "side effect" of a high frequency, she has no emotional feelings at all. "The higher someone's frequency, the less capable they are of appreciating it." But, nonetheless, she initiates a series of experiments, though they never last beyond one minute without something bad happening to Zak.Therefore, Zak is desperate to raise his frequency so as to be with Marie, who is herself also earnestly desiring to experience emotion, both of which are considered complete impossibilities. But Zak is determined to find a way. With the help of his higher frequencied friend, Theo (Owen Pugh), he devotes his life to cracking this mystery.After many years, they finally make an immense breakthrough, managing to raise Zak's frequency, at least for short periods at a time. He can finally spend more than a minute with his beloved Marie, as well as offer her the chance to at last be able to feel empathy and emotion. With a touch, a kiss, and some prolonged exposure, the experiment is a success. Not only can Marie feel emotion, but for the first time in her life she is truly happy... and in love, with the man who has always loved her.When she brings him home to her parents, though her mother is skeptical, her father is bursting with joy, not only that his daughter is finally happy, but with the excitement of this new invention that is poised to change the world, level the playing field, and even bring an end to war and poverty! But upon further investigation, it turns out this device is not only a frequency balancer, but is in fact capable of mind control. This comes as a shock, not only to Marie and her parents, but even more so to Zak. As a result, everyone turns on him, especially his beloved Marie, who feels that he has in fact brainwashed her to love him.How will he explain? Will Marie and her family ever forgive him? Will Marie ever love him genuinely?
