Libby Day was only eight years old when her family was brutally murdered in their rural Kansas farmhouse. Almost thirty years later, she reluctantly agrees to revisit the crime and uncovers the wrenching truths that led up to that tragic night.
Libby Day is a lifeless woman who survived the massacre of her family in their farmhouse in the countryside of Kansas when she was eight. She's been living on donations and lectures ever since. Thirty years ago, the police believed that a satanic cult was responsible for the murder of her mother and two sisters, and her brother Ben was convicted with her testimony in court. Today, however, an acquaintance, Lyle Wirth, invites Libby to visit "The Kill Club", where amateurs investigate famous crimes, and she finds that they believe Ben is innocent. Libby needs money and, in return, accepts to revisit the slaughter of her family and comes up to the painful revelations and the ultimate truth.
As the sole survivor of the Kinnakee massacre back in 1985 which cost her entire family, Libby Day convinced that her brother Ben dabbles with the occult, names him as the deranged killer, sending him, consequently, in prison. Eventually, almost thirty years after the ghastly incident, Libby embittered and nearly broke, she will inevitably accept the offer of Lyle Wirth, a "True Crime Club" member, to share her side of the story at their annual meeting. However, Libby by digging deep into her traumatic past, she will begin to doubt her brother's guilt, furthermore, not only will she realise that the real murderer may still be on the loose but also that even though there can be more than one sides to a story, the truth has only one.
Set in a farming town in Kansas, Dark Places follows Libby Day (Charlize Theron), the only surviving witness of a horrific massacre that took her mother and sisters. Believing the slaughter to be the work of a Satanic cult, Libby testifies in court against her own brother. 25 years after the murder, she remains haunted by the gruesome violence of her past when she meets a group of amateur investigators who call themselves 'The Kill Club.' Looking to satisfy their morbid curiosity, the group begins their own inquiry about the case, believing Libby's brother innocent. In order to help them, Libby must unearth painful memories of the event, and learn that her past may not be what it seems.Adapted from a bestselling mystery novel written by Gillian Flynn in 2009, Dark Places is not only a mystery thriller but an examination of poverty, abuse, and neglect running rampant in rural America.
