A psychopathic Japanese executive accidentally triggers a journalist's 'dark side'. They begin to connect over the Internet and make a complicated bond.
In Tokyo, a serial killer is murdering women and posting his violent crimes on-line. In Jakarta, a rogue vigilante uploads his murdering spree for the world to see. A psychotic game of cat and mouse ensues as the two men battle for notoriety. Soon it becomes clear that it's only a matter of time until the two killers square off face to face.
Nomura, a Tokyo based serial killer, uploads his snuff films onto the web for the global audience to see. One of Nomura's viewer is an Indonesian journalist, Bayu, whose personal and professional life has spiraled downwards following a piece he wrote about a powerfully corrupt politician. When Bayu accidentally killed two sadistic robbers, he decided to upload their last moments alive onto the Internet, prompting Nomura to make contact with him. Bound by nothing in common but a deadly secret, the lives of these two men unfold and intertwine as they delve deeper and deeper into the dark side.
Nomura Shuhei (Kazuki Kitamura), a young charismatic and well liked Japanese executive, turns out to have a dark side. He kills people and documenting them in a video. Besides that, Nomura also uploaded videos of the killing on the internet in order to be seen by all people for the sake of personal satisfaction.
On the other side of the earth, Bayu Aditya (Oka Antara), an ambitious Indonesian journalist who was broke. His obsession to uncover the case of a politician named Dharma (Ray Sahetapy), makes his relationship with his wife Dina (Luna Maya) and his career fell apart.
When his life was filled with problems, Bayu saw one of Nomura's video and began to find his other side. Bayu was inspired to do the same thing to be a serial killer. He started to form his own character and start killing in the name of justice, then uploading the videos to the internet.
Unexpectedly, Bayu's video got a response, as well as Nomura's video. Then they were connected via the Internet and the bond between them became more complicated. Since then, Nomura decided to see Bayu
