A reporter's dream of becoming a news anchor is compromised after a one-night stand leaves her stranded in downtown L.A. without a phone, car, ID or money - and only 8 hours to make it to the most important job interview of her life.
Meghan Miles is a TV correspondent who works at a local Tv station. She gets an opportunity to work at a network. She goes home to celebrate with her boyfriend. Her friends show up to celebrate with her. But they find her despondent. It seems like her boyfriend left without saying good bye and the network is leaning towards someone else. Her friends convince her to go out and get drunk. They get her to put on a hot dress. She eventually gets so drunk that a guy offers to take her home but she prefers to go to his place. And she spends the night. When she wakes up she gets s call telling her that the network is reconsidering her so she has to go to work but her car was towed away and her wallet which in her purse is also in it. And she left her phone at the guy's place. She then finds herself wandering around downtown LA and runs into drug dealers and people think she's a hooker. So she has to find a way get to work. And even the police are after her.
In Los Angeles, the journalist Meghan Miles is disputing the anchor position of a TV network with another candidate. Megan is a calm woman from Texas that has just broken with her boyfriend. Her friends Rose and Denise come to her house to celebrate her new job, but she learns that the other candidate has won the position. However her friends convince her to go to a night-club to drink to forget the deception and she wears a sexy yellow dress. She gets drunk and a stranger called Gordon offers to drive her home, but she prefers to go to his apartment and they have one night stand. When she wakes up, she finds a message in her cellular from a friend telling that she had been selected for the anchor position and her friend advises her to rest since her audition will be on the next day. Meghan leaves Gordon's apartment and finds that her car has been towed away with her purse. Further, the door of the building is locked and she does not know the number of the apartment where Gordon lives. So she decides to take a cab to retrieve her car, but the driver is a foreigner and misunderstands the tow place and she ends alone without money in the red zone downtown LA. Meghan sees a police car but the officers are douchebag and believe she is a prostitute. Meghan stumbles with drug dealers that try to help her but she only gets in trouble during the long night.
Straight-laced Meghan Miles is having a string of bad luck. Her live-in fiancé Kyle has just broken up with her, basically emptying out their apartment. A local Los Angeles on-air reporter turned local news anchor, she is included in a broadcast news blooper reel posted online, albeit one little seen or known. She is hoping to hide that fact when she goes in for an interview for a national network news anchor position. Despite the network not finding out about her on-air mishap, Meghan eventually learns that, although being on the short list of two, she ends up in second place. To cheer her up, Meghan's best friends Rose and Denise take her out on the town for an evening of boozing and generally whooping it up, behavior which is atypical for Meghan. That atypical behavior includes borrowing one of Denise's skin-tight short short dresses instead of wearing her regular attire of a pantsuit. The evening, which ends up including a one night stand with Gordon, a Renaissance man who was the bartender at the club, takes an uphill turn when Meghan learns that she will get the national network job if she impresses the network brass at the next local newscast a five o'clock. However, Meghan getting to the studio on time and prepared is not as easy as it should be as she, working her way from Gordon's apartment, eventually ends up without her car and money, and clad only in Denise's less than professional skin tight dress (that is unless one is talking about the oldest profession). As such, she gets into one misadventure after another with no guarantee that she will make it to the studio on time, or if she does that she will come across as she wants.
On the verge of finally getting that big promotion and the job of her dreams, the local Los Angeles newscaster and hopeful network television anchorwoman, Meghan Miles, receives a double blow on the same day, when her fiancé leaves her, and she discovers that she loses the job she wants. As a result, in a desperate attempt to drown her sorrows, Meghan will resolve to a wild girls-only night out, only to find herself in the bedroom of the cute and sensitive bartender, Gordon, in the following morning. And then, an unexpected phone-call puts Meghan back in the picture, as long as she can make it in time; however, without a phone, a car, or money, and wrapped in a snug bumblebee-yellow dress with a pair of matching stilettos, somehow, crossing L.A. on foot is easier said than done. Is all hope lost?
The film opens with a montage of news anchors making mistakes on air, like cursing accidentally or saying the wrong words, or even getting physically hurt and pooped on by birds. The last of these is Meghan Miles (Elizabeth Banks), reporting from a pet store where she is pounced on by multiple cats.Meghan is up for a job as an anchorwoman. Her mother calls her to wish her luck. Meghan does an interview, presenting herself as a clean-cut girl to please her superiors. She goes up to do a news report on an impending traffic jam that they call "Carpocalypse Now". Keeping an eye in the sky is Chopper Steve (Kevin Nealon), a reporter who spends his down time texting and swearing.Meghan's friends Rose (Gillian Jacobs) and Denise (Sarah Wright Olsen) go to her house that evening to celebrate her impending promotion. They find Meghan lying on her couch holding a picture of a dog, looking melancholy. Her boyfriend Kyle (Oliver Hudson) dumped her and took all his stuff, including the dog. To add insult to injury, Meghan's producer Dan (Willie Garson) calls her to tell her that the anchorwoman job went to another reporter named Wendy Chang. Distraught, Meghan starts crying, so her friends propose that they go out that night and get drunk. Rose makes Denise give Meghan her dress so that she will look slutty.The ladies go to a club where Meghan gets very drunk). She almost leaves with a guy, but then walks out onto the fire escape. She is helped down by the bartender, Gordon (James Marsden). The two go back to his place and drink more, share a pizza, and eventually sleep together.When Meghan wakes up, she goes through her messages on her phone and listens to one from Dan. Turns out Wendy Chang was dropped from the anchorwoman position after risque photos of her were discovered, so Meghan has another shot at the job. She quickly dresses herself and leaves the apartment, only to find out she parked her car in a tow-away zone. She sees her car getting towed and fails to catch up to it. She finds an off-duty cab driver (Ken Davitian) and tells him to take her to the impound lot, describing it as the places where they "tow to". The cabbie misinterprets this as "Tattoo", which is a strip club, thinking Meghan is a stripper. She tells him he's got the wrong idea, and he tells her to give him a lap dance to four songs instead of paying. Meghan reluctantly agrees, but then runs away from the cabbie into a dark alley.Meghan continues trying to ask other drivers for help, unaware that she is in an area where prostitutes solicit. Two police officers, Dave (Ethan Suplee) and Walter (Bill Burr), see her and threaten to arrest her, believing Meghan to be a prostitute.As the sun rises, Meghan happens upon a crack dealer, Scrilla (Lawrence Gilliard Jr.). The police drive up on the area, forcing the two to run. Meghan ends up in the dealer's crack house with his two partners, Hulk (Da'Vone McDonald) and Pookie (Alphonso McAuley). Scrilla and Hulk immediately think Meghan is either an undercover cop or a hooker, but Pookie recognizes her as "the bitch from the news." He then offers Meghan tips on how to connect with a more diverse audience, saying she needs to present herself to other demographics equally, and that she looks too stiff. They let her use Scrilla's phone to call for help, but she only remembers three numbers - hers, her parents' and Kyle's. She sends a text to her own phone, and then calls Kyle for help. He doesn't believe her and is unwilling to help her, even as Scrilla and Hulk threaten him. Suddenly, rival drug dealers storm the crack house and begin shooting at Scrilla and his boys. They and Meghan run like hell out of there. Meghan flees the scene, and Pookie gives her some crack as a gift.Meghan tries to hop on a bus without any money. An elderly passenger mistakes her for a hooker as well. The bus driver pepper sprays her in the face and throws her off the bus. Meghan then comes across a Jewish worship center and tries to ask a rabbi (PJ Byrne) for help. He also happens to mistake her for a temptress. She asks for just some change, and he tells her to sing to him. She sings "Call Me Maybe" and enchants the rabbi until other rabbis come, forcing Meghan to run again. All of this activity is reported to the police, forcing Officers Dave and Walter to chase her down.Meanwhile, Gordon sees the message from Meghan's phone and gets in touch with both Rose and Denise. They go to his apartment and manage to trust him enough to help look for Meghan. Denise comes up with the idea to call Keytective and trace the GPS on Meghan's car keys, which she still managed to keep.Meghan finds a pay phone and tries calling the news station to get in touch with Dan, but the operator doesn't believe her when she tells him she is Meghan Miles. Desperate, she tries to steal a boy's bike, but is caught by the kid. She pleads with him and tries to appeal to his good nature, but he just wants her to show him her boobs so he can take it. She shoves the kid away and rides off.Meghan runs from the cops by hiding out in a spa. She poses as a masseuse to a big hairy man, revealed to be the cabbie she stiffed. She runs from him and the cops before finally making it close to the impound lot. Unfortunately, it's past the freeway, right as traffic is coming in. Dave and Walter try to arrest her, but Meghan bolts out of there and narrowly avoids getting hit by a car.Meghan is thrilled to see her car waiting for her in the lot. However, she is not allowed to retrieve it without payment. Although she tries to convince the woman at the desk to let her get to her car and grab her purse so she can pay her, the woman is unconvinced and will only allow her for a bribe. Meghan leaves, defeated, until she she sees the back gates opening. She sneaks in and finds her car. She starts looking for her purse, only to find that her car was broken into and the purse is gone. Meghan slumps into her seat, feeling lower, but then decides "fuck it" and drives off. The woman at the desk sees her on the security camera and closes the gates, and also raises the tacks to take out her tires, leaving her stuck at the gates. Luckily, Gordon has found Meghan, and he gets her out of the car and into Rose's SUV.The friends drive Meghan away, only to get caught in the traffic jam. Thinking quickly, Meghan calls Dan to tell him she's on her way, and she also calls in Chopper Steve to pick her up. She gets into the chopper with Gordon and leaves, right before the cops pull up to Rose and Denise, too late to catch Meghan.Meghan finally makes it to the station and is quickly fixed up. She goes on the air to report the news, which turns out to be her own story, as her antics have gotten her dubbed the "Hooker Hoodlum". She starts to read the news by the script, but then comes clean on the air, admitting that she is the woman in the yellow dress that has been running through the streets on her "walk of shame", but instead of feeling ashamed, she calls out the citizens of the city for accusing her of being a hooker, and saying that she only wants to tell the news as the truth. She also takes the time to call out Kyle for being a terrible boyfriend (he is watching and is arrested by cops since his number was traced off the drug dealer's phone), and then gives a shout-out to Rose and Denise for being great friends, as well as Scrilla, Hulk, and Pookie (they cheer when they see this). She also mentions having met Gordon, as he is great for being there to help. Meghan leaves, knowing she has most likely lost her jobs.The producers from the studio approach Meghan, lauding her for the unexpected performance. They make negotiations with her to create a reality TV show about hookers going undercover to see what goes on around the city. She tells them that she will think about it and get back to them on that, as she needs shoes and a sandwich.The film ends with Meghan and Gordon walking away together romantically.
