After a night of partying with a woman he picked up, a man wakes up to find her stabbed to death and is charged with her murder.
Naz is a strait-laced Pakistani-American student who is off to a must-attend party on a Friday night. His only available transportation being his father's taxi cab, Naz sets off into Manhattan. But his party-going plans are quickly forgotten when a mysterious young woman jumps aboard in need of a ride. Charmed by her intense intrigue and good looks, Naz gets swept up by her pressures. After a mind-altering night of drugs and passion, the woman is dead, and Naz finds himself in the crosshairs of a gruesome murder investigation, panicked and shaken, but possibly with a trace of doubt as to his own innocence.
An American-born young man, to parents from Pakistan, takes his father's cab into Manhattan to attend a party. His plans change as a young woman enters his cab for a ride. He's immediately intrigued by her beauty and story. They go back to her apartment for a night of sex and drugs. He wakes up completely disoriented and finds her stabbed to death in bed. He panics and leaves the scene. Now he is a suspect in the murder. He's sweet, innocent, and confused.
Nasir "Naz" Khan is a 20-something University student living in New York. One night he takes his father's taxi to go to a party. Along the way he meets a beautiful young woman, Andrea, and his plans change. They go back to her place and after a night of drugs and passion, Naz wakes up to find Andrea dead, stabbed to death. Naz panics and flees the scene, only to be picked up by the police for a traffic offence. ULtimately Naz ends up at the police station, where the police then realise they have the prime suspect in a murder, and Naz is held for questioning. On the case is the methodical, perceptive Detective Sergeant Box. Box builds a compelling case against Naz and arrests him for Andrea's murder. Also on the scene is small-time lawyer John Stone who convinces Naz to hire him. However, the weight of evidence against Naz is massive and John Stone may be out of his depth.

