A struggling mother encounters the son she abandoned 20 years earlier.
As we follow a mother (Jennifer Connelly) and her son (Cillian Murphy), we delve into a past marred by an accident that tears them apart. She will become a renowned artist and healer, and he will grow into his own as a peculiar falconer who bears the marks of a double absence. In the present, a young journalist (Mélanie Laurent) will bring about an encounter between the two that puts the very meaning of life and art into question, so that we may contemplate the possibility of living life to its fullest, despite the uncertainties littering our paths.
Jannia Ressmore has contacted a young man named Ivan in rural northern Manitoba as the subject for her documentary on him and his primary area of expertise, hybrid falconry, the art and science of which he learned from grandfather. When the interview enters the realm of Ivan's somewhat infamous mother, Nana, Ivan abruptly ends the interview in he long having been estranged from her. That estrangement stems from an issue from his childhood, when his mother, in a desperate measure to save the life of Ivan's younger brother, Gully, who was diagnosed with an inoperable brain tumor, went to see a faith healer going by the nickname "the Architect" for the structures he built in relation to his healing. She taking Gully to the Architect was despite she truly being a non-believer. And the Architect only chose one subject by lottery of the many who sought him out at any of his open gatherings due to the complex and time consuming process of his healing method. In later reconnecting with Jannia, Ivan learns that she is planning on interviewing his mother as part of the story, Nana who is supposedly now somewhere in the far north. Despite having a wife and baby at home to take care of, Ivan decides to accompany Jannia in trying to locate his mother perhaps so that they can address that issue from twenty years ago. Ivan learning of an ulterior motive in Jannia contacting him for this documentary may affect the overall journey.

