A gang of amateur dancers takes part in a dancing competition to avenge their personal vendetta.
A team of losers attempt to pull off mass revenge against a past traitor. They are required to win a dance competition as part of the plan, they get entangled with the presence of a somewhat unintelligent local dance performer who cannot learn the backstory of the betrayal.
Charlie, a street fighter enters a dance competition to take revenge on his old enemy as he had sent his father to jail by blaming him to have stolen costly diamonds. Charlie and his group of friends take a dancer's help to perfect the art. They get to the finals, and according to the plan they steal the diamonds with a mysterious plan. They also win the finals and take a trophy back home along with diamonds.
Charlie(Shah Rukh Khan), is a street fighter who has been yearning for revenge from Charan Grover(Jackie Shroff) for 8 years. Grover labeled Charlie's father as a thief because Charan had conned him into stealing his own Diamonds worth $15 million. Charlie finds out that diamonds worth $300 crore will reach the Atlantis Hotel on Christmas Eve. He wants to steal the same diamonds and frame Grover. To accomplish this, he assembles a dynamic team consisting of Jag, Tammy, Rohan Singh and a lookalike of Vicky Grover(Charan grover's son), named Nandu Bhide (Abishek Bachan).Tammy is the only one to open the vault. The team finds out that the room 9C, connected to the vault through duct system, is booked for a participant in the World Dance Championship. The group refuses, but Charlie re-motivates the group, convincing them to become a dance team. The film moves to a flashback- Manohar, Chalie's father met Charan Grover who gave him a contract to build an impenetrable vault. After the vault was completed, Charan drugged Manohar and conned him into stealing the diamonds by using his fingerprints. The film returns where desperate to win the competition, they employ many dance teachers, but to no avail. In desperation, Nandu introduces Charlie to Mohini, who is a Marathi bar dancer. Mohini eventually helps them learn to dance, unaware of their intentions. Charlie and Mohini grow very close.They manage to qualify in the first round by bribing the judges and eventually win the competition to represent Team India in the WDC by gaining votes through hacking. Many people despise them for their lack of dancing skill, but Charlie and his team are all only concerned with the heist except Mohini. In Dubai, Team Korea are especially hostile towards Team India, including Grover. At the semi final, Charlie saves a Korean member, instantly gaining respect and admiration from the audience. India advances to finals after judges are moved by Charlie's action. Team India becomes loved by everyone. After going over the plan, everything is ready. The team eventually find out that the diamonds will arrive on New Year's Eve instead of Christmas which impedes the heist.Mohini ends up hearing about heist, angrily confronting Charlie and his false motivations of the competition. Charlie reveals a shocking secret that Manohar is actually dead. After Manohar was arrested, he appealed for a trial, but Grover bribed Manohar's lawyers. The next day, Manohar committed suicide by slitting his wrists. Charlie kept this a secret to avoid demoralization. However, the team makes their determination to avenge Manohar even stronger. Mohini joins the team and helps them for the heist.The night of the final round, the heist is set in motion. Mohini lures Vicky into an elevator, where his thumbprint is copied on Nandu who opens the chamber. They open the crack but Charlie and Tammy find another glass safe which houses the diamonds. Tammy realizes that Manohar built this safe. Charlie opens the safe later after deep thinking, realizing that the password to open the safe was his own name. After stealing the diamonds, the team boards a boat, but Mohini refuses to come as she feels dedicated to protecting India's honor with the competition. Rohan joins her as well, leading to a fight amongst the remaining members.When Team India is found missing, Grover claims that they are the thieves. As he watches Mohini perform, other members also join her. Soon after, Charlie makes appearance and eventually helps the team win the competition. With all suspicions removed from Team India, Charan and Vicky Grover are arrested. Charlie reveals himself to Charan and completes the revenge. Team India reach the airport and manage to bypass security. Charlie camouflages the diamonds in his soft-drink, but the security guard disposes it. Later, during the flight Charlie reveals that he switched the fake diamonds on the trophy with the real ones. The team reaches India.During a post-credits scene, Mohini opens her own "Dence School" and everyone laughs at Nandu who is thrown out of bank for showing a winners' cheque.
