A doctor from Seattle returns to her family farm to reconnect with her son and finds more than she can imagine.
A widowed surgeon visits her family's pear orchard in hopes of taking a break from her overbooked life and reconnecting with her distant son. She starts to fall for the farm manager, Will, who is growing a new hybrid pear and teaches her the importance of her heritage.
Widowed Dr. Luna Gilson is trying to balance her career as a general surgeon at Seattle West Hospital with being a single parent to eight year old Andy, not usually with success. The job generally takes over, and even with that, she laments not really getting to know her patients, most who she never sees again after their recuperation. Andy, however, is the primary casualty as she is at work more often than she is at home, in the process she missing those moments with Andy, who no longer tells her of the special events in his life. Regardless, she still would accept the promotion to senior consultant of general surgery at the hospital if offered the job. On the advice of her mother, her parents currently living in Cameroon, Luna decides to take some of her vacation time to take Andy to the family pear farm two hours away in Pineville so that she can reconnect with him, and despite a country trip not being Andy's idea of the perfect vacation. Upon the retirement of the Gilsons' long time farmhand Farley Thompson, the Gilsons hired, on Farley's recommendation, Will Nash to take his place, Will a biologist who comes from a farming background. Despite a bumpy start, both Luna and Andy, who had not been to the farm since he was a toddler, begin to find a certain comfort in being in Pineville, in farm life, and in Will's company. As such, Luna has to think long and hard about her future - if it includes Pineville and Will, especially if she is offered the senior consultant job. Although he too is falling for Luna, Will, who has been secretive to Luna about many things in his life, will have to decide if she fits into his very structured future plan. Another factor in what happens is Luna's parents deciding to sell the farm, something Luna only learns after arriving in Pineville.
Recently widowed from the love of her life, Seattle surgeon Luna Gilson (Jen Lilley) threw
herself into her work to help her get through her loss, and remains busier than ever. She
seems to always be on call and, after realizing that she needs to devote more of herself to her
nine year-old son Andy (Brenden Sunderland), Luna decides to take him to her family's pear
farm for a week of relaxation and reconnection. Andy's not thrilled about the idea, but he's
happy just to get his mom alone for a whole week.
Though she hasn't been there for years, Luna's fond childhood memories of the farm quickly
remind her of all the things she loves about it there. The rows and rows of pear trees heavy
with fruit, the fresh air, and the warm and friendly townspeople of Pineview are all as she
remembers them, and she feels good there. She meets Will Nash (Ryan Paevey), the rugged
and handsome guy her parents appointed farm manager when they went abroad. While he and
Luna don't exactly hit it off from the get-go, it's hard to ignore the immediate spark of
attraction between them, although ignore it is exactly what Luna and Will do.
Before long, however, Andy and Will become fast friends, and Luna reconnects with some of
the friendly townspeople who have known her all her life. The more time Will and Luna spend
together, the more they relate to one another, but since neither is interested in a relationship,
they are happy to be just friends. Luna is very pleased that Andy is so happy here, and decides
to add another week onto the vacation, so that she and Andy will be able to attend Pineview's
annual Harvest Festival.
Meanwhile, knowing that the Gilson family farm will be sold soon, Will is working on a plan to
remain in the area and purchase his own farm. When Will is stuck in Seattle on the day the
harvest must begin, Luna jumps into action and pulls together resources to get the harvest
started on time. Once the Harvest Festival is in full swing, competition pits the Gilson farm
against an old family rival for Overall Best Pear, with Will's new hybrid representing the Gilson's.
It isn't long before Will and Luna realize that theirs is more than a mere attraction, the Harvest
Festival has a new pear champion, and Pineview is about to get a new doctor, since Luna has
decided that she and Andy are sticking around.
