A man returns to his country in order, ostensibly, to reform his girlfriend's violent family, but he seems to have a strange connection and a rather dark past.
The movie begins with Jai bharath varma (Prabhas) practicing guitar when a girl runs to him and asks him to save her from a gang of goons chasing her. Then Jay, without fighting, resolves the conflict. The girl introduces herself as Manasa (Richa Gangopadhyay). They slowly become friends. But one day she asks Jai to leave her and go as she cannot stand the separation from him if their relationship develops any further. He then goes back to India and changes the mind of Manasa's brother and when they give a vacation he goes with him to his village. There, where everyone are conservative in nature, he changes their nature and makes them more lovable.
StoryJai (Prabhas) falls in love with Manasa (Richa Gangopadhyay) in Italy. She tells him that her family members have a notorious background of being ruthless factionists from Palnadu area. Jai has the philosophy of peace and lifestyle of love. He feels that one can conquer the world with love, not by war. He goes to the village on Manasa on some other pretext and changes the attitude of the factionists. The rest of the story is all about the background of Jai and how he became peace-propagating man.Prabhas: Prabhas is perfect in the role of Jai. Prabhass career planning lies in balancing stuff while selecting script. His character in this movie has two shades to it. One is family guy and other one is action hero. Prabhas is exceptionally good in all departments. Be it comedy, romance, action sequences, sentiment and dances. Another big advantage of Prabhas as a commercial hero is that he has a huge base of hardcore fans, but not many people who opine negatively of him. Its a good sign for a hero of such stature to grow bigger and bigger.Story - screenplay - direction: Story of the film is predictable and is set up against a faction backdrop. Though the writer has given it as Palnadu, its more like filmy Rayalaseema backdrop. Despite having a redundant story elements (Brindavanam, Dammu and Sankham), the director has succeeded in getting the commercial payoffs right and narrating the film by balancing all aspects. There are two plots, two heroines and an effective interval that joins the two plots together. Most of the writer-turned-directors have the inclination to create unnecessary scenes to inject dialogues. But, Koratala Siva followed the screenplay first and wrote dialogues as per the demand of script. Hence, you will find dialogues seamlessly blended into narration. However, the director has shown a high degree of violence amidst a family orientated set-up, which in unwarranted.
