Accused of a ruthless murder he never committed or witnessed, Bryan Mills goes on the run and brings out his particular set of skills to find the true killer and clear his name.
Liam Neeson returns as ex-covert operative Bryan Mills, whose long awaited reconciliation with his ex-wife is tragically cut short when she is brutally murdered. Consumed with rage, and framed for the crime, he goes on the run to evade the relentless pursuit of the CIA, FBI and the police. For one last time, Mills must use his "particular set of skills," to track down the real killers, exact his unique brand of justice, and protect the only thing that matters to him now - his daughter.
Thinking he is finally at peace with his past and his new-found relationship with family, Bryan Mills finds himself chased now by his own government, trying to solve a murder he has been framed of, and protecting the only one he has left, his daughter.
Bryan Mills, the former covert operative, tries to have a normal relationship with his daughter, Kim. And he tries to help his ex-wife, Lenore who's on the fence if she wants to remain married to her husband Stuart. Later he gets a text from her telling him she needs to talk to him. When he gets to his apartment he finds Lenore dead. The police arrive and were about to arrest him but he gets away. An inspector who investigates, doesn't fully believe Mills is guilty but decides to do things by the book and tries to find him and bring him in. He talks to Kim and Stuart; Kim doesn't believe he killed her mother while Stuart doesn't exactly say he's innocent. Bryan finds evidence and then makes sure the inspector gets it. The inspector decides to keep tabs on Kim. Mills turns to his friends to help him. He eventually learns that Stuart might know more than he is saying.
In Los Angeles, Lenore St. John is murdered with a sliced throat in the apartment of her ex-husband Bryan Mills and he is accused by the police of murdering her. Detective Franck Dotzler pursues Bryan while he investigates who might be the killer and protects his daughter Kim. Bryan discovers that the Russian gangster Oleg Malankov is the one responsible for Lenore's death and together with his team of friends and Lenore's husband Stuart St. John, he hunts him down. But why was Lenore killed?
Framed for a hideous murder he didn't commit, the expert former-CIA operative, Bryan Mills, is forced to go underground to protect once more the most precious person in his life: his young daughter, Kim. On the run from the police and the obsessive Detective Frank Dotzler, Mills knows well, that to solve the mystery and to find the real culprit, he has to rely on his expertise, his skills and his determination to even stand a chance. Moreover, the wronged father must lay his life on the line to protect his beloved family against time and an army of vicious Russian mobsters; however, this time, Mills must take no prisoners. Can he end this ordeal once and for all?
Two Russian thugs enter a man's home and quietly take him away, unknown to his wife. They take him to meet a Russian mob boss, Oleg Malankov (Sam Spruell), who demands that the man open the nearby safe. The safe is empty. Malankov calls someone, explaining he has come to collect his debt, and since the money is not here, he will leave him something else. Malankov puts the man in the safe and kills him.Bryan Mills (Liam Neeson) buys a giant panda bear for his daughter Kim's (Maggie Grace) birthday. At home, Kim holds up a pregnancy test and looks at it worriedly. Bryan shows up with the panda, followed moments later by Kim's boyfriend Jamie (Jonny Weston). Kim comments that Bryan is predictable, while Jamie says Kim is as well, since she follows the same routine and goes to the convenience store to get the exact same orange smoothie drink from the exact same position. Bryan departs and takes the panda with him, even though Kim admits to feeling a bit bad about not wanting it. After he leaves, Bryan talks to his ex-wife Lenore (Famke Janssen) on the phone about Kim. He invites her over to dinner but she declines.Lennie surprises Bryan by showing up at his place while he's making dinner. She tells him that she's not very happy at home with her husband Stuart (Dougray Scott). She makes a pass at Bryan by kissing him. Tempted, he tells her she should sort her problems with her husband first.During a game of golf with his friends, Bryan gets a call from Kim and she invites him to meet with her at a diner. She prepares to tell him about her pregnancy when they see a bratty child making a fuss at another table. Kim gets nervous and tells Bryan she wants his advice on whether or not she should get a puppy.Stuart visits Bryan at his apartment. Stuart says he thinks Bryan is having sex with Lennie. When Bryan insists he is not, Stuart demands that Bryan stop seeing Lennie socially. Bryan agrees, assuring Stuart that they're only friends and that there is nothing going on between them.Bryan gets a text from Lennie asking him to meet her at his apartment for some bagels. Bryan gets the bagels and returns to find a bloody knife on the floor. He unwittingly picks it up and finds Lenore dead on his bed with her throat slashes. As Bryan recoils in shock, two policemen burst in with guns drawn. They prepare to handcuff him but fail to secure him properly beforehand. Bryan attacks and handcuffs both of them. He jumps out the window as he hears more cops coming. They chase him through the streets until he runs into a garage and escapes through a hatch door into the river and out to the basin.Bryan calls Kim from a payphone while she is at Lennie's home looking for a sweater. He breaks the news to Kim about her mother's murder and that he is now being framed. He tells her to stay safe and that he will protect her. Kim steps back in shock and sits down to cry.Hot on Bryan's trail is Inspector Franck Dotzler (Forest Whitaker). He and his men investigate the crime scene and also visit Stuart and Lennie's home. Stuart returns immediately from a business trip. He is brought in to identify Lennie's body at the morgue. He breaks down and tells Dotzler about Bryan's past.Bryan sneaks into the morgue and finds Lennie's body. He solemnly touches her face and collects a hair sample.The cops inspect the parking garage where Lennie left her car. Bryan gets a scan on the car's GPS and sees that Lennie went to the gas station prior to her death. He goes to the gas station and sneaks into the security room to play a video. He sees footage of Lennie being snatched by a masked man and thrown into a van. One of the men has a star-like tattoo on his hand. Two detectives stop at the same gas station and learn that Bryan was there. They find him in the security room and arrest him. Bryan goes in calmly.The detectives inform Dotzler of their arrest of Bryan, but, since Dotzler has just followed up on Bryan's past, he knows that Bryan is setting them up. In the backseat of the police cruiser, Bryan carefully uncuffs himself and knocks out one cop while forcing the other to keep driving. The detectives chase Bryan as he takes control of the cruiser. This leads them through a garage where the cruiser ends up falling down an elevator shaft. The car explodes, but Bryan escapes. Dotzler talks to Bryan on the phone and tells him to stand down since everyone is going to be looking for him. Bryan responds, "Good luck."Bryan visits his friend Sam (Leland Orser), to whom he gave the sample to and also informs him of what happened to Lenore. Sam stands by Bryan and is willing to help him. He tells Sam he wants to go to the funeral.Lenore's funeral takes place, with everyone going to console Kim and Stuart. Sam goes over to Kim and tells her to follow her "predictable schedule." He motions to the button on his lapel, which is a hidden camera. Kim knows her dad is watching and she smiles.Kim leaves Stuart's home when she sees that he kept too many guards around. One detective follows Kim as she goes to the convenience store to get her smoothie drink. She finds the one she wants and finds a note on it that says "Drink me now". She drinks it all in one standing. She then goes to school and feels nauseous during class. She goes to the bathroom and is pulled into a stall by Bryan. They embrace and he gives her a serum to counter what he put in the drink to make her nauseous. Kim comes clean about the pregnancy. With little time, Bryan tells Kim he'll find the real culprits right before the detectives burst in. Bryan is already gone by then.While driving away, Bryan is pursued by some Russian thugs. They run him off the road, causing his car to explode. One goon comments on going to get drunk. Bryan gets a man to let him drive his car to follow the goons to the liquor store. Bryan beats the thugs all around the store until they are all knocked out, save for one last man - the man with the tattoo on his hand. Bryan takes him down and orders him to tell him who sent him. The man says he would rather die than tell, so he grabs Bryan's gun, puts it in his mouth, and pulls the trigger.Bryan locates Stuart, who retreated to a beach house. He knows Stuart sent the thugs, and Bryan takes Stuart to another area and waterboards him for information. Stuart was involved in a bad business deal with Oleg Malankov, and Lennie unfortunately became a victim of his when Stuart failed to return the man his money. He was merely counting on Bryan to find out about the situation and to utilize his killing skills to make the problem disappear. Stuart also tells Bryan that Malankov is a trained killer that joined the army and Special Forces, and that he is just as good at killing as Bryan. Together, with Kim, Sam, and other friends of Bryan's, they have Stuart set up a meeting with Malankov. Malankov arranges for them to meet at a building downtown.Bryan gets his opening to run through the building, beating up and killing all of Malankov's goons before finding the man himself in his apartment. The two fight each other, with Malankov nearly shooting Bryan, until Bryan takes the gun from him and shoots him twice. Bryan approaches Malankov to deliver the final shot, until Malankov says they were played by the same man - Stuart. Bryan leaves Malankov to die slowly.In Sam's van, Kim sees some texts from Lenore's phone that mention going to a specific location. She texts Bryan and then tries to contact him on his earpiece. Stuart knows what's happening, so he grabs Kim and shoots Sam in the neck. Stuart flees with Kim, calls his pilot, and orders him to prepare his plane for immediate departure. The cops find the van with Sam wounded but alive.Bryan realizes Kim is in trouble and he hijacks a car to go after her and Stuart. He tracks her location and sees she's headed for the airport. The cops track Bryan and follow him. At the airport, Stuart gets his private plane ready to take off with him and Kim. The plane's nose gear lifts off and Bryan drives onto the runway and knocks off the nose gear, causing the pilot to abort take off. Stuart emerges from the plane with Kim at gunpoint. She manages to escape him, leaving him to Bryan. Bryan figures out that Stuart tried to get away with Lenore's murder and beats him senseless. Before Bryan can kill Stuart, they hear the police sirens getting closer. Stuart says Bryan can't kill him now, and when Bryan tries to prove him wrong, he looks over to Kim, who shakes her head and urges him not to. Bryan figures that Stuart will probably get a good lawyer and be out of jail in a few years, and that's when Bryan will get him. He knocks Stuart out and leaves him to get arrested.Bryan meets with Dotzler in his office. Dotzler says he knew Bryan was innocent because he found the bagels in his apartment, and they were still warm. Dotzler figured out that Bryan wouldn't have bought bagels while he was planning to kill his ex-wife. They part ways, and Dotlzer closes Bryan's files.Bryan joins Kim and Jamie on a pier. He tells the two of them whatever they decide, he supports them. Kim says that if it's a girl, they will name her after Lenore. Bryan like their choice.
