The life and struggles of a group of adolescents living in Palo Alto.
Shy, sensitive April is the class virgin, torn between an illicit flirtation with her soccer coach Mr. B and an unrequited crush on sweet stoner Teddy. Emily, meanwhile, offers sexual favors to every boy to cross her path - including both Teddy and his best friend Fred, a life wire without filters or boundaries. As one high school party bleeds into the next - and April and Teddy struggle to admit their mutual affection - Fred's escalating recklessness starts to spiral into chaos.
Two teenage boys, Teddy and Fred, are sat in a car listening to the radio while drinking and smoking marijuana. Fred asks Teddy what he'd do if he lived in the "olden times". Teddy responds, asking which "olden time" he is referring to. Fred tells Teddy that he means the age of King Arthur, in the 5th and 6th centuries respectively. Teddy tells Fred he'd be the king to Fred's disapproval. Teddy then says he'd take the virginity of every girl in the kingdom. Fred replies to Teddy telling him that he could never be king, or even a duke for that matter. He claims that the fact Teddy even said he'd be king defers him from being royal altogether, and calls him a peasant. Teddy tells Fred about how people who go back in time always end up being the king or knowing the king. Fred then tells him that they are stories, referring to it as "Aristotle s***". Teddy then tells Fred that if he lived in a world where Fred was king, he'd kill himself. Fred then tells him that he would be dead as he would be the king, then abruptly driving the car head-on into the wall in front of them. The title card then appears with Teddy swearing and Fred laughing manically and blasting the car horn. Teddy then touches the side of his head which appears to be bleeding. He doesn't say anything and just looks ahead while Fred continues to laugh and whoop with joy.Standing by a fence on a school playing field, April, a shy and sensitive girl, smokes a cigarette before being called over by her soccer coach, Mr. B. She reluctantly stubs out her cigarette and runs down to meet them. Mr. B then asks all the girls in the team to gather around in a circle to stretch their muscles. One of April's peers, Chrissy, makes a remark about the good looks of their soccer coach. Another girl, Shauna, agrees with her, then jumping to the conclusion that he is in love with April to her surprise and asks why they think that. They claim that he let April go and have a cigarette break, which April claims to have been a bathroom break instead. Shauna rolls her eyes and then Chrissy tells April to jump at the chance of having a relationship with Mr. B. April disapproves because she babysits Mr. B's young son, Michael. The girls ask April why that's a problem to which she doesn't reply. Chrissy then makes a comment about what Mr. B would look like during climax. The girls laugh and make impressions as to what they think it would look like. Mr. B then says goodbye to them and April worries that he may have heard what she and the girls said about him. Chrissy and Shauna responds by laughing and then Mr. B calls April over for a quick word, asking if she can babysit Michael as he has a date, then remarking that he doesn't know why he tries as dates are always stupid. He and April chuckle. April agrees to babysit Michael. Mr. B then tells April that he thinks she should play as the striker in their next game, telling her that he thinks she could handle the responsibility and pressure that comes with it. He then says goodbye and April smiles to herself.Fred and Teddy are stood in a desolate area, smoking. Fred throws his milkshake on the floor while Teddy writes something on the ledge of a window in permanent marker. Fred taps out a rhythmic beat on his legs with his fingers. Teddy then persuades Fred to go somewhere else, claiming that the place they're in is dead. On the way back to the car, Fred asks Teddy what he would do if he was in a car accident. Teddy says he'd be annoyed, but then Fred tells him he means a drink-driving accident, where he was the one who was drunk. Teddy asks how bad the accident is and Fred tells him that it's a bad one, like he's crashed right into another car, and that the other person could be dead or just have a bout of whiplash but he doesn't know. Teddy asks who the person would be to which Fred says that he doesn't know, and that he could either wait around and the other person could be someone like April (which alludes to the fact that Teddy is in love with April), or he could drive off. Teddy says he'd drive away to Fred's surprise. Fred then tells Teddy that he has some issues and they both get into the car.April walks in her front door and sees her pet dog, Meatball. She cuddles it and walks into what appears to be a study with walls full to the brim with post-it notes with writing on. She greets her step-dad, Stewart, who is smoking marijuana. It is evident that Stewart has been playing video games, and April asks him if he'd been shooting hookers on the game. He chuckles and says that it's brilliant. Stewart then hands April a corrected version of an essay that she had written, presumably for history class, judging by the essay title, 'Alexander the Dubious'. April looks over it and tells Stewart that he could've just corrected the errors that needed correcting instead of rewriting the whole thing. He then claims that it needed a lot of work. She thanks him and then goes upstairs to see her mother, Jane. She is talking on the phone and tells the person on the other end, named Jamal, that she has to say hello to April. Jane asks how she is, to which April replies that she's tired so she's going to lie down for a while. Her mother then says that she looks tired, as if to say that she hasn't been listening to a word April just said. Jane then asks April if she's depressed. April tells her that she isn't and tells her to stop asking her that question. Jane then takes a puff of a rather large joint of marijuana and tells April that she loves her, then continuing the conversation on the phone.April is then seen jumping up and down on her bed, talking to herself and acting out scenarios to herself, presumably those where she defies her teachers, as she says that she isn't going to write a paper. She then puts on a pair of sunglasses and continues to act out these scenarios, eventually throwing her glasses on her bed and lying down, staring at and touching the pictures stuck on her wall.Jane and April are lying down on Jane's bed doing April's algebra homework. Jane asks how April is able to do that, to which she replies "Because I have to". Jane calls April her little baby, to which April protests. Jane tells April that she needs to rest and relax, kissing her shoulder in a loving way.The next scene depicts Shauna hosting a party at her house. Shauna and a group of her friends, excluding April, are playing 'Never Have I Ever', a drinking game. Shauna asks the question "Never have I even performed oral sex on a guy in the school parking lot during free period". A guy in the group says "Drink up, Chrissy", so Chrissy does. Chrissy then asks "Never have I ever kissed my uncle" to spite Shauna. Shauna then tells Chrissy that that was meant to be private, but drinks up nevertheless, laughing it off. April is walking around inside the house, looking at the ornaments on show. Teddy is also walking around looking for someone, presumably April. April finds herself outside and puts her coat on, eventually spotting Teddy and Fred who is smashing what appear to be bullets with a hammer. She sits down next to Teddy. Teddy asks how she is, to which April replies that her chair is broken before putting a cigarette in her mouth. Teddy asks if she needs a light, which she does. April thanks him. There is an awkward silence between them until April finally begs the question as to why Fred is smashing up the bullets. Fred tells April to mind her own business, and that the bullets are his step-brother's. Teddy remarks under his breath that they don't even work anyway. Fred finally gives up and throws the bullets angrily. It could be inferred that Fred suffers from some sort of attention deficit disorder as he gets angry easily. Fred then drinks something from a vase containing flowers. Teddy asks if Fred wants to go over to the graves for a little bit. Fred agrees and Teddy asks April if she wants to join them. She also agrees and Fred makes a retching noise. Back inside, the group are still playing Never Have I Ever. An uncredited character asks "Never have I ever had a 'lesbianic' experience", looking directly at a girl named Emily. Emily hesitantly drinks up. She backs up her argument saying that she's never been in love. Fred, Teddy and April run by while Fred shouts "I think it's bullsh*t" through the shade of a lamp. The rest of the group laugh, except Emily who looks annoyed. Fred, Teddy and April run out of the house and make their way to the graveyard.At the graveyard, Fred scares Teddy and April by jumping up on them. Teddy claims that there could be ghosts round there, to April's horror. Fred then brings up the topic of a kid who "suicided" himself in 8th grade. April asks why they think he killed himself, to which Fred replies, "Because he was Asian". April asks what he means by that, and Fred explains the stereotype that all Asian kids are put under a lot of pressure from their parents to do well in school. April tells him that she thinks that's false and Fred tells her that she doesn't know any better than him and that she should stop talking.Back at the party, three boys, Ivan, Jacko and Seth, are lighting fireworks. The film then cuts to a shot inside the party, where Emily is seen drinking straight from a bottle of vodka, while the others are putting more alcohol inside the punch. Shauna tries to tell them to stop, as she claims her parents will flip out at the amount of alcohol wasted. Back outside, Ivan, Jacko and Seth are still lighting fireworks. Ivan attaches some fireworks to his skateboard and rides around in a circle, to the amazement of Jacko.In the graveyard, April is carving a heart into a tree. She tells Fred and Teddy that she finds it kind of hard, to which Fred immaturely remarks "that's what she said", whereas Teddy tells April that what she's carved is "cool-looking". Fred then jabs his penknife violently into the tree multiple times while smoking a cigarette. April asks Teddy if he thinks it hurts shooting yourself. Teddy says that it probably hurts only for a second, and that he thinks pain only really hurts if its prolonged. Fred says that if was going to kill himself, he'd take a bunch of other people down with him, and that he wouldn't waste it. April asks him why he wouldn't chose to do things like good deeds. Teddy makes the observation that when people are suicidal, they tend only to think of themselves. April says that she tries to be good. Fred then says "F**k good, guys, f**k good. Live the dangerous life."Fred, April and Teddy go back to the party where Shauna drags April upstairs talking to her about a boy problem she's having. She looks back at Teddy, giving an apologetic look. He smiles and waves and April waves back. Teddy and Fred walk through the house and Fred stops to drink punch straight from the bowl. They both end up smoking and drinking with the group from earlier. Teddy finds it too much and goes to get some fresh air. In a voice-over, Teddy asks Fred where April went. Fred asks why he's still hung up on April and tells him to get over her and to be strong. He walks over to the side of the garden and throws up. Emily goes over to him and asks if he's OK. Teddy tells her to shut up, but she persists to ask him if he got it all out. Again, Teddy tells her to shut up. Emily asks if he wants some water, but Teddy replies with mouthwash. Emily takes him upstairs to the bathroom.Back inside, April is sat on a sofa while Fred is playing the piano. The boy from outside, Ivan, joins her on the sofa. They engage in conversation until April sees Emily leading Teddy upstairs. Assuming the worst, April drowns her sorrows in doing shots with Ivan.Upstairs, Emily is kissing Teddy which leads into Emily performing fellatio on Teddy. Afterwards, Emily is seen washing her mouth out with mouthwash when she sees Teddy leave the room. She is evidently upset. Teddy then sits outside with another uncredited character smoking cigarettes. He asks the boy he's with if he's seen April at all. He points to where she's standing where April is seen making out with Ivan. Upset, Teddy goes to find Fred and they leave. While driving, Fred asks Teddy where they're going. Teddy tells Fred that they're going nowhere. Fred then asks Teddy how stoned he is on a scale of one to baked. Teddy does not watch what's going on in front of him due to Fred's distraction and crashes into the side of another car. Teddy drives off without hesitation, and despite Fred's questions about what just happened, Teddy asks how Fred knew that was going to happen, alluding to his earlier predicament. Fred tells Teddy to let him out of the car before asking him if he's blaming him for the accident. Teddy stops the car and doesn't answer Fred. Fred then gets out of the car, before telling him that he's being kind of a d***. Teddy then drives home, keeping an eye out for the police. As soon as Teddy arrives in his driveway, the police catch up with him. A middle-aged, overweight woman wearing glasses in the passengers side of the police car tells the police officer that the car in front of them was definitely the one that crashed into her. The officer asks Teddy for his license, which Teddy duly gives to him. Teddy is asked to step out of the car which he does. The woman in the police car is shocked to find out a child was behind the incident. The police officer asks Teddy to walk in a straight line, to which Teddy refuses. As an alternative, the officer asks Teddy to recite the alphabet backwards. Teddy tells the officer that he cant do that either, then asks the officer to try that himself. The officer accuses Teddy of being a wise one. Teddy then tells the officer that he isn't wise and that he cant even recite the alphabet backwards when he's sober. The officer then gives Teddy an ultimatum: either do the sobriety test or be taken to the hospital for a blood sample. Teddy then starts to recite the alphabet backwards, but spells out "Y, X, Z, F-U-C-K-U! U-U-U!". The police officer puts Teddy in handcuffs while reciting the Miranda Rights. Teddy's neighbours are all watching this scuffle while Teddy shouts numerous profanities at them, including an elderly woman. Teddy sits in the car and calls the officer a f***ing pig while the woman in the passengers seat exclaims.It is the day after the night before for April, Chrissy and Shauna. They are all sleeping in one bed. April wakes up, presumably with a hangover, and goes to explore the house. She tries looking for an empty cup to drink water from but to no avail. April has to resort to drinking water from her cupped hands. The three girls are lying by the pool in the back garden. April is reading a magazine, Chrissy is relaxing and Shauna is on her laptop. Suddenly, Shauna exclaims and chuckles, telling Chrissy and April that Emily runs a blog. Chrissy and Shauna laugh at the provocative pictures she has posted on here. Chrissy then tells Shauna that Emily blew Teddy in her parents bedroom at the party. April looks upset, and Shauna doesn't believe Chrissy at first and asks who she heard that from. Chrissy tells Shauna that she heard it from Seth. Shauna then says that Emily is the type of girl who will suck any d*** that anyone puts in her face. April shrugs it off and plunges herself into the pool.April is now babysitting Mr. B's son, Michael. He is playing video games. April asks Michael what he's playing. Michael tells her and explains the aim of the game to her. April walks outside to have a cigarette before shutting Michaels handheld console off and they both watch a movie. Michael puts on a tiger mask and April puts on her cat mask. Michael tells April that he doesn't think he's allowed to watch the film she put on due to his young age. April asks him why, as its a good movie. It becomes evident that the film is unsuitable for children of his age when a woman walks seductively towards the camera, taking her bikini off. Michael leans forward in awe and April smiles before telling him that its time for bed. Michael protests, telling April that he doesn't want to go to bed and wants to stay up watching the movie. April pats him on the shoulder telling him to go to bed. Michael growls at her and April hisses back. April chases him up the stairs. After that, April is shown to be watching a reality show and smirks at two girls crying on the show. She is getting on with some school work when Mr. B gets back. He asks what she's watching and she replies with "Just some reality show". Mr. B tells April that his date was terrible, and April asks him what happened. Mr. B tells her that essentially nothing happened and that teachers are extremely dull. He cant believe that kids have to sit there and listen to them all day and he relieves in the fact that he can go home when students can't. April says she doesn't really listen to them anyway. Mr. B is shocked and asks her if she listens to him when he's teaching. April tells him that she does listen to him. April tells Mr. B that she should go, and at the door Mr. B thanks April for babysitting.In what appears to be a juvenile court, Teddy, his mother, and his younger sister Emma are waiting for Teddy's hearing. Emma is walking around loudly in a pair of high heels. Teddy exchanges glances of annoyance with her until his mother tells her to sit down. They are all eventually called in by the judges assistant. Emma asks Teddy if he is in trouble. Teddy gives no reply. It becomes clear that this is not the first time Teddy has been in court, as the judge tells him so. The judge tells Teddy that the court are giving him one last chance to make amends due to the support given to him by friends and family. The judge places Teddy on probation for a year on the understanding that he a) performs 150 hours of community service at the children's library, and b) makes a formal apology to Mrs. Grossman (the woman who the incident involved) in person. The judge tells Teddy that if he fails to do said items, he will be committed to a juvenile hall. Back at their house, Teddy hugs his mother and apologises for what hes done. She accepts his apology and tells him to stay away from Fred. Teddy is in his room daydreaming when Emma comes in and shows him that she can do a handstand up against the wall. Teddy is disinterested and tells her to get out of his room. Emma ignores him and continues to do handstands until Teddy tells her again to get out. She finally does.
At the park, Emily and another girl, Pam, are smoking cigarettes and admiring the good looks of the boys playing basketball, one of whom is Fred. Emily says that she thinks Fred is cute, the other girl disagreeing with her. Meanwhile, the game of basketball is becoming dirty as Fred antagonises Ivan by pushing him. Ivan calls Fred out as playing a foul, to everyone else's agreement. Fred gets angry about this and spits on the floor before throwing the basketball over the fence and shoving Ivan aggressively. He walks over to the two girls sat on a bench, apologising for his band language while playing and asks if he can have a drag of their cigarette. Emily lets him try some, before Fred irritates Pam by comparing her to a praying mantis. Emily is laughing to herself, trying not to let Pam see that she finds Fred rather humorous. Pam tells Emily that she wants to go, but Fred defends Emily and tells Pam that he thinks Emily would rather stay with him. Pam eventually leaves. Fred sarcastically apologises for ruining their friendship, to which Emily tells him that they weren't really friends, only acquaintances. Fred asks Emily if she wants to go somewhere else, to which she agrees. They end up at Emily s house in her room. Fred observes that she has a lot of s*** in her room, such as trinkets and ornaments etcetera. Fred picks up a pink headband and asks what it is. Emily tells him its a headband she used to wear in 2nd grade. He puts it on and asks Emily if he looks sexy. Emily laughs and sits down on her bed, asking Fred where Teddy is. Fred gets irritated by this and asks why everyone always asks him about Teddy. Emily tells him its because there always hanging out together. Fred says that Teddy just follows him around and that he never tells him to leave him alone because he's not a rude person. Looking at the guitar in the corner, Fred asks Emily if its hers. She says yes and claims that she doesn't know how to play it. Fred asks if he can play. Emily says yes and asks if he knows how. Fred claims that he's the master of guitar and a virtuoso. He then sings a song about her, repeating her name numerous times. Emily asks Fred if he can teach her how to play, which he does. He shows her a G# chord first, then kisses her without warning and fondles her breast. He then asks Emily if she likes building forts. She says she does. Fred then tosses the headband off and Emily leans in to kiss him and they end up having sex. After a period of time cuddling, Fred then leaves. Emily asks Fred if the sex was good. He says yes. It could be implied that Emily uses sex for validation and to be accepted by her peers. Emily asks if hell call her, Fred says yes and kisses her on the cheek.Later on, Teddy attends his art class. His teacher tells him that he draws very quickly, and then tells Teddy that Picasso was also a quick drawer, giving him analogies on how Picasso evolved as an artist. The teacher then tells Teddy he reminds him of Sylvester Stallone. Teddy doesn't understand why, but then his teacher tells him that he was great at art and another one of Teddy's classmates pitches in, saying that underneath all that muscle was a very intelligent man. Teddy walks out of the class and throws his sketches in the nearest bin.Back at her home, April collapses onto her bed as a sign of fatigue. Teddy is seen in his room playing his guitar. The series of shots are both similar, as whatever April is doing, Teddy is emulating but each in their own styles. At school April is sat in a locker eating a sandwich when she sees Mr. B. He asks why she's sat in a locker. April says she likes it sometimes. Mr. B retorts that he's surprised she can fit in there. April chuckles. Mr. B asks if she's alright as she hasn't been showing up to practice recently. April tells him she's been busy and that she promises shell be there next week. April tells Mr. B that she's behind on a lot of school work, so Mr. B offers that she comes to his house to do it while she babysits Michael.At a diner, Teddy is with Mrs. Grossman making an apology to her. Mrs. Grossman tells him that there's no need for him to apologise, as she knows he's an alcoholic, which of course he isn't. Mrs. Grossman tells Teddy that she too has issues with food and that she deals with temptation several times a day. Mrs. Grossman is oblivious to the fact that Teddy is staring at her breasts.While doing community service at the children's library, Fred comes to visit Teddy and defaces some of the books there. The two of them go onto a children's park and smoke more cigarettes while talking about the psychedelic powers of mushrooms.The next day while at the children's library, Teddy texts April asking what she's doing. She receives the text while doing homework at Mr. B's house. He tells her that the first rule of homework is to turn your phone off. While there, Mr. B kisses April and tells her that he loves her and that because he's old, he knows not many things are good in life, but she is one of the good things. April kisses him back.Teddy is called into an office for a formal warning for defacing the children's books. It becomes clear that Teddy has taken the wrap for Fred. The woman in the office tells Teddy that he needs to start thinking about what he's doing or else hell end up in juvenile hall. After this, Teddy goes round to Fred's house only to find that he's not there, only his dad who is smoking marijuana. Fred's dad offers some to Teddy, who takes some. Fred's dad sits closer to Teddy and starts touching Teddy's hair, telling him how much he loves that look on him. Teddy is freaked out by this and then tells Fred's dad that he should be leaving.At the graveyard, Teddy tells Fred that he thinks his dad was coming on to him earlier, to which Fred replies My dads not gay. Teddy and Fred go to cut down the tree that April carved a heart into earlier in the film for no apparent reason.The next day, Teddy is working at a nursing home, presumably because he wasn't allowed back into the children's library. While there, he draws a portrait of an elderly lady looking into the garden. She appreciates the drawing and hangs them up in her room.At her house, Emily is watching the fish swim round in the fish tank when she hears the doorbell ring. Fred is at the door, evidently high on marijuana. He asks her if he looks Chinese when he screws up his eyes. Emily laughs and they go into her back garden. While they're walking, a voice-over of Fred's voice tells the audience that Teddy was always doing his probation work and that Emily didn't have any friends and that the only person she knew was him. Fred then tells the story of how they went to a boy called Jason Kings house to get drinks, and that Jason's parents were gone. He then said that everyone was drinking vodka and smoking marijuana. He then talks about how he got Emily naked in Jason's parents bed and how the guys lined up outside the bedroom and went in two or three at a time. He tells the story of how she gave him a blowjob and how he asked if she liked it, she said she did. Emily then gives Fred another blowjob. Fred tells Emily to tell him she loves him. She is silent and carries on.Back at school, Teddy sees April in the corridors. He offers her a sweet. She takes one and they converse for a little while. She then says goodbye and they go their separate ways. At soccer practice, Mr. B ignores April to her annoyance. Later on at his house, Mr. B tells April a joke. She doesn't laugh like she usually would because she's annoyed that he's been ignoring her. She eventually asks him why this is. He says that she knows full well why he cant talk to her. April asks if he still likes her, to which Mr. B replies Are you kidding me? April, I love you. April packs her books away and tries to leave. Mr. B tells April that he didn't want anything bad to happen. He says they can figure something out by April telling people that she always has to babysit Michael so it wont look suspicious. April tells Mr. B that she should be hanging out with boys her own age, to Mr. B's surprise. He tells her that she's better than that. In history class, April is called over by her teacher to talk about her essay. The teacher asks if she had help on her paper. She tells her that her step dad rewrote it instead of correcting it. Her teacher tells April that she cant give her a passing grade and writes her a slip on why she's late to her next class, which is college counselling. While there, the counsellor asks April what type of college shed like to go to. April has no idea, so the counsellor suggests an art college as that's a subject she excels in. April replies with maybe. April asks to go to the toilet. April ends up crying in the toilets. Shauna and Chrissy walk in talking about clothes purchases, not noticing April which makes her more upset.Teddy takes Fred to one of his art classes. While there, the teacher tells Fred a story about how he ended up turning his life around, and how Fred should turn his art around. At the nursing home, Teddy is sat with another elderly lady. They are both painting oceans. The elderly lady tells him how good his painting is. Teddy thanks her. Another care assistant tells Teddy that he should go and check on Tanya, the lady whose portrait he painted earlier in the film. He does so and Tanya tells him to always have faith in his god given talent after he tells her that he's no good at painting.At the soccer game, Mr. B's team are playing against another team. Unfortunately, they lose out to the other team. On the bench, Shauna, Chrissy and April are talking about how Raquel, another player, is a cry baby. April is jealous of the attention Mr. B is paying to her, and asks the other two girls if they think she's pretty. They tell her that they think she's gorgeous, but April disagrees. Mr. B gives April a ride home. At Mr. B's house, April asks where Michael is. Mr. B tells her he's at his mothers house. He offers April some water, but she declines. Mr. B sits with April and they kiss, eventually having sex on his sofa.The next morning, April sits at her breakfast table when her mother asks if she wants bacon and eggs for breakfast. April accepts the offer. Her mom tells her how much of a good girl she is and how much she means to her.At Mr. B's house, April is babysitting Michael again. She takes out a cigarette and begins to smoke. Michael tells her that she's not allowed to do that. April asks him if he's going to tell on her. Michael nods his head. April reluctantly stubs out her cigarette in her can of drink. April then joins Michael in his video game. Michael wins the game against April and asks her for two cookies. April asks why he gets two cookies, and Michael tells her that that's what Raquel does; she gives him two cookies if he wins the game. Michael then tells April that Raquel is his other babysitter. April is evidently annoyed by this and tries to better herself by giving Michael the entire packet of cookies. The next scene depicts April on the phone to Mr. B, him telling her about how he thought they were broken up when he had sex with Raquel.At a party, Teddy and Fred are watching a movie with their group of friends when Fred sees Emily walk past. He catches up with her and tells her how beautiful she looks. He invites her to a swimming pool over the fence. Emily is hesitant at first, but Fred pesters her until she gives in. Fred strips off and jumps in the pool.In another room of the party, Chrissie, Shauna, April and another uncredited character are talking to two college boys. They tell April that college girls get loads of sex, so when she gets to college she won't be a "sweet little virgin" anymore. The two guys are shocked that she's a virgin and tell her that they can fix that. April walks away from them. The two guys then ask if the other three girls are virgins. The scene then cuts to Teddy sitting by a fire before April sits next to him. April gets out a pack of cigarettes and Teddy tells her that she should turn one over for good luck. She does. Teddy then offers April a light. April tells Teddy how she thinks the movie they were watching was stupid. Teddy asks her why, April tells him that she thinks all TV and movies of today are unnecessary. Teddy says she's crazy. April protests and Teddy tells her that she doesn't care about anything, to which April replies that she wishes she didn't care about anything, and that she cares too much about everything. Teddy then admits that he loves her.Back at the swimming pool, Fred is begging Emily to get into the pool. She wont get in no matter how much he begs. Fred starts to get aggressive towards Emily. Emily tells Fred that she thought she loved him but he turned out to be a real douchebag. Fred then violently pulls Emily into the pool. Emily says "You made me do all those things! I hate you!" This could be alluding to the voice-over featured in the movie earlier. Emily picks up an empty bottle of vodka and threatens Fred with it. Fred antagonises Emily further, calling her a p****. She eventually hits him on the side of the head which gives Fred a wound. Fred calls Emily a bitch and claims that he was only messing around. Fred goes to find Teddy, who is in an empty parking lot skateboarding with some friends and April. Fred arrives and tells him that he wants to go and buy some marijuana from Skull, their local drug dealer. Teddy asks where he got the cut on his head. Fred claims it was nothing. Teddy asks April if she wants to come, much to Fred's displeasure. April declines and says she's just going to wait for her ride home. They say goodbye.In Fred's car, Teddy persists to ask what happened to Fred's head. Fred is hesitant to answer him. He then asks Teddy what he would do if he was an Egyptian. Teddy says he'd be a Pharaoh. Fred says he cant be a Pharaoh. Teddy then says he wouldn't want to be Egyptian anyway because its boring and that he'd much rather be an Aztec or a Mayan so he could cut Fred's heart out. Fred then asks Teddy if they should cut Skull's heart out and shows Teddy a butcher knife that he was keeping under his seat. Teddy is freaked out by Fred wielding the knife around like a maniac. They arrive at Skulls hideout and take a hit of his joint. Fred asks Skull if he'd rather be the Pope or Pablo Escobar. Skull says he'd rather be Escobar, and Teddy agrees. Fred tells Teddy to shut up, and then tells Skull that Teddy's been conspiring to cut his heart out, when in reality it was Fred who wanted to cut Skulls heart out. Fred then asks Skull if he'd rather be a girl or be gay. Skull says neither. Fred then asks if he never gets jealous of those girls in pornographic films. He then goes onto say how during sexual intercourse, a woman is the real person in power as the man is inside her and not the other way around. The film cuts to a shot of Emily sitting by the pool, laughing. Another shot of April opening her packet of cigarettes to find the last one turned over is shown.Fred and Teddy are then seen driving. Fred tells Teddy that they should drive the wrong way, like the art teacher told them. Teddy asks him why he has to be so psycho all the time and why he tries so hard to act crazy. Teddy says that he cant hang around with him when he's like that, to which Fred throws the exact same comment back at Teddy.April is sat on her doorstep, holding her last cigarette. She makes a wish and then smokes it.Back in the car, Teddy asks Fred to pull over. Fred ignores him. Teddy persists in asking him to pull over. Fred slaps Teddy before eventually slowing to a halt. Teddy asks what Fred is actually doing. Fred ignores him so Teddy gets out of the vehicle. Meanwhile, April texts Teddy and smiles at her phone, presumably having texted him something along the lines of I love you. Teddy receives the message while walking along a footbridge and smiles at his phone.Fred drives the wrong way down a road while Teddy walks home smiling. In his car, Fred repeats I'm not Bob monotonously, while putting his foot to the accelerator pedal, reaching speeds of over 60mph. Oncoming cars swerve to avoid him while Fred shouts I'm not Bob! each time more manically than the last.The film ends with a shot of Teddy walking home.
