Police inspector Carl Mørck is put in charge of a department of cold cases, joined only by his assistant, Assad. They dig into a case about a disappeared woman.
Chief detective Carl Mørck and his assistant Assad become involved in a five-year-old case concerning the mystery of politician Merete Lynggaard's disappearance - a journey that takes them deep into the undercurrent of abuse and malice that lurks beneath the polished surface of Scandinavia.
After a failed deployment Commissioner Carl Mørck is relegated to a special department in the dusty cellar where he shall bring unresolved cases with the help of his new assistant to conclusion. He may not get involved in the cold cases. This is followed reluctantly for one day, but the stubborn side of Carl does not hold, of course, and follows the case of the disappearance of a lady politician. The sudden vanishing of the lady five years ago on a ferry in the presence of her mentally handicapped brother had originated a poor police investigation. The officials involved won't want to hear this. But the official suicide theory turns out to be wrong, and soon the grumpy Karl makes a terrible discovery.
In Denmark, in an unsuccessful raid against a criminal, the impulsive and stubborn Homicide Detective Carl Mørck is seriously wounded by a shot; his best friend and partner dies and the other detective becomes crippled with the bullet. When Carl is recovered, he is set aside by his chief in the Department Q, where old cases are closed and filed, to work with the responsible for the department Assad. Carl stumbles with a five year-old case of a missing person, Merete Lynggaard, who committed suicide in accordance with the investigation of an incompetent detective. Carl finds strange that someone with the intention of taking her own life brings the mentally retarded brother Uffe with her. Carl learns that Merete had given a lecture before her disappearance and he requests photos from the events. Then Assad shows the photos to Uffe that reacts to one with a man called Daniel Hale. They discover that the man lives in Sweden and when they arrive, the local police informs that Daniel died while fishing. But when they see his photo, they realize that Daniel is not the man that they are looking for but another one called Lasse. But their chief wants to abort the whole operation and close the case. Will Carl and Assad find Merete still alive?
Following a shootout that left his two partners respectively dead and paralyzed, chief detective Carl Mørck is assigned to the newly established Department Q, a department for old, terminated cases. The department consists only of himself and his new assistant Assad. Although they get explicit orders to only read and sort through the cases, only a single day passes before Carls stubborn nature throws them headfirst into the mystery of Merete Lynggaards disappearance; a well-known female politician who vanished five years ago from a passenger ferry. The only witness is her brain-damaged brother who was found on the car deck, screaming at the top of his lungs. The case was put to rest as an apparent suicide. Unconvinced by this explanation Carl and Assad venture on a journey that will take them deep into the undercurrent of abuse and malice that lurks beneath the polished surface of Scandinavia.
