Holiday humbug Krissy Kringle receives a special delivery intended for Santa Claus, the Naughty or Nice book he left behind while visiting a child, and uses the power of the book to expose the naughty deeds of those around her, but soon finds that her newfound power isn't always so nice.
Unlike her parents Carol and Walter Kringle who gave her her name for obvious reasons, Krissy Kringle does not have the Christmas spirit. Beyond the puns directed toward her because of her name, what makes Christmas worse is living on Candy Cane Lane - renamed by those living on the street after she moved there in their enjoyment of the holidays, they who have a house decorating contest every Christmas season in which Krissy has never partaken - resulting in she getting a pile of mail every year meant for Santa Claus. Instead of the early Christmas present of a promotion at Purcell Advertising which Krissy is hoping, Helen Purcell, the company owner, lets Krissy go using what to Krissy seems like the lame excuse of downsizing, especially lame as there is an open position that will be filled. Needing some Christmas cheer, Krissy hopes more than ever that her boyfriend of six years, lawyer Lance Leigh, will ask her to marry him, he waiting until he makes partner before making that commitment of marriage. To tide Krissy over financially, she accepts the holiday related job found for her by Carol as a mall gift wrapper and Santa's helper. Amid this turmoil in Krissy's life, she, among the mail addressed to Kris Kringle, receives a package which she discovers is a seemingly empty book called "Naughty or Nice". Despite not knowing its mysterious workings, she truly does end up believing that it is Santa's book in keeping track of the naughty and nice activities of people as it will show her the actual activities of people she knows, the solely naughty activities which she begins to call out. Not wanting to look crazy, the only person Krissy confides in is her new friend, fellow gift wrapper Marco Webb, the only person who has made this new job bearable. In the process, Krissy may not like what she sees in the book, especially as it concerns Lance, and many of her own activities may not be considered nice in and of themselves as a result. Krissy has to find her way back, which entails learning that there are two sides to every story, and using the information at hand for true benevolence, the most important piece arguably with regard to what happened with her job at Purcell.

