A family vacation during the summer of 1985 changes everything for a teenage boy obsessed with ping pong.
The year is 1985. Rad Miracle is a shy 13-year-old white kid who's obsessed with two things: ping pong and hip hop. During his family's annual summer vacation to Ocean City, Maryland, Rad makes a new best friend, experiences his first real crush, becomes the target of rich, racist local bullies, and finds an unexpected mentor in his outcast next-door neighbor. Ping Pong Summer is about that time in your life when you're treated like an alien by everyone around you, even though you know deep down you're as funky fresh as it gets.
1985. Thirteen year old Radford Miracle of Mt. Airy, Maryland, is a shy boy, who, in his friendless state, considers himself a perpetual loser which in turn keeps him from doing anything particularly well. He keeps himself preoccupied with his passions in life, including listening to and performing rap/b-box music, break dancing and playing ping pong, the latter which he does by himself against a table wall. As they do every summer, he and his family - his parents Brendan and Crandall, and his older goth sister Michelle - from who he is detached, are vacationing in the tourist town of Ocean Park. Unlike previous years when they have stayed at a motel, they have decided to rent a cheap house, it ending up being located next to the home of who is considered the town crazy, Randi Jammer, who is frequently hacking up fish in her back yard. This summer may end up being different for Rad, who is befriended by an equally friendless boy, Teddy Fryy, vacationing from Baltimore, the two who end up sharing that love of ping pong which they can play at the local Fun Hub games center. Rad also catches the mutual attention of pretty Stacy Summers, to who he is attracted, and at the same time concerned for her for what he spies as a possible substance abuse issue. That pleasant summer takes a turn when Rad starts to be bullied by the town privileged rich kid, Lyle Ace, and Lyle's follower, Dale Lyons. The problem is that whatever Lyle does, he does well in his confidence. No longer willing to take Lyle's taunts, Rad eventually challenges Lyle to a ping pong match despite having seen how well Lyle plays. Rad gets some unexpected assistance in learning how to play ping pong, and possibly in the process gains some self-confidence for the first time in his life, regardless of the match outcome.

