Three young people in Tokyo. Kuro is a girl working a part-time job at a bakery. Eito is a photographer. Gou is a theater director. These three individuals meet by coincidence and, as a means to escape reality, begin living together at a deserted inn near the sea.
The story begins in modern Tokyo, following three young people. Kuro is a girl working part-time job at a bakery, but gets fired and ends up without a goal in life. About the same time, Eito, a photographer, breaks up with his long-term girlfriend Nana and gets his camera destroyed. Meanwhile Gou, a theater director, looses the lead actress for his new production and has only few days to find a new one. These three individuals meet by coincidence, and as a mean to escape the reality begin living together at a deserted inn near the sea. The movie portraits the feeling of distance and of friendship between the characters, dwells on the concept of attaining the 'real freedom of spirit', and is a portrait of a young generation of Japanese society. The movie has no BGM apart from music and sounds of nature heard by characters themselves, and according to the director, the shooting concept was to keep the dialog to a minimum. Furthermore, each scene was shot in one long take to emphasize the emotional distances between the characters.
Kuro (Airi Kido) used to dream of becoming a baker but got fired from the bakery. Eito (Yu Saitoh) is a photographer and broke up his girlfriend Nana (Wakana Matsumoto) that he was thinking of marrying. Gou (Hideo Nakaizumi) is a stage producer getting in trouble with missing a main actress. Those three people, who don't have any common ground between them, coincidentally rushed out of Tokyo where they happened to meet by chance. Then they started living together at a deserted hotel near the sea. In the hotel, everyone was indifferent to each other at the beginning, but they begin to grow their friendship little by little. They were getting closer while they keep some distance having a carefree life. Gou starts writing the screenplay casting Kuro as the leading actress. Kuro is getting attracted to Eito, the photographer. Eito still can't get over the bitter experience of his ex-girlfriend. The feeling of each of the three people goes around with no cross. At this time, Momo (Miwako Wagatsuma), a schoolgirl suddenly appeared in front of them. Even though Momo stayed with a short period, she influenced their unconscious triangular relationship and brought about some good changes to cultivate their bond as soul mates. However, the good moments will not last long. Afterwards, they visited the house where Kuro spent her childhood. By this event, their friendship took on a new aspect. Gou completed his script for Kuro and asked her to play the leading actress role. Kuro felt quite a distance to Eito. She left from the hotel feeling disappointed. The triangle among those three people disappeared. Their friendship was broken too easily. After they fled in disorder, each goes back to their ordinary life. No big deal. However, they feel something different, from this experience.
Everything in their daily lives looks fresh. By meeting each other, they have influenced themselves in their working style, their thinking and their lives. The shooting concept was to keep the dialogue to a minimum, with diegetic music only from live performances and the radio. Each scene was shot in one long take, with no cuts. This simply and directly emphasized the mental and emotional distances between the characters. The director gave the characters names that relate to numbers, Gou=Five, Kuro=Six, Nana=Seven and Eito=Eight.
It's a movie with an ensemble cast of young adults.
