This film follows 9 girls from Haiti, Nepal, Ethiopia, India, Egypt, Peru, Cambodia, Sierra Leone, and Afghanistan on their journey to education.
The movie tells the stories of nine girls from different parts of the world who face arranged marriages, child slavery, and other heartbreaking injustices. Despite these obstacles, the brave girls offer hope and inspiration. By getting an education, they're able to break barriers and create change.
The movie tells the stories of nine girls from different parts of the world who face arranged marriages, child slavery, and other heartbreaking injustices. Despite these obstacles, the brave girls offer hope and inspiration. By getting an education, they're able to break barriers and create change. Each girl's story was written by a renowned writer from her native country.
From Academy Award-nominated director Richard E. Robbins and the award-winning Documentary Group, in association with Paul Allen's Vulcan Productions comes Girl Rising - an innovative new feature film about the power of education to change a girl - and the world. Girl Rising is powered by strategic partner, Intel Corporation, and distribution partner CNN Films. Meryl Streep, Anne Hathaway, Liam Neeson, Cate Blanchette, Selena Gomez and other A-list actors contribute voice performances to the film,which features original music from Academy Award winner Rachel Portman, in collaboration with Hans Zimmer. The film spotlights unforgettable girls like Sokha, an orphan who rises from the dumps of Cambodia to become a star student and an accomplished dancer; Suma, who composes music to help her endure forced servitude in Nepal and today crusades to free others; and Ruksana, an Indian "pavement-dweller" whose father sacrifices his own basic needs for his daughter's dreams. Each girl is paired with a renowned writer from her native country. Edwidge Danticat, Sooni Taraporevala Aminatta Forna and others tell the girls' stories, each in it's style, and all with profound resonance. These girls are each unique, but the obstacles they faced are ubiquitous. Like the 66 million girls around the world who dream of going to school, what Sokha, Suma, Ruksana and the rest want most is to be students: to learn. And now, And now, by sharing their personal journeys, they have become teachers. Watch Girl Rising, and you will see: One girl with courage is a revolution.
Girl Rising India is a grassroots Indian collaboration to catalyze the nation of 1 billion's interest in girls' empowerment and education. Produced by internationally recognized actresses Priyanka Chopra and Freida Pinto, the film features them with Madhuri Dixit, Nandita Das, Kareena Kapoor, Parineeti Chopra, Alia Bhatt, and Sushmita Sen, to widely advocate for the need to empower girls worldwide...Inspired by the power, passion, and intelligence of the actresses and philanthropists in the film, award-winning director and photographer Indrani Pal-Chaudhuri, renowned for her iconic imagery and visionary storytelling...has showcased the inspirational stories.

