Jessica Burns enlists the help of her best friend, Brian, in order to document the relentless harassment she's received from her former friend, Avery Keller, one of South Brookdale High School's most popular students.
16 year old Jessica Burns has a secret that she's afraid to share with anyone - except her best friend, Brian Slater. For the past year she's been victimized by another girl - her former friend, Avery Keller, one of South Brookdale High School's most popular and beautiful students. What can you do when the world sees the image of a person but not the reality? With Brian's help and a hidden digital camera, the evidence of Avery's relentless harassment is captured and finally exposed-bringing both girls and their families face to face with the truth.
A very powerful story exploiting the reality of bullying from both sides. Shows the potential harm that can be done, but explains how it can start. A must watch for anyone being bullied or even a person bullying someone else.
Jessica (Lexi Ainsworth), a 15-year-old sophomore in high school, attempts suicide by taking a handful of pills from her mother's medicine cabinet. Her mother soon finds her unconscious, and Jessica is rushed to a hospital. It is also mentioned that the high school she goes to has won a chance for a documentary film, led by filmmaker Amy Gallagher (Amy S. Weber), for being the only public school to place as one of the top ten schools across the country.Word of Jessica's suicide attempt and hospitalization spreads quickly throughout the school, and the cameras catch students crying and talking about the situation. Miss Gallagher and her camera crew go around interviewing kids about Jessica, and they reveal that her main tormentor was her former best friend, Avery Keller (Hunter King). According to Jessica's best friend Brian (Jimmy Bennett), Jessica first fell out with Avery for not wanting Avery to cheat off of her test in a class when they were in junior high school, and Avery had been relentlessly bullying Jessica since - none of the other students in school seemed to be aware of these details, but had noticed subtle tension between the two.When confronted about it, Avery casually denies ever bullying Jessica, and claims they simply drifted apart after transitioning from middle to high school. As a response to the rumors, Avery agrees to record footage of her daily life to demonstrate the pressures of being popular. Though Avery herself is desensitized to it, her own video footage demonstrates that she comes from a dysfunctional family; Avery's mother is a shrewd and domineering woman who never has the time of day for her, while her father is an unemployed loser who does nothing, and Avery's older brother is a slacker who dropped out of college and does nothing either. During all of this, Avery's peers/minions tend to feel intimidated by her teasing and controlling nature (for example, Avery and her clique restrict other girls from using a specific public restroom while they apply their makeup).Brian eventually confesses to Miss Gallagher and the camera crew that six months ago, he and Jessica agreed to film Avery's bullying with a hidden camera disguised as a dragonfly pin. He invites them into his home to show them the footage, which documents Avery's constant physical harassment and threats toward Jessica, particularly cruel punishment for walking into Avery's favored public restroom, and Avery's floods of text messages and emails telling Jessica to kill herself. The footage also shows Jessica crying alone in a school hallway when Brian finds her. Jessica strongly suggests to Brian that she's having suicidal thoughts, and Brian tries in vain to console her and convince her to show their hidden camera footage to the school faculty. Jessica makes Brian promise not to show anyone else the footage, out of public embarrassment and fear of worse bullying from Avery.... a promise Brian broke by showing their footage to the camera crew. Brian also confesses to Jessica's mother (while waiting by Jessica's bedside in the hospital) that he had been withholding the footage - though she is noticeably upset, she reassures Brian that he shouldn't blame himself.The students at school grow further convinced that Avery had been bullying Jessica, causing Avery and the rest of her clique to turn on each other. The other clique members join forces to tell the school principal that rumors of Avery's bullying are true, which prompts a conference between Avery, her parents and the principal. However, Avery's dysfunctional parents are in denial and staunchly defend her, but Avery storms out in frustration and posts an insensitive video rant about Jessica's suicide on social media for all the other students to see. Miss Gallagher and the camera crew approaches Avery again in the school hallway, advising her to remove her social media post and telling her they have proof that she bullied Jessica. They ask her if she wants to see it, and she agrees to meet them at her house that night.Later that night at the hospital, Jessica's parents are visiting her when she loses her heartbeat. Her parents and the cameras are kicked out of the ICU, as the doctors attempt to revive Jessica. At this point, Avery is watching the footage of her bullying Jessica with Miss Gallagher. After several minutes, she starts to break down while watching and requests that it be turned off. Crying hysterically, she tells the filmmaker how sorry and regretful she is, as she comforts Avery and tells her that she is really a good person.The doctors are able to regain Jessica's pulse, but say that due to the non-improvement of her organs, she will eventually succumb to total organ failure if she doesn't wake from the coma soon.Realizing the consequences of her actions, Avery posts a blog, tearfully stating that no person deserves to be treated the way she treated Jessica and apologizes profusely. She ends the video with, "My name is Avery Keller, and I'm a bully."The movie ends with a cut to Jessica's face, in which she opens her eyes and looks around, before finally staring straight into the camera.
