After suffering a heart attack, retired General José Mendieta is haunted by his past as an officer in Operation Condor, the CIA-backed campaign of political repression in Latin America.
An aging Bolivian General, suffers a heart attack, and hopes for redemption by writing an account of his dark secrets to be shared with his son. He recalls his role in 'Operation Condor," a U.S.-backed campaign of political repression and state terror begun in 1975 by the right-wing dictatorships of Argentina, Chile, Bolivia, Paraguay, and Uruguay, that saw many innocent people, "disappeared."
After suffering a heart attack, retired General José Mendieta (Damián Alcázar) is haunted by his dark past as an officer in Operation Condor, the CIA-backed campaign of political repression in Latin America that was responsible for executions, torture, and imprisonments in the 1970's. It is estimated that over 400,000 people were imprisoned and 30,000 forcibly disappeared as a result of these government actions. In a letter to his son Pablo (Bernardo Peña), Mendieta confesses the role he played in the abduction, persecution, and execution of countless men and women during his posting to Chile. Journalist Marco (Carlotto Cotta) and his pregnant wife Luciá (Carla Ortiz) are among those who were arrested, along with their activist friend Antonio (Tomás Fonzi) and revolutionary Andrea (Ana Calentano). They suffer terribly under Mendieta and his cohort Sanera (Rafael Ferro), which leads to a cascade of betrayals, secrets, and stolen lives that spans generations. Olvidados (Forgotten), Bolivia's Foreign Language Film submission for the 87th Academy Awards®, stars renowned actors from five countries, and was filmed in Bolivia, Chile, and New York. It is the first film to specifically address the horrors perpetrated under Operation Condor, which was responsible for: 50,000 deaths; 30,000 "disappeared"; and 400,000 arrested and imprisoned in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay.
During the 70's, under the so-called "Operation Condor" military dictatorships in Argentina, Chile, Bolivia, Paraguay, and Uruguay took away all possibilities for freedom and peace, carrying out the worst bloodshed and painful era in the modern history of these countries.The story takes place in Bolivia when JOSE a decorated Condor General has a heart attack and looks for redemption by telling the dark secrets of his past to his only son.JOSE takes us on a journey through Operation Condor to understand the factual scenarios created by these military regimes, introducing us to the protagonists from which their lives were stolen. Honor, loss and love, become victims of a plan in which betrayal is the ultimate sacrifice. A story that remembers those we thought "Forgotten".
