Dracula and his friends try to bring out the monster in his half human, half vampire grandson in order to keep Mavis from leaving the hotel.
The Drac pack is back for an all-new monster comedy adventure in Sony Pictures Animation's Hotel Transylvania 2! Everything seems to be changing for the better at Hotel Transylvania... Dracula's rigid monster-only hotel policy has finally relaxed, opening up its doors to human guests. But behind closed coffins, Drac is worried that his adorable half-human, half-vampire grandson, Dennis, isn't showing signs of being a vampire. So while Mavis is busy visiting her human in-laws with Johnny - and in for a major cultural shock of her own - "Vampa" Drac enlists his friends Frank, Murray, Wayne and Griffin to put Dennis through a "monster-in-training" boot camp. But little do they know that Drac's grumpy and very old, old, old school dad Vlad is about to pay a family visit to the hotel. And when Vlad finds out that his great-grandson is not a pure blood - and humans are now welcome at Hotel Transylvania - things are going to get batty!
It's been three years since we last saw the Drac Pack, and now they're back in the all-new sequel to the 2012 original hit comedy. After getting married, Johnny and Mavis are happy together, but seven years later, a new arrival becomes part of the family: a half-human/half-vampire baby boy called Dennis (Denisovitch in Transylvanian). Unfortunately, due to the dangerous environment, the worried new mom suggests that Dennis would be safer in Johnny's hometown of California, as Drac believes his grandson may never develop vampire powers by his fifth birthday. And to make things far worse, an impromptus visit from Dracula's very, very old human-hating father, Vlad causes things to get a little "out of claw".
Mavis and Johnny get married to each other and are happily living in Hotel Transylvania. Soon Mavis is pregnant and gives birth to the boy Dennis. When he is five years old, his fangs have not grown and Mavis thinks to move to California with Johnny and Dennis to give a chance to the boy to be raised among humans. Dracula asks Johnny to travel with Mavis to the house of his parents in California and convinces her to stay at the hotel. Meanwhile Dracula joins his friends Frank, Wayne, Griffin, Murray and Blobby the Blob and they travel with Dennis to a vampire camp to teach the boy to turn into a vampire so that Mavis and Johnny stay at the hotel. However neither the boy transforms nor his fangs grew. Meanwhile Mavis is delighted with the facilities in supermarket in California and she is sure that moving to California would be the best for her son. What will be Mavis' final decision?
After the unforeseen love affair between species in Hotel Transylvania (2012), the isolated monster resort is now open to human visitors. With Mavis and Jonathan now happily married--and their adorable five-year-old son, Dennis, still not showing signs of vampiric transformation--the worried grandpa, Count Dracula, decides to take matters into his own hands, trying to make sure that the boy will follow in his footsteps. With this in mind, the undead relative organises an exciting road trip along with his ghoulish friends, to help Dennis get a proper education; however, this is easier said than done. Is the curly-haired grandson, indeed, a late-bloomer?
It's Mavis (Selena Gomez) and Johnny's (Andy Samberg) wedding day. Dracula (Adam Sandler) is worried that she'll decide to move out of the hotel, but he decides to keep it together for her sake.One month later, Johnny tells Dracula that Mavis wants to go flying with him. They play a game of hide-and-seek, but Mavis quickly gets winded. She tells him that she can't fly very far, since she's pregnant.Dracula is overjoyed that he's going to be a grandfather, until Mavis mentions that it's possible her child will be a human. When the due date arrives, Dracula sneaks into the delivery room disguised as a nurse. He swears that no one will ever harm his grandson, before handing him to Mavis.On Dennis' (Asher Blinkoff) first birthday, there is a party, and Johnny's parents, Mike (Nick Offerman) and Linda (Megan Mullally) are invited. Also at the party are Frankenstein (Kevin James) and Eunice (Fran Drescher), Wayne (Steve Buscemi) and Wanda (Molly Shannon), Griffin (David Spade), and Murray (Keegan-Michael Key). Dracula is convinced that Dennis will grow up to be a vampire, even when Linda points out that he doesn't have any fangs. Wayne tells her that he has until his fifth birthday to have his fangs grow in. Mike tells Johnny he should get a job, but Dracula bails him out by saying that he already has a job at the hotel, making the humans feel more comfortable there.Months later, Mavis calls for Johnny and Dracula and tells them that Dennis said his first word. Dennis says "Bleh bleh bleh," then repeats it over and over again. Not amused, Dracula checks inside his mouth for any sign of growing fangs, finding nothing.When Dennis is four, Dracula tries to teach him how to turn into a bat. Dennis is only able to flap his arms and run around the room. Dracula tells Dennis that he'll dance for him if Dennis will try to turn into a bat. Mavis comes in and asks what they're doing. Dracula mentions that six of Wayne's pups are having a birthday party, but Mavis doesn't want Dennis to go, since they play too rough with him. Dracula asks her if she doesn't want Dennis around monsters, and Dennis says he wants to watch his favorite video, Kakie the cake monster (Chris Kattan). Mavis points out that he hasn't yet shown any signs that he's not human.Mavis reluctantly brings Dennis to the party, and a girl pup named Winnie (Sadie Sandler) tells Dennis she loves him and they will get married. Dennis squirms away from her. Mavis is overjoyed by all of the fun things at the party, such as limbo and a piñata, though she wreaks a bit of havoc when she breaks the piñata and the werewolf pups eat the candy. In the chaos that ensues, Dennis gets knocked to the ground and one of his teeth falls out; Mavis is horrified, but Dracula excitedly rushes to see if Dennis' fangs are going to come in. She tells Dracula that she and Johnny have been talking about moving to California, so that Dennis can grow up around other humans; she still doesn't think that her son will manifest any vampire powers before his fifth birthday.Saddened, Dracula goes to see Johnny in his room. Johnny tells him that he loves it at the hotel, and doesn't want to move. Dracula tells him to take Mavis to his parents' house, while Dracula will watch Dennis. His plan is to have the monsters show their skills, so that Dennis will decide to turn into a vampire. He only has one week left before Dennis' fifth birthday.Johnny and Mavis fly away, and moments later the monsters pull up. Together, they all drive off with the Blob riding sidecar in an attached Rascal scooter. Johnny and Mavis land in Santa Cruz and rent a car. Dracula and the group arrive at the forest, and he tells Frankenstein to show Dennis how he scares people. Two joggers pass by and see him, but they aren't frightened. Instead, they ask if he will take a picture with them, which he happily agrees to do. Dracula then tells Wayne to kill a deer, and he starts to chase after one, but gets distracted when a frisbee flies by. He quickly chases and grabs the frisbee, to Dennis' delight. Angry, Dracula drives the group away, and the scooter becomes detached, sending the Blob over a cliff. Dracula says he'll be fine, since he's shapeless.Johnny and Mavis are driving through Santa Cruz, and she asks him to stop at a minimart. She gets fascinated by the potato chips and Slurpees. It's Murray's turn to try and impress Dennis, and Dracula tells him to conjure up a sandstorm. Murray starts chanting and twisting, but then he hurts his back, only producing a small sand pile that Dennis happily plays with. Johnny and Mavis see a park where kids are doing bicycle stunts, and Johnny borrows a kid's bike to show off his tricks. Mavis decides to give it a try, and is able to do floating loop-de-loops and stop in midair. They leave for Johnny's parents' house, and Mavis decides to check in on Dennis.Dennis is fast asleep when Dracula's phone rings, and he doesn't want her to know that they left the hotel. Griffin puts his sunglasses on Dennis, and moves his arms and talks for him so Mavis won't see that he's asleep. Dracula decides that he will have to teach Dennis himself. He drives them to the Vampire Summer Camp where he spent his childhood. The camp director meets them and says that Dracula was a legend as a kid. The vampire children are all eating mice.Johnny and Mavis arrive at Mike and Linda's house, and find the guest room made over with a makeshift coffin. Mavis thinks it would be a great place to raise Dennis. Linda announces that she's invited other human-monster couples over.Dracula takes Dennis and the group to the top of a 200-foot tower, and he throws Dennis off, thinking that he'd figure out how to fly before he hit the ground. One by one, the monsters look over the side and announce that he's still not flying. When he gets close to the ground, Dracula flies down and grabs Dennis. Frankenstein leans on the side of the rail, causing the tower to fall over and land in the campfire. Frankenstein is set on fire, and he runs wildly through the buildings, setting them all on fire. A tree falls and crushes the hearse.Johnny and Mavis are on the roof, and she tells him that she doesn't want Dennis to grow up in Transylvania, and end up being a freak like her. Johnny says that he'd be overjoyed if Dennis grew up to be curious and full of life like she is. His phone rings and he shows her a video that he thinks a friend sent him. She recognizes that it's Dennis falling off the tower. Frantic, she calls Dracula. Sirens are blaring as firemen try to put out the fire. Dracula answers the phone and tells her that they're still at the hotel. Dennis grabs the phone and starts to tell her that Dracula was teaching him how to fly, but Dracula smashes the phone before he can finish. Mavis tells Johnny that they have to head back to the hotel right away.Dracula realizes he has to get back to the hotel quickly, but they don't have a car. The Blob rides up on his scooter, and they all leave. Mavis decides that it will take too long to fly back on a plane, so she turns into a bat and grabs Johnny, then flies off. The Blob gets stuck in traffic, and Mavis flies through a raincloud and gets sopping wet. When the traffic clears, the Blob has to pull off the road and duck behind some bushes. Mavis flies through a thunderstorm, dodging lightning bolts. Frankenstein blows the Blob up like a balloon, and then lets go, causing him to shoot forward with them. They race a train, narrowly beating it through a tunnel. Dracula holds Dennis up in the air and lets him pretend to fly.Mavis and Dracula arrive at the hotel at the same time, and she shows him the video of Dennis falling, which has gone viral. Angrily, she tells him that she'll have his birthday party there, and then they're moving to California.The night before the party, Mavis tells Dracula that she invited his human-hating father, Vlad (Mel Brooks). Dracula pulls Johnny aside and tells him that Vlad can't know that he and his family are humans, or he'll eat them. Johnny decides to make the party a costume party. Everyone is dressed as monsters, and Johnny is wearing a cheap vampire costume. Vlad arrives with the demon Bela (Rob Riggle), and Dracula tells Frankenstein to keep him away from Mavis and the humans. Brandon, the actor who played Kakie, shows up as a performer. Vlad meets Johnny and thinks he's a freaky-looking vampire. When Vlad meets Dennis, he wants to see his great-vamp-son's fangs; when he has none, he thinks he's a "late-fanger," just as Dracula was, and tells them that all they have to do is scare Dennis' fangs out of him. Kakie sets up to start his act, and Vlad makes him levitate. Mavis notices Vlad offstage and wonders what her grandfather is doing. Vlad makes Kakie's costume head spin, and then makes him act possessed. Dennis jumps into Dracula's arms. Vlad makes Kakie's body shape-shift. Dracula stops him, saying that it's not worth it. Mavis asks what's going on, and Dracula says that he was trying to scare Dennis into growing fangs. Johnny says they were desperate, and she realizes that he was in on it. All of them, along with Johnny's parents, start arguing. Upset, Dennis runs off, and Winnie follows after him.Winnie leads Dennis to a dog fort. Bela sees them and calls out more demons. Mavis and Johnny realize that Dennis isn't there, and everyone at the party runs off to try and find him. Bela swoops into the fort and grabs Dennis and Winnie, who bites his hand. Bela flings her away, causing her to crash on the ground. This enrages Dennis enough for his fangs to come in, and his vampire powers manifest immediately.Dracula, Johnny, Mavis and the rest of the monsters join in the fight, driving the demons away. Unseen, Bela grabs a sharp branch and flies straight at Johnny, trying to kill him. Just in time, Vlad, having had a change of heart, stops Bela and shrinks him, warning his former minion to never come near him or his family ever again.Mavis decides to continue raising Dennis at the hotel. Since it's still Dennis' birthday, they return to the party and get ready to eat Dennis' cake. After the gremlin lady swallows the entire cake in one bite, the party resumes and everyone has a great time, even Dracula and Vlad, who dance in typical over-the-top vampire fashion.
