Eric Love, 19, is locked up in prison. On first day he assaults another inmate and several guards. He's offered group therapy and his dad, an inmate as well, tries to talk sense into him. Can he be rehabilitated?
Eric Love is a 19 year old teenager who is so violent he has been 'Starred Up' (Moved to Adult prison) where he finds his father Neville who Eric hasn't seen since he was 5 (since he was put into care). Neville tries to get Eric to settle down, so Eric gets a chance to go through therapy with Oliver.
The unsociable and brutal nineteen year old Eric Love is transferred from a young offender institution to an adult prison because of his violence. On the arrival, the voluntary therapist Oliver Baumer invites Eric to participate in his group of therapy. However Eric meets his missing father Neville Love that is the henchman of the prison leader Dennis Spencer. Neville tries to control Eric and affects his participation in the therapy. Meanwhile the Deputy Governor Hayes does not believe in Baumer's treatment and gives one chance only to Eric to improve his behavior.
Eric Love is a troubled teenager who is transferred to an adult prison because of his extreme violence. There he meets his estranged father, a seemingly influential figure in the prison community, who introduces his son to a therapy group lead by Rupert Friend.
Juvenile repeat offender Eric Love (19) earns by incorrigible insolence and violent rebellion a 'promotion' from reformatory to adult prison, where his reckless provocative attitude towards staff and fellow inmates bodes grave trouble for all. Eric's ever)absent father Neville is a veteran there, a trusted deputy of informal prison leader Dennis Spencer, who agrees to help trying to get Eric on the road to rehabilitation. Despite Eric's gross abuse of (also hard-handed) jailers, earning deputy governor Hayes's grim hatred, they get him admitted to voluntary therapist Oliver Baumer's group, where 'kid' Eric stirs trouble, misbehaves, needs to be dragged back by Neville who lacks paternal authority or parental tenderness, yet finds support, camaraderie and some sense. But the rowdy already made too many enemies, out for vengeance on the Loves, undermining Dennis's position as guardian of a delicate order among prison scum.

