Detective Robert has Downs, his own office, a trench coat and a Bogart hat. The only thing he is missing is a case. But then a lady comes to his rescue.
It's not easy to be 28 year old detective Robert Bogerud. He is the only detective in the country with Downs syndrome. He has own office, a trench-coat and a Bogart-hat. He is ready - all he needs is his first case. Not even his father, a policeman, believes in Robert. One morning a mysterious lady turns up at his office. The skating legend Olav Stjernen has disappeared, and the family fears the worst. The reality is that they are in desperate need for an incompetent detective to please Olav Stjernens senile and awfully rich mother. Robert is the perfect man for the job! The family's secrets are far more dangerous than Robert expects, and with his own life on stake he sets out to get the truth. Maybe Robert is not so stupid as everyone thought?
A drunk 28 year old boy called Robert Bogerud who has his own office in the downs-syndrome hotel Marihøna and his dad's office in a police station not so nearby. Then he got a phone call and answer's it. He says ''Hello this is Robert Bogerud. Meet me at the red line strike''. He goes to a strip club to have a girl to date with.Then he sees a stripper on stage taking of her clothes and shows her boobs. While Robert was walking by he saw a guy naked with showing bare buttocks having sex with a coat. Then next morning he got drunk and got a knock on the door. It was a old travelled lady called Rita Stjernen who asked that is it you that is the one named Robert Bogerud.Then she asked him that her home is the only place for him to get a case. Then he agree's and says goodbye to the Marihøna people and went already to her home. When they came to her house it was old and unfinished. Then she a husband called Lars Erik Stjernen, a old lady and her sister Isabel Stjernen who is obsessed of being bored.Then they ask what his job is then he answered he uses his feelings. Then the old woman decided to choose him as an home keeper and detective at theyr'e home. Then at midnight Robert enter's Lars Erik's room to see what he was up to. Then he said that he need to go away from his room then he got out and went into Isabell's room to see what she is up to. Then she is annoyed and kicked him out. Afterwards he was on drugs and begin to love Rita then tryed to slap him but then he got in the ear and got downstairs. Then his job was to find Olav Stjernen who basically died many years ago.Robert talked to the old lady if she is ok she said that she wasn't meant to be here. The next morning Robert tryed to escape the house and stole the car and got away. Then Lars Erik highly quoted ''Come back here you damn mongo''. Then when Robert came to the police station he got suprise from the folks but his dad was not in the mood. Then he went back to the house and said sorry for escaping. Then he try'ed again and that went completely wrong because of theyr'e sister Isabel was aggressive when he was in her work station and he was looking at a catalog with a picture of Isabel naked.Then afterwards he got back to the Marihøna to see if he is understanded what this is about. Then basically came Rita to get him back but then he said to her stay here then she did. But the Marihøna people are nervous for his pranks then he had sex with Rita to avoid the people then they heard sex noises from the room. Afterwards he got back Lars Erik got aggressive and hitted Robert to put him in an closet.Then he got to jail with Isabel. He tried to escape but theyr'e no way out then he got an idea that he used a idea plan to get out. Then he got out and escaped but then he got shot by Lars Erik and had a happy ending where he went to the place he wanted to go with his new girlfriend Isabel with him holding Monopoly in his hand and with Olav Stjernen who also lived. Then they approve to the place and Isabel was wearing bikini then she said theyr'e were not gonna marry but then Robert finally quoted ''That's what you say''.At the end credits there is the song Livin La Vida Loca and before the credits we have the family Rita was in trouble and Lars Erik got sended to prison so he tries to escape everytime
