A Hollywood bad boy movie star comes to a town far away. He gets a job in the back of a bakery as he likes the recently dumped owner/baker and her cupcakes. He's in a movie filmed there in December.
The only thing that is working in Cassie's world is her small town business. Her Christmas Cupcakery is a huge success, but her love life is a mess. Cassie's whole universe is turned upside down when she falls in love with a co-worker who is revealed to be the famous and notoriously troubled actor Alex Gray. There's no denying that Alex and Cassie are in love, but can their relationship survive the pressure of Hollywood and the holidays?
Cassie Drake, the owner/operator of Cassie's Cupcakery, arguably makes the best cupcakes in the town where she lives. While her business is a success beyond the plethora of equipment problems in the kitchen, her personal life is less so with her most recent boyfriend Jared having just broken up with her, she, in an effort to stay close to him despite he being less than a good boyfriend, deciding to share custody of "their" dog, Gonzo. In the approach to Christmas, business picks up even more than usual when she gets a large order for a movie shoot in town on December 1st. Concurrently, her personal life takes a turn for the better when a new customer, A.J., enters the bakery. While there is an immediate attraction between the two, he is also a seeming Jack-of-all-Trades as she hires him to do repairs in the kitchen. It isn't until they fall hard for each other that she learns the hard way that he is not just plain A.J., but rather movie star Alex Gray - she unaware of that fact not being attuned to pop culture - in town for the movie, he in the lead role. While Alex tries to persuade her that his feelings for her are genuine beyond what she may read online about his bad boy past when he was younger, Cassie doesn't know not only if she can trust him but if their two very different lives can mesh, he most likely heading back to Hollywood after shooting finishes on Christmas Eve. What makes her life more complicated with respect to Alex is that Jared wants to get back together with her possibly in his jealousy with a movie star in her life, and Alex's ex-fiancée, movie star Skylar St. Jean, is hired at the last minute to star alongside Alex, she who is all about publicity, she and Alex together which makes for good press. Although she herself doesn't believe in it like her best friend and roommate Tricia does, Cassie may be guided in this matter by the forces in the universe.

