College philosophy professor Mr. Radisson's curriculum is challenged by his new student, Josh, who believes God exists.
Freshman university student Josh Wheaton attends a philosophy class, where Professor Radisson requires all students to submit a signed statement staying "God is dead" and never existed. When Josh refuses (due to his own beliefs), the professor challenges him to defend his position, leading to a series of confrontational presentations between himself and the professor, with the class as jury.
Josh Wheaton, a Christian college student attends a class on philosophy. When his professor tells all his students to dismiss the existence of God, Josh speaks up and objects. The ongoing debate continues and finally Josh finds out why the professor insists on the nonexistent of God. The final debate is when Josh asked the professor, "Why do you hate God?" Finally the professor answered angrily saying, "Because he took everything away from me!!"
Josh Wheaton (Shane Harper) is a Christian who never thought his faith would get in the way of his higher education. As a result, he is deeply shaken when, on the first day of his Philosophy class, Professor Radisson (Sorbo) begins the semester by demanding that each of his students deny the existence of God in order to earn a passing grade. Although Josh tries his best to graciously refuse, Professor Radisson informs him that in order to continue in the class, the disagreeable student must make an air-tight argument for the defense. Not only that, but the semester will culminate in a debate between teacher and student on the subject. Should the class still remain unconvinced of God's existence, Josh will fail, sending his entire academic future up in flames..
College student Josh Wheaton attends a philosophy class, where the uncompromising Professor Radisson requires all students to agree in writing that the Christian god is "dead". When Josh refuses on account of his Christianity, the Professor challenges him to defend his position that his god is real, which leads to a series of confrontational presentations by himself and the professor in turn, each making their case in front of the class, before a final debate. At the same time, Reverends Dave and Jude attempt to leave town but are hindered by curious minor accidents, student Ayisha is at odds with her father Misrab's conservative religious principles, and Mark, who is some kind of businessman, acts cynically towards his mentally ill mother, while his journalist girlfriend receives bad news from a doctor. Willie and Korie Robertson also appear in town to speak at a concert for a band called The Newsboys, but this doesn't relate to any of the other plots.************Josh Wheaton (Shane Harper), an evangelical college student, enrolls in a philosophy class taught by Professor Jeffrey Radisson (Kevin Sorbo), an atheist, who demands that his students sign a declaration that "God is dead" to get a passing grade. Josh is the only student in the class who refuses to sign and is then required by Radisson to debate the topic with him, with the class members deciding who wins.Radisson gives Josh twenty minutes at the end of the first three lecture sessions to argue that God exists. In the first two debates, Radisson has counter arguments for all of Josh's points. Josh's girlfriend Kara (Cassidy Gifford) tries to convince him to either drop out of class or follow Radisson's rules, fearing that standing up to Radisson will jeopardize their academic future, but she eventually breaks up with him when he refuses to disown his belief in God. Ultimately, it comes down to the third and final debate between Radisson and Josh, who again both make compelling points. Josh then halts his line of debate to pose a question to Radisson: "Why do you hate God?" After Josh repeats the question twice more, Radisson explodes in rage, confirming he hates God for his mother's death that left him alone despite his prayers. Josh then casually asks Radisson how he can hate someone that does not exist. In the end, Martin (Paul Kwo), a foreign exchange student whose father had encouraged him not to convert to Christianity so he can stay focused with the class, stands up and says "God's not dead." Almost the entire class follows Martin's lead, causing Radisson to leave the room in defeat.Against the backdrop of the debates, a series of peripherally related subplots develop. Radisson dates Mina (Cory Oliver), an evangelical whom he often belittles in front of his fellow atheist colleagues. Her brother Mark (Dean Cain), a successful businessman and atheist, refuses to visit their mother, who suffers from dementia. Mark's girlfriend, Amy (Trisha LaFache), is a left-wing blogger who writes articles critical of Duck Dynasty. When she is diagnosed with cancer, Mark dumps her. A Muslim student named Ayisha (Hadeel Sittu) secretly converts to Christianity. However, when her brother caught listening to the passage of 1 Corinthians 15 on her iPod, she is ultimately disowned by her infuriated father when he finds out.After the final debate, Josh invites Martin to attend the Newsboys concert that is in town. Radisson reads a letter from his late mother, and is moved to reconcile with Mina. Amy confronts the Newsboys in their dressing room, only to admit that she wants to get to know God. While Radisson is on way to find Mina, he is struck by a car and fatally injured.. Reverend Dave (David A.R. White) witnesses the incident just couple meters away. Reverend Dave finds him and guides him in becoming an evangelical Christian as he dies. Mark at last visits his mother, only to taunt her; she responds that all of his financial success was given to him by Satan.As the film ends, the Newsboys play a video clip of Willie Robertson congratulating Josh. The Newsboys then play their song "God's Not Dead", dedicating it to Josh.
