A compilation of found footage featuring music, interviews, and stories of The Beatles' 250 concerts from 1963 to 1966.
In the 1960s, the Beatles exploded on to the public scene, seemingly out of nowhere as the band's formative years of constant performing at home and in Hamburg, and Brian Epstein's grooming, finally paid off beyond their wildest dreams. Accompanying new interviews of the remaining Beatles, their associates and fans as well as archival interviews of the late ones, this film features footage of the heady concert years of 1963 to 66 when the band became a worldwide cultural phenomena topping them all. Furthermore, it also follows how the Fab Four began to change and grow while the excitement of Beatlemania began to sour their lives into an intolerable slog they needed to escape from to become more than what their fans wanted.
Directed by Ron Howard, a documentary on the Beatles, focusing almost exclusively on their "touring years' - 1963 to 1966. Includes interviews and press conferences with the Beatles, rare footage and recordings and interviews with people who were influenced by the Beatles.
The lives of The Beatles in their most famous incarnation of George Harrison, John Lennon, Paul McCartney and Ringo Starr during their primary touring years of 1963 to 1966 is presented through archive footage and/or interviews. These interviews include with all four band members, others involved with the band at the time, and fans, including current day celebrities, in how the band affected their own lives then and now. Some information is provided in that the band was not the overnight success it is thought to be when they virtually exploded onto the worldwide consciousness in 1963. Beyond the band members themselves and their music, the input of other key players into the band's success is shown, including that of manager Brian Epstein, press agent Derek Taylor, and music producer George Martin. The effect of their movies, especially the first, A Hard Day's Night (1964), which was an extension of their on stage fun loving, slightly cheeky, quick witted and friendly personae, on their success is shown. Their lives are shown against a backdrop of global events of the time, including the assassination of US President John F. Kennedy and the onset of the Vietnam War. The reasons behind their decision to stop touring, despite it being the most lucrative aspect of their careers, to focus on studio recording in 1966 is also presented, that decision which was not all of their own doing, and which had as a factor their changing musical tastes in only being able to experiment in a studio setting partly a result of growing into full fledged adults. Their sole post-1966 public performance in this foursome in 1969 concludes the documentary.

