American soldiers lost behind enemy lines during the WWII make a horrific discovery: Hitler has a super bomb in development. Against all odds, they set out to find the scientist in charge of the program who is looking to defect.
During the last major German offensive of World War II, a company of American soldiers is lost behind enemy lines during the Battle of the Bulge and they make a horrific discovery - Hitler has a super bomb in development. The soldiers soon learn about a secret allied mission to retrieve a defecting German scientist in charge of a Hitler's weapons program. Faced with impossible odds, the company and an escaping POW go on a daring raid into the heart of Nazi Germany in pursuit of the scientist.
With the Germans apparently near defeat in the latter part of World War II, a squad of American soldiers sent on a routine mission, near Elsenborn in the Belgian Ardennes, encounter a surprisingly strong German tank and infantry force. After a fierce firefight, the Americans manage to escape and try to make their way back to their own lines to report the German surge. En route, they stumble across a German experimental site, still smoldering with flames, ash and smoke from some devastating event. Surprisingly this site is in Heidenfeld, Thuringia in Germany, although their own lines are hundreds of km´s away in Belgium. Nevertheles the story goes on from there and they come across an American OSS agent, suffering with horrific burn wounds, and learn that the Germans are close to development of a super-bomb which will enable them to turn the tides of war and achieve victory. The American agent, knowing that he's near death, asks the soldiers to complete his missionto find the bomb, disable it, and bring out the scientist who's developing it and wishes to defect. The mission takes them, still in uniform, their sergeant and other NCOs dead, and now led by the youngest of the soldiers (Chad Michael Collins) and a cook (Tom Sizemore) the latter having been demoted from Lieutenant after the D-Day landings, deep into Nazi territory. There, they are joined by an escaped British airman, (Vinnie Jones) and Russian (Dimitri Diatchenko). Discovered and pursued, the Americans make a series of hair-breadth escapes from vastly superior numbers of well-armed Nazi soldiers...finally to make contact with a beautiful woman (Melia Kreiling) who's their link to the bomb and to the scientist, (Jurgen Prochnow).
