Grieving over the untimely loss of his family and in a dissociative state, an aimlessly-wandering Jewish man is rescued by another family who help him find his way back to happiness again.
About Twist of Faith Jacob Fisher ('David Julian Hirsh'), an Orthodox Jewish Cantor and amateur songwriter who resides in Brooklyn, New York, witnesses the senseless murder of his wife and three children. Catatonic, Jacob walks out on his Jewish mourning ritual, leaving behind his Jewish garments, wallet and keys. Abandoning his identity, he wanders aimlessly, hoping somehow to understand his tragedy. Fortuitously, he lands in Brent, Alabama (population 2,500), where he is embraced by Nina (Toni Braxton), a single mother and the lead singer of a small gospel choir (an unlikely finalist in the competition to determine the best gospel choir in Alabama), her Uncle Moe (Mykelti Williamson) and their gospel community who help his return to life while music brings Nina and Jacob together as they try to make sense of his past and their possible future.
The life of Brooklyn residing Orthodox Jew, Jacob Fisher - a cantor and teacher at his synagogue - is forever altered with the random murder of his wife Ruth and their three children. Unable to deal with the grief of losing his entire family and having lost his faith in the process, Jacob leaves his life in Brooklyn without telling anybody where he's going or without taking anything, just hopping on a bus to wherever, living off the kindness of strangers along the way. Among his many stops is the small predominantly black Southern Baptist community of Brent, Alabama. At the time of his arrival there, he is down and out, not talking to anyone or telling anyone who he is or of his background. Pre-teen Asher Jones and his Great Uncle Moe, both who try to live a life of true Christian generosity, can see that this silent Caucasian stranger is in need of help and is kind-hearted at his core. Asher's divorced mother, Nina Jones, is a little more skeptical about this stranger. Like Jacob, Nina, the lead singer in the church's gospel choir which is looking for the perfect song for an upcoming singing competition, is a broken soul, she who has focused her priorities on Asher to the expense of her own needs to atone for something from her past. Jacob and Nina's family are ultimately able to make an emotional connection, based largely on Nina and Jacob's shared love of music. The question becomes whether this connection is just a brief stop in their respective life journeys, or if it is longer lasting and enough to bring Nina and/or Jacob out of their current broken mentalities.

