A thirty-five-year-old woman fakes being pregnant to fit in with her friends.
Preggoland tells the story of Ruth, a 35-year-old woman who pretends to be pregnant to fit in with her friends. Although Ruth initially tries to come clean, the perks of pregnancy are too seductive to ignore and she soon finds herself living a lie. Starring Sonja Bennett (who also wrote the script), James Caan and Danny Trejo and directed by Jacob Tierney (The Trotsky), Preggoland is a comedy that looks at the lengths we will go just to feel special.
Single mid-thirty-something Ruth Huxley is an over-aged party girl with little ambition. She still lives at home in the basement of her widowed father Walter Huxley's house, and works as a clerk at the local outlet of Value King supermarket, it a job she's had since she was fifteen. She has nary a maternal bone in her body, as witnessed by her attitude and actions at yet the latest baby shower she attends of among her closest friends, three of them - Shannon (the new mother to be), Cherry, and her best friend Deb - who she's known since high school. Because these three now are focused so much on their families and raising their respective kids and not on their long past partying days, they completely ostracize Ruth from their lives. Walter desperately wants to be a grandfather, and with Hillary, Ruth's A-type personality older, married sister, and her husband Ronald announcing that they have finally decided to start a family, Ruth becomes even more the outcast of the family. A misunderstanding leads to Shannon, Cherry and Deb believing that Ruth is pregnant, it a misunderstanding that Ruth does not immediately correct but will in short order. However, having people believe she's pregnant gets her one favor after another and gets her out of one jam after another, whether that be at home with her dad and Hillary, or at work with her new boss, Danny Makerman, who generally follows the letter of the corporate law. Her initial thought as to the identity of the biological father is a cardiac physician she lusts after who is a customer at the store. Ruth gets some unexpected quid pro quo help in her ruse. The longer she continues the lie, the harder it becomes for her to get out of it. But through it all, she gets a different view of her friends and family, and they of her. She also gets a different view of work and Danny, they both becoming more important aspects of her life.

