When a mother returns to her musical roots, she rediscovers the passion of her youth, and finds a way to connect with her troubled youngest son.
"Life Inside Out" tells the parallel stories of Laura, a devoted mother of three teenage sons, and her struggling son Shane, the family misfit and a mystery to his Dad and brothers. When Laura stumbles upon her long forgotten guitar, she rediscovers her passion for music and songwriting. In an impulsive move to avoid attending another of her sister Lydia's scrapbook parties, Laura goes to her first open mic night, taking Shane (anxious to escape his own unpleasant fate on a father-son fishing trip) along for the ride. Despite her rocky entry into a new world of clubs and unusual characters, this first step into expressing herself proves to be the catalyst for changing not only her life, but Shane's, in complex and unpredictable ways.
Life Inside Out tells the story of Laura (Maggie Baird), a devoted mother of three teenage boys and her youngest son Shane (Finneas O'Connell), the family misfit and a disappointment to his father. When Laura stumbles upon her long forgotten guitar, the cast off passion of her youth, she is taken under its spell and soon rediscovers her love for songwriting. When, in an impulsive move to avoid another of her sisters scrap booking parties, Laura impulsively flies off to her first open-mic night; she takes Shane, anxious to escape an annual father-son fishing trip, along for the ride. Despite a rocky entry into the late night mélange of musicians and unusual characters that populate the club, Laura starts to blossom and Shane seems oddly at home. Soon, following his mothers lead and with a little help from Youtube, Shane begins to discover musical gifts of his own. Although the family struggles under the burden of financial pressure and the path to creative expression is bumpy, Lauras first brave steps prove to be the catalyst for changing not only her life, but also Shanes in complex and unpredictable ways.
