Four assassins pose as Secret Service agents to assassinate the President of the United States.
Four rogue Secret Service agents, led by one named Baron, commandeer the house of war-widow Ellen. Her home is a prime sniper position for their plan to assassinate the President on his visit to the small town of Suddenly. The men fool the local cops except for one, Todd. A washed-up former war hero and deputy who is now the town drunk, Todd served with Ellen's deceased husband and has developed romantic feelings for her over the years. But she rebuffs his advances. Todd visits the house and is immediately suspicious of Baron, but no one will listen to the ravings of a drunk. Once Todd realizes what is going on, he manages to kill one of Baron's crew, but is captured. Now he and Ellen must find a way to stop Baron and his men before they kill the President.
In Suddenly, Washington, Ellen has been widowed for five years, her military husband Mike who was killed while serving in Iraq. Their now eleven year old son, Pidge, is constantly getting into trouble, not having that constant adult male influence in his life, despite they now living with Ellen's father, Pete, in the longtime family home. Tod Shaw, one of the town's deputy sheriffs who served alongside Mike in Iraq, wants to be that male influence for Pidge. Tod indeed is now the only person to who Pidge listens. But Tod did not come out of Iraq well, he now always angry and an alcoholic, and Ellen does not see Tod in the light as her husband or Pidge's father as she isn't ready to date, Tod or anyone else. Some excitement happens in town when at the last minute, the townsfolk learn that the President will be traveling through the town en route to a vacation nearby. Because of its strategic location overlooking the town, eventually three US Secret Service agents make their way to Pete, Ellen and Pidge's house to set up surveillance. After the three men - Baron, Conklin and Wheeler - have ensconced themselves in the house, Pete, Ellen and Pidge learn that they are not who they say they are, but, while holding the three family members hostage in the locked basement, are really there as part of a secret "committee" that want to take back their country by killing the President. Despite Baron, Conklin and Wheeler stating that they will not kill civilians in the process, Pete, Ellen and Pidge's lives may still be in mortal danger if they push Baron, Conklin or Wheeler too far in trying to get out of their predicament and save the President's life. The lives of others may also be in danger if they stumble across what is happening at the house before the men are able to fulfill their mission. One of those who does come by the house unexpectedly is Tod, who may learn that the men may not be who they say they are...
In the small Washington state down of Suddenly, "Deputy" Baron (Dominic Purcell) leads four assassins to impersonate Secret Service agents in order to commandeer the house of Ellen (Erin Karpluk), which they plan to use to assassinate the President by sniper rifle on his visit to the small town. Baron and his men fool the local cops except for Deputy Todd Shaw (Ray Liotta), who is a washed-up former war hero who became the town drunk. Todd served with Ellen's late husband in Iraq, and has developed romantic feelings for Ellen, who rebuffs his advances.Todd visits Ellen's house and becomes suspicious of Baron, but no one will listen to the ravings of a drunk. The assassins cause Ellen's father to die of a heart attack, but her young teenage son Pidge escapes the house to fetch help. Once Todd discovers Baron's plan, he does not bother calling it in, but does manage to kill one of Baron's crew before he is captured.Two assassins chat with Todd and Ellen while waiting to execute the plan, leading to a revelation that Todd accidentally killed Ellen's husband when reacting to a grenade attack on a moonless night in Iraq. The third assassin catches Pidge as he flags down local electrician Judd, bringing them both back to the house. Judd electrocutes the third assassin by tricking him into turning on a switch for the lights, and Baron kills his remaining partner for having second thoughts.Todd jumps Baron, the lone surviving assassin, as he shoots at the President with a sniper rifle, causing him to only graze the President's arm. Pidge shoots Baron as he is about to kill Todd. However, Todd discovers that there was an unknown fifth conspirator communicating via text messages with Baron and his team.The final scenes feature Todd as a media hero for saving the President's life, but the media also states that the Baron and his men acted alone and there was no "greater conspiracy" by persons unknown to kill the President.
