As the Best Exotic Marigold Hotel has only a single remaining vacancy, posing a rooming predicament for two fresh arrivals, Sonny Kapoor (Dev Patel) pursues his expansionist dream of opening a second hotel.
The Second Best Exotic Marigold Hotel is the expansionist dream of Sonny Kapoor (Dev Patel), and it's making more claims on his time than he has available, considering his imminent marriage to the love of his life, Sunaina (Tina Desai). Sonny has his eye on a promising property now that his first venture, The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel for the Elderly and Beautiful, has only a single remaining vacancy, posing a rooming predicament for fresh arrivals Guy Chambers (Richard Gere) and Lavinia Beech (Tamsin Greig). Evelyn Greenslade (Dame Judi Dench) and Douglas Ainslie (Bill Nighy) have now joined the Jaipur workforce, and are wondering where their regular dates for Chilla pancakes will lead, while Norman Cousins (Ronald Pickup) and Carol Parr (Diana Hardcastle) are negotiating the tricky waters of an exclusive relationship, as Madge Hardcastle (Celia Imrie) juggles two eligible and very wealthy suitors. Perhaps the only one who may know the answers is newly installed co-manager of the hotel, Muriel Donnelly (Dame Maggie Smith), the keeper of everyone's secrets. As the demands of a traditional Indian wedding threaten to engulf them all, an unexpected way forward presents itself.
It's been eight months since the Best Exotic Marigold Hotel in Jaipur, India, has been in its current model, with the original British pensioner residents minus Graham (Tom Wilkinson), and Douglas Ainslie's (Bill Nighy's) now estranged wife Jean (Dame Penelope Wilton), still there and immersed in South Asian life for all of its good and bad. In both the good and bad categories, they all, minus Muriel Donnelly (Dame Maggie Smith), are facing emotional issues of the heart in one form or another, which are somewhat affected by their professional commitments. Meanwhile, the hotel is victim of its own success, and as such, the world is seemingly Sonny Kapoor's (Dev Patel's) oyster. He is financially secure enough that he and Sunaina (Tina Desai) can now get married. But he and his business partner Muriel believe they need to expand to a second property, that property which they have chosen and has long been on the market. They are looking for an investor, they believing being a franchise of Evergreen, an American based conglomerate specializing in seniors facilities, the best way to proceed. Evergreen's response is that they will send someone to Jaipur to investigate on their behalf. Sonny is certain the Evergreen representative is an American who checks into the hotel without a reservation, Guy Chambers (Richard Gere), despite Guy stating that he is an aspiring novelist wanting to experience the world for his book. Regardless, Sonny places all of his attention on Guy at the expense of everyone else, especially the other temporary resident of the hotel, Lavinia Beech (Tamsin Greig), a young Brit who is on a reconnaissance trip at the hotel for her mother, and at the expense of his and Sunaina's wedding planning. Sonny's world takes a possible turn for the worse with the arrival back into town of his brother's friend, Kushal (Shazad Latif), as Kushal ends up factoring into Sonny's professional life, as well as is a person who may interest neglected Sunaina romantically. What Sonny is unaware of is that his own actions are a bigger threat to his professional success and future life with Sunaina than Kushal or anybody or anything else. He will also find that eventual heartache is an inherent part of his life in running the hotel in its current model.
As the contented residents of the hotel begin settling into their new lives, Sonny Kapoor (Dev Patel) strives to balance the demands of planning his wedding with the responsibilities of purchasing a new property. Meanwhile, new guests Guy Chambers (Richard Gere) and Lavinia Beech (Tamsin Greig) find themselves in a predicament after arriving at the hotel to find there is only one vacancy. Perhaps with a little innovation new co-manager Muriel Donnelly (Dame Maggie Smith) can find a means of accommodating the hotel's latest occupants, but she'll have her work cut out for her as Douglas Ainslie (Bill Nighy) and Evelyn Greenslade (Dame Judi Dench) begin their new careers in Jaipur while flirting with the idea of a serious romance, like Norman Cousins (Ronald Pickup) and Carol Parr (Diana Hardcastle). With romance in the air, it's no wonder that Madge Hardcastle (Celia Imrie) has her pick of handsome suitors, and as stalwart Muriel safeguards the many secrets of the vivacious residents, Sonny and Sunaina learn that planning a traditional Indian wedding can be a true test of commitment.
The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel 2 (or The Second Best Exotic Marigold Hotel) is the expansionist dream of Sonny Kapoor, and its making more claims on his time than he has available, considering his imminent marriage to the love of his life, Sunaina. Sonny has his eye on a promising property now that his first venture, The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel for the Elderly and Beautiful, has only a single remaining vacancy posing a rooming predicament for fresh arrivals Guy and Lavinia.Evelyn and Douglas have now joined the Jaipur workforce, and are wondering where their regular dates for Chilla pancakes will lead, while Norman and Carol are negotiating the tricky waters of an exclusive relationship, as Madge juggles two eligible and very wealthy suitors. Perhaps the only one who may know the answers is newly installed co-manager of the hotel, Muriel, the keeper of everyone's secrets. As the demands of a traditional Indian wedding threaten to engulf them all, an unexpected way forward presents itself.
