A corporate workaholic wakes up in an alternate universe, married to her childhood sweetheart.
Melody, high powered corporate workaholic for a retail conglomerate, is happy to spend the holidays jet-setting with her girlfriends. However, she's in for an unpleasant surprise when her boss sends her to her sleepy hometown to convince the reluctant townspeople to allow them to build a new discount store. Now, forced to reconnect with her family and her childhood sweetheart Carter, her task is not so simple, as all are vehemently opposed to everything Melody's company stands for. Desperate to get out of town and back to her real life, Melody takes a spill and wakes up in an alternate universe where she never left home and is married to Carter! Once determined to leave her small town life behind, Melody must make sense of her new life and decide if you truly can go home again.
Mel "Don't Call Me Melody" Gerard, an executive for Chicago-based Save Now, a chain of big box retailers, doesn't believe that people can have it all, she focusing on her career rather than family, either past or present, which means no long term relationships. As such, she is working on the launch of their one-hundredth store, a regional destination-oriented megastore located in what was her hometown of Streetsville, where she left for good fourteen years ago. If the process of opening this store is successful, she is as much guaranteed the high profile promotion as Head of Development in their International Division. She is heading to Streetsville just prior to Thanksgiving as part of her work to schmooze town council to approve the development, not telling her widowed mother, small café owner Elaine Gerard, that that is the sole reason for her return home, and that she is planning on going to the Bahamas with two girlfriends instead of staying for Thanksgiving. Mel's Thanksgiving plans are kiboshed when town council delays the vote to after the Thanksgiving weekend to allow all to review the materials for the controversial development, the primary opposition raised by Carter McClure, Mel's high school sweetheart and former fiancé, who, like many of the other townsfolk, believe such a big box will kill local businesses and destroy the small town fabric which is what they love about Streetsville. Carter has even more personal reasons for opposing the development: it will demolish the old inn he and Mel lived in before she moved away, and which he has since repurchased to reconvert into their original dream, a B&amp;B called the Streetsville Inn. After suffering a fall and a possible concussion, Mel awakens with what she believes is her full memory. However instead of what she believes, she is in an alternate life, where she is happily referred to as Melody, came back from Chicago following her father's death eventually to marry Carter, the two who live in what will soon be the opened Streetsville Inn, and she owning and running the café called "Sweet Melody's". Given this opportunity, Mel will have to decide which life path she wants to take regardless of what is reality, especially as the two worlds start to converge, and what she will need to do to achieve that chosen life path.

