Creative director Tom Burns may be at the top of his game, but he's still considered a dinosaur for being over forty in the youthful, trendy business of advertising. In a moment of desperation, he hires young con-artist Dick Sweeney to be his stand-in at an ad agency while Tom does all of the hard work behind the scenes. The scheme works until Tom falls for Dick's co-worker Harriet Foster, forcing Tom and Dick to make a choice between love and getting a paycheck in this comedy about ageism in the work place.
Despite recent success and a history of excellence in the business, fifty year old divorced Tom Burns is considered obsolete as a Madison Avenue ad man. When the company where he has long worked, CG&amp;O, is sold to competing ad company Rage, led by megalomaniac and image obsessed Reese Danzinger, Tom is not hired in the merged company, and due to his age is unable to find another job, as those in the business see advertising as a job for edgy twenty-somethings. He believes he can't open his own agency without an existing client. He feels even more in a bind when he cannot turn away his violin virtuoso daughter, Kelly Burns, who has unexpectedly come to live with him, her several thousand dollar school tuition which is soon due and which he previously told her he would cover. Tom is an overprotective father who won't let Kelly make her own decisions in life. Tom comes up with an idea to get out of his predicament when he runs into a twenty-something named Dick Varnett, a nickel and dime con man who previously conned Tom out of twenty bucks: Dick will be his front at Rage, Tom the creative brains behind Dick. Dick agrees to the scheme as this "job" will probably be more lucrative than all his other cons combined. Beyond the obvious logistical issues in carrying out the scheme successfully, complications ensue when Tom and Dick both fall for one of Rage's art directors, Harriet Fellows, who in turn falls for Dick's entire package, not realizing that his creative brain truly belongs to Tom. A further issue with Harriet is that she is relationship-shy, being burned in her last serious relationship where her then fiancé lied to her.

