A millionaire has his life turned upside down after firing his I.T. consultant.
Mike Regan has everything he could ever want, a beautiful family and a top of the line smart house. The company he owns is on the verge of changing flight leasing forever. That is, until the relationship with his I.T. advisor turns nasty, to the point where his teenage daughter is being stalked and his family is under attack through every technological facet of their lives.
Michael "Mike" Regan is a self-made aviation tycoon who lives in a state-of-the-art smart home full of modern technologies with his wife, Rose, and their 17-year-old daughter, Kaitlyn. Mike is developing an app called "Omni Jet" which is designed to fly at a higher altitude and will be effective upon the approval of Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).At the company, he meets the 28-year-old I.T. consultant, Ed Porter, and he calls Porter to fix the WiFi signal which his daughter complains is slow. Porter claims that he also worked at NSA and joins the military exercise in Kandahar, Afghanistan. Porter meets Kaitlyn and starts a relationship through social media. Mike fires Porter from work after Kaitlyn invites him to come in the house, although Kaitlyn describes Porter as being nice but Mike tells her that she is too young to have a boyfriend.Devastated, Porter begins to remotely access all the private sectors including Mike's house that he monitored, unbeknownst to Mike, through the security cameras and devices all over the house and he even spies and records Kaitlyn, unbeknown to her, masturbating in the shower room. One day, Porter takes full control of the house, which leaves the family terrified, and using a spoof email to Rose about her mammogram results saying that she tested positive for breast cancer, which leaves her devastated, but the truth is she's negative according to her attending physician. Mike realizes that Porter has done it, he attacks Porter and threatens to kill him if he does not stay away from his family.Porter then uploads the video of Kaitlyn masturbating, immediately catching the attention of her schoolmates, leaving Kaitlyn embarrassed. Kaitlyn blames her father for the technology installed in the house. Angered, Mike drives to Porter's apartment but he is also being monitored. Porter mockingly phones Mike through the car navigation system and sends the video of his daughter masturbating. Porter then remotely activates the car's brake system, hitting a nearby stalled truck and destroying the car.Mike gets help from I.T. expert Henrik who he asks for advice. Henrik states that Mike must destroy all the smart technology across the house and deletes all of the email and bank accounts and computer files. A little later, Henrik explains that he made a background check on Porter and found out that Porter's real name is Richard Edward Portman and his father committed suicide when he was six years old. He also reveals that Porter never worked in NSA, as he claimed, and the photo of him along with the soldiers in Kandahar was fake. In order to take the evidence from the apartment where Porter lives, Henrik makes a diversion by stealing a phone from a coffee shop waitress, Porter's obsessed girlfriend, and chats Porter to come at the coffee shop. While Porter's gone, Mike managed to take the thumb drives containing the evidence and escapes just as the Porter realizes it is a diversion. Realizing that the masked-man he saw in his apartment is Mike, Porter has him arrested him for assault and battery.After getting out of the precinct, Mike goes back to his home where Kaitlyn and Rose are tied up by Porter and being held at gunpoint. A struggle ensues, Porter shoots out a window and Mike punches Porter who hits his head, and lays dying as Mike holds the gun to his chest wanting to kill him, but Rose begs him not to and to turn him over to the police. Sirens are then heard in the background.Some time later, the employees applaud Mike and his family for successfully developing the app and their house is restored.
