Ravi (Ravi Teja) works as a collection agent of ICICI in Bangalore and leads a happy life along with his friends and his father Mohan Rao (Prakash Raj) who wishes to see Ravi married to a girl soon. Once Ravi rushes to a Hospital where his friend ('Satyam' Rajesh) is admitted as he tried to commit suicide by drinking nail polish solution and asks the reason for it. Then he describes about the traits of Shruti (Shruti Haasan) and her uncle Crazy Mohan (Brahmanandam). The duo have a habit of cheating gullible young men including his friend and Ravi decides to teach them a lesson. Ravi enters their life as a gullible youngster and starts torturing them. Crazy Mohan's plans and attempts always go in vain before him. As a part of their cunning plans, Crazy Mohan advises Shruti to ask Ravi to marry her. As fate would have it, Ravi also comes with a marriage proposal to Shruti. Then the pair approach Mohan Rao and tell him that Ravi is in love with Shruti and that he proposed to her. They assume that this would enrage him but the result is negative as Mohan Rao accepts the proposal heartily. However, Shruti was already engaged to Rohit (Adivi Sesh) by her father (Nassar) sometime in the past. Ravi one days saves Shruti from some goons and after doing so advises her not to play with people's feelings in future. Shruti finds herself falling in love with Ravi and informs Ravi's father Mohan Rao. Mohan Rao leaves the final decision to Shruti's father who in turn guarantees that they would not face any problem in the future from Ravi. On the other hand Rohit's mother (Sana) warns Shruti that she would torture her after her marriage. Listening to both, Shruti's father fixes Shruti's marriage with Ravi. Rohit's mother gets humiliated by this and calls her brother Poorna (Ashutosh Rana). Poorna who arrives at the wedding venue with his hench men recognise that Ravi-Mohan Rao are his biggest enemies Shankar-Nanaji. While Ravi is fighting with the goons, Poorna stabs Mohan Rao and flees away to Vizag with Shruti. After admitting Mohan Rao into the hospital, Ravi starts narrating his past.
A young man's father pressurizes him to get married. He comes to know of a con artist, who habitually cheats gullible bachelors and decides to teach her a lesson, but ends up falling in love with her. Even as they decide to get married, the young man's troubled past comes back to haunt him.

