A group of Sudanese refugees, given the chance to resettle in the U.S., arrive in Kansas City, Missouri, where their encounter with an employment agency counselor forever changes all of their lives.
Four Sudanese children are orphaned after their village is massacred in the Second Sudanese Civil War. Consequently, they make an arduous and dangerous trek through the plains, enduring hardship, death and sacrifice all the way until they reach safety in a refugee camp in Kenya. Years later, these youths are among 3600 selected for resettlement in America, only to have the one girl among them sent to Boston, while the three boys must to make a new life in Kansas City. Together, these young men must adjust to an alien culture even as the emotional baggage of their past haunts them. However, these newcomers, and their new friends like employment counselor Carrie Davis, strive to understand each other in this new home, as they make peace with their histories in a challenge that will change all their lives.
The Good Lie begins with a group of children in Sudan living a happy, carefree life until rebel forces massacre their village. The surviving children are forced to flee and do their best to stick together as they attempt to walk to Kenya. On their journey, they encounter other refugees and walk hundreds of miles in search of a refugee camp. During their journey, Theo, the eldest son and chief, sacrifices himself to rebel soldiers by stating he is alone while his brothers and sister hide in the tall grass. The tattered group eventually ends up in Kakuma, a refugee camp in Kenya, where they are reunited with several children whom they had previously known before the attack. Ultimately, four of the siblings - Mamere, Jeremiah, Paul, and their sister Abital - are chosen to go to the United States. The three young men end up in Kansas City while Abital is separated from her family and placed with a host family in Boston. The movie depicts the young men's struggles acclimating to their new life, such as adjusting to a vastly different culture, exposure to drugs, and worrying about dangerous animals. Carrie Davis, an employment agency counselor, assists them with job placement, helps them search for their sister, and ends up being their closest friend and supporter. Each of them is hired at jobs that are fairly suited to their skills. Mamere wants to study to be a doctor, Jeremiah is extremely religious and ultimately works with a church, and Paul likes to build and works in a factory. Carrie tracks down their sister and adopts Abital into her home so the three boys can be with their sister. Abital receives a letter from Theo informing her that he is at the refugee camp in Kenya. Mamere travels to confirm Theo's identity and attempts to secure paperwork so he can travel back to the United States. Mamere is unsuccessful at obtaining papers for Theo, so he gives Theo his identity to travel to the US while Mamere stays behind to work at the refugee camp as a doctor.

