Two Non-resident Indians Pranai and Rochak come to Hyderabad to take up jobs in their friend's company and settle in Hyderabad and get caught up with local gangsters.
Two Non-resident Indians Pranai and Rochak come to Hyderabad to take up jobs in their friend's company and settle in Hyderabad. Based in the old city, Ismail bhai and the gang meet up near Charminar and start their daily routine with gossips, babble and talks of bravery. Ismail bhai is apparently the gang leader and his gang comprises Saleem Pheku- a habitual liar, Jahangir - a self claimed hardcore gangster, Gafoor and Chaus who all follow Ismail bhai throughout the film. While visiting the old city, Pranai and Rochak meet the Ismail bhai gang at a hotel in the old city. The Ismail bhai gang gets into a spat with Pranai and Rochak. Rochak and Pranai are guided to safety by their guide as they are chased by the Ismail bhai gang. While Pranai and Rochak are engaged in love affairs in their office, the Ismail bhai gang keeps planning a strategy to seek their revenge. Meanwhile, Ramesh, Pranai's cousin (who is also their butler) colludes with Mama, the typical gangster of the Hyderabadi underbelly, to kidnap Pranai for ransom. Mama and his goons take up the assignment and the plan is set in motion. Ismail bhai is still enraged as he believes that the harmless spat is now a matter worth dying for and is a matter of his honour. On the other side of the town, Mama and his gang enter the residence of the NRIs, at the same time the Ismail bhai gang after sniffing out their whereabouts go into the NRI's house at night to seek their revenge and restore Ismail bhai's image. Mama and gang mistakenly kidnap Rochak. Ismail bhai and gang return from their mission failing as usual. Rochak finds out the mastermind behind the kidnapping and bribes the guard and warns Pranai of his cousin's intentions. Ismail bhai and Mama gang have a brush against each other. Pranai and Rochak succeed in making the two gangs fight against each other and manage their escape. As Mama and gang is nabbed by the Police, Ismail bhai and gang returns to Charminar after being heavily assaulted by Mama and his goons. And life, in Hyderabadi style, goes on as usual for the Ismail bhai gang.
The movie revolves around three sets of people. The Angrez - Two guys who come from the US to serve in an IT company.
Ismail bhai &amp; gang - A bunch of locals from the Old City Area
Annaa &amp; gang - Local gangstersTwo Non-resident Indians Pranai and Rochak come to Hyderabad to take up jobs in their friend's company and re-settle in Hyderabad. Based in the old city, Ismail bhai and the gang meet up near Charminar and start their daily routine with gossips, babble and talks of bravery. Ismail bhai is apparently the gang leader and his gang comprises Saleem Pheku- a habitual liar, Jahangir - a self claimed hardcore gangster, Gafoor and Chaus who all follow Ismail bhai throughout the film.While visiting the old city, Pranai and Rochak meet the Ismail bhai gang at a hotel in the old city. The Ismail bhai gang, and Pranai and Rochak enter into a spat. Rochak and Pranai are guided to safety by their guide as they are chased by the Ismail bhai gang. While Pranai and Rochak are engaged in love affairs in their office, the Ismail bhai gang keeps planning a strategy to seek their revenge.Meanwhile, Ramesh, Pranais cousin (who is also their butler) colludes with Mama, the typical gangster of the Hyderabadi underbelly, for kidnapping Pranai for ransom. Mama and his goons take up the assignment and the plan is set in motion.Ismail bhai is still in rage in his stronghold Charminar, as he believes that the harmless spat is now a matter worth dying for and is a matter of his honor. On the other side of the town, on Rameshs tip Mama and his gang enter the residence of the NRIs, at the same time the Ismail bhai gang after sniffing out their whereabouts go into the NRI's house at night to seek their revenge and restore Ismail bhais image. Mama and gang mistakenly kidnap Rochak. Ismail bhai and gang return from their mission failing as usual. Rochak finds out the mastermind behind the kidnapping and bribes the guard and warns Pranai of his cousins intentions. What happens later are a series of funny incidents involving all the three parties at the Golconda fort in the climax.Ismail bhai and Mama gang have a brush against each other. Pranai and Rochak succeed in making the two gangs fight against each other and manage their escape. As Mama and gang is nabbed by the Police, Ismail bhai and gang returns to Charminar after being heavily assaulted by Mama and his goons. And the life, the Hyderabadi style, goes on as usual for the Ismail bhai gang.
