Forsaken in a new Oslo apartment, a frail blind woman battles to come to terms with her condition, as she slowly retracts into an elaborate fantasy bubble. Are her stories fanning her suspicions, or is this what total blindness looks like?
Having recently lost her sight, Ingrid retreats to the safety of her home - a place where she can feel in control, alone with her husband and her thoughts. But Ingrid's real problems lie within, not beyond the walls of her apartment, and her deepest fears and repressed fantasies soon take over.
Blind has a thoughtful, clever conceit. A newly blind women, Ingrid (played by Ellen Dorrit Petersen), won't or can't leave the new apartment her husband has gotten for them. She's trying to hold to her memories of what things look like, and building on those memories to fit her current situation. These attempts become her creating two characters, a lonely young man with anxiety issues and a single mother.
In Norway, the recluse housewife Ingrid is an insecure woman, facing difficulties to locomote and to remember objects and animals after going blind and is afraid to go outside her apartment. Her insecureness becomes paranoia and extends to her marriage and Ingrid believes her husband Mortenis cheating on her. Reality and imagination are entwined in her mind and Ingrid thinks about Morten's friend Einar, who is porn-addicted, and Elin, who is his love affair. But what is truth and what is daydream?
Forsaken in a brand-new lovely apartment in Oslo, frail Ingrid is battling to come to terms with her mysterious genetic condition, after recently losing her eyesight in the prime of her life. Fearful of leaving the flat to venture out on her own, Ingrid slowly retracts into her elaborate fantasy bubble, on the verge of convincing herself that her architect husband is silently spying on her when she thinks she is alone. Suddenly, a faint tapping on the wall or an unfamiliar new sound are enough to blow out of proportion the blind authoress' paranoia--while at the same time--reality and imagination begin to blur. In the end, are Ingrid's stories fanning both her suspicions and her asexual anxiety, or is this what total blindness looks like?

