A behind-the-scenes look at Green Day's "American Idiot" album becoming a punk rock Broadway musical.
Broadway Idiot follows Green Day's Billie Joe Armstrong from a punk rock concert at Madison Square Garden to the opening of his musical American Idiot on Broadway - only ten blocks away, but worlds apart. From behind the curtain share in the crazy journey of turning the mega-hit album into a punk rock musical - and ultimately see how the world of theater transformed Billie Joe.
From punk rock mosh pits and sold-out stadiums to the Great White Way, this electrifying documentary follows Green Day's Billie Joe Armstrong as he works with Broadway veterans to turn his mega-hit album, American Idiot, into a Broadway musical. The film goes behind the scenes to reveal the creative choices and challenges made by Grammy速 winner Billie Joe and Tony速 winning director Michael Mayer (Spring Awakening) to create the thrilling and one-of-a-kind musical experience. More than just a making-of profile, Broadway Idiot is a portrait of a world-famous artist having the guts to try something totally new. The film grants insider access to the actors' rehearsals, the creative team's process and live performances that reveal Billie's transformation from rock star to Broadway star. Broadway Idiot provides a unique window into the art of theater as rock stars and stage stars collide and create something never seen before.
From punk rock mosh pits and sold-out stadiums to the Great White Way, this electrifying documentary follows Green Days Billie Joe Armstrong as he works with Broadway veterans to turn his mega-hit album, American Idiot, into a Broadway musical. The film goes behind the scenes to reveal the creative choices and challenges made by Grammy速 winner Billie Joe and Tony速 winning director Michael Mayer (Spring Awakening) to create the thrilling and one-of-a-kind musical experience. More than just a making-of profile, Broadway Idiot is a portrait of a world-famous artist having the guts to try something totally new. The film grants insider access to the actors rehearsals, the creative teams process and live performances that reveal Billies transformation from rock star to Broadway star. Broadway Idiot provides a unique window into the art of theater as rock stars and stage stars collide and create something never seen before.
