All-stars from the previous Step Up installments come together in glittering Las Vegas, battling for a victory that could define their dreams and their careers.
Sean brings his dance crew known as The Mob to Los Angeles to try and make it. But they haven't had much luck, eventually the Mob decides it's time to go back to Miami but Sean decides to stay. He learns of a dance competition is Las Vegas wherein the winner will get a three year contract. Sean needs a new crew so he asks fellow dancer Moose for help. And Moose introduces him to Andie, another friend and dancer who got injured a few years ago and is now ready to get back in. He recruits some other friends and they head Las Vegas as LMNTRIX. When they get there, they discover that the Mob too is also there, which is very touchy for Sean.
After months of failed auditions and no income, Sean's demotivated Mob votes to disband and return to Miami. Only Sean remains, stubbornly loyal to the dream of success. He accepts a menial job with free lodging as handyman at Mob mate Moose's grandfather Boris's ballroom dance school. He's impressed by their cool, classically schooled dance instructor Chad. Learning by Internet about a well-endowed national competition, Sean gets Moose, Chad and injury-recovered Andie, whom Moose introduced him too, to join his new LA crew and develop a new choreography. Arriving at the Las Vegas competition venue, they find among the competition as Florida candidate the remainder of Sean's original Mob.
Sean Asa and his crew, The Mob, are relocated from Miami, Florida to Los Angeles, are now trying to make a living from dancing, but are turned down at every audition. After being refused at another audition, the Mob visit a club where they are noticed and challenged to a dance battle by another crew, the Grim Knights. The Grim Knights win the battle and the Mob decides to pack up and leave Los Angeles and return to Miami, mostly because of financial difficulties, but also thinking there is nothing left for them and that they are not prepared for Los Angeles..

