An archaeological team attempts to unlock the secrets of a lost pyramid only to find themselves hunted by an insidious creature.
A team of U.S. archaeologists unearths an ancient pyramid buried deep beneath the Egyptian desert. As they search the pyramid's depths, they become hopelessly lost in its dark and endless catacombs. Searching for a way out, they become desperate to seek daylight again. They come to realize they aren't just trapped, they are being hunted.
The ancient wonders of the world have long cursed explorers who've dared to uncover their secrets. But a team of U.S. archaeologists gets more than they bargained for when they discover a lost pyramid unlike any other in the Egyptian desert. As they unlock the horrific secrets buried within, they realize they aren't just trapped; they are being hunted.
In times of turbulence and confusion in Egypt, an American team of archaeologists is digging a three-side pyramid in the desert. The engineer Zahir sends his robot to explore the interior while the archaeologists Nora and her father Holden; the video producer Sunni; and the cameraman Fitzie record and analyze the image. However they have to leave the site due to the political instability but out of blue, the expensive robot vanishes inside the pyramid. Amir K convinces Corporal Shadid to give two hours for them to seek out the robot. When they are in the interior, the floor collapses and they fall 30 m down. Soon they learn that the place is a maze full of traps and a creature is hunting them down. Will they succeed to escape?
Retired archaeology professor Holden leads an private expedition in turbulent Egypt's desert with his daughter Nora,cameraman Fitzie and video producer Sunni, which discovers a unique buried, three-sides pyramid. Initially they only send in engineer Zahir's state of the art robot and prepare to leave Egypt, but it gets lost and they get heavily-armed corporal Shahid to cover for them to retrieve it 'two hours max'. However they soon get lost, stumble upon traps, cause a collapse and fear to be utterly stuck, falling down a thirty meters shaft, into an atypical maze with confusing hieroglyphs. Mounting fear turns into justified despair overshadowing scientific curiosity as they find themselves watched, next attacked by voracious, cannibalistic critters between rats and cats, and next a figure which resembles the god of last judgment Anubis.
This film is brought to you from the writer and director of the Hills Have Eyes and a producer of 300 in a brand new thriller adventure. A team of U.S. archaeologists unearths an ancient pyramid buried deep beneath the Egyptian desert. As they search the pyramid's depths, they become hopelessly lost in its dark and endless catacombs. Searching for a way out, they become desperate to seek daylight again. They come to realize they aren't just trapped, they are being hunted.
