A pair of friends embark on a mission to reunite their pal with the woman he was going to marry.
Convinced that his buddy Nardo (Thomas Middleditch) is making the mistake of a lifetime by marrying Tracy (Shannon Woodward), Jason (T.J. Miller) puts a dramatic end to their wedding. When the furious bride decides to take her Baja honeymoon solo, Nardo follows her-where the lovesick groom is carjacked and left stranded, naked and penniless in a remote part of the Mexican desert. Helpless, Nardo sends out an SOS to Jason and their pal Evan (Adam Pally), an up-and-coming ad exec slated for an important business meeting the next morning. During their ridiculous attempt to rescue Nardo, the trio embarks on a series of increasingly outrageous misadventures involving con artists, drug smugglers and even the Federales.
Roommates Evan, Jason and Nardo have been best friends since the third grade. They vow to be friends forever despite their lives moving in different directions. Nardo is finally about be married to his girlfriend Tracy. Evan is on the brink of a promotion to an executive position at work, it pending on an upcoming presentation. Evan has wanted to ask his senior associate Elizabeth out for over a year, but has resisted in not wanting to dip into the company well. And Jason is the big kid, which has led to a life of irresponsibility and bad judgment. Although Evan thinks it, Jason, from what Nardo says at the end of his bachelor party, acts upon his belief that Nardo doesn't really want to marry Tracy. Jason's action and Evan's non-reaction leads not only to Jason and Tracy breaking up at the altar, but Nardo breaking ties with both his friends. While Tracy has gone on her and Nardo's Mexican resort honeymoon on her own, Nardo has gone down to chase after and make it up to her in hopes of reconciling. In the process, Nardo gets stranded somewhere unknown in Mexico with literally nothing. As such, Jason drags Evan down to Mexico to rescue their friend wherever he may be. This trip threatens not only Adam's promotion, but his job altogether and what may be more important to him his opportunity to get together with Elizabeth in a personal sense. In a broader perspective, both Adam and Jason's friendship is tested in their time together, and their lives and that of Nardo is put at risk as they each get into one misadventure after another.

