Zoey, a cyber crime cop, and Barry, a detective, raise their son, Timmy, in a quiet suburban neighborhood. When Zoey confides in her best friend about shift work and the lack of spark in her marriage. Zoey's mind is set in motion and when she discovers Barry is screwing around, she calls him out. Willing to give him a second chance, Zoey tries to mend her marriage. When Barry is seen again with "that" woman, Zoey gets a restraining order and sole custody of Timmy. Late one night a fire in her home tragically takes the life of her son. The evidence points to Zoey taking sleeping pills and smoking - she's charged with Timmy's murder. Zoey goes to Barry for help but he's distant and blames her. Zoey fights back, convinced she was set up to take the blame for Timmy's death. As she fights to prove her own innocence she gets the biggest shock of all!
Zoey and Barry Loson, parents to first grader Timmy Loson, are both detectives with the Brantford Mills PD. Zoey, head of the cyber crime unit, and her team are working on a case to capture a serial rapist who lures his young female victims through the Internet, while Barry, who works shifts allowing one of he or Zoey to be at home to look after Timmy, works plain clothes often undercover. Barry is feeling both stress and dissatisfaction with his life due to a combination of work issues and family obligations and commitments. Despite their problems, Zoey and Barry love each other and love Timmy. However, Zoey, discovering some lies by Barry to cover up what she ultimately sees with her own eyes is marital infidelity, files for divorce and sole custody of Timmy, in the process locking Barry out of the house and out of her and Timmy's lives. Tragedy occurs when Zoey and Timmy are asleep at home for the night, and a massive fire blazes through the house, killing Timmy in the process. In the midst of her grief, Zoey eventually finds out that the official report places the entire blame of the fire on her, she charged not only with arson but with murder of her son. She knows that she did not start the fire as stated in the report, the evidence discovered not true. As Barry in turn abandons her in blaming her for killing Timmy, Zoey slowly begins to believe, based on evidence of her own, not only that she was set-up by Barry, but that he is on the run with a still alive Timmy, the dead boy's body pulled from fire being that of another child who was killed in a case handled by Barry. With Zoey formally charged and in custody, she has to find a way to gather conclusive evidence of what she knows to be the truth against the overwhelming evidence against her.

