A genre-defying band forms in Austin, covers a notorious rap tune, creates its own acclaimed roots music, and becomes a touring institution while striving to find its place in the challenging landscape of the music industry.
Using archival material, interviews and live performance footage, All the Labor tells the story of The Gourds a band comprised of Kevin Russell, Jimmy Smith, Claude Bernard, Keith Langford and Max Johnston. The film opens with footage of the fresh-faced band as it is taking shape in Austin and shows the giddy optimism of the new musical venture that is The Gourds. It goes on to detail The Gourds biggest brush with fame: its infamous cover of the rap standard Gin and Juice. The cover goes viral but, frustratingly for the band, is largely attributed to other acts. Gin and Juice goes on to be a staple of The Gourds live shows but their relationship with the song is clearly a complicated one as expressed by some members of the band.The film paints an enlightening and often amusing portrait of each band member and their unique style of music interspersed with energetic concert footage and intimate live performances that convincingly illustrate how the band has garnered its reputation as one of the most engaging and hardest working live acts. The Gourds hectic life on the road is also documented and shows just how much this is a working band that at times must navigate disappointing venues. The words of the band members themselves and those of their friends, family and supporters are all used to tell their individual stories and the triumphs and challenges of a band that while receiving critical acclaim, defies both classification and a clear fit in a music industry that prefers to work with easily defined packages.The culmination of All The Labor finds The Gourds recording their latest album, Old Mad Joy, at Levon Helm Studios legendary Barn in Woodstock, NY under the guidance of producer and former Bob Dylan sideman, Larry Campbell. A promotional tour for the new album ensues with the entire bands charisma, wit and stage presence on display. The film concludes with The Gourds reflecting on the future of their music punctuated with a scorching stage performance and a touching solo rendition of the films namesake song.
