A furloughed convict and his American and Chinese partners hunt a high-level cybercrime network from Chicago to Los Angeles to Hong Kong to Jakarta.
Nick Hathaway, an extremely talented hacker who has gone astray, finds his way out of a 15 year prison sentence when parts of a computer code he once wrote during his youth appears in a malware that triggered a terrorist attack in a nuclear power plant in China. This opportunity will reunite him with an old friend but will also put him in the middle of a power game between the American and Chinese government as well as an arch villain hacker whose identity he has to find if he wants to keep his freedom and his life.
Set in the criminal world of cyberspace, an experienced hacker serving a 13 year sentence in prison is recruited by FBI and CIA authorities to capture a cyber-hacker committing high level terrorist attacks around the world with no apparent reason. The chase leads them on a worldwide adventure from New York to L.A. to Tokyo to Jakarta. As they begin to start getting closer to him, they discover horrifying motives and secrets that could never have been predicted.
After a cyber attack to a Chinese nuclear facility and to the American commodities market, the governments decide to hunt the blackhat together. Colonel Chen Dawai is assigned by the Chinese government and he meets the American Carol Barrett and Mark Jessup in Los Angeles. He invites his sister Chen Lien and he discovers that the hacker used a computer code developed by his old MIT friend Nick Hathaway that is in prison for stealing money from banks. He requests that Nick joins the team and they have to travel to China following the lead. Along their journey, Nick and Lien fall in love with each other. However they can not discover the motivation for the attack and Nick has to do a risky move to find the location of the hacker. Will he succeed in finding who is the responsible for the attacks?
At a nuclear plant in Chai Wan, Hong Kong, a hacker causes the coolant pumps to overheat and explode. Not long after in Chicago, the Mercantile Trade Exchange gets hacked, causing soy futures to rise. The Chinese government and the FBI determine that the hack was caused by a remote access tool (RAT). An army officer in China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) cyber warfare unit, Captain Chen Dawai (Leehom Wang), is tasked to find the people responsible for the attacks, and enlists the aid of his sister Chen Lien (Tang Wei), a hacking engineer. He meets with FBI Special Agent Carol Barrett (Viola Davis) in Los Angeles and reveals the code in the RAT was written by himself and Nicholas Hathaway (Chris Hemsworth), his brilliant college roommate, in their school days at MIT, years before Hathaway was sent to prison for an unrelated hack. Dawai asks that the FBI arrange for Hathaway to be released from prison, where he is serving a sentence for computer crimes. Hathaway is offered a temporary release in exchange for his services. He negotiates a deal with the U.S. government to have his prison sentence commuted as time served if his assistance aids in the apprehension of the hacker. However, he must wear an ankle bracelet and be monitored by a Deputy U.S. Marshal named Jessup (Holt McCallany)..

