A grieving man receives a mysterious, personal invitation to meet with God at a place called "The Shack."
After the abduction and presumed death of Mackenzie Allen Phillips' youngest daughter, Missy, Mack receives a letter and suspects it is from God, asking him to return to The Shack where Missy may have been murdered. After contemplating it, he leaves his home to go to The Shack for the first time since Missy's abduction and an encounter that will change his life forever.
What would have been a fun weekend of camping for a man and three of his children turns into a horrid nightmare that will forever change them all. Some time later he receives a note inviting him to a same shack where the nightmare began. This invitation will bring him face to face with God where God's manifestation will in the most of the untraditional forms.
When he was a thirteen year-old boy, Mack killed his abusive and alcoholic father with strychnine in his booze. Years later, Mack Phillips is happily married with Nan and they have three children: Kate, Josh and the girl Missy Phillips. While camping with his family in a weekend, Missy is abducted and killed by the kidnapper, destroying Mack's life. One day, he receives a note from God that he calls Papa asking him to go to the shack where his daughter was killed. He meets Jesus, Sarayu and Sophia and he has an experience of discoveries and redemption.
Mack Phillips is happily married with three children. When a family tragedy shatters their carefree existence, Mack becomes bitter and depressed and the family starts to drift apart. Out of the blue he receives an invitation to return to where the tragedy took place, a deserted cabin known simply as The Shack. Thing is - the invitation is from God.
Mack Philips is a man whose perfect world is shattered when his youngest daughter Missy is killed when the family are camping. As the family grieves, Mack receives an anonymous letter telling him to go to the shack where his daughter may have died. Mack's invitation will bring him face to face with God himself and change his life forever.
Mackenzie "Mack" Phillips suffered physical and emotional abuse as a child at the hands of his drunken father. He witnessed similar abuse of his mother as well. There is the implication that as a 13-year-old boy he planned to poison his father with strychnine, although it is never made clear whether he proceeded with this or how it was resolved. A lack of any subsequent guilt ascribed to it suggests that it was not carried out. As an adult he has a fulfilling life with his wife, Nan, and their three children: Kate, Josh and Missy. Mack's life is shattered, however, when their youngest child Missy disappears during a camping trip while he is saving Kate and Josh during a canoeing accident. The police determine Missy is the victim of a serial killer after finding her torn dress and blood in a vacant cabin. Kate blames herself for Missy's death because of her own reckless behavior in causing the canoe accident in the first place. The tragedy derails Mack's faith and life until the onset of winter when he receives an unstrapped, typewritten note in his mailbox. The surrounding snow is devoid of any incriminating tracks. The message is signed "Papa" (which was Nan's nickname for God) and invites him to meet at the cabin..
A 13-year-old boy named Mackenzie "Mack" Phillips (Carson Reaume) disembarks from a school bus and runs home. He is a farm boy in the USA mid-west. When he gets home he sees his father abusing his mother. When Mack tries to defend her, his father turns on him. Mack's father is a church deacon and a closeted alcoholic. Mack walks past the house of a woman (Octavia Spencer) who offers him milk and cookies. She advises him to talk to God and tells Mack that he's done nothing wrong.That Sunday at church, he gains the courage to go up to the alter and ask for prayer. He confesses to the elder that he is sorry for not being able to protect his mother. Later that night at home, Mack's drunk father beats him during a rainstorm, making him recite Bible verses. We see Mack contemplating poisoning his father by pouring strychnine into his alcoholic drink. It is not made clear how this was resolved or if Mack went through with the plan, though a lack of any subsequent guilt ascribed to it implies that he did not.We flash forward and see an adult Mack (Sam Worthington) having a fulfilling life with his wife and children. It is winter and Mack is shoveling the snow. He receives an unstamped and typewritten letter in his mailbox signed by "Papa", which is his wife's nickname for God, telling him he misses him and inviting him to the shack.Mack slips on the ice and has a flashback to him, his wife Nan (Radha Mitchell) and their three children Kate (Megan Charpentier), Josh (Gage Munroe) and Missy (Amélie Eve) going on a camping trip. Mack tells his children, especially Missy, his youngest daughter, a story about a princess sacrificing herself to help save the people of her land. The waterfall they are looking at, Multnomah Falls, are the tears of the princess's father.They are singing around the campfire with another group that evening. Missy runs and tells Mack that he has to say his prayers to Papa. He goes to pray with her, even though it's not his thing. She asks many profound questions about God. Next day, Missy is drawing the princess while Kate and Josh are paddling in a canoe. After Kate stands up, the canoe tips over and Josh is trapped underneath. Mack dives into the lake to save Josh as other campers help Mack pull Josh to safety. Josh survives after CPR is administered, but when Mack returns, he finds that Missy has disappeared.After a search of the campsite proves to be unsuccessful, the police are called to the scene. They tell Mack that there is a man that the FBI has been after for years who abducts young girls, and he may be responsible. The town is put on alert with the FBI and community members gathered in the school gym preparing to search. Mack is blaming himself but Nan keeps telling him it's not his fault. The Feds tell him they found a truck in the woods and they have to go, with Mack going with them. They arrive at a shack and Missy's clothes are there with blood.Flash forward: Mack wakes up on the ice and accuses his best friend Willie (Tim McGraw) of sending the letter. He goes to the post office, but there isn't any information. In his car he thinks about Missy's funeral. He meets with Willie and talks to him more about the note. Willie asks Mack if he's prayed about it. Mack thinks it's a bad idea because it could be the killer trying to get him out there. Willie says maybe it's God and insists on going with him. Meanwhile, Nan decides to take Kate to see her family as she has become withdrawn. Nan is afraid of losing Mack.Mack and Willie are all ready to go, the car is packed, with a gun included just in case. Willie goes to get his stuff and Mack takes the car and leaves without him. On the way he hears the voices of his friends and family and almost gets into an accident with a semi-trailer after he hears Missy's voice. On his arrival at the shack he enters, gun in hand, ready to shoot in case the murderer is there. He starts talking to him, as if he was there, yelling about how he didn't even have her body to bury, and then starts running around the shack yelling and slamming things. Again he is ready to shoot when he hears a noise, but it is just a deer. He ventures outside and sees a man. The man is very friendly, even with Mack's gun pointed at him, and invites him inside to warm himself up by the fire and tells Mack he has someone there that would love to see him. As they walk the snow disappears and suddenly the path and woods are beautiful, the sun is shining and the wilderness looks more like summer than winter.Mack approaches the shack and enters what is a large beautiful home. The woman played by Octavia Spencer is there, looking exactly the same as she did when Mack was a child. She is "Papa" (God the Father), the man Mack followed (Avraham Aviv Alush) is her son Jesus and the other woman there, named Sarayu (Sumire), is the Holy Spirit. Mack leaves, thinking he is crazy, but Jesus approaches him telling him he dropped his invitation (the letter from Papa). He goes back inside and Papa tells him how much she loves him. He is surprised as she is a woman. She tells Mack that she took on the appearance of a woman because he couldn't handle a father right now. He asks her why she forsake him, and where she has been.Over dinner he tells them that his son is doing well and has a girlfriend, but his daughter not so much. They talk to him about how much they love him and want to get to know him, even though they already do. While he sleeps he has visions of his daughter being kidnapped. In the morning he talks to Papa over breakfast about how she punishes people. However she tells him she doesn't punish people, because their sin is punishment enough, and everything she does works together for good. He accuses her of lying, due to all the pain and suffering in the world. However she tells him the reality is that he doesn't see the whole picture. He doesn't believe she is good but he has to learn to trust her. However he says there is nothing that she could say that would justify Missy's death. He gets up and leaves into the woods, but Sarayu approaches him with directions to his truck and the keys. She tells him they aren't justifying anything, but are there to help heal it. She tells him she needs help in the garden preparing for the next day. She tells him that the poisonous plant, when combined with the right plant, contains healing powers. After a long conversation with her, Jesus tells Mack he can take the boat out if he wants.His boat starts to sink as he has flashbacks to the day it all began. Jesus keeps telling him not to panic and to look at him as he walks on water. None of it can hurt him as long as he keeps his eyes on him, and he isn't going anywhere. Suddenly the boat is back in one piece and everything is fine. Jesus tells Mack they need to go, but Mack insists he will sink. Jesus assures Mack that he won't if he just trusts Jesus. After they get back on land, Jesus tells Mack to follow the path and will wait for him there. He enters and meets Sophia, who introduces herself as Wisdom (Alice Braga). They talk about judgment and she tells Mack that HE is the one who judges every one based on their clothes, appearance, etc. She tells him he has to judge people and sits him down. He sees visions on the wall of his mother and he getting beat by his father and then sees a vision of his father as a little boy getting beat. Cut to him seeing the visions again of his little girl being taken away. She asks him if God is to blame and he says yes.Wisdom says that if it is so easy for Mack to judge God, that he must choose one of his children to go to Heaven and one to Hell, since that's what he believes God does. She gives him reasons why he could pick either one. He tries to leave saying it isn't fair and he can't choose, but she keeps saying he must. He says that he will go to Hell instead of them and take their place. She tells him that's what Papa goes through. There's no such thing as a pain free life, and as long as there is free will evil will be invited in. He sees visions of Missy playing and blowing him a kiss and then running to him. He asks if Missy forgives him for not saving her. She tells him that she never felt that way.Back at the beach Mack and Jesus run through the water. That evening, Papa, Jesus and Sarayu take Mack to the top of a hill. Sarayu covers Mack's eyes, and when he opens them he sees people glowing as the others see people in color and light. One is walking towards them, and it's Mack's father. He apologizes to Mack and says he was blind and couldn't see anyone. Mack says he was scared and they forgive one another.In the morning Papa comes to Mack, now as an American Indian man (Graham Greene). Papa brings Mack to the woods and wants him to forgive Missy's killer. Mack says he wants to hurt him, and he wants God to hurt him also. God tells him that the killer is also his son, and he wants to redeem him. Mack says he should burn in Hell, but Papa reminds him that he is not the judge. He guides him into forgiveness, and tells him that it's OK that he is still mad, and it will get easier in time. Papa leads Mack to Missy's body, which he wraps and carries back to the shack. Mack asks Jesus to take her as he can't, and they put her in a coffin and bring it to the garden for burial. Beautiful flowers grow above the ground. Mack is ready to go home, however Papa, Jesus and Sarayu tell him that he needs to talk to Kate, as she blames herself for Missy's death. Mack tells them that he still wants them in his life.Suddenly it is winter again. On Mack's way home he is hit by the semi-trailer at the same intersection and winds up in the hospital. Willie is there and tells him that he never made it to the shack and was hit by the semi that night on the way there. His family comes into the room and he tells Nan that he saw Missy and she's beautiful. He talks to Kate, who tells him that she feels Missy's death was her fault because she stood up on the boat causing it to tip over in the first place. He tells her nothing is her fault, and she doesn't have to go through it alone. His life turns around and the family are all able to have a happy life once again.
