The case of a missing girl takes us through a journey of human greed and brushes upon the egos and repressed emotions of the characters.
The film portrays the kidnapping of a little girl of 10, who is out with her father for the day. Her parents are divorced and her stepfather (a cop) steps in for the investigation. The suicidal mother has an ax to grind with both her ex-husband and her current husband. As the investigation proceeds, the characters are placed in sordid scenarios that reveal their unsavory sides; the mind games between the both the fathers in particular lend the procedural its most gripping drama as everyone else is getting greedy and ugly not caring about the kidnapped girl.
A divorced aspiring actor draws a formal agreement with his wife enabling him to spend time with their daughter on Saturdays. One such day when he is busy discussing possible acting opportunities with his casting director, he leaves his daughter in his car. Within minutes, his daughter goes missing from the car. The abducted kid's stepfather - a police officer, joins her parents in a three way lookout for her. Who cares more among the father, stepfather, mother and what ends they are ready to explore is what makes 'Ugly'.
Spoiler text There are many events throughout the whole movie which included search and suspicion of characters around story but they are not narrated here Kali is a 10 year old daughter out of the divorced couple Shalini Bose (Tejswini Kolhapure) and Rahul Kapoor (Rahul Bhat). Rahul pickup Kali on Saturday - the only day on which he is allowed to take out his daughter. Between their way towards a cartoon movie they stop for awhile to meet Chaitnya Mishra (Vineeth Kumar), Rahul's best friend for a quick audition of struggling actor Rahul. Kali rejects to come with him and she sits in the car on a crowded Mumbai street and ask Rahul to come back soon. Rahul waits for his friend Chaitnya at his home leaving car parked with Kali in the street.
While waiting Kali sees a mask-vendor who is trying to sell animal masks and Kali is attracted (but does not get out of car,presumably) Chaitnya comes after few minutes to meet Rahul and says Kali is not in the car and the door was open. Rahul runs to find and Chaitnya follows him. They ask everyone on street if they saw any little girl but nobody answer. Chaitnya spots the mask vendor Shrilal (Murari Kumar) and ask him but Srilal do not answer and stare instead. Chaitnya sees that Shrilal is having iPhone of Kali and ask him how did he had that phone. Shrilal runs and both Rahul and chaitnya follows. In a long chase, Shrilal gets hit by a car/truck and dies instantly.
Rahul and Chaitnya goes to police station to meet Inspector Rane (Sandesh Jadhav) to file missing report of Kali and death of Shrilal. While the continues unwanted, not-so-funny questions by Rane and his team to Rahul, Rane ask Rahul's home number to call. Rane realise after dialing that the number belongs to his Head and Senior Inspector Shoumik Bose Ronit Roy who is a very rough, rude but yet respected and honest police officer. Thus concluding that Shoumik is step-father of Kali. Rane calls Shoumik and he arrives instantly at police station. Police goes to Shrilal's house to see if he has kept Kali there but there is only Shrilal's aged aunt who denies having kidnapped any kid. Police search arounds but do not found Kali. Shoumik hits Rahul and Chaitnya very much and we see in flashback that all Shoumik, Rahul and Shalini were in same college where Shoumik and Rahul both wanted Shalini but Shalini was attracted to much handsome Rahul and Shoumik was teased a lot. In today, Shoumik blams Rahul for the kidnapping of Kali because he can't meet her daily and Shalini keeps her away from him because of his drinking habit. But later it is revealed that Kali is not kidnapped by Rahul.
Chaitnya, who is having lots of pending dues to pay make a fake call to the Rahul asking for a ransom amount of Rs. 10 Lacs but before Rahul can arrange money Chaintnya's call is traced and Rane catches and again hits Chaitnya very much to find out if he has Kali. Shoumik ask Rahul to talk with Chaitnya to find out where is Kali but it is revealed again after few scenes that Chaitnya is also not behind the kidnapping. Between we again see a flashback that after marrying Rahul, Shalini was not happy since Rahul didn't had any job as actor and they lived in a very small room without money for very long. Kali was born and aged 5 years around. Chaitnya visits Shalini and Shalini who is angry and bored from money-less dull life and fighting life mixes a very little amount of sleeping powder in Kali's milk for her own greed of satisfaction and spends night with Chaitnya. Shoumik married Shalini when once Shalini was beaten cruelly by Rahul but Shoumik never loved Shalini the way a husband do.We are introduced by Rakhi Malhotra who is best friend of Shalini but is having affair with Shalini's first husband Rahul leaving her own husband aside. Rakhi is a struggling actor like Rahul and is out of money. She also takes advantage of Kali's kidnapping by calling for ransom and asking sum of Rupees 20 Lacs. To arrange this money Rahul goes to loot a jewelry store but is failed. Other than this, Shalini's brother Siddhant (Siddharth Kapoor) who is a local smuggler and is out of money also tries to dig gold by calling Shalini for ransom and asks 50 lacs. Shalini, again, greedy for money and bored from husband adds her own amount and ask from her father total of 65 lacs for ransom and says that kidnapper has strictly said not to tell Shoumik about this. Her Father arranges money and Shalini after deducting her own amount and gives rest to Siddhant not knowing that it is him who is asking and not any kidnapper. Shoumik comes to know this and goes to Shalini shouting that she cheated her father - and ask where is remaining amount and Kali is not coming home this way. We see in flashback that Shalini has asked Rakhi to keep 15 lacs secure. but Rakhi runs away with money including team of Chaitnya and Rahul. Shoumik tells this to Shalini and an outraged Shalini shoots Shoumik with gun and Shoumik is injured on shoulder. Siddhanth is caught red-handded with money.Later, Shalini runs away from home without saying any thing. Shoumik, after not finding his daughter seating alone attends a call from Rahul where Rahul tease Shoumik but he is not affected by any of it and says whether or not Rahul is having Kali with him; just answer yes or no. Rahul puts the phone down and hits Chaitnya shouting that Chaitnya ensured Rahul that Shoumik is behind Kali's kidnapping but he does not have her and Chaitnya did all of these for money and Rahul (assumably) kills Chaitnya in that fight. While this, Rakhi runs away with all money alone.Next day we see that police department gets a call complaining about Shrilal's old-aged aunt from Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh police station for child-kidnapping. A police detective meets the aunt and tells her if she knows anything about Kali then speak. She does not say anything but later she approaches the same deserted market area from where Kali was missing very early morning and police detective follows her. Later, police detective call Shoumik to come with team at same place as Kali is found. In the last scene of movie, Shoumik and his team comes to that discarded area of market, where Kali was kept bounded from hand and mouth and she is dead. Her whole body is fungus-ed. due to being dead from last so many days. police detective tells Shoumik that she was here the whole time and we could have saved her. She was drugged and kidnapped by Shrilal.The story tells us a reality of the cruel world by depicting money-greed friend, outraged first husband, senseless brother, money derived and betraying friend and wife and rude police officer. All of them wanted more than what they already had and while all of this - they all lost a little innocent girl. It is seen that even though none of them can be blamed - all of them were murderer.
