The story of the struggle to create the television series, Star Trek: The Next Generation (1987).
Canadian acting legend William Shatner takes viewers inside the creation of Star Trek: The Next Generation, the bold attempt in 1986 to recreate the success of the original television series, in which Shatner played Captain James T. Kirk. The documentary, directed, written and presented by Shatner reveals the drama, chaos and controversy behind the scenes as producers tried to make lighting strike twice. Not only were the beloved original characters of Kirk, Spock and McCoy excluded from the new series, the studio also attempted to block the involvement of the creator of the original series - Gene Roddenberry. Few believed it would work including those closest to the production. Yet Star Trek: The Next Generation went on to enormous success lasting seven seasons and spawning the multi-billion dollar Star Trek franchise, which continues to the present day. Now, more than 25 years later, William Shatner brings together the cast, crew and fans of Star Trek: The Next Generation to present an intimate look inside the development of a television series that became a benchmark for many of the high profile science fiction series that we enjoy today.
William Shatner, the original Captain Kirk, takes an intimate look at the creation of an iconic television series, Star Trek: The Next Generation, through the eyes of the writers, producers, actors and executives who were involved, many of whom have never before told their story on film. Directed by William Shatner, (who also conducts the interviews), what emerges is a tale of power struggles, ego clashes and most importantly, the legacy of the man behind the legend: Gene Roddenberry.
William Shatner looks at the creation of the iconic science fiction series "Star Trek: The Next Generation". He talks to writers, producer, actors, and executives about the difficulties in creating the series and discusses the numerous backstage power struggles and controversies that went on during the production of the show.

