A man and a woman, both in strained marriages, become acquainted during their visits to the Marriage Counselor. The man employs the woman later, and they both become emotionally involved. The story is about how they break from their past.
The story of the film is of two strangers, Ram (Atul Kulkarni) and Sonal (Sagarika Ghatge), who meet at the marriage counselor's office, start talking with each other and get to know each other. Ram is in the office trying to maintain his marriage with Ragini, who is an aspiring actress. Ram believes that she would return to him. Whereas Sonal has lost all faith in marriage and is here to get divorced from Samit. They both meet again in very strange situation. Sonal was trying to get a job and come to Ram's office without knowing that she'll be interviewed by Ram himself. Eventually Sonal gets a job as ram's associate. Sonal develops feelings for Ram. but Ram, the man with values, still hopes that his wife will return. After reading Ram's story about Love, Sonal suggests Ram that he should tell his story to producers because anybody would fall in Love after reading his story. He does that and eventually he gets the offer from a producer because producer likes the story very much. Just when Ram was about to propose Sonal, her husband came into picture and Ram starts staying away from Sonal. At the same time, Ram's wife realizes her mistake of leaving Ram, comes back to his life, but Ram is now deeply in love with Sonal. They both face very difficult phase as they realize they can't confess their love due to their mutual misunderstanding. Finally, Ram's wife realize that Ram is no longer into her and he loves Sonal instead, she tells Ram to go to Sonal and confess his feelings. At the same time, Sonal realizes that her husband is good for nothing and decides to come back to Ram. After so much hustle, they both meet at the office again and confess their true feelings and here ends the tale of a simple yet beautiful love story between Ram and Sonal.

