Young Emily Walton, who has suffered from psychosomatic blindness ever since the car accident that took her mother's life, must summon every instinct at her disposal to protect herself and her loved ones from a mysterious intruder.
Mischief Night tells the story of a terrifying home invasion the night before Halloween. Young Emily Walton, who has suffered from psychosomatic blindness ever since the car accident that took her mother's life, must summon every instinct at her disposal to protect herself and her loved ones from a mysterious intruder.
October 30th - Adulterous wife Kim and her lover Will are murdered in Kim's home by a mysterious intruder on Mischief Night.Emily Walton visits her psychiatrist Dr. Pomock. Emily has been blind for nine years since she was in a car accident that killed her mother and for which she blames herself. Doctors have never found a physical cause for Emily's psychosomatic blindness.Emily's father David prepares for a first date with Sharon, one of Emily's former teachers. Although hesitant, David relents when Emily asks if she can go skiing that weekend with her boyfriend Jimmy and Jimmy's family. Jimmy sneaks into Emily's bedroom and they have a brief rendezvous before David leaves for his date. Jimmy also leaves.While Emily spends the night home alone, strange noises unsettle her and an intruder wearing a mask with a yellow raincoat is seen stalking about the home. Emily breaks a fruit bowl on the kitchen floor while disabling the smoke detector. Emily calls Jimmy when she becomes too frightened. The intruder is seen entering the house.Emily's Aunt Lauren calls to ask if she can pick up one of Emily's old dresses for her daughter to use. Emily cleans her wound after cutting her foot on the broken fruit bowl. When Lauren arrives at the house, she notices that David's car is still in the garage. After she picks up the dress and leaves Emily, the intruder kills Lauren just inside the kitchen.Emily realizes that there is an intruder in the house and hides upstairs. Jimmy arrives and Emily convinces him to get her out of the house. When he sees the cut on her foot, Jimmy leaves Emily to retrieve first aid from the bathroom, but he never returns. The intruder takes Jimmy's place, causing Emily to hide upstairs again. Sharon calls Emily's cell phone to say that David never showed up for their date. Because her phone is broken, Emily is unable to reply.Emily finds her father restrained in an upstairs room and she frees him. David retrieves a gun and fires at the attacker through a door. Thinking that the intruder retreated, David and Emily make their way to the front door. David sees his sister's car and tells Emily to wait there while he looks outside for Lauren.Outside, David is nearly run down by someone driving Lauren's vehicle. He reunites with Emily as they hear another intruder in the house. Emily flees outside when a shape in a mask and raincoat runs at David. David shoots and kills the shape, which turns out to be Jimmy tied up, gagged, and made to look like the attacker.Emily makes it to the street and is rescued by a trucker. The attacker then kills the trucker, forcing Emily to go back to the house after she uses the CB radio to call for help.Emily regroups with her dad. David hides her in the garage while he goes for more bullets. David is attacked in the house after learning that there are two identical intruders. Emily takes a chainsaw and stabs it up through the garage ceiling, killing one of the men attacking her father. After a chase with the remaining attacker, Emily recovers her father's gun. Just before the intruder can attack, Emily regains her eyesight and kills him. The police arrive as Emily and her father embrace.
