Summertime. A cruising spot for men, tucked away on the shores of a lake. Franck falls in love with Michel, an attractive, potent and lethally dangerous man. Franck knows this but wants to live out his passion anyway.
Franck, a fit gay man, seeks love at a lakeside gay cruising beach. Among the mostly pudgy nude sunbathers, he befriends Henri, a depressed middle-aged bi-sexual who enjoys the quiet but accepts Franck's company. When Michel appears, Franck finally spots a man he'd like to know sexually. Unfortunately, he also spots him drowning his gay lover but opts not to tell anyone in order to consider having a relationship with this handsome yet remorseless killer.
As he has done summers before, Franck has started to go to the lakeside unofficial clothes optional beach for the season, it and the adjacent woods which are well known gay cruising areas. The predominantly gay men who frequent the area generally go alone in not wanting to publicize their cruising activities within their day to day social circles, and as such little of real depth or meaning is usually spoken among the men in their casual encounters here. Franck goes for the entire experience the area has to offer: swimming in the lake, nude tanning on the beach, and generally anonymous sexual encounters with other gay men in the woods. Of the many men Franck encounters this season, two end up playing significant roles in his experience here. The first is Henrí, a slightly older, overweight loner, an implied bisexual who stays on the beach fully clothed in the want for seeming solitude to deal with the issues in his life. Henrí and Franck enter into as close a friendship as generally occurs here, neither who is attracted to or thus interested in the other sexually. The second is Michel, to who Franck is immediately attracted above all the others, that lust which borders on what Franck ultimately believes is love. By their second sexual encounter, Franck and Michel have become exclusive in their lake meetings. While Franck would like their relationship to be more than just at the lake, Michel wants to keep it solely as a lake relationship. Franck secretly witnesses an incident, his and his fellow beach goers' reaction to that incident which highlights the priority they place on maintaining the area in all its private gay glory, that shown to an extreme for Franck in maintaining a relationship with Michel despite having seen exactly what happened.

