Das, with his team, kidnap Arumai, son of a politician, who has been planning his own kidnapping to extract money from his father. Problems arise, when an insane cop is brought to handle the case.
Pagalavan, Kesavan and Sekar are three friends, who lose their jobs in Chennai due to certain circumstances. Then they come across Das (Vijay Sethupathy), who runs a smart kidnap for ransom scam. Naturally his crime flourishes, and the three friends team up with him. Their path crosses with that of Arumai Prakasam, son of the state finance minister. Denied capital by his very strict father to start his business Arumai Prakasam stages his own kidnap, but ends up in the hands of Das and co. The comedy of errors takes a turn when the finance minister wants to catch the culprits, and gives the task to a very strict, encounter specialist cop, Brahmma. How Das and co try to stay ahead of the cop and how he nabs them, and what happens forms the rest of the story.
Dass specializes in small time kidnapping and has his own set of rules. The primary and most important among them is not to get involved with influential people. Three jobless youngsters meet Dass and the four take up an assignment for a hefty sum that throws away this primary rule and end up being chased by a dreaded policeman.
Dass, a small-time smuggler, wants to graduate to the next level, kidnapping, which he believes is more exciting and lucrative. Upset by his failed attempt, he goes to the bar to vent out some steam. He finds himself in the company of three desperate jobless friends Pagalavan (Simhaa), Kesavan (Ashok) and Sekhar (Ramesh).Dass convinces them that he has the perfected the art of kidnapping and asks them join him. Having no other alternative, they do.Soon they become successful, and can pull off a series of kidnapping without any hitches.Things move smoothly until one day, they decide to raise the stakes and kidnap a minister's son. What follows is complete mayhem, and the real fun begins.
Vijay Sethupathi is a kidnapper with a conscience and carries out small jobs to earn a livelihood. His team comprises Simhaa, RJ Ramesh and Ashok Selvan. They pick up Karunakaran, the only son of politician M.S. Bhaskar, only to find out that he had been planning his own kidnapping to wrest some money from his dad to start a business. Things get complicated when psychopathic cop Yog Japee is brought in to handle the investigation.

