Kyle Cole returns home to the town of Kaler Mills. He hasn't been back in 10 years since the people of the town turned on him believing that he was responsible for his brothers death. His brother, Ryan Cole, was the beloved "fair haired boy" of Kaler Mills. Loved by all, hated by none. After his death in a tragic farm accident a video was released that made it seem that Kyle could have prevented his brothers death. Now, armed with a documentary crew, Kyle has returned to face his demons. But he forgot about one of them... This is an 80's style creature feature with a modern twist. Made with practical effects and classic stop motion monster techniques, The Dooms Chapel Horror will keep you on the edge of your seat to the very end.
A horrific family tragedy. A town that lays blame. A boy who wants revenge. The Dooms Chapel Horror rises to unleash its terrible vengeance on the tight-knit, southern town of Kaler Mills. Blamed for the death of his celebrated older brother, young Kyle Cole is tormented by members of the community to the point of no return. A secret meeting at the compound of a mysterious and dangerous man named Jordan sets the fate of the town... only to be put on hold as Kyle's parents, succumbing to their grief, abruptly send Kyle away to be raised by distant relatives. Now, years later, Kyle is a young man on the verge of graduating from college. He is joined by his girlfriend Mandy and Tanner, a young documentary filmmaker, as he travels back to Kaler Mills to find peace with his mother and father and finally deal with the events that caused him so much sadness and anger as a boy. But his parents are not the only ones waiting for Kyle's return... The table is still set and Jordan, his adopted son Samuel and the dark, ancient creation of Kyle's vengeance have been waiting... and they are hungry...
This is an 80's style creature feature with a modern twist about a man returning to his childhood town and to parents that had sent him away after his brothers death. But something has been waiting for his return, something he has forgotten, something he asked for, and it is hungry.

