In 1992, war rages in Abkhazia, a breakaway region of Georgia. An Estonian man Ivo has decided to stay behind and harvest his crops of tangerines. In a bloody conflict at his door, a wounded man is left behind, and Ivo takes him in.
War in Georgia, Abkhazia region 1992: local Abkhaz are fighting to break free from Georgia. Estonian village between the mountains has become empty, almost everyone has returned to their homeland, only 2 men have stayed: Ivo and Margus. But Margus will leave as soon as he has harvested his crops of tangerines. In a bloody conflict in their miniature village wounded men are left behind, and Ivo is forced to take them in. But they are from opposite sides of the war. This is touching anti-war story about Estonians who find themselves in the middle of someone else's war. How do they handle it? How do the enemies act under third-party roof?
Ivo, an old Estonian farmer, has stayed back in Gerogia along with his friend, Margus to harvest the abundant Tangerines. His bleak life is turned upside down when he decides to shelter Ahmed, a Muslim Chechen mercenary and a Georgian, Niko, both having lost their men &amp; injured heavily from combat. It does not help matters that the pair are constantly waiting to pounce back at each other once their respective health permits.
It's the early 1990s. Estonian settlements have existed in the Caucasus for over one hundred years. Most Estonians returned to their homeland upon the outbreak of war in the region between the Georgian government and the Russian backed Abkhaz separatists, leaving those Estonian settlements virtually empty. One of the few Estonians that has stayed is elderly Ivo, whose reason for doing so is known only to his closest confidantes. He is building crates for his Estonian neighbor Margus' last crop of tangerines, before Margus himself will join his family already back in Estonia. Although he admits the money will be good, Margus stayed this one last growing season if only not wanting the fruit to go to waste. He has made arrangements with the local Abkhaz military to assist in harvesting the fruit on a specific date. One day outside Margus' property, opposing forces, three on the Georgian side and two on the Abkhaz side, have a skirmish. Three die in the battle, with the remaining two being seriously wounded, they being Nika, a Georgian soldier, and Ahmed, a Chechen mercenary fighting for the Abkhazs. With the assistance of Margus and the local physician, his friend Juhan, Ivo decides to take in the two still alive and nurse them back to health. When the two regain consciousness, he is clear to them that their war will not be tolerated in his home, the two agreeing to the condition that they will not attempt to kill the other while they are in the house. Ivo will not only have to watch out for the two to keep to their word - although he knows he cannot do anything once they have recuperated and are back to their regular lives - but also hide any evidence of a Georgian soldier and a Chechen mercenary in his home, or of the dead soldiers having been in the area, the bodies which he and Margus buried, and their military vehicle hidden in a ravine. Discovery by either side of what has happened or of the two soldiers in his home could jeopardize all their lives. What eventually happens in their collective lives is in part the result of Ivo's sensibilities regarding his reason for not returning to Estonia.
1992. A war rages in Abkhazia, a separatist region within Georgia. A small village in the region has a largely Estonian population but the vast majority of them have left, due to the war. Two men remain - Ivo and Margus. They are staying to harvest, box and sell Margus's tangerine crop. However, the war catches up with them when a skirmish between the opposing forces occurs in their village. The only survivors are on opposing sides - a Georgian and a Chechen mercenary - and they're both wounded. Ivo takes them both in, but the animosity between the two soldiers could end in bloodshed.

