Two guards fighting through a power breakdown inside the secret 'Death House' prison must fight to survive ruthless inmates and even supernatural horrors.
During an exclusive tour, a power breakdown inside a secret prison known as the Death House sends two agents fighting through a labyrinth of horrors while being pursued by a ruthless army of roaming inmates. As they fight to escape, the agents push toward the lowest depths of the facility where they learn a supernatural group of evil beings is their only chance for survival.
The Death House is the Area 51 of Evil...a subterranean government facility that holds humanity's worst on nine levels. Hell...Dante's ninth level, holds the Five Evils...the "dark stars" of Death House. These individuals are so heinous they can never walk among society again. They may also be supernatural.Agents Toria Boon and Jae Novak have their own dark pasts, arriving at Death House to tour its levels and observe its denizens first hand as well as the medical and mental experiments of Drs. Eileen Fletcher and Karen Redmane. Their depraved experiments date back to the Nazi doctors of WWII. Prison cells are virtual reality holodecks that recreate prisoner environments before they were incarcerated. A special hallucinogenic gas keeps inmates under control. The victims are homeless bused into Death House to play literal victims while killing habits are studied. The results are sick, but only a hint of what goes on here. Hell literally breaks loose inside the facility when an EMP device detonates, killing all power and communication and...releasing every prisoner.Boon, Novak and Fletcher are caught in a race against advancing prisoner hordes led by occultist Neo-Nazi Sieg. The monsters are freed and they're going down. Boon and Novak's fight through Death House turns into a house of horrors gauntlet with the only hope of escape in descending into Hell and with the help of The Five Evils. Events culminate in a violent face to face standoff with absolute evil...only to find that they have traveled down a rabbit hole and through a looking glass. Black is white and white is black and the definitions of good and evil no longer apply...Who are the monsters?Who will escape...
