'Die you pig!'. The words are emblazoned on the wall of the home of school principal Höpfl for all the people of the village to see. And soon after, this very man is found lying dead as a doornail on the train tracks! Franz Eberhofer, the local policeman in the sleepy Lower Bavarian province of Niederkaltenkirchen, suspects murder. And the prospect is one that does not entirely displease him, as this backwoods offers very little excitement other than the fantastic meals with his cooking-obsessed Grandma or the constant stress with his Beatles-loving Dad. He is supported by Rudi Birkenberger, now a department store detective but previously with Franz in the Munich detective squad until both were suspended. The Höpfl case gets even more tangled when a second corpse is found, that of a drug addict hustler that Höpfl had been in contact with. As well as this, Franz must cope with the fact that his Susi is having an affair and he reckons the lover is the Thai offspring of his estranged brother who is supposed to be their babysitter.
Franz Eberhofer resigned to quitting Münich PD back to his native village Niederkaltenkirchen near Landshut as a sanction, living inconspicuously on the family farm, drinking at the pub with local hick mates like butcher Simmerl and heating-cleaner Flötzinger. Granny cooks great for Franz and his Beatles-fanatical deadbeat Vater, left for years by Franz's mother, and alas for brother Leopold with a Thai mail-order wife and baby Uschi, which quiets down only around Franz, plus Franz's steady, wedding-eager girl Susi. Shortly after troublesome reverend and hated school principal Höpfl complained about a death threat graffiti on his home and was atypically absent, police chief Moratschek rules his decapitation on the rail track suicide. Franz doubts that, wriggles out of babysitting the soccer team's African 'star' and starts an informal murder investigation. Then arrives his former Munich partner Rudi Birkenberger, who got Franz suspended, was duly fired and now turned PI, who won't be turned away from meddling as if on the force. Next corpse while they snoop: junkie Marcel, son of recently returned Bruno who left town after knocking up Angie 20 years. Marcel and Höpfl had contact in his cellar dungeon.

