Through reincarnation, family members are able to cross generations and meddle in each others' lives.
Radha (Naga Chaitanya) and Krishna (Samantha) are a married couple with a kid Bittu in early 1980's. They die in an accident. Bittu (Nagarjuna) grows up and happens to see reincarnation of his father and his mother as youngsters. The rest of the story is all about how Bittu tries to unite these two youngsters. And there is another twist in the tale for which you must watch the movie on the big screen!
Radha Mohan and Krishna Veni are a couple leading a miserable marital life due to several misunderstandings and decide to file for divorce. They died on 14 February 1983 at 10:20 AM near a clock tower on their way to the lawyer's office. Their son, Nageswara Rao, becomes a rich and influential businessman and happens to come across his parents' lookalikes, Nagarjuna and Priya. After befriending them, Rao decides to re-establish them as a couple but is shocked when Nagarjuna introduces his lover, Prema. Rao manages to dissolve the relationship with the help of his personal adviser, Girish Karnad. Unaware of this, Nagarjuna swears not to fall in love with anyone. At the same clock tower, Rao meets Dr Anjali and falls in love with her at first sight. He helps her in admitting an injured old man to a nearby hospital and donates his blood. The injured man, Chaitanya, is shocked upon seeing the pair as they resemble his deceased parents, Seetharamudu and Ramalakshmi.
Seetharamudu was a barrister who returned from London upon his father's death to manage his family businesses. He was a zamindar and was fond of cars. In one such instance, he sees a poor farmer called Ramalakshmi and decides to marry her. Asked by a mediator, she accepts the proposal, without meeting Seetharamudu, but asks him for six months' delay as she has to buy new clothes for the bridegroom, following the village's tradition. Seetharamudu learns about this and meets her as a reformed thief. With his help, Ramalakshmi could cultivate enough grain in three months and buy new clothes with that money. On the day of marriage, she is surprised to know that Seetharamudu is her chosen groom and they marry. On 14 February 1924 the couple goes out, but Chaitanya, suffering from fever then, fakes a stomach ache so that his parents return. The plan works and the couple rushes home at high speed but dies in an accident at 10:20 AM near the same clock tower where Radha Mohan and Krishna Veni would die. Now he aims to reunite them without letting them recollect their past as they cannot bear the pain of losing him. Chaitanya stays in Rao's house for further treatment while Nagarjuna joins them as he was expelled from his hostel. One night, Priya, remembering her past life, visits Rao's house only to see Nagarjuna sleeping beside him. She leaves the house in tears. While Rao's attempts to court Anjali begin, Nagarjuna and Priya join Salsa dance classes where Priya constantly expresses her anger towards Nagarjuna. On Rao's birthday, 13 February 2013, Anjali proposes to him which he accepts. This makes Chaitanya very happy. Priya meets Nagarjuna there who is dressed as Radha Mohan, who reveals that he too recollected memories of his past life on the night she left the house in shock. He apologises for his wrong deeds and proposes to her. She accepts his proposal and Rao is relieved.
The next day, Nagarjuna goes to a temple with Priya in a car which has no brakes and Rao chases them along with Anjali. Both of the couples are nearing the same clock tower where they died in their past lives. A worried Chaitanya is offered a lift by a young biker who follow them. On 10:20 AM when all the four are safe near the clock tower, a lorry driven by a drunk driver is shown rushing towards them. The biker and Chaitanya jump from the bike, which goes on to hit the lorry tyre, distracting the lorry's path. The four thank Chaitanya who urges them to thank the biker, Akhil.
