A teenager with the ability to travel back in time tries to prevent a fellow student from committing suicide.
Riley Brown is a regular teenage girl, except for the fact that she is able to to go back in time and change her past. Jay who is a concerned friend is the only person she has told about her time traveling ability. When going back or 'rewinding', Riley takes physical damage to her body such as head aches, nose bleeds and even coughing blood. She also risks altering other events she did not intend to. Over the series she learns that she can't always change the inevitable with her abilities, but still tries to.
The beginning of Riley Rewind shows an event that is explained later in the future of the show. It is prom and Riley runs out of the dance floor and into a closet to find a bomb that is seconds away from exploding. The bomb explodes but Riley without explanation makes it out alive. Riley is shown in a room talking to a camera. She talks about how she ordered a new pair of glasses but they came in the wrong color. Riley begins to explain herself and says she is not a very popular girl in school. Before she asks her crush to prom she notices a goth girl being bullied by cheerleaders. Riley then attempts to ask her crush to prom but is harshly rejected. Riley then rewinds time in order to ask her crush again hoping that it would eventually work. After asking five times, she never gets a yes. Riley then explains that she has the ability to travel back in time with the help of looking at a watch. Riley can time travel backwards but not forwards. Her final time she asks her nose begins to bleed. She then introduces her best friend Jay. Jay is a homosexual. Jay is the only person in the world that Riley has told about her ability to time travel. Riley says that the goth girl being bullied by the cheerleaders is named Angela. Riley says that Angela is just a girl who "blends in with the lockers." Angela is not someone that Riley knows very well. As Angela is being bullied there is a crippled boy who stares at her. Riley then talks about how she could possibly be a hero with her ability to time travel. On the way to her next class with Jay, Riley is stopped by a very nerdy kid in school, Trevor. Trevor is in a knight's armor and hands Riley a rose, asking her to prom. Although Riley really does not prefer going with him, she awkwardly says sure because she thinks nobody else will ask her.Riley, Jay, and two other girls are outside about to run in gym class. One of the two girls asks Riley and Jay for help for prom decorations. They agree to help. One of the girls mentions that her gay cousin, Quinn, will be there to help also. Their gym coach then makes the group go run. Riley then says that she has no idea how she got the power to time travel and she is adopted.Riley and Jay are at the school to help decorate. Riley tells Jay to go talk to Quinn. Jay is very attracted to Quinn. Quinn blows a kiss at some girl but the girl does not look interested. Quinn comes over to where Riley and Jay is. Quinn says that he will take anyone to the dance who has a cigarette. Riley quickly mentions that Jay smokes and says that they should go outside to take a smoke. When we see Quinn and Jay outside they are asking about corsages for prom. Quinn admits that he is gay but he is not very willing to show the world but he is hoping to change that with Jay's help. They agree to go to prom together. Jay tells Riley and Jay asks her to not rewind to screw it up. Riley promises to not rewind. We are then shown that meanwhile at Angela's house she is crying and blasting music in her room. She writes a note saying "nobody cares" and then steps on a chair and hangs herself.At the beginning of act 2, Riley notices a sign showing the sad loss of Angela. Riley says that Angela wrote a note saying "nobody cares." Riley says that she was a good person. We see a flashback of Riley getting bullied by a cheerleader and Angela trips the cheerleader. Riley then says that if there was one person who showed that they cared then maybe she would have been alive. Riley then believes that she has to go back. Riley then explains that if she rewinds too much, her body starts breaking down. She gets nosebleeds and coughs. Riley talks to Jay and Jay thinks that Angela could kill herself even with Riley's help. Jay eventually allows her to rewind. Riley rewinds herself all the way back to when Trevor asks her to prom. She says yes again and quickly walks away and says hi to Angela. Angela is very rude to her and does not want to talk. Riley then says that they could become friends because she cares. Angela says no thanks. Riley then continues to attempt to talk to her, be friends, and get to know her. Angela becomes very annoyed and tells Riley to leave her alone. Riley runs into Trevor and he says that Angela is sensitive and she loves cats and cupcakes. Riley find Angela and Riley says that she is not alone and she says that she just wants to help her. Angela sounds convinced but she ends up pretending and runs away. Riley and Jay are at gym with the group of girls again. The girls ask Riley if they want to help with prom decorating. Riley this time says no. This causes Jay to not go to prom decorating which causes Quinn (the gay guy who was going to go to prom with Jay) to ask some girl who was decorating at prom.At the beginning of Act 3, Riley says that a couple of scary guys who looked like they were from the government walked in her class and said her name. She thought that they were going to do something bad to her so she rewinded to get out of that class. Riley then says that she finally was able to get Angela to crack a smile. Angela said that Riley doesn't suck. Riley then asks Angela if she wanted to come to her house to hang out. Angela says yes. Riley then realizes that she rewinded and screwed up Jay's prom date and saw that Quinn is going with some girl. Riley tells Jay that he was suppose to go with Quinn. Jay tries to ask Quinn but fails. Jay says that Quinn is gay but Quinn declines and says he is straight. Riley says she can fix it and rewind but Jay refuses and walks away. Riley realizes that she ruined Jay's amazing moment. Riley comes to see Angela and her mom tells Riley to tell Angela to turn down the music. Riley walks in Angela's room to find that Angela has killed herself like before. Riley then rewinds back to a time she was talking to Jay. Riley tells Jay that she needs to be at Angela's to save her. Jay asks what happens if she can't help her and maybe she shouldn't. Riley ignores him and heads to Angela's to find that she still killed herself. Riley rewinds again and goes to Angela's again and Angela killed herself. Riley rewinds several times but keeps finding Angela dead. Riley then feels a sense of pain and starts coughing blood. She then thinks that Jay is right and she should stop trying. She then wonders what the point is if she can't save anyone with her power of time travel. She stops rewinding and stares at Angela's memorial picture at school. Riley leaves and we see the same crippled boy from the beginning who was staring at Angela. He stares at her memorial picture with anger.At the beginning of Act 4, Riley is in a dress ready for prom. Jay tells her that Angela's death is not her fault. Prom begins and Riley shows Jay who Quinn is. Jay says that he should go introduce himself and he does. Jay asks Quinn for a dance and Quinn says he is straight. Trevor then thanks Riley for saying yes to prom. Trevor asks Riley if she wants to leave the dance floor for a bit and she says yes. They walk into a hall and talk for a bit. Quinn and Jay walk out into the hall arguing and cause Riley to spill her drink onto Trevor's tux. Riley apologizes and goes into a closet to look for napkins. Riley finds a bomb in the closet and watches it as it ticks down to zero and explodes. Riley manages to rewind in time back to an earlier time during prom. She runs to the closet and finds that the bomb has three more minutes until detonation. Riley calls the police but the dispatcher thinks that she placed the bomb. Riley hangs up. Riley then attempts to disable the bomb but is too nervous to. Riley then rewinds back to when she was with Jay getting ready for prom. Riley is hurting but she tells Jay that there will be a bomb at the school in an hour and a half. She shows Jay the location and they wait. Jay says that they should find out who puts the bomb there and turn them in. Jay and Riley wait and find the cripple guy who stared at Angela's memorial picture on the wall walking to the closet. He then puts the bomb in the closet.At the beginning of Act 5, Riley and Jay watch the crippled boy put the bomb in the closet. Riley runs and pushes the boy into the closet and locks him in. The boy demands them to open the door. Riley explains that she knows what he is doing and threatens to call the police if he doesn't explain why he is doing this. After awhile, the boy explains that he is angry that Angela died and nobody cares that she is dead. He thinks they deserve to die because everyone bullied Angela to the point that she killed herself. He questions why everyone should have fun at prom while she is dead. He wishes he got the chance to know her because he liked her and cared. Riley makes the boy admit that his name is Edward Baker. Riley then says that she can go back and fix everything. Riley begins to cough blood which causes Jay to become nervous. Jay says that Riley could die and she is risking her life if she does this. Jay said that she could risk her life for someone who chose death. Riley is not convinced because she does not want to keep living thinking that she could have saved a life. Riley then rewinds all the way back to before she asked her crush to prom at the beginning of the show. Riley is very weak and in tons of pain. She walks to Angela and passes out in front of her. Riley faintly says "Edward." Angela asks out loud if there is an Edward around and the crippled boy who set the bomb comes up and says that he is Edward. Angela asks Edward if he knows Riley and he says no. Angela asks for help bringing her to the nurse but she realizes he is crippled and says she can ask someone else. Edward says he can help. Together they bring Riley to the nurse and Riley makes it out okay. Time goes by and we see that Jay and Quinn meet like before and go to prom together. We also see that Angela and Edward talk more, form a relationship, and go to prom together. Riley then says that she kinda likes her new glasses. Riley is in her room and her door opens and the scary looking guys that look like they are from the government walk in. Riley attempts to rewind but they grab her wrist and somehow prevent her to rewind. One of them says, "Riley Brown, there will be no more rewinding" and the show ends.
