After a break up, Jenny moves in with writer Kelly, her filmmaker husband, and their child. Despite a rocky start, Jenny's influence helps Kelly realize that an evolution in her life, career and relationship is necessary for her happiness.
Irresponsible 20-something Jenny arrives in Chicago to live with her older brother Jeff, a young film-maker living a happy existence with his novelist wife Kelly and their two-year-old son. Jenny's arrival shakes up their quiet domesticity as she and her friend Carson instigate an evolution in Kelly's life and career. Meanwhile, Jenny strikes up a rocky relationship with the family's baby sitter-cum-pot dealer.
Married thirty-somethings Jeff and Kelly Spillane live in middle class domestic bliss in their relatively newly purchased 1960s house in Chicago, Jeff, an independent filmmaker, the proverbial breadwinner with the steady paycheck, while Kelly, with one published novel under her belt, the stay-at-home mom to toddler Jude. Just prior to Christmas, they invite Jeff's twenty-seven year old sister Jenny, following she breaking-up with her boyfriend, to move back to Chicago to live in their retro basement for as long as she needs. This offer is as much for Jenny as it is for them in hoping that Jenny can provide some relief for Kelly in the house, especially with Jude such as if and when Kelly may need to run errands which is easier without a toddler in tow. An incident while Jenny is out with her high school friend Carson on Jenny's first night back in town gives Kelly some pause in ever leaving Jude alone with her, the incident showing Jenny's immaturity and irresponsibility in partying seemingly her first and foremost priority. Jenny's partying ways are further demonstrated by she hooking up with Jeff and Kelly's friend, Kevin, in a weed deal. However, Jenny unwittingly helps Kelly in a way that exposes just how dissatisfied Kelly is with her current lot in life. The question then becomes if Kelly and Jenny can find a good balance to retain a healthy relationship with a foundational sense of trust and love.

