A playboy learns to love, while a virgin learns to live -- a queer romantic comedy set inside the restaurant industry... 'John Apple Jack' brings East and West together to create one sumptuously heart-warming dish. When John discovers his sister's fiance is Jack, his childhood crush, passions ignite and his life spirals out of control... losing his job, his playboy reputation and his underwear, all while rushing to the altar to finally confess his love!
As kids, John and Jack were best friends.Twenty years later, they've grown apart and now barely recognize each other.A handsome gay man and heir to a restaurant empire, John lives with extravagance -- champagne, fast cars and fast men -- bedding nearly every hot guy in town. But witnessing his sister Vivienne about to marry his childhood crush Jack a light bulb flicks on, passions ignite and the wedding must immediately be stopped!Jack is a line cook at Johns flagship restaurant, ready to build a future and a family. He has quietly given up hope that John would ever fall for him and support his dreams of running a super restaurant together one day. As years of mounting tensions culminate into an over-heated argument in the kitchen, Jack throws an apple at Johns head -- bruising his bosss ego and unfurling a series of ill-timed events that teach them both good reason to grow up.John tries to out Jack to save his sister from eventual heartache by outing himself to his family. This revelation is secretly old news for everyone, no one had cared but yet Johns parents use the opportunity to push their aimless son to make something of his life by cutting him off financially.The spoilt promiscuous John was once easy for Jack to ignore. But a newer, penniless, more soulful man may soon prove too hard to kick to the curb. Before the fresh, bountiful ingredients rot away in a glamorous but empty kitchen the challenge for both John and Jack is to find a way to blend money, sex, love and family into one sumptuous recipe for life.
