A photographer for LIFE Magazine is assigned to shoot pictures of James Dean.
This movie chronicles the story behind the 1955 LIFE Magazine photo thread by Dennis Stock of then-rising star, James Dean, and gives us an inside look at some of Hollywood's most iconic images and into the life of a gifted, but troubled man.
It's early 1955. Filming on Warner Brothers' East of Eden (1955) has long wrapped, and it will soon be released, with those in key roles doing publicity to promote the movie leading to its New York City premiere. It stars, amongst others, a relative unknown in method actor James Dean in not only his first leading movie role, but his first credited movie role. Casting has begun on the studio's next big title, Rebel Without a Cause, with Dean considered for the lead, which he wants in his overall goal of working solely on quality projects. At an industry party, Dean meets freelance photographer Dennis Stock, who, working largely for Magnum Photos, is trying to build his portfolio to make a name for himself within the business. The two men become friends. Stock is able to convince initially reluctant Dean and Magnum's Executive Editor John G. Morris, who doesn't know Dean from a hole in the wall, to do a series of photos of Dean in the hope of selling them specifically to LIFE Magazine. Stock can see something in Dean, a certain awkwardness in combination with his magnetism, on which he wants to capitalize before the rest of the world clamors to get their hands on him. Despite Dean agreeing to it, the process will not be an easy one for either man as they deal with other issues in their lives, for Dean dealing with a public relationship with Pier Angeli, the two who may view their relationship differently, and navigating the publicity about which he does not fully understand, and for Stock trying to remain a part of his son's life despite his frequent absences. Another key issue is Dean's own internal struggles in wanting a major acting career but not liking, beyond the actual acting, the process to achieve it.

