A look at the relationship between the famous physicist Stephen Hawking and his wife.
The Theory of Everything is the story of the most brilliant and celebrated physicist of our time, Stephen Hawking, and Jane Wilde the arts student he fell in love with whilst studying at Cambridge in the 1960s. Little was expected from Stephen Hawking, a bright but shiftless student of cosmology, given just two years to live following the diagnosis of a fatal illness at 21 years of age. He became galvanized, however, by the love of fellow Cambridge student, Jane Wilde, and he went on to be called the successor to Einstein, as well as a husband and father to their three children. Over the course of their marriage as Stephen's body collapsed and his academic renown soared, fault lines were exposed that tested the lineaments of their relationship and dramatically altered the course of both of their lives.
"The theory of everything" gives us a glimpse of Stephen Hawking's life. It describes his college days and his relationship with his wife Jane. It also portrays how his condition affected his relationship with Jane and how he rose above it and wrote his book "A brief history of time".
In the 1960s, Cambridge University student and future physicist Stephen Hawking falls in love with fellow collegian Jane Hawking. At 21, Hawking learns that he has motor neuron disease. Despite this -- and with Jane at his side -- he begins an ambitious study of time, of which he has very little left, according to his doctor. He and Jane defy terrible odds and break new ground in the fields of medicine and science, achieving more than either could hope to imagine.
Noted theorist Stephen Hawking life is looked at, from his days at university, whew he met his soon-to-be wife, Jane. Hawking's battle with ALS (he was initially given only 2 years from the onset of the disease) shows how his fight - with his own body also affected his relationship with Jane.
In early 1960s Cambridge, cosmology student Stephen Hawking meets medieval Spanish poetry student Jane Hawking, two opposites with a mutual curiosity for each other. Naturally, the world is at the feet of the two young dreamers, but sadly, at the age of 21, then comes Hawking's dreadful diagnosis with ALS, an incurable progressive degenerative motor-neuron disease. In the wake of this terrible news, with the doctors giving Stephen only a couple of years to live, determined and loyal Jane will storm into his life, marry him, and eventually, have three children together. But as Hawking's physical decline weakens his frail body, his mind, on the other hand, will remain sharp, always in pursuit of that single equation that would explain the elusive "Theory of Everything". Up until now, Stephen Hawking who is in his mid-seventies has no plans to retire, seeking constantly his theory.
The movie starts as the Cambridge student Stephen Hawking meets Jane, and although shy at first, eventually they both get close. Stephen soon learns about his illness and decides to shut Jane off from his life. But Jane insists they stay together, knowing the illness will progress and slowly take Stephen away from her. They get married soon after, and Stephen soon graduates his doctoral study, having more interest to cosmological physics. Jane stands by Stephen as the illness progresses, impairing his locomotion, balance, speech and even swallowing. They have two children and Stephen's work starts to gain spotlight. But little by little, Jane starts to lose her spirit, though she doesn't reveal it.Jane's mother advises her to join the church choir to help fill her spare time so she goes. There she meets the choir's tutor Jonathan. Jonathan gets close to Jane and her family, even with Stephen. He goes as far as being a helping hand for Stephen when the family goes on an outdoors trip. Jane ultimately starts to feel attracted to Jonathan. But Jonathan backs away when friends and families start to whisper. As Jane goes with Jonathan, Stephen goes to watch an opera. But Stephen has an episode and goes into a coma, and the doctors hesitate in doing a tracheotomy on him due to his muscles already having atrophied which means Stephen's ability to speak will be impaired. Jane insists on a tracheotomy, but the family then struggle communicating with Stephen.Jane hires a help, Elaine, who quickly suits Stephen's needs while Jane slowly slips away from him. Stephen then gets the robotic speech aid program which helps him a lot. But then Jane reaches her limit and she and Stephen get a divorce. Jane goes on to marry Jonathan. But Stephen calls for Jane, as the first spouse, to accompany him in receiving a title from the Queen.
