Jay, Neil, Simon, and Will reunite in Australia for a holiday.
Neil, Will and Simon receive an invite from Jay to join him in Australia whilst on his gap year, who promises them it's ''the sex capital of the world''. With their lives now rather dull compared to their hedonistic school days and legendary lads holiday, it's an offer they can't refuse. Once again, they put growing up temporarily on-hold, and embark on a backpacking holiday of a lifetime in an awful car, inspired by Peter Andre's 'Mysterious Girl'. Will soon finds himself battling with the lads to do something cultural, whilst they focus their attention on drinking, girls, and annoying fellow travelers.
Friends Will McKenzie, Simon Cooper, Jay Cartwright and Neil Sutherland have graduated from Rudge Park Comprehensive, where they were nowhere near being among the popular kids, but not the total social outcasts either. Will's high school life was made all the worse because of the antagonism between him and one of the school administrators, Mr. Phil Gilbert. Now separated, the friends' lives are outwardly not much better. Nerdish Will is attending uni in Bristol, where he has no real friends, something about which he is in total denial. Simon, who is in a perpetual state of puppy love, is also at uni, but in Sheffield, so that he could be with his girlfriend Lucy, who he met while on vacation in Greece. Simon doesn't want to admit that he really doesn't much like Lucy due to her controlling and violently obsessive behavior toward him. Short of more than a few brain cells, Neil is working in a dead end job. And all talk/no action Jay has moved to Sydney, Australia following breaking up with his girlfriend Jane - a friend of Lucy's who Jay also met on that same vacation in Greece - she who he was always a bit outwardly embarrassed by due to her being slightly overweight. According to Jay, he is now living in his Uncle Bryan's mansion, has a bevy of beauties catering to his every sexual need, and is the hippest DJ at the hottest club in town. Due to feeling down in the dumps about their lives, Will, Simon and Neil decide to take a four week vacation to Australia, first stop being to find and stay with Jay in the lap of luxury and fun. They will soon discover that Jay's life is not even remotely close to what he reported. The friends' collective wants for the trip start to diverge when Will runs into Katie, someone he knew from prep school, she who seems to like him in a sexual vein. Katie and the group with who she is traveling are hip and outdoorsy, being so which Will tries to emulate while he follows Katie around Australia. He doing so not only places him at odds with his friends but also with Ben, one of Katie's friends who takes any opportunity to denigrate him in front of Katie. Meanwhile, Jay wants them all to spend their vacation at Splash Planet, a water park, he not telling them the real reason behind this choice of a locale and the real reason he is in Australia. Through it all, Simon continues to negotiate his relationship with Lucy via Skype, he always seeming to end up on the short end of the stick with her. As Will, Simon, Jay and Neil spend time together and apart, their friendship is tested as they get into one misadventure after another.
Will (Simon Bird), Neil (Blake Harrison) and Jay's (James Buckley) girlfriends have all broken up with them since the events of the last film, and Simon (Joe Thomas) wants to break-up with his girlfriend, Lucy (Tamla Kari), who has become too clingy. Will and Simon are at university, Neil is working in a bank and Jay is taking a gap year in Australia. He emails the others, claiming that he is now a top DJ, runs a huge night club, lives in a luxury mansion and has daily sex with multiple partners, convincing them to join him there for a holiday.Once they arrive at the club they find Jay in fact only works as a toilet attendant. While at the club, Will meets Katie (Emily Berrington), an old friend who is backpacking, and she convinces him to join her. Jay in fact lives in a tent in the front garden of his uncle's house; there Simon attempts to break-up with Lucy via a Skype call. Jay's uncle's interferes and tricks Lucy into thinking Simon asked her to marry him.The four main characters drive to Byron Bay, along with the backpackers
The next day the four travel to a youth hostel in Byron Bay in a Peter Andre-inspired car, as Will wants to follow Katie there. He attempts to become friends with one of the backpackers, Ben, but he is looked down upon because it is clear that he is a tourist and not a "traveller". After arriving, Will Skypes his mother and notices that someone else is staying at their house, which she tries to deny.The following day, the boys and the backpackers visit a water park, where Jay intends to find his ex-girlfriend, Jane (Lydia Rose Bewley). The park staff tell Jay that Jane has found a new job in the vast outback, but they don't know specifically where he can find her. Lucy tells Simon via Skype that Jane is working on a stud farm in the remote settlement of Birdsville, and the boys intend to drive there. Will however decides to follow Katie instead. He struggles to fit in with the 'spiritual' activities of the travellers and discovers that Katie is seeing multiple people at once, launching him into one of his foul-mouthed tirades towards them, which leads Katie into having sex with Ben (Freddie Stroma).The next day Will leaves the hostel and by plane travels to reunite with his friends. While driving to Jane's workplace, their car runs out of petrol in the middle of the desert and the four unsuccessfully attempt to find a source of water or help. Desperately dehydrated, Simon resorts to drinking Neil's urine, but Neil misses and urinates over his face. The group hold hands together as they realise that they will most likely die, but are rescued by Jane and her co-workers. It is revealed they have only been stranded for a couple of hours. Jane realises how far Jay came to win her over again, and although she is touched by the gesture, she does not take him back.Back at Jay's uncle's house, the boys find that their parents have travelled to find them after hearing of their 'near-death' experience. The boys are shocked to find Mr Gilbert (Greg Davies) (their old head of sixth form and Will's nemesis) there too, and Will's mother (Belinda Stewart-Wilson) announces that she and Gilbert are in a relationship, to the abject horror of Will and amusement of the other three friends. Meanwhile, Jay finally shows some backbone and slaps his uncle for insulting Jane's weight, instigating a fight between his uncle and father. Over Skype, Lucy breaks-up with Simon because she is now in a relationship with his university 'best friend' Pete, which Simon responds to by cheering and abruptly hanging-up on her.The four boys decide to travel to Vietnam in a montage during the film's credits. As they return to England, Will's mother reveals that she and Gilbert are engaged and he attempts to run away from them back towards their plane, but is wrestled to the ground by security.
