A young girl takes a hard task. She must try to save her brothers and get rid of the curse placed on them by their mother. It is a story of courage, perseverance, but also of the power of words, truth and true love.
A classic fairy tale movie based on a story "Sedmero krkavcu" from famous Czech writer Bozena Nemcova. A young girl takes a hard task. She must try to save her brothers and get rid of the curse placed on them by their mother. It is a story of courage, perseverance, but also of the power of words, truth and true love ... The main character is a young girl Bohdanka who is born into troubled family of baker whose wife years ago in a fit of rage cursed seven of their sons and they became ravens. Parents kept this as a secret from Bohdanka for many years. However, when Bohdanka at her adulthood learns about the curse of her family, she decides to save her brothers. She gets advice from the local witch that she must sew special shirts for her brothers. She must alone without help of others pick nettles, process fibers, weave cloth and sew each stich. Bohdanka embarks on a long journey to rescue her brothers...
A classic fairy tale movie based on a story "Sedmero krkavcu" from famous Czech writer Bozena Nemcova.A young girl takes a hard task. She must try to save her brothers and get rid of the curse placed on them by their mother. It is a story of courage, perseverance, but also of the power of words, truth and true love ...The main character is a young girl Bohdanka who is born into troubled family of baker whose wife years ago in a fit of rage cursed seven of their sons and they became ravens. Parents kept this as a secret from Bohdanka for many years. However, when Bohdanka at her adulthood learns about the curse of her family, she decides to save her brothers.She gets advice from the local witch that she must sew special shirts for her brothers. She must alone without help of others pick nettles, process fibers, weave cloth and sew each stich. Bohdanka embarks on a long journey to rescue her brothers...
