The scion of a powerful family is tasked with retrieving an estranged family member.
The Nanda family based in Milan,Italy is a very powerful family with a huge business empire. Raghunanda(Boman Irani), his son(Mukesh Rishi)and his grandson Gautam Nanda(Pawan Kalyan) manage their billion dollar business.Raghunanda asks his grandson to fulfil his wish of reuniting him(Raghunanda) with her daughter.In the past, she is asked to get out of the house for having married a pleader without their family's consent which leads to a heated and a shocking thing ,which is later revealed in the film. Gautam promises his grandfather that he would reunite him with his estranged daughter Sunanda(Nadiya) ,who lives far away from them in Hyderabad, he decides to travel to India and bring her back. But as he reaches Hyderabad , he come to know that his uncle(Rao Ramesh)is at the airport who returns back to Hyderabad from Chennai.His uncle in fact has a stroke while driving back and Gautam takes him to a hospital and saves his life. In the hospital he sees his aunt for the first time.He is asked to take up the job of their driver, in their house and enters into their lives.As the story unfolds he finds out that convincing his aunt to come back isn't easy and remains a stranger to the family. In the mean time, the story also shows his interaction with the doctor(Ali) who is appointed to take care of Rajasekhar. Gautam's interactions with his aunt's daughters Sashi(Samantha) and Pramila(Pranitha) also are engaging,funny and flirtatious. Various other characters(Brahmanandam,Kota Srinivasa Rao,Pradeep Machiraju, Subbaraju and many others) enter the plot as the story unfolds.Watch the film to understand the essence of the film and how he manages to convince his aunt to come back.
Story:
Raghunandan (Boman Irani) is a multi-millionaire lives in Milan with his grandson Gowtham Nandan (Pawan Kalyan). Nadiya is Raghunandans daughter and as in many old movies, he distances his daughter for marrying against his wish and they both stay away from each other for decades, while Raghunandan stays in Milan, his daughter stays in India.
As age passes by,Raghunandangets nostalgic about his daughter and want to shed his ego, to convince his daughter and bring her back, he sends Pawan Kalyan to India and rest of the story is to be viewed on the screen.
Performances:
Pawan Kalyan who got his own trademark style excels in the role of Gowtham Nanda, he proves his Box Office stamina once again and leaves his impact big with this flick. He has great comic timing and knack to deliver the punch dialogues in his own style which leaves fans go crazy on him.
Trivikram, the best writer in the current generation once again proved why he is called the genius and his direction is never questionable, he extracted the best out of Pawan Kalyan in action role and entertaining role as well.
Samanthas golden leg tag continues and shes done very well and left her impact in all the scenes she is involved. Praneetha who is still testing her luck, has done decent job of a modern girl who is forced to be traditional. Boman Irani once again proved why he is considered as one of the finest actors in Indian Cinema. The entire plot revolves around him though he has a very limited role. MS Narayana is entertaining as Pawans assistant. No stopping from Brahmanandam these days and he entertains in a big way as Bascar. Bharar Reddy, Posani, Mukesh Rishi, Kota Srinivasa Rao and Rao Ramesh are good in their specified roles.
Mumtaz and Hamsa Nandini made a special appearance in a song.
Plus Points:
Though the plot is very simple and tested plot, director Trivikram made it worth watching with great treatment and superb dialogues, the movie has finest star cast, the director has interpreted equal dose of entertainment and sentiment and he exploited the strengths of Pawan Kalyan to the maximum.
Music by Devi Sri Prasad is the biggest asset for this movie. Though, Thaman dominated him for a while, he came back strongly with super hit music for JULAYI and MIRCHI and his music in AD is just outstanding, especially BAPUGARI BOMMA song by Shankar Mahadevan is the highlight song of the movie.
Analysis:
Its a simple story of a guy trying to unite two families. Generally movies are rated on first half and the latter half, this movie is so entertaining that its hard to rate which part is better, first half and latter half are equally superb and entertaining.
