In response to the days following 9/11, a covert government agency funds a black book project to develop a live virus, Nano-Technology based truth serum. Nanotrack Industries successfully develops Veritas PVH 13 and although it produces psychological anomalies in some subjects, this chemical crowbar permanently removes a subjects ability to deceive. Large scale testing on enemy detainees in a secure, off the grid, New Mexico research facility initially exceed all expectation, but when the virus mutates, it indiscriminately kills both prisoners and researchers alike. Ten years later, a group of racially diverse college students and their Professor, unwittingly stumble upon this buried secret while out on an extra credit assignment to document the mysterious Passion Valley Hospital hidden in plain sight in the Gila Mountains of New Mexico. The story is a science fiction, horror/thriller that entertains while at the same time offering deeper themes that explore who we really are when we lose the ability to live by deception.
An incurable virus renders the infected incapable of deception, before it kills you... PVH13, threatens to infect the world in a global pandemic, when a group of unsuspecting college students unwittingly break into the dominant hospital where it has been quarantined, sealed and forgotten... The creative team of PRC Productions and Callinore Productions - M. Cramer
A California based bio-med company has developed a nano-enhanced truth serum based on an inert virus. After realizing great initial results, large scale testing is moved to an off the grid hospital in the mountains of New Mexico. Gitmo detainees are to be the first subjects. All goes well until the virus mutates killing all detainees as well as medical staff. The facility is sealed and slated for demolition. Ten years later the guards are complacent and allow a professor and his students stumble into the hospital. Once in the facility and infected, they can never be allowed to leave alive. Exposed to this deadly virus, the group looses their ability to lie (even to themselves) and are faced with a slow and horrible death.

