To the folks in Conway, South Carolina, Duncan Mayor is a very cranky guy. To "my sweet girl" - his wife, Suzy - he's a doting pussycat. But Suzy is just home from the hospital and cared for 24/7 by nurse Natalie, whom Duncan tries his best to ignore. Duncan decides the best medicine Suzy could possibly have - and a Christmas present she'll never forget -- is a ride on a real Ferris wheel, set up in their own back yard. Why a Ferris wheel? Because it was while riding one many moons ago that Duncan asked Suzy to marry him. Where to find a 45-foot-high used Ferris wheel? Duncan strikes gold in an abandoned amusement park, presided over by a lonely ex-carnival worker -- Henry. Assembling the mechanical monstrosity is not exactly a one-man job. Duncan gets a crucial assist from Tommy, a former student of Suzy's, who is deeply in her debt. He's become a successful landscape designer after a troubled youth; it was Suzy who set him straight. Meanwhile, the neighbors are not amused; especially prim and proper Gayle Matthews. She's entered her garden in an upscale magazine's "Christmas Showcase" contest. The interest of the contest's judges witnessing the atrocity next door is more than Gayle can bear. Fortunately, her brother is the local sheriff - and there are zoning laws to prevent this kind of thing, aren't there?
South Carolina small town Conway's loner Duncan Mayor turned total grump since his doted wife Suzy's terminal cancer diagnosis and is obsessed by giving her a romantic last Christmas present: a ride in the Ferris wheel as when they met on a carnival, even if that means he must buy one to reassemble in their back yard, against municipal rules. While in-living palliative nurse Natalie Springer makes Suzy comfortable and tries to make peace, Duncan is assisted by able landscape architect Tommy Harris, a grateful former promising trouble pupil of hers. Meanwhile locals are divided between humane/romantic sympathy and zoning sticklers around posh neighbor Gayle Matthews, with the sheriff caught in between - a recipe for needless risks.

