A policeman father gets a repeat juvenile offender to be a cross country running partner for his blind high school son.
Seventeen-year-old Alex Taylor dreams of running for his high school's cross-country team, a dream that's a bit out of reach for this gifted runner as Alex has been blind since the age of two. Determined to run, he practices with his father, Probation Officer Geoff Taylor. Geoff, with additional girth and age working against him, finds he no longer can keep up with his son. He must find a running partner at the school who's fast enough to help Alex make the cross-country team. This help comes from the unlikeliest of sources. Brad Coleman, a schoolmate of Alex's, spends most of his time running from the law. Caught in a pathetic daytime robbery attempt, Brad faces incarceration for repeat offenses. To keep Brad out of jail and in school, Geoff makes a deal and pairs the two boys, opposite in many ways. Despite a rocky start over their many differences, an unlikely friendship forms.
Seventeen-year-old Alex Taylor dreams of running for his high school's cross-country team, a dream that's a bit out of reach, as Alex has been blind since the age of two. Alex's father, Probation Officer Geoff Taylor, finds a running partner from the unlikeliest of sources, in native youth Brad Coleman, who spends most of his time running from the law. Now the two boys just have to overcome the many prejudices of the coach, the track team members, Alex's overprotective mother, and even themselves for Alex to make his run for the County championship.
Sixteen year old Alex Taylor dreams of flying. He also dreams of running for his high schools cross-country track team. Both dreams seem equally out of his reach, as Alex has been blind since the age of two. Alex, determined to run, practices with his father, Probation Officer Geoff Taylor. Geoff, with additional girth and age working against him, finds that he no longer can keep up with his son, a very gifted runner. He must find a running partner at the school fast enough to help Alex make the cross-country team. This help comes from the unlikeliest of sources. Living on an aboriginal reserve in British Columbia, Canada, Brad Coleman, schoolmate of Alexs, spends most of his time running from the law. Brad is caught in a pathetic daytime robbery attempt and faces incarceration for repeat offenses. Geoff makes a deal to keep Brad out of jail and back in school. He pairs the two boys, opposite in many ways, together. And despite a rocky start because of their many differences, an unlikely friendship develops.
Brought together by circumstance, all Alex and Brad must do now is overcome the opposition and prejudices of the track coach, teammates, Alexs overprotective mother and even themselves for Alex to make his exciting climatic run at the County championship.
