A follow-up to the film Iron Sky (2012) in which Nazis plan to take over the world after lying dormant in a secret military base on the moon.
Twenty years after the events of Iron Sky, the former Nazi Moonbase has become the last refuge of mankind. Earth was devastated by a nuclear war, but buried deep under the wasteland lies a power that could save the last of humanity - or destroy it once and for all. The truth behind the creation of mankind will be revealed when an old enemy leads our heroes on an adventure into the Hollow Earth. To save humanity they must fight the Vril, an ancient shapeshifting reptilian race and their army of dinosaurs.
In 2047--in the aftermath of a global nuclear war between the Earth and the despised Moon-Aryans in Iron Sky (2012), and nearly three decades after humankind's victory over the hateful Fourth Reich--the remaining humans find themselves forced to accept an uneasy truce with the space-Nazis. However, in humankind's unlikely last refuge--the ruined swastika lunar base--overpopulation, famine, and limited food resources put in jeopardy the survival of both races, until the feisty daughter of James Washington and Renate Richter, Obi, decides to give humanity a fighting chance. Now, equipped with an indecipherable ancient map, Obi and a motley crew of earthlings embark on a dangerous mission to the centre of the fabled Hollow Earth, to find a source of unlimited power; nevertheless, the Vril, an alien shape-shifting race of reptilians, want it all for themselves. Can there be hope? But, first, is there an escape from the mysterious mirror-realm?
The year is 2047, nearly thirty years since the war between the Earth nations and the Moon Nazis ended on a nuclear war that left the Earth uninhabitable. A group of survivors of the Third World War boarded the only remaining spacecraft shortly after the war "ended" and traveled to the former Nazi moon base, renamed "Neomenia" by the surviving Nazi population. Through the years, the Earth survivors and former Nazis have coexisted in a tense peace but the damage done to the base, the lack of resources and the rise of a cult around Steve Jobs threaten the survival of humanity. Obianaju Washington (Lara Rossi), daughter of James Washington and Renate Richter (Julia Dietze) (the latter has become the leader of Neomenia), has spent her whole life keeping Neomenia's life support systems functional. One day, a Walkyr flying saucer makes its way to the base, where Obi helps them to land safely. After accommodating the Russian refugees and inspecting their ship, she encounters Wolfgang Kortzfleisch (Udo Kier), the former Moon Führer, where he reveals to Obi that he is a Vril, a race of Reptilians that arrived on Earth during the age of the dinosaurs. Kortzfleisch offers Obi a mission to travel to the subterranean city of Agartha and take the city's Vrilia (the source of the Vril's power) to ensure the survival of Neomenia and thus humanity. Obi, along with the refugee ship's pilot Sasha (Vladimir Burkalov), security officer Malcolm (Kit Dale), and the Jobsists led by Donald (Tom Green), fly to Earth and crash in the Hollow Earth. However, things would not be easy as the Vril have now one sole goal: awaiting the moment to attack and eradicate humanity at last.
