Titli, the youngest member of a car-jacking brotherhood wants to escape the family business. He and his wife form a pact to set free from their family roots. But is escape possible?
"In the badlands of Delhi's dystopic underbelly, Titli, the youngest member of a violent car-jacking brotherhood plots a desperate bid to escape the 'family' business. His struggle to do, so is countered at each stage by his indignant brothers, who finally try marrying him off to 'settle' him. Titli finds an unlikely ally in his new wife, Neelu, who nurtures her own set of frustrated dreams. They form a strange, mutually exploitative partnership in a desperate bid to escape the stranglehold of their family roots. But is escape the same as freedom?
In the badlands of Delhi's underbelly, Titli, the youngest member of a violent car-jacking brotherhood, plots a desperate bid to escape the 'family' business. His schemes are thwarted by his unruly brothers, who marry him off against his will. But Titli finds an unlikely ally in his new wife, Neelu, who nurtures her own frustrated dreams. They form a strange, mutually exploitative pact to break the stranglehold of their family roots. But is escape the same as freedom?
A teenager in Delhi wants to lead a decent life, but belongs to a family of goons. As he is looking for a way out, he finds himself getting married by his elder brothers to a teenage girl. Will the events that unfold help him get out of the rut? What will happen to his teenage wife and family?
Titli directed by Kanu Behl, is a film that turns all the tropes of an Indian film on its head. Its take on patriarchy and the family system breaks new ground, making the story both universal and uniquely personal at the same time .
The film competes for the coveted Camera dor at the Cannes Film Festival 2014, and will be screened as part of the official selection in the Un Certain Regard section of the festival, which will be held between 14-25 May 2014.
The movie stars talented actors Ranveer Shorey, Amit Sial, Lalit Behl, Shivani Raghuvanshi and introduces Shashank Arora as the lead protagonist. According to producer Banerjee, Titlis success at Cannes is the way forward for Indian cinema. A hot new talent, one of Indias biggest studios and an independent production house have pooled their strengths to present a raw, intense, rooted, yet universal Indian narrative to the world.International Sales is helmed by Guneet Monga's Sikhya Entertainment. Westend Films is the partner for International Sales excluding India and USA. XYZ Films is the partner for Sales, US.
