Marking the 75th anniversary of his birth, Shotaro Ishinomori's classic spy heroine manga "009-1" has been adapted into a live-action motion picture for the first time ever.
In 20xx, the world is divided into two powers: the Western Block and the Eastern Block. Serving as a border zone between the two is "J-Country." As such, it is used as a battleground for the two sides in their never-ending conflict. Mylene, an undercover agent from the western block, has been hiding out in J-Country. While investigating human trafficking, she meets a young man named Chris. Mylene finds herself attracted to Chris and after completing her mission and returning to headquarters she is unable to keep him out of her mind. "Recover Dr. Klein and see to her protection!" is the newest mission assigned to Mylene from the 00 agency. Abducted by the Eastern Block, Dr. Klein was in charge of the Faust Project and the technology that made Mylene into a cyborg. During the briefing for the mission she puzzles over a name that sparks memories buried within her cyborg mind. "Recover Dr. Klein and see to her protection!" is the newest mission assigned to Mylene from the 00 agency.Abducted by the Eastern Block, Dr. Klein was in charge of the Faust Project and the technology that made Mylene into a cyborg. During the briefing for the mission she puzzles over a name that sparks memories buried within her cyborg mind. Breaking into the laboratory where the doctor is being held, Mylene is surprised to find Chris being used as an experimental guinea pig. Distracted, she is unable to complete her mission and agents of the east take Dr. Klein away. Failing in her mission, Mylene has her license revoked by the agency. Spurred by the increasing flashes of memories locked away within her, she sets out on a mission of her own: to take back her memories and learn who she really is.
It's easy for spies to access J Country, now that The West Bloc and the East Bloc countries are at each other's throats. A girl gets access to Stinger, an underworld boss, and gets into his bed as easily. Spider exposes her as an infiltrated agent, and he is well protected, but the girl defeats them all in hand-to-hand fight and using their guns against them. But Spider points a gun to her head. She drops her gun, then drops the white sheet that she had managed to keep wrapping her body, exposing her breasts to him. Spider downs his eyes from her face to her breasts, as she - with a slight movement of her chest muscles, puts several slugs into his stomach. Slider falls down in a pool of gore, just as he recognizes the girl who killed him is the West Bloc agent 009-1.Slinger's girlfriend, Butterfly, is at the "morgue", choosing people to be killed to extract their vital organs for transplants. 009-1 gains access to the place that is protected by fingerprint detection, using Slinger's forefinger, and then she throws Slinger's severed arm at Butterfly's feet, with contempt. 009-1 disposes of a handful of bodyguards in a quick gunfight, then battles Butterfly hand-to-hand, countering the girls' attacks with blade weapons. Before running away, Butterfly calls 009-1, "Monster!"009-1 remembers in flash-back how she had lost her parents, was chosen by the 00 Department to serve the Western Bloc, and was trained as a spy. The Department head, 020, instructs her to rescue Dr. Clyne, the scientist responsible for Project Faust - the mass production of human beings. Dr. Clyne has been captured in her lab by three East Bloc agents, now waiting for ex-filtration from J Country. 009-1 arrives on the premises, already surrounded by an SMA team, and the Officer taunts her, ending by saying that it's true "what they say about you, that you're not just human, you're a monster".Using her cyborg powers, 009-1 bypasses the net of infra-red rays that protects the compound. Yet, she is attacked by the three East Bloc agents in a ferocious battle hand-to-hand and with knives, but she beats them. Agent Shadow receives a message from headquarters, "There is no rescue." Shadow can't believe her ears, "Motherland has abandoned us," she says, and the three agents fall in despair. 009-1 simply turns her back on them, and leaves.009-1 unties the ropes binding Dr. Clyne, and tries to bring up the subject that Dr. Clyne is her cyber mother, but the other woman turns her back on her and leaves the room. When they pass through the entrance room, the three agents are about to commit suicide, but 009-1 stops them, arguing that "Our lives never belong to ourselves."
East Agent #2 says, "We get abandoned once we're useless. This is the destiny of spies. You're the same!"
Dr. Clyne picks a gun from the floor and in quick succession, shoots the enemies through their heads, and says "It's a waste of time." Turning to 009-1, she adds, "Don't show me a face like that, you're just a tool." Dr. Clyne gives orders to the SMA team, and in a brief exchange with 009-1, this one understands that the traffic of organs is something Dr. Clyne is comfortable with.009-1 stays a moment alone with a young man guinea-pig whom she had saved the day before from the "morgue". He doesn't remember anything about him, and she names him Chris, "because your eyes make me think of crystals", then asks him to sing the lullaby song he had been singing before. Closing her eyes, 009-1 seems to remember (flash-back) her father singing that lullaby to her and her brother when both were children. Sounds of shooting bring 009-1 to the present.Outside, Miriam - a cyborg in black leather - is disposing of the elements of the SMA team, as they find that their automatic weapons are useless against her immediate body reconstruction powers. 009-1 gets out and sees Miriam just as she finished killing the team leader. They fight using karate and some pro-wrestling moves. In a sort of bear hug, 009-1 unzips her red leather top to expose her breasts, and shoot Miriam in the face. But while 009-1 picks her discarded gun from the floor, Miriam has reconstructed herself, and attacks her again.
The appearance of Chris creates a distraction, but then Miriam ends up by shooting Chris - as 009-1 (flash-back) remembers a similar scene when her kid brother was abducted from home. 009-1 is able to perform a medical check on him, and concludes that his life is not at risk.She runs to the rooftop in time to see Dr. Clyne's being taken away in a helicopter that shoots a missile at her. 009-1 runs away in a motorbike, and the helicopter gives chase shooting missiles at her. Some hit at a street full of humble people, who run away. A little girl, Koto, falls, and 009-1 instinctively protects her with her body as (flash-back) her mother had done to protect her, being shot dead by soldiers. Koto's mother watches 009-1's wounds being restored on the spot, and mumbles, "Monster!"
That downs on her, "I am... a monster."Later, Chris is in 009-1's room, in bed - apparently strong already, and they seem to be romantically attracted, with no common memories but that lullaby song. She tells him that her real name is Mirine. [Mylene in a different transliteration] They make love - without stripping.020 is displeased that 009-1 has not gone straight to headquarters after her mission, and that she failed to rescue Dr. Clyne to attend to Chris.
020's Secretary tells her that the other agents will take care of the matter, and asks 009-1 to hand out her gun. As she does, the Secretary says with a mocking smile, "Bye, monster."009-1 KO's two armed guards, knocks down the Assistant with a punch to the face, and (flash-back) using the same words of Agent #2, tells 020 that she is not a tool to be abandoned... She runs away on her motorbike, but at her room she finds Chris with his face in blood, and a bomb explodes. 020 receives a report of this, and seems happy.In a rich mansion with a swimming-pool, a magnate - and five young women in bikinis - is playing chess with a set of pieces based on Ancient Egypt. 009-1, disguised as a blonde with a wig and in a bikini, attacks a maid named Sherry, forcing a lesbian scene with her - that some of the girls watching, is interesting.
But while fondling and kissing Sherry against a window in a corner, 009-1 is progressing in her work. "Is the map of area D really here?"
"Don't worry - The party host, Alan Lau, has it."
"How do I get it?"
"By playing chess with Lau," the undercover agent Sherry answers. "And betting your body for it."Some time later, with all the bodyguards and waitresses watching around them, 009-1 is playing chess against Lau, and he acknowledges that she's a good player. Just as she makes a decisive move to checkmate, and demands her pay. He asks a small computer from a servant, and introduces a sort of cylindrical pen in it. It produces a moving image of its content (on a digital screen in the air) that the West Bloc agent recognizes. But Mr. Lau tells her that that military facility is now obsolete, so he wants to know, "Why are you so interested in this?"
"To say the truth, I'm interested in ruins. The game is over, give it to me."
Instead, he gives back the computer to the servant, and approaches her, to smell her golden hair. "It smells so good. Smells like money."
Suddenly, he lets himself fall on a couch, pointing a gun at her - as all the bodyguards also pull their guns on her. He demands that she tells him the truth.Suddenly the door opens, and Butterfly makes her entrance on the scene, in her usual black lace dress. Using automatic weapons, she kills a number of bodyguards, others with her fan provided with iron fangs.
Five bikini girls hide on another couch, and two maids behind a cupboard. Lau still has his gun, but he has not shot yet. He wants to know who the intruder is.
"None of your business," Butterfly says. "I want the blondie [sic] over there." Then, addressing 009-1, "You can never fool my eyes... monster!"
With a look of resignation, the "blonde" takes her wig and throws it at the muzzle of Butterfly's hand machine-gun, deviating her line of fire. In a somersault, 009-1 picks a discarded gun from the floor, to shoot back at Butterfly, but she has attacked Lau, and uses his body as a shield.
009-1 shoots at his lower chest and belly, and he falls dying on the couch, yet commenting on her shooting, "Perfect..."Both rival women throw away their empty guns, and come to grips, whirling around the room and falling on the pool outside. Wrestling in the water is fierce, both women attempting to choke or dunk the other (with underwater camera). They come out of the pool, and Butterfly has the upper-hand, and a gun she picks from the floor from one of the guards. She is shot dead by Sherry, who makes a surprise appearance from inside the house.
After they leave, 020's Secretary appears on the scene (apparently she was in the house already) and looks at the body of Butterfly afloat in the water.Sherry takes 009-1 to her place, despite she tells her that Department D is tracking her down. The relationship between Sherry and her teenage brother Kai, seems to awake some emotion in 009-1. After dinner, the two young women talk about Dr. Clyne, and 009-1 says she is still looking for her, because the scientist may know something about Mirine's past. Sherry dreams of leaving Intelligence, and live a normal life with her brother.Together, they visit the ruins where Department D is located. Mirine's runs after the sound (or fantasy) of the lullaby song, but when she thinks she has reached her mother on a rocking chair (amidst flash-backs of her youth) she is neutralized with a special weapon by someone.
Mirine awakes tied to a gurney, deprived of her red leather outfit but with a metal bra on and still wearing red knee boots. The gurney is large enough to accommodate Miriam, wearing a fetishist black leather outfit, astride Mirine and fondling and kissing her.A man tells Mirine that "Miriam was made from the prototype of your mama," and indeed (amidst of flash-backs of her youth) Mirine associates the face of her mother with that of the woman who's now kissing her. The man comes forward, and Mirine recognizes Chris, who only had pretended to be dead. He explains his plan to help her get her memories back. As he talks, Miriam has taken Mirine off the gurney, though keeping her in control in a choke hold, and now the girl recognizes Paul in the man she had named Chris when they first met.
Now, he proposes that they should unite against those who had wiped off her memories. He had been raised in the East Bloc as an agent, and now he has a plan to make an atomic attack against a West Bloc and an East Bloc targets, so that both blocs annihilate each other in all out war - assuming the first attacker was the other bloc...
"A new world will arise from the ashes of the old."
"It's wrong!" Mirine counters. She wants to know where Dr. Clyne is.
He refuses to tell, and Miriam attacks Mirine.
In a moment of respite in the fighting, Mirine adds, "A full-scale war will send many people to hell. Many will lose their love, like us."
Paul is determined, though. The two women fight again, but Miriam subdues Mirine, as Paul tells further of his plan to unite his and Mirine's body to create a new generation of people. He tells her that the 00 project had failed, because all the orphans that had been operated on had all died, only 009-1 had survived.
She tells him that there are eight other agents like her, and he counters that she's wrong - she has been lied to by 020.
"Mirine, you are the only monster in this world." Even the experiments with robots and genetic engineering had failed...
From the darkness of the room, Dr. Clyne steps forward to confirm Paul's words.
It was she who had put Mirine to sleep, and now she considers that mutants like 009-1 are obsolete, and she has developed new tools: living-dead mutants. A dozen zombie-like creatures stagger onto the room, and Sherry is among them.
Mirine attacks Dr. Clyne, who loses her ray gun, but she orders the living-dead mutants to attack. Suddenly, the group gets quite alive, and Mirine has to fight against the group, damaging many. Dr. Clyne is not worried, because "Despite how badly damaged they are, the living-dead will always stand up again." Dr. Clyne even laughs about it - the perfection of her work.
Mirine listens to Sherry's thoughts [by telepathy], though: "I wanna get back to Kai."
Paul mumbles, "It's ugly," presses a button on a remote control, and the living-dead turn their attack from Mirine to Dr. Clyne. Her laughter changes into worry, she fires a pistol onto the group, without avail.
Sherry has a choke hold on Mirine, as the other living-dead gore and kill the lady scientist.Mirine still refuses to be part of Paul's incestuous plan, and Paul signals Sherry to kill Mirine. The two women fight. Sherry gets hold of Dr. Clyne's pistol, and shoots Mirine down, after Sherry cries tears of blood (literally). Mirine bends to close Sherry's eyes.
"I've finally got it. The reason why I became a monster [looking up to Paul and Miriam] is to finish this crazy world. So I've nothing to lose."
Paul uses his remote control again, and a new group of living-dead surges from outside to attack Mirine. She mows them down with the gun, and her bare hands, and they all die in gore fashion.
"It seems that your heart is out of control," Paul comments. "So, [looking at Miriam] at least, I want your body." Then, addressing Miriam, he says, "Mama, follow me."Miriam attacks Mirine, and the two women fight using martial arts. Mirine gets the gun back and shoots at Miriam.
Outside, Paul is looking at his watch, finding that Miriam is taking too long to meet him at the helicopter pad.
Mirine tumbles out of the house in ruins, and crawls to Paul's feet.
After her, comes Miriam, poised and controlled as usual, keeping her kicking and punching attack on Mirine, who fights back.
Paul is enjoying the fight, and again calling Miriam "mama". Suddenly, a powerful kick sends Miriam against the helicopter's structure, igniting an explosion that blows it - and Miriam - away.
"My sister, why are you against me?" Paul asks. "Why?!"
From the helicopter wrecks, Miriam surges, reconstructed, and producing a samurai sword from nowhere. The women fight again, and the quickness of Mirine counters the deadly strikes of the perfect blade.
Then, Mirine disengages from the fight, runs at her brother - who had come closer to better watch the fight - and grabs him by the neck, offering her back to Miriam. Miriam runs at her to impale her through, and Mirine sidesteps just in time for the sword to impale Paul through the stomach to his back.
"Mirine... I love you," says Paul dying against Miriam's body.
Miriam steps back, so that Paul's body falls on the floor, and then with a precise strike, she cuts the joint of Mirine's metal bra, which cups fall to the floor, exposing the girl's breasts. Again, Mirine's arches her back a little, firing a number of bullets straight at Miriam's head, disintegrating it.
Miriam's mechanical voice repeats a message implanted in her modified brain long ago, "Do not fear, nothing to fear"."Paul, as you said, those who started conflicts should be hated. I'll fight against them," says Mirine, getting out of the ruins where Department D was housed. [end credits and inserts of movie scenes]Mirine walks to Department D's main building, holding a metallic cylinder with her,and meets 020's Secretary by the door.
"You've really done it, you deserve to be called a monster," the Secretary says.
Without replying, Mirine walks into the building and places the gas cylinder on top of 020's desk. "I've fetched Dr. Clyne."
"This?" asks 020.
"A life-saving device keeps her brain cells alive," she explains. "All the data of Project Faust is in this. My mission is to fetch the "head" of the West Bloc, isn't it?"
"I'll report to the commission of investigation, but there are still rules. At least, be prepared for a punishment [returning her her badge and weapon]... 009-1."
"Bye." She picks the objects, and turns her back on him.
"And..." he says, "It's about Sherry's brother that you took back here. He's been accepted by the facility, and taken good care of.
"To be trained as a future spy?"
"Something's wrong with it?"
"No. It has nothing to do with me."Alone, 020 calls his superior that 009-1 has turned to be a good agent again, and some day she'll save the world. "As you planned, Number 0."
