A girl. A boy. A love story. But also about dreams, fears, life, true love, friendship and how we deal with it. And a secret between them...
Sol is a beautiful, humble and sensitive young woman who has a very important trauma. In spite of everything she does not kill her biggest dream: find her better half, her other self, her partner for life. She was infected AIDS with treason. She trusted the other person and was deceived. Now she is HIV-positive, but she has not yet developed the disease and trusts that she will not develop it. To get to know new people, she puts a contact where she says she is HIV positive and that she wants relationships with people who are HIV-positive, also to be at the same level. Several men reply to her contact, among which the letter of Dani, very human and literary. She answers and they meet. He is cheating on her: he is not HIV positive but a journalist who is doing an article for a magazine for which he works on the current situation of AIDS in Spain and has considered that the best way to do it is to answer the contact, regardless of the consequences that may have on the other person. But she is still naive because she does not realize anything.
Por un puñado de besos cuenta la historia de una chica, Sol, que tiene que rehacer su vida y decide hacerlo emprendiendo una historia de amor. Pone un anuncio para buscar al chico ideal, se citan y, desde el primer momento, se enamoran, iniciando un intenso romance marcado por las ganas de vivir de ella y las mentiras de él. ¿Pueden un puñado de besos cambiar la vida de alguien para siempre?Protagonizada por Ana de Armas y Martiño Rivas, Por un puñado de besos cuenta también en el reparto con los jóvenes actores Marina Salas, Megan Montaner, Alejandra Onieva, Joel Bosqued y la colaboración especial de Jan Cornet y Andrea Duro, este drama romántico juvenil se rodará íntegramente en Madrid hasta finales de agosto.Basada en la novela Un poco de abril, algo de mayo, todo septiembre, del prolífico y galardonado escritor Jordi Sierra i Fabra, es la séptima película de David Menkes.
