After cancer claims Matt Kell's life on Christmas Day 2005, his widow, Gina and two young boys are left to cope with the pain of his loss while their close church community gathers around them for support. Wanting to be close to her kids, Gina starts to volunteer at their elementary school and meets the Spehn children, Jack, Danny and Charlotte. In a gut-wrenching coincidence, just weeks after Matt's death, the Spehn's mom, Cathy, also suddenly succumbs to cancer, leaving her distraught husband, Michael, to care for their three kids on his own. Sensing the hopelessness in Michael she so recently saw in herself, Gina reaches out to Michael and his kids and the two families begin to forge an unlikely friendship and close bond. Over the year that follows, their lives become intertwined as they learn to lean on each other during the at-times insurmountable obstacles, tears and adversity and begin to heal with laughter, compassion and faith. As Gina and Michael realize their newfound friendship is so much more, they struggle against some surprising resistance from their families and community to unite their two grieving families as one and eventually learn to open their hearts to love again.
Matt Kell dies from a slow cancer, leaving wife Gina and two pre-teen sons Drew and Sam. A bit later, Matt's best mate Michael Spehn looses his wife Cindy to rapid cancer, leaving him with three pre-teens kids, Jack, Danny and Charlotte. Both families struggle to resume a somewhat normal life, the parents feel stifled by the helpful small town community and Michael by his busybody parent-in-law. Over time, the widow(er) duo finds support among each-other and grows ever closes, as the kids instantly bond to inseparable playmates. After a year, rumors about an 'indecent' romance and Charlotte's hostility against 'unwanted mother-substitute' Gina tend to overrule the joint family vote to virtually merge, but the boys' eagerness to all play angels at the parish Christmas pageant triggers truth time.

