The pressures of fame have superstar singer Noni on the edge, until she meets Kaz, a young cop who works to help her find the courage to develop her own voice and break free to become the artist she was meant to be.
Romance ignites between a troubled young singer on the cusp of stardom, and a handsome young cop with political ambitions in this drama about the power of walking your own path. Noni Jean (Gugu Mbatha-Raw) is a talented singer whose ethereal voice has taken the world of music by storm. A glimpse beneath the surface, however, reveals a girl who's cracking under the pressure to top the charts. When Noni tries to end it all, concerned cop Kaz Nicol (Nate Parker) pulls her back from the ledge, and shows her that life is still worth living. Along the way, Noni and Kaz fall head over heels in love. Meanwhile, the powers that be conspire to keep them apart as well as focused on their respective careers. But without Kaz's love, Noni may never find her true voice..
The story focuses on Noni, a British female R&amp;B singer of mixed race parents who struggled against a heavier burden of competition with the racial prejudice on her.Now all grown up, she has made it in the USA, a famous and successful singer, now the girlfriend of a famous rapper.But she feels shes only being taken advantages of and not being considered as a person. After winning an award one night, she instead tries to commit suicide by jumping from her apartment balcony.A police officer Kaz, who was replacing a friend for a bodyguard detail, steps in and helps her from falling.Although Kaz initially avoids Noni because he was forced to lie at a subsequent press conference, they eventually become close.Kaz convinces Noni to be more courageous and stand up for herself, to have her boyfriend treat her better, and to insist that her songs be included in her next album.She musters up courage and softly breaks up with the rapper. Noni and Kaz then hook up and become a couple.But at a performance, the rapper comes on stage and humiliate Noni. Kaz goes on stage and eventually punches him on camera.Kazs father scolds him for that due to it will damage Kazs reputation for an upcoming candidacy at an important office. Kaz ignores it and helps to smuggle Noni out of the press attention.They then go to have some time alone down in Mexico. Noni really enjoys the situation where shes not known and can roam freely without photographers following her.But her mother finds their place. She convinces her to finish the album promo, despite Kazs disagreement. Noni goes back to attend a recording label meeting about her album.She demands her songs to be put in it, to the disapproval of the label. Noni then declares she resigns from the label, also discharging her mother from the position of her manager.She then goes back to to UK to perform. Kaz goes there and meets her in the back-stage, where he confirms his love for her.Noni continues on to her performance, singing her own new song instead of the one requested on her.
