The Journey is a cross-continental story that explores the idea of culture, not just as tradition but as an expression of love. When Bee (Yew) returns to Malaysia for the first time in a decade - she introduces her conservative father Uncle Chuan (Lee) to her happy-go-lucky British fiancé, Benji (Pfeiffer). With Benji's lack of cultural understanding and comprehension of Chinese traditions, Chuan opposes their marriage. Unexpected circumstances ensue, and Chuan reluctantly submits to their union, on the condition that their wedding adheres to Chinese tradition. Part of that tradition is that Chuan must invite all of his childhood friends personally. So the quintessential odd couple, Benji and Chuan, embark on a cross country adventure to deliver the invitations. Despite language barriers and initial hesitation from both parties, the two men come to realize that their priorities are essentially one and the same.
Uncle Chuan is an old-fashioned and conservative man staying alone in Cameron Highlands leading a lonely retired life. His hope is to reunite with his only daughter Ah Bee who will be returning from overseas after graduation and stay together as a traditional family. Finally Ah Bee came back after graduation but she brought back her foreign boyfriend Benji with her and they planned to get married. Uncle Chuan vigorously opposed to the marriage due to Ben's frivolous behavior but he failed to change his daughter's mind. At the end, Uncle Chuan agreed to their marriage reluctantly, with a condition to be fulfilled- their wedding ceremony must be a Chinese ceremony. According to the Chinese culture, son-in-law Benji is obliged to deliver the wedding invitations together with the father-in-law. To realise a promise of young age, Uncle Chuan decided to invite all his 11 ex-primary classmates that are now located all over Malaysia to attend the daughter's wedding. He has planned a route map to visit all these ex-classmates in order to hand them the invitation card in person. Benji has agreed with the task but insisted to travel in his motorcycle. Without much choice, the journey of a long distance road travel of Uncle Chuan accompanied by Benji kicked started unwillingly.

