Shreyas discovers the magic of love and friendship in college days; only to be perplexed with the choices to be made.
Shreyas Talwalkar gets admitted to a college where he meets DSP, a rookie guy in the college who is the leader of a gang, after sometime they become good friends. There is also another gang leader Sainath who has rivlary with DSP. Meanwhile Shreyas sees Shireen a newcomer girl and falls in love with her at the first sight. Dsp is having an affair with Surekha who is studying in his college. When a guy tries to propose Surekha, DSP beats him and during this fight, Shreyas gets caught by Inspector Inamdar and gets slapped by him. when Dsp and his gang sees Inamdar's daughter Meenakshi in the college, they plan to avenge Shreyas by making Meenakshi fall in love with Shreyas. Their plan succeeds but Shreyas doesn't love Meenakshi, while Shreyas and Shireen are in love with each other. Shreyas is suffering from somekind of Nasal disease. Surekha gets married and DSP gets completely broken. Shreyas comes to know that Shireen's marriage is fixed with Sainath. Meanwhile Shreyas tells Meenakshi that he loves Shireen and not her. While Shireen's marriage is going on, Shreyas and DSP's gang reach their and after a fight with Sainath, Shreyas and Shireen run away to get married. After some years of their marriage, Shreyas dies due to his disease. The story continues in flashback and present situations.
Set against the backdrop of the late 70s is the story of a college fresher, "Shreyas", who has a turbulent love life after he is dragged into a company of new friend's viz. "Katta" gang and others around them and later on discovers the magic of friendship and love in his college. In campus "Shreyas" makes friends with "DSP" aka "Digya" (Ankush Chaudhari) and others. A do-gooder standing tall for friendships in the face of a creep "Sai" aka "Sainath" (Jitendra Joshi), "Shreyas" becomes the voice of reason for the rustic gang. Their "katta" (a bench) near a tea stall is their hangout, and this is where they discuss life, love and scores to be settled. This is where "Shreyas" and "Digya" realize that "yaari" (friendship) is more important than duniyadari. While the seeds of this friendship are blossoming beautifully, two beautiful girls enter "Shreyas's" life. "Shrin" (Sai Tamhankar) is a medical student, who "Shreyas" loves and "Meenu" (Urmila Kanetkar) is another student in love with "Shreyas". "Shreyas" discovers the magic of love and friendship in college days. Despite expressing her feelings for "Shreyas", "Shirin" is forced to introduce "Sainath" as the man she will be marrying, to "Shreyas", who is therefore, heartbroken. "Shirin" with the help of her brother "Pritam" (Sushant Shelar) brings "Meenu" closer to "Shreyas".

