A group of high school teenagers and their parents attempt to navigate the many ways the Internet has changed their relationships, their communications, their self-images, and their love lives.
Men, Women and Children follows the story of a group of high school teenagers and their parents as they attempt to navigate the many ways the internet has changed their relationships, their communication, their self-image, and their love lives. The film attempts to stare down social issues such as video game culture, anorexia, infidelity, fame hunting, and the proliferation of illicit material on the internet. As each character and each relationship is tested, we are shown the variety of roads people choose - some tragic, some hopeful - as it becomes clear that no one is immune to this enormous social change that has come through our phones, our tablets, and our computers.
The effect of online connection 24/7 is examined through a group of east Texas high school students and their parents. Don and Helen Truby's marriage has long been disintegrating about which they both do not speak. While Don early in their problems turned to Internet porn, he now addicted, they both eventually turn to the Internet to find extramarital sex partners to fulfill what is missing in their marriage. Their son, Chris Truby, who Don discovers is also watching porn on the Internet which Don solely sees as a rite of passage, is having increasing difficulties in maintaining an erection when it doesn't include anything he considers outside the sexual norm which may make it difficult for him when he has his first sexual encounter probably of the vanilla variety. Allison Doss turns to the Internet for any support she can find in maintaining her weight loss, which she is doing solely through controlling her food intake. Her extreme weight loss is largely to attract the attention of fellow student Brandon Lender on who she has long had a crush and who she wants to be her first kiss. It's been a year since Lydia Mooney headed to Los Angeles with her boyfriend Greg Cherry, in the process leaving her husband Kent Mooney and son Tim Mooney. Football star Tim, who has come to the conclusion of one's own insignificance within the grand scheme of the cosmos, has decided not to play football this year against the wants of both the school and Kent, turning to online gaming of the D and D variety to while away his time. What he has not told Kent is that he secretly follows his mother on Facebook to feel connected to her despite her absence. Patricia Beltmeyer, who teaches Internet protection to other parents and students, monitors every keystroke daughter Brandy Beltmeyer does on her computer, Patricia checking the computer and Brandy's phone once a week as extra security. Although Patricia has never found anything to cause her concern, what Patricia's actions have done is drive Brandy's online activities that she does not want her mother to know underground. And former/failed actress Donna Clint supports her daughter Hannah Clint's drive to become famous, most specifically in becoming an actress herself. Donna believes the best way to achieve this goal is for Hannah to have her own webpage, which has increasingly been populated with provocative images of Hannah. Hannah takes that message from her mother a step further by portraying herself as a sexually active sexual being in believing that is what will attract the attention of those who matter.
Based on the novel of the same name by Chad Kultgen, the movie features Adam Sandler and Rosemarie DeWitt as a married couple who each use the internet to find lovers, Judy Greer as a failed actress who spends much of her time pushing her daughter's career through a website, and Jennifer Garner as a mother who takes every precaution to make sure she knows what her daughter does online..

