After ten years, Mia hopes for a promotion to upper management in the store when the boss/owner wants to see her. But he wants her to show his son, Nick, the ropes. Mia's a widowed mom and Nick is single.
Mia (Duff), the loyal and hard-working manager of her small town's Christmas hat shop, is blindsided when her boss of over ten years asks her to train his son, Nick (Cupo), for a vacant upper-management position that Mia had been coveting. Although Nick is a handsome, successful New York City business consultant, Mia finds training him frustrating until Nick takes an interest in Mia's son Scotty (Sean Michael Kyer, "Girl in Progress," "The Color of Rain"), helping Scotty with a pumpkin carving contest. However, Mia's faith in Nick quickly diminishes when Nick fails to show up at the contest. To protect her son from further disappointment, Mia tries to keep Nick out of her and Scotty's fragile life, and Nick must decide if staying in the small town of Wilsonville is worth giving up the big-city perks he once had in New York. As Mia struggles to find a way to convince Scotty to return to physical therapy so he can walk again, she soon realizes that Nick may be the Christmas miracle she has been waiting for.
Old Michael runs his charming old-fashioned Christmas hat shops chain like a family firm, waving modernizing. Now he's planning to retire, loyal employee Mia, who runs the home town shop, expects to be promoted into his chair, but he always wanted to hand over the baton to his heir, sole son Nick, a Wall Street business consultancy shark. Mia is ordered to work him in, learning on the floor, but Nick doesn't even want the job and plans a total modernization. Yet they start bonding when Nick meets and instantly bonds with Mia's partially paralyzed pre-teen son Scotty, who craves a father figure and looks up to Nick, who proves a gifted school assignment and after hours competition coach, only lacks time as the local bank branch executive in charge of the bank's dodgy account, who has an eye on Nick, needs coaxing.

