When Clark and Will meet Alison and Ida in a wine bar, the foursome struggle to have the most fun that four, bickering, barely married, pre-middle-aged, decidedly dysfunctional adults are capable of having.
Ida, a beautiful mess obsessing over her marital separation, shows up at her sister Alison's for a visit a week too early. Alison is well used to cleaning up after Ida, and settles them both at a local wine bar. There they meet Clark, fresh from signing his divorce papers and sporting his favorite sweatpants, and his friend Will: charming, glib and avoiding his pregnant bride. Recognizing their similarities yet excited by the differences, the foursome climb into a party limo and navigate their way through embarrassing confessions, pot pharmacies, and covert skinny dipping; balancing an undercurrent of sexual tension and the sobering knowledge that they may have left their lives behind for this night, but they would have to return to them come morning.
On the eve of finalizing the end of his marriage, curmudgeonly Clark's friend Will cajoles him out of the house for an impromptu divorce party. At a terrible bar, the men meet their bizarro female doppelgängers, Alison and Ida, two sisters out strategizing over the latter's inevitable divorce. This leads the foursome to embark on a mildly debauched night of drinking, drug use, group sex, adultery, party-mobiles, and self-reflection, as they try their best to experience the ultimate oxymoron- a grownup good time
The misadventures begin when Ida, a beautiful mess who obsesses over her marital separation while spending her days drinking with her mother, shows up on her sister Alisons front lawn for a visit a week too early. Alison, a former teacher and current stay-at-home mom, is well used to cleaning up after Ida, and settles them both at a local wine bar. There they meet Clark, fresh from signing his divorce papers and sporting three days growth and his favorite sweatpants, and his lifelong friend Will: charming, glib and avoiding his pregnant bride.Recognizing their similarities yet excited by the differences, the foursome climb into a party limo and navigate their way through embarrassing confessions, pot pharmacies, exs lofts, and covert skinny dipping, all the while balancing an undercurrent of sexual tension and the sobering knowledge that they may have left their lives behind for this one night, but they would have to return to them come morning.
