As the sisters who raised him have to leave, Henry has to figure out how to live by himself within the city. He finds a job in a lighting shop and claims to "lighten up people's life". His job will bring him to discover friendship and love.
Starting at age five, Henri grew up in a Catholic orphanage in Montréal after, in successive Christmases, his father abandoned the family, then his mother died in a freak accident. There, he, a little slow mentally, was assigned the task by the sisters to replace all the burnt-out light bulbs, the sisters telling him it the most important of all God's jobs in bringing light to people. Following the convent property being sold, Henri, now a young man, is forced, unprepared, into the real world, where, by providence and following what he believes is the path shown to him by God, he gets a job at a lighting and lighting repair store called the Genie of the Lamp. With his mental capacity, he generally takes things presented to him in their literal sense, such as truly believing the store owner, Attil Singh, a genie. Beyond a somewhat tumultuous relationship with one of his new neighbors who lives in the apartment across the hall from him, he who believes Henri to be the new building janitor and who seems overly protective of the shipments of plastic cutlery he regularly receives, Henri is taken under the wings of two people who help him navigate his new life. One is Maurice Gariépy, under who Henri works in lighting repair jobs out in the field. The other is elderly Martial Binot, one of his and Maurice's clients who Henri eventually learns is of the "Binot Pickles" dynasty. Binot, whose memory is quickly fading including not remember his family's famous pickle recipe, does not want his legacy to be the three remaining jars of Binot Pickles in existence which he possesses. Among those things they help him with is how to deal with his attraction to the seemingly standoffish young woman cashier at the XXX cinema. He eventually learns her name is Hélène Guérin and learns the reason for that outward standoffish demeanor. In striking a friendship with Hélène, Henri may have to bring light to her in less than literal ways, unless changing a light bulb may spark other ideas in his head to help her.
The young Henri (Victor Andres Turgeon-Trelles) is about to discover a new world after having to leave the orphanage where he lived since as a child. A new home, a new job and meet his first love. Around the Henri circulate characters who will be connecting and will making sense of their adventure at the lighting shop: the electrician(Michel Perron), an eccentric old man (Marcel Sabourin), a bad-tempered neighbor and a theater ticket sales woman (Sophie Desmarais). Henri has a gift, bring light to people. With his ingenuity, he will illuminate the lives of people around him.
