With the help of his two precocious kids, a widower reconnects with his high school sweetheart, who just happens to be one of the biggest pop stars on the planet.
Nikki Crandon is one of the biggest pop stars on the planet. Whether she's singing the National Anthem or promoting her latest album, everyone knows who she is-none more so than New Jersey high school basketball coach and widower Chris Mitchell, who was Nikki's first love in high school. When Chris' 10-year-old daughter Sophie finds out her dad still has feelings for the singer, she takes matters into her own hands. With her 8-year-old brother Jackson in tow, Sophie succeeds in reuniting the two. But when a misunderstanding and the growing glare of the public spotlight threaten Chris and Nikki's happiness, one can only wonder: will fame get in the way of a Merry Christmas?
It's been five years that Chris Marshall, who teaches and coaches basketball at his high school alma mater in the tri-state area of New Jersey, has been widowed. So when, on Thanksgiving, his children, preteen Sophie and adolescent Jackson, learn not only that he went to high school with who is Sophie's favorite pop star, Nikki (she then Nikki Crandon), but that they were high school sweethearts, they, in wanting their father not to be alone again on Christmas and to be with someone he truly loves, decide to try and bring the two back together as Nikki is in New York for the season to promote her latest Christmas CD and to perform in concert on Christmas Eve, she who had just gone through a very public breakup with her last boyfriend, actor Henry Williams. Despite the bumps in making it happen, Sophie and Jackson are able to reunite the two. Getting over the initial jitters in the passing of time, Nikki and Chris admit to the other that they still have feelings for each other. They will have to get over the reasons that they broke up in the first place - Chris making the unilateral decision in feeling they were heading in two different directions with Chris' major league baseball aspiration kiboshed by injury while Nikki was enjoying her early singing success - but meshing together their two very different lives. It is made all the more difficult by some misunderstandings, some stemming from her "people" trying to orchestrate things for the betterment of her somewhat waning career, and the return of Henry onto the scene.

