When the compassionate animal-fairy, Fawn, befriends the sleepy furry giant called the NeverBeast, persuading Queen Clarion and the vigilant Scout Fairies of its kindness is easier said than done. Is the peaceful Pixie Hollow in danger?
Fun and talented animal fairy Fawn believes you can't judge a book by its cover, or an animal by its fangs, so she befriends a huge and mysterious creature known as the NeverBeast. While Tinkerbell and her friends aren't so sure about this scary addition to Pixie Hollow, the elite Scout Fairies set out to capture the monster before he destroys their home. Fawn must trust her heart and take a leap of faith if she hopes to rally the girls to save the NeverBeast.
The new story explores an ancient myth of a fabled creature whose distant roar sparks the curiosity of Tinker Bell's (Mae Whitman) good friend Fawn (Ginnifer Goodwin), an animal fairy who's not afraid to break the rules to help an animal in need. But this animal - massive and strange with glowing green eyes - is not really welcome in Pixie Hollow, and the scout fairies are determined to capture the mysterious beast before it destroys their home. Fawn, who sees a tender heart beneath his gruff exterior, must convince Tink and the girls to risk everything to rescue the NeverBeast before time runs out.
Fawn is up to something. When she brings a baby hawk into Pixie Hollow, Queen Clarion draws the line for Fawn. But there is a strange beast out in the forest. Fawn already said no more dangerous animals would enter Pixie Hollow, but this creature steals her heart. She loves this creature so much, that she would die for it.
After secretly rescuing a wounded baby hawk, the kind and compassionate animal-fairy and Tinker Bell's best friend, Fawn, has an unexpected encounter with the sleepy furry giant called the NeverBeast, in Pixie Hollow's thick forests. Intimidating at first sight, the enormous green-eyed creature is indeed a friend rather than a foe; however, persuading Queen Clarion and the vigilant Scout Fairies of its kindness is easier said than done. Is the fairies' peaceful community in danger?
A green comet streaks across the sky above Pixie Hollow, and a mysterious creature in a cave opens its eyes.Fawn (Ginnifer Goodwin) has been caring for a baby hawk named Hannah, and she asks Tinker Bell (Mae Whitman) for a wagon to carry her into the forest where she can fly and join the rest of the flock. Tink asks what she's up to, and she shows Hannah to Tink. Tink says that hawks eat fairies, but Fawn points out that only adult hawks do that. Covering Hannah with blueberries, they start to pull the wagon, but are stopped by the other fairies. Rosetta (Megan Hilty) tries to help by sprinkling pixie dust on the cart, but that reveals Hannah. The rest of the fairies panic, and Hannah cheeps, causing adult hawks to fly overhead. One of the hawks chases Iridessa (Raven-Symoné), but the scout fairy leader Nyx (Rosario Dawson) saves her. The scouts drive away the hawks and put a net around Hannah, but Fawn stops them before they can hurt her. Queen Clarion (Anjelica Huston) flies in, and Nyx complains that she can't keep Pixie Hollow safe if Fawn keeps taking in dangerous animals. Clarion tells Fawn that she needs to listen to her head instead of her heart. Fawn removes the net, and Hannah flies off.The next day, Fawn is teaching baby bunnies how to hop, when she hears a growl in the distance. Investigating, she sees the cave where the sound is coming from, and she flies in and finds a creature that she's never seen before. It has a thorn in its paw, and when she tries to pull it out, the creature roars loudly at her, and everyone can hear the roar.The scouts ask around about the roar they heard, and the fairies tell them to ask Fawn. The creature walks gingerly out of its cave and starts to move rocks together. Fawn uses a vine to hang a rock up high, and when the creature grabs it, she pulls out the thorn. The creature grabs more rocks and builds them into a tower, sticking them together with its spit. Fawn flies home to grab a sketchbook, and Nyx asks her about the roar. Fawn feigns ignorance, then flies back to study the creature. She sees that he can follow her glow, and she uses pixie dust to make the rocks lighter for him.The next morning, Fawn wakes up and sees that the creature has completed the tower overnight. She asks him what the tower is for, and he growls at her, prompting her to name him Gruff. He starts another tower, and she helps him with pixie dust, but he accidentally overshoots the tower, sending rocks flying into Sunflower Meadow. Fawn shouts out a warning, and the fairies are able to fly out of the way before the rocks crash down. Nyx and the scouts investigate, and the fairies tell them that Fawn had warned them. Fawn leads Gruff away, as the scouts find the partially built second tower. The scouts fly around, seeing Gruff running away, and they try to stop him with nightshade powder, but Fawn makes him turn away, blowing the powder back to the scouts. Nyx continues the chase, but Fawn hides Gruff behind some tree roots.Nyx goes to the library and grabs every book about animals. She sees a paper with a drawing of the creature, and demands that Scribble (Thomas Lennon) tell her everything he knows about it. Fawn calls her friends together and introduces Gruff. When they ask who he is and what the towers are, she says she doesn't know, but that she thinks he's harmless, and wants to show him to Clarion. She asks them to make him float with pixie dust, and then flies into Clarion's tree, finding that Nyx is also there. She signals for them to take Gruff away, as Nyx explains that she read about a creature called the NeverBeast. According to the legend, once every thousand years, the creature awakes and builds four towers in the four seasons of Pixie Hollow. Then it transforms, and a lightning storm destroys Pixie Hollow. The fairies make Gruff float away, and Nyx says that she plans to go after him at dawn. Fawn flies out and joins her friends, and they ask her what happened, so she tells them the legend that Nyx heard, still insisting that Gruff will not hurt them. Fawn falls asleep on Gruff's nose, and green clouds form in the distance, making his eyes glow.The next morning, the scouts fly out after Gruff, and Tink warns Fawn, who can't find Gruff anywhere. The two towers yet to be built are in Autumn and Winter, so Tink flies out to Winter and Fawn finds the third tower in Autumn, with the scouts closing in. She breaks branches to lead the scouts into Summer, but Nyx realizes that Gruff hasn't built a tower in Winter, and she flies that way. Tink finds Gruff in Winter, and she tries to coax him away from the scouts. A lightning bolt flashes, and Gruff hits Tink with a flick of his tail, knocking her unconscious. Fawn flies up and sees Gruff sprout horns, and she realizes the legend is true. Nyx confronts Gruff in Winter, and he bounds past her. She is about to give chase, when Fawn calls for help with Tink. The nurse examines Tink, and says she'll be all right in a few days. Fawn goes to see Gruff, and the scouts throw a net over him. He struggles, and they hit him with nightshade powder, subduing him. Nyx tells Fawn that she did the right thing, and they take Gruff away.Days later, the green clouds are getting closer, and everyone takes shelter. Lightning bolts start to strike, and Nyx saves some fairies that are inside a falling tree. The lightning hits the four towers, and Nyx orders Gruff to stop the storm. Tink sees Fawn, and Fawn tells her that Gruff can't hurt her anymore. Tink tells her that when she found him in Winter, a lightning bolt struck a nearby tree, which fell down toward her, and Gruff knocked her out of the way with his tail, saving her life. Lightning bolts continue to strike, and Fawn leads the fairies out to rescue Gruff. They try to pull off the net, which is too heavy. They use pixie dust to make the net float away, and they try to get Gruff to take shelter, but he has blurred vision from the nightshade. Fawn flies around, and Gruff can follow her glow. A lightning bolt strikes, and it hits Gruff's horns, causing him to sprout wings. Fawn realizes that the legend was backwards, and Gruff's job is to collect the lightning at the four towers to save Pixie Hollow. She leads him around, and they both fly off to the towers. Gruff collects the lightning from three of the towers, but when they get to the fourth, Nyx launches some rocks, destroying the tower and knocking Gruff down. Fawn asks Nyx what she's doing, and she says she's saving Pixie Hollow. Fawn says that Gruff was the one saving Pixie Hollow. A lightning bolt comes down toward Nyx, but Gruff catches it before it hits her. Fawn tells Nyx to get everyone to shelter, then she leads Gruff into the sky to collect the lightning. With several lightning bolts channeled into Gruff's horns, Fawn leads him to the heart of the storm. He flies in, causing a massive flash of lightning that blows Fawn backward. They both fall out of the sky, and the other fairies catch them and bring them gently to the ground. They ask the nurse if Fawn is okay, and she shakes her head. Gruff walks up to Fawn and channels a small amount of lightning energy into her body, bringing her back to life.The next day, Gruff helps to rebuild Pixie Hollow. The fairies ask what they should do with him next, but Fawn listens to his heartbeat, and she tells them that his work is done, and it's time for him to go back into hibernation for the next thousand years. They realize they'll never get to see him again. They lead him into a cave with a bed, a spring-filled water bowl and a night light. Nyx tells him that she's grateful, and he'll always have her respect. Fawn flies up to him. "Hey, big guy. I-I won't see you again, but I know you'll always be there when we need you. I'm really gonna miss you. I love you, Gruff." She flies up to his eye level, and he falls asleep.
