Harikrishan, a software engineer who suffers from obsessive-compulsive personality disorder is asked to go on an assignment to Trivandrum, as his colleagues are not able to stand his behavior.
Fahad Fazil is a geeky software professional who suffers from an Obsessive-compulsive disorder. On a trip to Trivandrum for a conference, he ends up at Paravur railway station with two strangers - Nedumudi Venu a veteran politician and Swathi Reddy a social worker. Fahad has to interrupt his journey and go to the other side of the state to help Nedumudi Venu, reach his home in Kozhikode, where his wife is critically ill. The journey becomes a learning experience for Fahad. The film is about the interplay between the above three main characters.
Harikrishnan (Fahadh Faasil) is a nerdy programming draftsman who experiences Obsessive-compulsive identity issue. His partners think that its difficult to work with him because of his enthusiastic upheavals and odd characteristics, however the organization authority values him as a center resource for the association. His partners bring forth an arrangement to send him off to Trivandrum to exhibit on an online course, one of organization's top offering items, which additionally happens to be created by Hari. Sadly for him, the date of his trip corresponds with a harthal day. In transit to Trivandrum, amidst the night, his co-traveler Gopalan (Nedumudi Venu), a veteran legislator, gets a call educating him that his better half is truly sick. When the prepare leaves Kollam, Gopalan, developing worried about his better half's wellbeing chooses to change his arrangement and come back to the place where he grew up in Kozhikode to take care of his feeble spouse. Seeing the circumstance, another traveler Narayani a.k.a. Nani (Swathi Reddy), a social laborer, chooses to join Gopalan. They get down at Paravur railroad station. In the perplexity to get down at Paravur, Gopalan unintentionally drops his PDA on the prepare before landing. Hari sees the ringing telephone when Gopalan's companion Moidheen rings him to illuminate about his significant other's demise. Hari picks the call and hears the pitiful news. Not knowing how to respond in this circumstance, Hari additionally gets down at Paravur in the affection of overlooking his sack on the prepare. Hari chooses to take after Narayani and Gopalan on their arrival voyage to Kozhikode. The arrangement annoys his day by day routine and calendar, as well as aggravates his standard of cleanliness. Nani then again is lighthearted and not at all like Hari, makes a special effort to help other people. The voyage turns into a learning background for Hari and how he comprehends and defeats different attempting circumstances in life. The movies closes with Hari and Nani beginning to look all starry eyed at and him at last beating his OCPD.

