Spark, a teenage monkey and his friends, Chunk and Vix, are on a mission to regain Planet Bana, a kingdom overtaken by the evil overlord Zhong.
Thirteen years ago, the power-mad General Zhong seized control of Planet Bana and tore it to pieces in the process. Now splintered into hundreds of shards, Zhong is Bana's evil-overlord, ruling with an iron fist. Enter Spark, a teenage monkey and his friends, Vix, a battle-ready fox, and Chunk, a tech-savvy pig. Spark learns of Zhong's secret plan to take over the universe by capturing a giant space monster known as the Kraken, a beast that has the power to create black holes. If Zhong manages to harness the Kraken's power, he'll have history's deadliest weapon at his fingertips, and it's up to Spark and his friends to stop him. Spark's journey takes him to the farthest reaches of the universe, where he encounters great dangers and discovers the secret of his true identity. An action-packed space adventure full of humor and heart, this movie is the story of a boy who takes on great responsibility and in the process discovers his rightful place in the universe.
Spark is a wisecracking teen living on an abandoned planet with his friends Chunk and Vix. Thirteen years ago, the power-hungry General Zhong seized control of their planet Beta, wiping out Spark's family and sending him into hiding. But now they've learned of Zhong's plan to wipe out the entire universe using the deadly space Kraken, and no one but Spark can stop him.
"Spark and his friends, Chunk and Vix, are on a mission to retake Bana, a planet ruled by the evil overlord, Zhong."Thirteen years ago the power-mad General Zhong seized control of Planet Bana, tearing it to pieces in the process. Enter Spark and his friends, Chunk and Vix, who learn of Zhongs plan to take over the universe. If Zhong is able to harness the power of an ancient beast known as the Kraken, hell have historys deadliest weapon at his fingertips. And its up to Spark and his friends to stop him. An action-packed space-odyssey filled with humor and heart, Spark is the story of a boy who embarks on an epic adventure, and in the process discovers his rightful place in the universe.
