A coming-of-age film about two sixty-year-old best buddies who should have come-of-age a long time ago. When Marriage and Family Therapists, Dave and Joel, set off for a San Francisco Therapy Conference, with the intention of hiring Escorts as an escape from their own failing marriages, they wind up in the pathway of a scheming prostitute named Roxie. This encounter with Roxie will prove to be the biggest test of Dave and Joel's friendship.
Roxie is a film about two life-long buddies who run a marriage and family therapy practice, and their altercation with a scheming escort named Roxie. Both men are dealing with their own slowly dissolving marriages, and are better at giving advice than they are at taking it. Dave has developed an entirely new philosophy on women and relationships in order to deal with his failing marriage, while Joel, trying to resolve problems with his second wife, is lingering in depression and self doubt. Dave, now believing that monogamy is unnatural and that any marriage may be impossible to maintain, convinces Joel to join him in hiring escorts while attending a professional conference where Dave is being presented with the Therapist of the Year Award. Joel, however, is not aware that this is not Dave's first time with escorts, and that he has, in fact, had several years of infidelity with a variety of women -- most notably with Roxie -- an escort who pretends to fall in love with married men in order to scam them out of a larger sum of money. And who should walk into Joel's hotel room but Roxie. Once Joel is caught in Roxie's trap, the duo decides to elope. Joel believes the charming Roxie is the answer to his prayers and is ready to throw away his life to be with her. Dave, sparked by the memories of his own infatuation with Roxie, starts a downward spiral that sends him frantically in search of any woman who will care about him. But Dave has to save his pal from this adventure that has turned to a dangerous obsession. When the smoke clears, both men must face their crumbling lives at home, and examine their own friendship.

