A pair of burglars stumble upon a woman being held captive in a home they intended to rob.
In Portland, the amateurish photographer Sean Falco works with his best friend Derek Sandoval as valet at a fancy restaurant. His girlfriend Riley Seabrook studies in a university and he is estranged of his stepfather. Sean and Derek are also smalltime burglars, stealing the houses of the costumers while they are eating in the restaurant. One day, the obnoxious client Cale Erendreich arrives at the restaurant driving a Maserati and Sean drives his car back to his house using the computer and Derek watches Cale in the restaurant. While snooping around the house, Sean finds a locked room and when he opens the door, he stumbles upon a woman tied to a chair with chains and gagged. He unsuccessfully tries to release her but he is forced to return to the restaurant with the Maserati. Sean decides to call the police, but Cale lures the police officers and turns Sean's life upside-down.
While working as valets at a restaurant, Sean Falco and Derek Sandoval secretly use the cars entrusted to them by customers to burgle their homes. On one night, however, Sean finds more than he bargained for when he breaks into the house of wealthy patron Cale Erendreich and discovers a woman named Katie being held captive. Unable to free Katie, Sean abandons her, but notifies the police of his discovery. When the police, however, are unable to find any evidence of Katie's abduction, Sean contacts the FBI and files a missing persons report for her. Cale, meanwhile, brings Katie to a secluded cabin and becomes aware of Sean's knowledge of her abduction. Motivated by a desire to break people down, Cale begins working to destroy Sean's life, including having Sean, Derek, and Sean's parents fired from their jobs. He also savagely beats Riley Seabrook, Sean's girlfriend, after hacking into his Facebook and camera to ruin their relationship by leaking a topless photo of her. Cale then murders Derek and his family in their home and stages their deaths as a murder-suicide, although Sean is able to get a picture of Cale, which he sends to the FBI..

