Four children set out on a journey to find a new home.
Henry, Jessie, Violet and Benny are four orphaned brothers and sisters who mysteriously appear in a small town on a warm summer night. No one knows who these young wanderers are or where they have come from. Frightened to live with a grandfather they have never met, the children make a home for themselves in an old abandoned red boxcar they discover in the woods. Henry, the oldest, goes to town to earn money and buy food and supplies while the other kids make a home in the boxcar finding old dishes and scraps in a junkyard. Ambitious and resourceful, the plucky children make a happy life for themselves. As time passes, they discover the struggles and rewards of independence as well as the joys of family - until one day Violet gets too sick for her brothers and sister to care for her. They must take Violet to a doctor risking discovery and the loss of their secret home in the forest.
When the parents of 4 children pass away, Henry, Jessie, Violet, and Benny must survive in a boxcar hiding from their misunderstood grandfather, until one day Violet is so sick they go to Dr. Moore, Henry's boss, and risk all costs until they realize that their grandfather just needs a second chance and end up living in a mansion with awesome bedrooms.
THE BOXCAR CHILDREN Based on one of the best selling children's books of all time. A touching tale of family togetherness target to kids ages four to twelve. The film explores themes of personal integrity, generosity and kindness. Meet Henry, Jessie, Violet and Benny, four orphaned brothers and sisters who mysteriously appear in a small town on a warm summer night. No one knows who these young wanderers are or where they have come from. The children make a home for themselves in an abandoned boxcar they discover in the woods. The children make a happy life for themselves, discovering the struggles and rewards of independence until one day they must reveal their secret and risk discovery by the one person they fear the most.

