A family man begins to question the ethics of his job as a drone pilot.
A Las Vegas-based fighter pilot turned drone pilot fights the Taliban by remote control for 12 hours a day, then goes home to the suburbs and feuds with his wife and kids for the other 12. But the pilot is starting to question the mission. Is he creating more terrorists than he's killing? Is he fighting a war without end.
Major Thomas Egan is an experienced Air Force combat pilot, but now he doesn't fly jets anymore. Instead he's now a member of a drone crew based near Las Vegas. The two contrary sides of a drone pilot's life has become his routine; at work hours he would control a drone over Afghanistan, dropping missiles at Talibans, while after hours he can simply go home to his wife and kid. But Tommy feels the nag in his gut, the desperate need to be inside a jet's cockpit in warzone airspace. He requests to his superior Lt. Col. Johns to be transferred to a jet squadron but the colonel asks him to mentor a new recruit pilot Suarez. Suarez becomes Tommy's co-pilot, lazing targets while Tommy gets the job to pull the trigger at the enemies. One day their drone gets the recon mission to scout a possible residence of Al Qaeda's new number two. They witness a guard raping a handmaid. They don't do anything since it will defy protocols, though it's clear that both Tommy and Suarez are disturbed by what they see.Soon their crew gets selected to execute a mission from the CIA. The CIA mission feels wrong because the strikes are executed indiscriminately. Meanwhile Tommy's civilian life also slowly drifts apart. His missions start to take more of his time, like when he has to do an over-watch over a team of ground forces for six hours after work hours. Meanwhile, the CIA orders the crew on new missions; each grows grimmer than the previous. They start to target pure civilians, inhumane follow up attacks on rescuers, and even strikes on funerals. One time, Tommy cheats his way out by disabling the link to the drone, losing its target for some seconds. The crew once again witnesses the same guard rapes the same handmaid and they still don't do anything. Suarez has had enough of it and she quits. Tommy's soon had enough and on one lunch break he locks himself within the control room, and sends a missile at that same guard who is going to rape that handmaiden again. The handmaiden gets too close to the blast point but she survives unharmed. Tommy then leaves his post.
