Jenny's parents and siblings are always trying to set her up with a man when she visits them. What they don't know is that she's already met the right person, her "roommate" Kitty, 5 years ago and she wants to marry her and start a family.
Jenny Farrell has led an openly gay life - except with her conventional family. When she finally decides to start a family and marry the woman they thought was just her roommate, the small, safe world the Farrells inhabited changes forever. They are left with a simple and difficult choice - either change with it or drown.
Jenny Farrell is the only one of her siblings in the family who has yet to marry; facing concern and pressure from her parents and siblings to find someone. Jenny tired of trying to be setup and gossip lashes back at her sister, Anne that for all she knew she could be in a relationship. Anne speculates that she must be seeing a married man since she has never brought the person home. Jenny admits to her father she has found the right person and does want to get married, but doesn't know if there is a wedding in the near future. Later, she clarifies to her relieved mother that she is not involved with a married man. Jenny's father tells her mother that the man she is seeing is not willing to commit, leading them to conclude he must be married and the reason for her secretive ways. Jenny desire to be married and raise a family sparks her to pop the question herself. Now, Jenny must tell her parents that she has been in a relationship for 5 years and kept it secret for fear they wouldn't approve. Jenny confides to her parents her future spouse is someone who they have known for many years and has been close to the family. Jenny's revelation changes the Farrell family's traditional Midwestern life forever and threatens to tear their family apart if they let it.
The first scene is of a baptism of two babies with Jenny holding one of the babies. Her parents in the audience are discussing the fact that Jenny's running out of time to find a husband and the fact that Jenny feels guilty about something but they don't know what. Later, we see the family at the parent's house. Jenny arrives at the house and her brother forcibly introduces her to a man called Tommy. Tommy says he has to leave but offers to call her some time which she agrees to. As Jenny leaves, her brother tells Tommy not to bother calling her as she won't call back. When Jenny goes into the kitchen she gets into an argument with her sister who tells her she needs to find someone and Jenny tells her that for all they know she could already be in a relationship. Her sister then assumes that Jenny is in a relationship with a married man as she has never brought the person home and tells her mom stating that Jenny has always been jealous of her life as she's married with kids. Later we see Jenny talking to her father in the garage. Her father asks her to not tell anyone that he is smoking to which she answers that she's never told on him. She admits that she does want to be married and that she is seeing someone. She says that she has found the right person but when her dad asks her "when's the wedding?" she answers "I don't know". Her mother, in the dining room, calls Jenny over and Jenny clarifies that she is not with a married man. After they reconcile Jenny hugs her mom.
That night, her mom and dad are in bed and her dad tells her that he thinks the man he's seeing is not willing to commit to her and that that must be the issue. They talk about how secretive Jenny has become.
