Anyone can park wherever they like in the car park, except for one place; the spot where Legionaire, the owner of the lot, buries dead blackbirds. But then a man appears who wants to obtain that exact place for his 1968 Ford Mustang... at any cost.
Legionnaire (Ferenc Lengyel), a stout, grim man on the outside operates a parking lot in the lowlier parts of the inner districts of Budapest. The seemingly dull daily work has its own charms; the three-and-a-half minute sunshine that comes into the yard from the reflection of a bulkhead window of the neighboring block house, the awful morning coffee made in an eons-old coffee maker, waking up to the chattering of blackbirds nesting over the shelter, protecting them from the stray cats, playing on a bass guitar left behind by a Finnish metal band, and watching slide photos from Iceland.
Legionnaire has a perfect, peaceful world for him. He spends days with his buddy, Edgár (Kálmán Somody), a bit slow-witted but good-in-the heart man with the dream to get to Iceland. He also peeks into the tiny bits of the everyday life of his customers. Like the one of Ildikó (Lia Pokorny), Attila (Zoltán Rajkai) and Tomi (Simon Miklauzic) - a dysfunctional family with an aggressive, corrupt cop, and a son with psychological issues, who occasionally lights the bags of his schoolmates on fire to avenge bullying.
And one day, Imre (Tibor Szervét), the wealthy, aspirant boss of a cargo company drives in to park his precious Mustang into this yard. He spots immediately the shelter and wants to park his car there, but Legionnaire refuses. Imre tries everything to reason, persuade, buy or intimidate Legionnaire to relent and give up that space for his car. After learning that offering more money won't work on Legionnaire, he tries to make him his man, taking him to a cruise in the city, after transporting Ildikó and Tomi to the school. After the fruitless try he calls the authorities on the yard to inspect the discrepancies of Legionnaire's business, and offer him that he can settle the legal actions against the lot with all but a phone call. Legionnaire still refuses, upon which Imre reacts by taking every measure to make his life more miserable. He hires Börni (Attila Egyed) the taxi driver to place a spy camera into the van of Legionnaire, and buys the Turkish fast food restaurant at the opposite side of the street, denying Legionnaire's access to showering. Legionnaire also answers in kind, parking the car under the rain guttering and in the muddiest parts of the yard.
As the tension between the two escalates, we learn more and more details about their lives. Legionnaire buries the dead blackbird nestlings under the shelter's roof, so it is some sort of shrine to him. He also had a wife and a baby, who died in an accident, while being pregnant with their child.
Imre is divorcing from his wife in a messy procedure. He also suffers from serious kidney illness; a fluid intake, equivalent of 4 cans of beer can end his life by making his kidney explode. His office has a nice view right onto the yard, and is watching Legionnaire's every steps.
In the meantime, Attila is expelled from the police for taking bribe, and Ildikó leaves him. Later Ildikó hooks up with Legionnaire, and they spend the night together in his van. Imre watches the whole thing through his spy cam.
The breaking point is Legionnaire's birthday, when Hakan (Kristóf Horváth) the Turkish restaurant keeper makes a bird stew for him. Legionnaire quickly puzzles together that the stew was made from the blackbirds, nested above the shelter, and Imre was all behind it. He threatens Imre, upon which Imre uncovers his illness and that he has not much to afraid of. Legionnaire gives him 24 hours to leave the lot, upon which he responds smirking that it'll be just enough.
On the next day a billboard overlooking the lot is being overlaid with a photo about Legionnaire and Ildikó, tipping off their relationship to both Tomi and Attila. Legionnaire steals Imre's Mustang and takes it for a ride all night long, while Attila is seething with rage and prepares for vengeance. Ildikó, frightened from her ex-husband prepares to leave the city with her son.
When Legionnaire returns, Imre waits him at the door, and they go for a ride into an empty district of the city. There Imre scolds and lessons him of thinking how wrong Legionnaire's world view is. He tells about his seek for redemption, from doing pilgrimage to sailing abound the planet, but the meaning of life still escaped him, and it cannot be that it is in that parking lot, right in front of him. Legionnaire says nothing, instead heads on full throttle toward a concrete wall with Imre. Imre first seems calm about the whole act, but starts to get more anxious, then, seconds before slamming into the wall he screams up. Legionnaire pulls the car sideways the last instant, and stops, centimeters from the wall.
After the lesson they part ways. Legionnaire meets up with Ildikó again, and they move together. Imre goes back to the lot, and dons the jacket of Legionnaire, claiming the leadership of the lot. Later that night Attila arrives to the yard, gun in his hand, and bursts into the van. He sees Imre, lying on his back, face toward the wall, and mistakes him with Legionnaire. He shoots him in the back twice. Then it is revealed that Imre killed himself before, drinking beers, and laid on the bed thereafter. When Legionnaire heads back, the police is already on the scene, but they can hardly start anything with the situation, an ex-cop shooting a corpse in the back.
The film ends with Ildikó, Tomi and Legionnaire, spending their morning together.
