A Jewel thief named Frank Stone is a very deeply disturbed, anti social, milquetoast who finds no joy or humor in anything - until he awakens from a deep coma.
LAUGH KILLER LAUGHSYNOPSISFrank Stone (William Forsythe) is a cold blooded gangster and diamond thief for some low level gangsters. His appearance is unkempt and out of date. He has the personality of a cobra. This comes undoubtedly from being repeatedly brutalized as a youngster by a Headmaster (Tom Sizemore) at the orphanage Frank was raised in. Frank sees the Headmaster in his thoughts and hears him in his imagination. This plays heavily in Frank's psychosis. Frank's demeanor and background get no mercy from his constituents when he makes his drop offs. His Boss (Victor Colicchio) and crew members (Larry Romano) take verbal jabs at Frank. They don't seem to like him. As Frank leaves one day he meets a girl named Jackie (Bianca Hunter) who mistakes Frank for a classmate. She goes to a creative writing class. Frank follows her and spies on the class where he sees students (Kevin Corrigan) read their stories in front of the class and the Teacher (Robert Macnaughton) express that creative writing can help one explore their inner self. Frank decides to give it a try but unfortunately can come up with anything creative. So he decided to write about his real life adventures as a diamond thief. He gives the alias name of Oscar Kissel to his classmates. Jackie becomes smitten with Frank until she realizes Frank has too many demons he's hanging onto. Soon after, Frank's boss gets wind and tries killing Frank, who gets seriously injured in the head but escapes. Frank wakes up and becomes uninhibited and remarkably joyous for the first time in his life. He laughs and pulls pranks. He finds humor in anything. Until the mob kills Jackie to get to Frank. This action snaps him out of his new found personality (Typewriter comment blank)
and causes Frank to seek revenge. Frank won't stop until every gangster responsible is buried.
