A military dog that helped American Marines in Afghanistan returns to the United States and is adopted by his handler's family after suffering a traumatic experience.
When Kyle Wincott is killed in the war, his war dog, Max, suffers from stress. Max is to be put down because he has trouble listening to anyone else, until he meets Justin, Kyle's brother. Justin adopts and saves Max. Then both of their lives will never be the same again.
When Justin's older brother, Kyle, is killed in Afghanistan, Justin can't believe that his brother is really gone. Except there's one thing that Kyle left behind... Max is a highly trained military canine who has always protected his fellow soldiers. But when he loses his handler and best friend, Kyle, Max is traumatized and unable to remain in the service. He is sent home to America, where the only human he connects with is Justin, and he is soon adopted by Kyle's family, essentially saving his life. At first Justin has no interest in taking care of his late brother's troubled dog. However, the two learn to trust each other , which helps the four - legged veteran become his heroic self once more. As the pair starts to unravel the mystery of what really happened to Kyle, they find more excitement - and danger - than they bargained for. But they might also find an unlikely new best friend - in each other.
Kyle and his dog Max serve as soldiers on the frontline in Afghanistan. Kyle died in an ambush and Max is sent home traumatised to loud noises and hostile to people. Max only obeys Kyle brother Justin so the family adopts Max though Justin reluctantly accepts his new responsibility. Justin meets his friend Chuys cousin Mia who is good with dogs. Mia helps Justin trains and bonds with Max. Kyles friend Tyler comes back stateside, claiming to have injuries discharge and asking Justins father for work and shelter, which the man gives. Justin meets Chuys acquaintance Emilio who often buys pirated games from Justin. Justin and Max follows Emilios scent and finds him and Tyler and a another man dealing arms. But the man's Rottweilers catch Justins scent and go for him. Justin escapes capture but the man, who turns out to be the sheriifs deputy, comes with Tyler to the house. Tyler persuades Justin to shut his mouth and put down Max.Justin reluctantly agrees and lets the dog pound takes Max. His father gets suspicious about what happened and asks Justin about Tyler. He then goes to Tylers place he lent him and finds Tyler and the deputy with an arms cache. So Tyler and the deputy takes the father hostage. Max escapes his captors and goes back to Justin. They with Chuy and Mia then follows Tylers scent to the forest and finds him, Emilio, and the deputy about to do another deal. Again the Rottweilers catch their scent and go after them. Max fight off the dogs and Justin evades Tyler. Emilio finds Chuy but Justin subdues him. The father frees himself and handles the deputy. Justin tekks Mia to go get the police while he and Max run with Tyler on their heels. Eventually Justin gets cornered on the railway bridge with Tyler readied to shoot him. Max runs from behind and pushes him to the river. Fortunately Max survives the ordeal and the father starts to trust Max as part of the family.
