A professional contract killer, haunted by visions of his violent past, spirals out of control. His work compromised as he reaches breaking point, he is forced to defend his family from his ruthless employers.
Alfie Jennings. Loving father. Faithful husband. Professional contract killer. Haunted by horrific visions of the men he has killed, Alfie spirals towards the brink of madness as his past catches up with him. One of the founding members of elite hitman fraternity, Homefront, Alfie's panic attacks now compromise this once ruthless ex-elite soldier and leader of men. His tense family life rapidly approaching boiling point, a sheltered daughter on the brink of womanhood, a beautiful, neglected wife on the brink of despair, Alfie is lost, desperately trying to hold everything together. An embarrassing public breakdown during a torture in front of his employers and client, calls Alfie's sanity and professionalism into question, forcing ex-Army Major, Albert Chapman, the psychopathic head of Homefront, to begin threatening the lives of Alfie and his family. As Alfie is tested, pushed to the limits by his own employers, the noose tightening around the Jennings family, the hellish truth is finally realised; if Alfie and his family are ever to be truly free, Homefront have to die, they all have to die.
Alfie Jennings -Professional contract killer. Haunted by horrific visions of the men he has killed, Alfie spirals towards the brink of madness as his past catches up with him. One of the founding members of elite hitman fraternity, Homefront, Alfie's panic attacks now compromise this once ruthless ex-elite soldier and leader of men. His tense family life rapidly approaching boiling point, a sheltered daughter on the brink of womanhood, a beautiful, neglected wife on the brink of despair, Alfie is lost. An embarrassing public breakdown during a torture in front of his employers and client, calls Alfie's sanity and professionalism into question, forcing ex-Army Major, Albert Chapman, the psychopathic head of Homefront, to begin threatening the lives of Alfie and his family.

