A 11-year-old Indian boy who has just lost his father is forced to adapt to a new school in a small village. The story is about how he copes up and how life has to move on transforming a young mind into an adult day by day.
An 11-year-old moves to a small town because of his mother's job transfer. Initially he faces challenges adjusting this place, soon he get to know his classmates who becomes friends to him. He starts enjoying small moments with his friends. Once from school all gang decides to go for a cycle race. All of them reach to a 'Killa' and while exploring 'killa' Chinmay is left behind, sudden rains hit the place and all other friends leave him back there. he searches entire 'killa' for them and returns home very disappointed that no one cares for him. Same time his mom is faces some challenges at work which she is not able to express to Chinmay. Chinmay is also unhappy asking her mom to leave this place and go back to Pune where they came from. Then some point down the line he realizes that those friends cared about him, also how his mom is trying hard to handle all pressures and this little boy.
A government officer and her son shift from Pune to a Konkan coastal village owing to her job transfer. In addition to coping with the bereavement of his father, the boy has also got to deal with unfamiliar surroundings of a lazy village, coastal food &amp; win the friendship of students at his school where he is initially greeted with acrimony.
Set in a small coastal town in Konkan, the film is intimately interwoven with forests, animals, a lake and the
sea. These essential elements become the stage on which young Chinu struggles for acceptance and identity when his mother, who works in a government office gets transferred from a bigger town to a village. His father has recently died and the two are on their own in a small house. Far from his settled world Chinu has a lot on his plate. Local lads seem like unruly delinquents to him when he first encounters them trying to set fire to a puppy. Chinu passes Yuvraj some answers in math class, and gains a friend. His mother, meanwhile, has her own conflicts to face in the local corrupt bureaucracy when shes strong-armed into helping a local building contractor get a project through without bank approval. Far from her family she has her set of struggles and worries about her son.The climax comes early on, in a genuinely spooky scene in the ruins of a British fort, where Chinu undergoes an ordeal that becomes a rite of passage.
