When Mira's April Fool's Day tricks materialize, she finds herself promoted to the perfect job, dating the perfect man and living in the perfect home. Mira's newly upgraded life even involves working with her CEO and her good friend, on a coveted work project. When these seemingly positive changes result in big challenges, Mira realizes that the pursuit of perfection is a fool's errand. In order to achieve a life that's perfect for her, Mira must let go of perfection and chase what brings her true happiness.
Mira has her fantasy life all mapped out. She eventually wants to be the CEO of a Fortune 500 company, much like the one for which she works currently as a Project Manager, Your Page, a social media website. She highly respects the company's current CEO, Erin, but has problems trying to get ideas past her overworked boss, Michael, to get to Erin. She wants to marry a handsome and successful man, much like Liam, a local restaurateur she read about in a feature magazine article. And as much as she loves hanging out with her roommate Brooke and their mutual friend Kelsea, she wants a fancy apartment of her own, which she can ill afford at this stage of her life. On April 1st, a day she hates because of all the pranks, separate April Fool's jokes lead to the trifecta of her fantasy life coming true. She, able to make her pitch of a total website rework to Erin, is promoted to Vice-President of Creative Development, leapfrogging over a surprised Michael, who was expecting the promotion. With the job comes a corporate townhouse with all the bells and whistles. And that same day, she literally bumps into Liam the restaurateur, the two who seem to hit it off at first sight. Quietly watching Mira start to date a successful, handsome man is Jonah, a graphic designer at Your Page and her best friend at work. Everyone at Your Page except Mira can see that Jonah is in love with her. Beyond being with Mira, Jonah has his own fantasy life, which includes being a successful author of a series of children's books, his lead character who he has modeled after Mira, the character who, in the end, sees the error in her fantasy to see that her fantasy was always staring her in the face. As Mira's fantasy life takes hold, she finds that it isn't all it's cracked up to be. With all the work pressures, including being thrown a major curve ball by competitors, Mira ends up turning into another "Michael", and not an "Erin" as she so admires. She finds that she feels alone in the large townhouse far away from her friends. And despite Liam being a doting boyfriend, he does what he believes he needs to be that good boyfriend rather than what Mira truly needs. Beyond getting over the work issues, Mira has to figure out how to make herself happy again. But she may come to the conclusions too late to find that real happiness that was always staring her in the face.
Just when junior advertising executive Mira Simon believes her dream for a perfect life will never come true, her April Fool's pretense that it did follows suit. As her sister warned warned, what you wishes always come at a higher price then feared. Promoted over her boss's head to creative director Michael Collier's head after impressing CEO Erin, she proves unable to lead the team or even avoid the errors of her predecessor and others. She's instantly won over by dashing restaurant owner Liam Henderson's lavish but non-personalized courting, but finds it unsatisfactory, impractical and meaningless. Even the corporate suite she moves in proves lonely, missing her roommates. Although his inspired help is crucial to stand any chance at working out a presentation, she neglects tirelessly devoted writer Jonah, even is the only colleague not aware he has a crush on her, thus driving him to resign in favor of his true passion, devising a children's books line. Only when crisis drives her to despair, she talks stock and may adjust.

