In an effort to do something different, four friends head into Australia's outback to explore Charlie's Farm, the site where a violent family met their end at the hands of an angry mob. Despite all warnings, they persist in their horror-seeking adventure.
Friends Jason (Dean Kirkright) and Mick (Sam Coward) aka Donkey, plot a road trip to "Charlie's Farm" which is believed to be haunted. The two persuade Jason's girlfriend Natasha (Tara Reid), to call her best friend Melanie (Allira Jaques) to come with them, without informing them about the history of the site. After hours of driving, the group stop at a pub for food and directions to the farm. A pub patron, Blue (Jeff Watson), warns them not to continue resulting in a fight between Mick and another patron (Brad Bromfield), who angrily changes his mind after the fight and gives them directions. At a campfire, Melanie and Natasha confront the two and Mick eventually tells them the story of Charlie's Farm:In the 1980s, John Wilson (Bill Moseley) and his wife Meredith (Trudi Ross) are farmers, murderers and cannibals. The local townspeople, led by Blue, confront the couple over a slew of missing backpackers which the two had been murdering and eating. After an argument Blue shoots John dead while Meredith escapes with their mentally handicapped son Charlie. Meredith manages to hide Charlie before being caught, interrogated and beaten to death by the locals while Charlie watches. Charlie is never seen again, and is presumed dead.The next day, desperate to find the farm, Jason calls their boxer friend Tony Stewart (Kane Hodder) for directions. Tony warns them to be careful at the Farm. Arriving at the gate to the property, they decide to walk to the farmhouse. Upon exploring the house, Melanie finds an old teddy bear of Charlie's and decides to keep it. In the middle of the night when the group are sleeping, Melanie awakens to see an enormous, hulking figure looming over them; the full-grown Charlie (Nathan Jones).Melanie dismisses it as a dream. Morning comes and two backpackers, Gordon (David Beamish) and Alyssa (Genna Chanelle Hayes), arrive at the farm for the same reason as the group. Later on the group decides to split up and explore the property. Gordon and Alyssa come upon a barn which appears to be Charlie's base of operations. Charlie ambushes them and kills Gordon with an axe to the chest and Alyssa by crushing her head beneath a tractor wheel. Meanwhile, Mick and Melanie discover a lake and go skinny dipping.They are startled by Charlie who is watching them from the levee. Mick goes to confront Charlie, naked, who severs Mick's genitals and forces them down his throat, killing him. Melanie flees and is chased through the woods but is murdered when Charlie tears out her lower jaw. Natasha and Jason find another barn. Jason insists they go inside but Natasha refuses and waits. Tony, fearing for the group, goes to the Farm to check on them. Meanwhile, Jason, who was taking a long time inside, alarms Natasha who follows him in. Jason warns Natasha to be quiet as he finds Charlie roaming inside the barn.Tony arrives and faces Charlie head-on in hand-to-hand combat. Jason tries to assist but Tony is killed when Charlie tears out the skin on his neck. Jason is then also killed when Charlie slits his throat in front of Natasha. Natasha flees but is knocked unconscious and captured by Charlie. She then wakes up in an underground chamber, breaks free and escapes, discovering many corpses of Charlie's previous victims. Blue, the elderly patron from the pub, appears and assists Natasha in escaping. Charlie, however, catches up to them and kills Blue with an axe to the back. Natasha takes Blue's rifle and shoots Charlie in the chest, maybe killing him. She makes it to Blue's truck but Charlie surprises her by impaling her on Blue's rifle which she had discarded, killing her. Charlie then picks up her dead body and walks back to his land.
