Vinayagam, an honest man, uses violence to settle disputes. He decides to mend his ways for his lover's sake. Hell breaks loose when he learns about a gang of rowdies following his lover's family.
Vinayagam (Ajith) is a tough guy and a vegetable wholesale dealer in a village. He is chronic bachelor living with his four younger brothers who dote on him. One day a girl Kopuram Devi (Tamannaah) an architect student comes to the village. Vinayagam slowly gets attracted to her urged by his brothers, who have their love interests. But when she comes to know about Vinayagam's violent face, she distances herself.
Vinayagam and his band of brothers rule the town of Ottanchatiram &amp; literally kick ass when it seems fit. Circumstances force a girl, who visits the town, to assume Vinayagam to be a mild and soft spoken person and she in turn changes Vinayagam's staunch philosophy that wedlock will break the relationship with his brothers. When they fall in love and decide to travel to meet her pious father, his true self is forced to come out in front of her much to her shock. When he decides to put his past behind him to win his love, a new challenge presents itself from unexpected quarters!
Vinayagam (Ajith) is a brave person living in a village called Oddanchatram, who lives with his four brothers Murugan (Bala), Shanmugam (Vidharth), Kumaran (Suhail) and Senthil (Munish). The elder brother loves the younger ones to the core, and sacrifices his happiness for their good. They are often caught in fights and they are proud of it. Advocate Bail Perumal (Santhanam), who bails them out whenever legal issues arise because of their brawls. Vinayagam hates the idea of marriage as he feels that his wife might create disharmony among brothers. Though the four younger brothers say that they dont want to either fall in love or get married, when Vinayagam is not around, they all have their secret lovers. Now, in order to get the green light for their love stories, they learn through his brother's childhood friend Collector Subbu (Ramesh Kanna) that Vinayakam, in school, was in love with a girl named Koperundevi (fondly called Kopu) and his brothers hatch a plan to find her and reintroduce her to Vinayakam, so he can fall for her all over again. But shes married now and has kids. So the brothers conspire to do the most logical thing, which is to find another woman named Koperundevi (fondly called Kopu), because, you see, Vinayakam was not in love with that girl so much as her name, and when he meets another (completely random) girl with that name, he is sure to lose his heart to her, just because she bears that name. Though initially reluctant later Vinayakam himself falls in love with her. He clashes with a goon called Vanangamudi (Pradeep Rawat) to take care of market in the village. Vanangamudi tries to kill Vinayagam's brothers while Vinayagam kidnaps Vanangamudi's son (Amit Kumar Tiwari) after clashing, Vinayagam orders Vanangamudi to leave this village.While travelling in train to Koppu's village, Koppu narrates her family background to Vinayak. Koppu's father Nallasivam (Nassar) is a respected man in the village who hates violence, while his son (Pawan) is exact opposite who kills people but when he is killed, Nallasivam refuse to cremate his body and decided to make his village with peace and harmony. Few goons enter into train but Vinayagam bashes all the rowdies, Koppu is shocked to see Vinayagam whom she thought as a non-violent person. Vinayagam and his brothers arrive at Koppu's village with clean shaven look, he says that he has changed and he would never harbor violence, he and his brothers are welcomed and respected by her family. Vinayagam is touched and impressed by their love, affection and hospitality. Vinayagam comes to know that a goon named Aadalarasu (Atul Kulkarni) wants to kill Nallasivam and his family, reason is revealed through flashback that Aadalarasu's father Aavudaiyapan (Avinash) is responsible for blast of matchstick factory. Nallasivam complains against Aavudaiyappan. Aavudaiyappan who is arrested, commits suicide by getting hit by a lorry.Aadalarasu swears revenge against Nallasivam. Vinayagam finishes all the goons and solves all their problems without the knowledge of Nallasivam and family. When Nallasivam's granddaughter finds sickle under Vinayagam's jeep, Nallasivam orders Vinayagam to go out of the town. Aadalarasu who escapes from death sentence arrives to kill Nallasivam but Vinayagam keeps him and his family in a safe place. Aadalarasu informs Vinayagam that he had kidnapped one of his brothers Kumaran, Vinayagam arrives at the nick of time and saves his brother but instead gets attacked by Aadalarasu. Nallasivam and his family who arrives at the place comes to know about risk taken by Vinayagam to save him from the mess. Brutally attacked Vinayagam rises steadily, kills Aadalarasu and his henchmen. Nallasivam who is impressed with Vinayagam's valour decided to give his hand to his daughter Koppu. The film ends with the marriage of Vinayagam and his brothers.
