In every generation, a torch passes from father to son. And that timeless dynamic is the beating heart of Tommy's Honour - an intimate, powerfully moving tale of the real-life founders of the modern game of golf.
In St Andrews, Scotland in 1866, 15-year-old Tommy Morris is an avid golfer like his legendary and pioneering father, Tom Morris. "Old Tom" is greens-keeper for The Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews, as well as the town's club- and ball-maker. He is the two-time winner of the first major golf tournament, The Open Championship, which he founded in 1860. He also established golf's standard of 18 holes per round. But young Tommy is beginning to chafe at his father's dictates, especially in the rapidly changing world they live in. Tommy soon outshines his father, winning The Open three times in a row while still in his teens. The "dashing young man of golf", he draws flocks of spectators to the sport and becomes its first touring professional..
A father wants only the best for his son, but struggles to guide him in a world thats changing as fast as the boy himself.A son blessed with talent, fueled by ambition, chafes at his fathers commands as he hurtles toward adulthood with all the moxie of untarnished youth.In every generation, a torch passes from father to son. And that timeless dynamic is the beating heart of TOMMYS HONOUR an intimate, powerfully moving tale of the real-life founders of the modern game of golf.
Set in St. Andrews, Scotland during the hidebound Victorian era, the story opens in 1866 as 15-year-old TOMMY MORRIS(Jack Lowden) heads to the links with his father, TOM MORRIS (Peter Mullan). Already a legend, Old Tom is greens-keeperfor the Royal &amp; Ancient golf club, where he established the standard of 18 holes per round; as well as the towns club- and ball-maker; and thrice winner of the first major golf tournament, the Open Championship which he founded in 1860.Tom Morris has secured his place in the history of the ancient game. But Tommy will soon outshine him, retiring the Opens prize Championship Belt while still in his teens (by winning it three times in a row), and, as the dashing young man of golf, drawing flocks of spectators to the sport and becoming its first touring pro.
Despite their shared passion, father and son repeatedly clash over the unwritten rules of social class, culminating in Tommys marriage to a woman of lower standing with a shameful secret in her past. Tommys beloved wife MEG (Ophelia Lovibond) figures in this true storys climax, as Tom makes a fatal misjudgement that strips Tommy of everything he holds dear. From the ashes of that fateful choice, Old Tom rises to a mission that carries him through the final decades of his life: Honouring Tommy.
