Central London, today; Dee is an anarchic street-artist confronting the system, Marcus is an armed robber on a jewellery store crime-wave. For the two brothers, being Anti-Social is a way of life.
Dee is an anarchic street-artist confronting the system, Marcus is an armed robber on a jewellery store crime-wave. For the two brothers, being Anti-Social is a way of life! Bound by an unyielding family loyalty they relentlessly carve their respective paths - and Dee finds acceptance in London's art-scene, while Marcus' smash-and-grab heists amass him a small fortune and his aspirations escalate. But when an ultra-violent gangland war erupts, Dee is suddenly forced to remember who he is - as Police and rival criminals close-in on the family and Marcus' gang defiantly prepare to take down the largest target of their careers.
Two brothers, Central London; Dee is an anarchic Street-artist who, along with his best mate, is on an audacious spray-paint campaign across the City - having a wild time whilst sticking two fingers up at the establishment. Marcus is a Smash-and-Grab Robber who, along with his gang, launches a crime-wave across the West End - raiding high-end jewellery stores on motorbikes armed with sledge-hammers. For both Dee and Marcus, being Anti-Social is a way of life! Bound by an unyielding family loyalty, the brothers relentlessly carve their own paths - and Dee unintentionally finds acceptance among London's art-scene, while Marcus' daring heists amass him a small fortune and he becomes an escalating underworld figure. But when a savage gangland war erupts, Dee is suddenly forced to remember who he is - as Police and rival criminals close-in on the family and Marcus' gang defiantly prepare to take-down the largest target of their careers!
Dee is an anarchic street-artist confronting the system, Marcus is an armed robber on a jewellery store crime-wave. For the two brothers, being Anti-Social is a way of life! Bound by an unyielding family loyalty they relentlessly carve their respective paths and Dee finds acceptance in Londons art-scene, while Marcus smash-and-grab heists amass him a small fortune and his aspirations escalate. But when an ultra-violent gangland war erupts, Dee is suddenly forced to remember who he is as Police and rival criminals close-in on the family and Marcus gang defiantly prepare to take down the largest target of their careers.
