Prem and his oversized wife Sandhya are supposed to spend a lifetime together. Will a regular arranged marriage turn out to be a perfect mismatch?
It is the 1990s, the tape-cassette is dying, CDs will soon be the rage and a regular arranged marriage will turn out to be a perfect mismatch. Prem (Ayushmann Khurrana) is a shy music buff who runs a tape recording shop in Haridwar. Sandhya (Bhumi Pednekar) likes to dance to the band tunes at her own wedding. He has nightmares about drawing a blank at his English exam. She is about to carve a niche for herself as a teacher. But now, they are married and they are supposed to spend a lifetime together - and he is still trying to find balance on their scooter ride together. From overcoming his fear of the English language to dealing with an overbearing father, he discovers that his oversized wife, who he thought was a spanner in his spool, will actually lead him to something quite cool.
The movie is about Prem Prakash Tiwari (Ayushmann Khurrana), who dreams of getting married to a beautiful, slim girl. But destiny has something else in stored for Prem. He unwillingly gets married to Sandhya (Bhumi Pednekar), who is fat unlike the girls Ayushmann had been dreaming of. Post marriage, Prem goes on to ignore his wife, and on the other hand Sandhya tries to arouse love in her husband for herself. Amidst all this, a race is organized in the city where the husband has to carry his wife. The poor guy, under the pressure of his family has to participate in that race. Eventually there is love, music and dance that happens later in the film.
A beautiful love story of a under-educated boy and a over-weighted girl. A marriage takes place against the will of the boy. The relationship between the boy and the girl becomes uglier. Then their Hatred for each other turns into love eventually.
Prem Prakash Tiwari (Ayushmann Khurrana) listening to Kumar Sanu is the film's opening shot. Set in Haridwar, 1990s, the film captures the nascent feel of the town. Prem owns a cassette shop in the local market. His father is keen to get him married and the family goes to a local temple to meet Sandhya (Bhumi Pednekar). Having completed her degree in B.Ed and waiting for a teaching job, the most visible thing about her is her weight. Coming from a patriarchal cognitive set-up, she doesn't fit the quintessential idea of beautiful.
Prem (Ayushmann Khurrana) is a Haridwar bred middle class guy who is safe to be termed as a man-child. Prem gets shivers with the mention of English language and so hence he prefers to leave his education and work for his father's recording shop. He is smitten by Kumar Sanu's voice and listens to his songs on loop. When an unwilling Prem is forced by his overbearing father (Sanjay Mishra) into a marriage with Sandhya (Bhumi Pednekar), who is not only over sized but over educated too, Prem finds himself in a fix. He tries hard go resist this marriage but Sandhya is determined to make it work. In spite of being married to a man who is not even half as qualified as her and whose family still treats him as their kid, Sandhya is trying to overlook all the glitches and give this marriage a chance. At one point when Sandhya finally learns that her husband's perception of her is nothing but a fat lady with whom he can't even sleep on the same bed, she decides to spare him of this forced marriage. Will Prem realize that there is more to Sandhya than just her heavy appearance and will the Dum Laga Ke Haisha competition bring them closer is what is left to see.

