Sharing a small apartment with his sleepy French bulldog, an unmotivated thirty-something slacker lands a job at a Quick Lube, to be close to the shop's beautiful manager. Has he found a new purpose in life? Is there still hope?
Larry (Jason Schwartzman) is content with his dog Arrow and booze, barely tolerating anything or anyone else. His marginally successful relationships include his grandmother, who keeps him afloat financially, and his best friend Norwood, who provides him with pharmaceuticals. But a chance encounter at a Jiffy Lube gives Larry a beguiling new boss and the impetus to head in another direction for a while. This movie showcases all that may be needed to help a person get unstuck in life: love (or an unrequited crush), friendship (or someone your family likes better than you) and family (or in this case a grandmother who will support you whenever you get fired from a job).
Sharing a cramped apartment somewhere in Austin, Texas, with his loyal and sleepy French bulldog, Arrow, the unmotivated thirty-something slacker, Larry, has made a habit of getting fired from low-paying jobs. However, after one stop at Quick Lube and one good look at the shop's beautiful manager, Lupe, Larry will be inspired to get a job, as his grandmother can't support him any longer. Has Larry found a new purpose in life? Is there hope and, maybe, a future for him?
Jason Schwartzman portrays Larry, an inebriated sad sack who rides a tide of booze onto the shores of an undiscriminating Quick-Lube. The only bright spot is probably his boss, Lupe (Eleanore Pienta).Will Larry keep it together long enough to win the girl, provide for his French bulldog (Schwartzman's real-life dog Arrow), laze about with his friend Major (TV on the Radio's Tunde Adebimpe), and do his cantankerous grandmother (Olympia Dukakis) proud?7 Chinese Brothers - written &amp; directed by Bob Byington (Somebody Up There Likes Me) - is empathetic in tone, dry in humor. Schwartzman is in every scene and offers one of his most finely nuanced performances.
