Gru meets his long-lost charming, cheerful, and more successful twin brother Dru who wants to team up with him for one last criminal heist.
After he is fired from the Anti-Villain League for failing to take down the latest bad guy to threaten humanity, Gru finds himself in the midst of a major identity crisis. But when a mysterious stranger shows up to inform Gru that he has a long-lost twin brother-a brother who desperately wishes to follow in his twin's despicable footsteps-one former super-villain will rediscover just how good it feels to be bad.
Balthazar Bratt, a child star from the 1980s, rises to power and wants world domination. As Gru and Lucy Wilde attempt to stop him from stealing the largest diamond in the world, they fail as he flies away. Gru and Lucy are fired by Valerie Da Vinci from the AVL, and are jobless. As Agnes tries to sell things to get money, Gru receives news he has a twin brother. He flies to Dru's location, but finds out he is a more successful and rich super villain. Dru wants Gru to team up for one more heist, which he gives in to. Without Lucy knowing, they plan to steal the largest diamond in the world from Bratt, as the Minions get themselves in prison.
With the delusional 1980s' bad boy Balthazar Bratt, the latest and most fearsome supervillain still on the loose, super agents Gru and Lucy are now fired from the Anti-Villain League after Bratt's unsuccessful arrest. As a result, the depressed and jobless Gru will find himself without a purpose in life, however, the news of an unknown twin brother somewhere in a foreign country will eventually spark a carefully subdued, yet profound interest to carry on the family's tradition. But is the pairing of Gru and his bubbly brother Dru a match made in heaven?
Fired from the Anti-Villain League, Gru travels to Freedonia to meet his long-lost twin brother for the first time. The siblings soon find themselves in an uneasy alliance to take down Balthazar Bratt, a former 1980/ child star who's out for revenge.
Former villain Gru is now an agent for the Anti-Villain League (AVL). He and his partner/new wife Lucy are sent to foil the plans of Balthazar Bratt, a former child actor from the 1980s who has turned evil. Gru manages to stop Bratt from stealing the Dumont Diamond, a giant pink diamond, but is unable to capture him. As a result of failing to capture Bratt, Gru and Lucy are fired from the AVL by its unreasonable new director Valerie Da Vinci, following the retirement of the AVL's former director, Silas Ramsbottom..

