After both signing an agreement with a company that offers to end their lives when they least expect it, a dejected millionaire and a disheartened young woman fall in love and have to find a way to get out of their binding contracts.
An eccentric multimillionaire signs an agreement to have his life ended. While selecting his coffin he meets a young woman who has signed up for the same arrangement. Trouble ensues when the couple falls in love and wishes to get out of the contract.
Multimillionaire Jacob is seen with his dying mother, asking him whether he feels any emotion. He doesn't. Later it is revealed he changed into this state at the age of four, when his father disappeared. He sees no future. At his mother's funeral a pushy lawyer wants him to confirm he will sell the estate, which he does. Next, Jacob tries to end it all in various ways but does not succeed. At one of his attempts he picks up the address of a mysterious organization that helps people to end their life. Having decided to pay them for a surprise ending, he meets a sweet and shy girl in the room where the casks are displayed. She say she also wants to end her loveless life. They fall in love, but find out there is no postponing the trip to a better world. After they escape various attempts at their lives, the plot really starts rolling (contrary to the short story by Dutch writer H.J. Schönfeld (Belcampo) the film is based on). A lot of unexpected things happen and masterful plot twists keep you tied to your chair for the next half hour. Superb direction, superb acting by Dutch, Belgian and Indian(!) actors, superb scene settings, superb camera-work, superb scenario.
Director Mike van Diem is back with his new movie after 18 years. A mother expecting her death, an emotionless son, the movie begins like this. After the death of his mother, the hero tries several methods to commit suicide, but all in vain. In search of death, he encounters some Indian people who are running a business to help to commit suicide. As usual, he meets the heroine there, who is also looking for the same. Her company brings radical changes in his emotions, he laughs, become angry and as expected hope of life grows in him. Now he needs to get rid of the killers or at-least a delay. The plot is similar to Malayalam movie "Kaakkakkum Poochakkum Kallyaanam". The amazing treatment along with the smaller and bigger "Surprises" makes this movie unique and a different experience. There are some unique similarities with the director's previous movie "Karakter". The absence of love or in this case, he has a glass barrier between him and the real world. The hero grows up without the presence of his father is also a common factor. Beautiful visuals, production design, actors are the great highlights of the movie.

