The passionate love between a former boxer and a beautiful blind woman.
Ali is a water delivery man during the day and a parking lot assistant in the night.One day during the night sift in the parking lot he meets Hazal, a beautiful blind woman who used to watch movies with the previous employee there. Hazal works in a call center and is an orphan.Ali and Hazal becomes close and he saves her from unwanted attentions of her boss.Ali tells Hazal that he will take care of her. Hazal quits her job and Ali moves in with her. Ali was in prison for 4 years on his involvement in trying to get money for loan shark and the debtor set himself on fire.Despite Ali's help, the debtor slips form his hand from a multistory building and dies. An opportunity arises for getting Hazal's vision back by an expensive surgery costing 200000 lira. Ali comes to know that he was indirectly responsible for Hazal's blindness since the slipping of the person from his hand who had set himself on fore distracted the attention of Hazal who was driving a car below the building which led to her accident, blindness and death of hr parents. Guilt ridden Ali agrees to participate in a deadly underground fight to get the money for the surgery. Ali disappears after the surgery leaving Hazal a letter explaining his role in her accident.Ali is badly injured in the fight. Fast forward 1 year later, Hazal runs a tiles shop and tells anyone who asks her out that she is married.She has Shima, the dog Ali had gifted her for company along with Ali's turtle.She volunteers at the nearby hospital and provides massages to patients in pain where she meets Ali again.But she does not recognize him although the patient reminds her of Ali. Once Ali is discharged, he meets Hazal and Shima. Ali walks with a limp. Shima is excited to see him but Hazal takes him away. On returning back to her shop she realizes that her turtle is gone and understands that the man with the limp was Ali. Although she searches for him, she could not find him. Hazal finally finds Ali at Ali's childhood place which they had visited together during their happier times.Ali and Hazal are reunited.
