A night like any other in the streets of Hong Kong: in the midst of the tangle of night-owls, cars and vendors, a group of passengers climb aboard a minibus that is to take them from Mongkok to Tai Po. The group is as diverse as the city: there's a young man on drugs, an arguing couple, a woman with prayer beads and a girl who has just fallen in love, and behind the wheel sits the chatty driver. As the bus emerges from a tunnel, everything is suddenly quite still: the streets and buildings are all empty and there's not a soul to be seen; it's as if everyone has suddenly been swallowed by the earth. Only the millions of neon lights continue to blink, as if nothing has happened. The eclectic group of passengers seek refuge in a deserted café and discuss what they should do. Then they make a horrific discovery.
A group of people from varying backgrounds board a minibus. They all blink at the same time and then the population seems to have vanished. Later we learn that they have somehow experienced time differently or traveled through time, it is not made clear in the movie. They learn that the night they experienced put them 6 years in the future of everyone else they used to know. Members of the bus randomly start to get sick and some crumble to death. They find a man wearing a gas mask and eventually discover he is a Japanese man who said he was there to help. We also learn the man in the gas mask was a former classmate. They also all get a phone call at the same time and the sender sends lyrics to a David Bowie song. They discover that the message is coming from the mountain and want to go to the mountain to find out what is happening. They guess that there was either a nuclear explosion and virus. They never confirm the explosion. Also, one of the members sees another as evil in visions, this is never explained. As they try to make it to the mountain, a whole army of people in gas masks try to smash their bus. They escape and make their way to the mountain and that is how the movie ends. We don't get any real resolution. Many aspects that were brought up were never later addressed or explained.

