A group of modern day Pittsburgh teenagers spend their Thanksgiving break experiencing a mixture of love, friendship, partying, and sex.
A group of former high school students come back home for Thanksgiving. During the few days back they undertake things like partying, relationships, and reconnecting with family. The teenagers experience how to let go of high school and move on with their lives.
The movie starts out with former high school student Tori (Cherami Leigh) at a party reminiscing about how much she hated high school and coming back home. The scene cuts right after she gets puked on by another partygoer. The camera flashes to a couple hours before the party at the airport where she is about to get picked up by her parents (Kasey Daley, John Yost) and blind sister (Lisa Schwartz). As she is welcomed by her family she asked the homeless man next to her if he wanted to "switch lives", to which he said he would rather "eat his own sh*t". Once reunited with her family, her sister Marissa announces she is engaged.Meanwhile at the airport, another former high school student, Scott (Shane Dawson), is greeted by his girlfriend Heather (Jorie Kosel) who drags him into a stall in the men's bathroom. She climbs over the side to the other stall and demands he give her his dick through a hole in the stall. After a minute she begins crying and breaks up with him.Joel (Drew Monson), another former high school student goes back to the high school to visit a his long time crush Janie (Michelle Vientimilla), Scott's sister. As Joel is trying to get Janie to hang out with him, he accidentally lets it slip that her dad (Bill Lang) is shutting his store down.Back at Scott and Janie's house, their father explains to them that he is shutting down the store because he met someone and is moving down to Florida. Both of their reactions are unhappy and they both storm away.
Wanting to get out of the house, Tori goes to a party with Joel. As he try's to make a move on Janie he knocks her drink all over her. He takes her to the bathroom to clean up and it comes to the attention that Janie needs help in a class. Joel offers to help her study so that he can get closer to her and she accepts. Still at the party, Tori gets puked on by a drunk girl and has to leave. On her way home she hits Scott with her car. When she gets out of the car to apologize she realizes it's Scott and he realizes it's "Tori the Whorie". Sore from the hit he asked Tori for a ride to Heathers house who he is stalking on his phone to try and get her back. In the ride there Tori bashes on him and tells him he needs to "try something new", his response to this is to make out with her. When he stops them to say he doesn't have any condoms, Tori pulls out a stash to which Scott asks "Who are you?" And she replies "Tori the Whorie."The next morning it's Thanksgiving and all of the families are gathered at their tables. Scott leaves his family's Thanksgiving to go to see Tori. There he asked if she felt a connection when she was with him the night before. After she refused Tori's mother invited him inside to play Dance Central. Scott challenged Tori to dance, so she said if she won that he would have to leave. Scott revolted back by saying if he won then she would have to kiss him. During the dance Scott told Tori that she should try having a dance parter for "just one game", meaning that they should go on a date. Angered by this Tori insults him. Upset, Scott stops dancing so that she could win, then he would have to leave. He says bye to Tori and leaves like he was supposed to.The next day Joel and Tori are in the store where Joel is trying on dresses so he can buy one for Janie. While in the store, Scott coincidently bumped into Tori. When Tori accuses him stalking her, he shows her the pictures on his camera, stating he was just there to take pictures of people on Black Friday. When Tori is looking on his camera she finds a picture he took of an old couple. Scott explains his feelings about the picture, in which Tori replies by saying she didn't sleep with the "cool guy", she slept with the "formerly cool guy whose actually a big dork." When Scott is unable to recall one "cool" thing his done since graduation, Tori invites him to hang out with her as long as he does everything she says. The next day Tori and Scott are in the car driving when Tori gives he a list she called the "F*ck it list". She told Scott he has to do all of the things in the list. When he read the first one, which was "shave your head", he said he would never do that. So instead he started with another one which was to poop on heather lawn. As he is about to poop on her lawn, Heather comes out and sees what he was doing. As Scott scrambles to run back in the car, heather screams she wishes he was "into poop stuff" when they were together.
While completing the things on the list they do things get a blowup naked doll. They go into a grocery store where Scott puts a cucumber down his pants and Tori puts a watermelon in her shirt. They go the checkout line to buy a box of condoms and since Tori looked like she pregnant, the cashier said "better late then never." On the way out Scott tripped Tori so shed fall and the watermelon would smash. Next Tori makes Scott get a piercing to which his head starts bleeding and he faints.Meanwhile, Joel tells Janie his car broke down, so he rented a party bus. Janie is actually trying to studying, but Joel's only intentions are to get with her.Once back in the car Tori gives Scott a "pot brownie". Thinking he is high, Scott and Tori shove their butts against a ski lift window and stick up their middle fingers. After they went through the list they ended up at their old high school gym. Tori confesses to him that it wasn't a pot brownie and just a regular brownie. Scott tells her that was messed up, to which Tori argues that he messed up her life by posting an embarrassing picture of her at prom. The talk a little about their feelings then Scoot tells Tori he wants to take her somewhere.Still with Janie, Joel stops the party bus and heads into a fancy restaurant, conveniently being a restaurant Janie always wanted to go to. He also gives her the dress she always wanted, so she could look nice. As they were talking Janie began to realize everything that was her favorite, Joel said was his favorites too. Janie eventually caught on that Joel had "researched" all of her favorite things. Janie thought it was sweet of him, however still left anyway.Scott and Tori arrive at an empty football stadium where again Scott try's to talk to Tori about the night they spent together. After a moment, in an effort to be "romantic", Tori tackles Scott.Joel and Janie get back from the restaurant and go into Janie's dad's store where Joel has set up a little dance. The two of them dance briefly until Joel kisses Janie. Janie then leaves upset, and it is clear that Joel is also very unhappy.The next scene Tori and Scott are in the car again making out. As Tori hesitates, Scott tells her that she's beautiful and always has been." The two wake up the next morning still in the car, and Tori realizes she is late for setting up her sisters engagement party. Scott's stops her to ask if she wants to go away somewhere with her. She is shocked that he would drop school and go off somewhere. When Tori refuses she says he can't always do what's easy. Scott then says that he doesn't, then said that she wasn't easy. Upset, Tori asks where he lives so she can just take him home. Janie apologizes to Joel and says that she doesn't feel that way about him. However she says that she can help to get him laid and he accepts.Back at home, Tori talked to her sister about Scott. Her sister advises her to not give up on him and Tori agrees. Tori heads to the party to go see Scott. When she gets there she walks in on Heather on top of him. Tori starts crying and leaves right after Heather snaps a picture of her. Scott chases after Tori and explains that Heather "basically raped" him. Tori wants nothing to do with him and tells him to stay out of her life. As she leaves the party everybody starts chanting "whorie, whorie", due to the fact they saw the picture Heather sent out of her.
At the party Joel is playing strip cup with a bunch of girls in which he eventually takes them all into the bathroom with him. Upset, Scoot seeks advice from his sister Janie. After some sibling bonding he realizes what he has to do to make it up to Tori. At her sisters engagement party, Tori runs into the room to see Scott standing there holding a razor. She's ask him what he is doing and he says "this", as he runs the razor through his hair. He apologizes to her as him continues to shave his head. After he is done she forgives him and the two of them reconcile and kiss. Tori then helps Scott fix up he now shaved head right before they head out to a party at Scott's dad's store. When they get there Scott's convinces Tori to dance with him since it was the same song the battled each other in on Thanksgiving. After their dance the two slow dance and kiss as Janie snaps another picture of them, happy this time.The last scene is Tori at the airport again, but this time looking at a vide of her and Scott. At the same time Scott is looking at a picture Tori took of them on Black Friday. The movie ends with Scott sending Tori a snapchat saying "see you Christmas."
