What would drive someone to drop everything and move into a city park in lower Manhattan? In the fall of 2011 hundreds of people did just that as a public protest against corporate greed and with the hope of creating an alternative society. Occupy Wall Street started as an under attended protest that quickly caught fire and capturing international headlines, the imaginations and hearts of people across the globe. Almost overnight the movement transformed the national dialog about economic inequality and corporate corruption. The slogan 'We are the 99 percent' instantly became part of the national lexicon. This documentary is an intimate portrait of several key players who helped create the movement and their wild ride through the rise and fall of Occupy Wall Street.
On September 17, 2011, a group of young people, inspired by the Arab Spring, gathered to march on Wall Street. Most of them had never met before - and many had never participated in a protest. They had connected through social media- and a shared desire to put an end to the corporate greed that had brought down the world economy. Occupy Wall Street quickly caught fire, capturing the imaginations and hearts of people across the globe. Almost overnight, the movement transformed the national dialogue about economic inequality and corporate corruption. This documentary follows several of the key players. Bobby Cooper is from rural New Hampshire, where the farm that has belonged to his family for generations is on the verge of foreclosure. Hero Vincent - a charismatic, aspiring hip-hop artist from North Carolina could not understand how his loving family ended up homeless after his father lost his job. Sandy Nurse grew up an army brat. Her mother still works at the US Department of Defense. Sandy was on a fast tract to a diplomatic career- but decided to play hooky from graduate school on September 17th to march on Wall Street. Amin Husain grew up poor in Palestine. He came to New York with a full scholarship to Columbia Law School and landed a high paying job as a corporate transactions lawyer. But his life felt meaningless and he longed for something more. Lisa Fithian, a passionate activist who has been called by conservative media, has dedicated her life to social justice work. Patrick Bruner just graduated with honors from Skidmore College. Frustrated with his inability to find work and drowning in student debt, he showed up in Zuccotti Park.On the morning of September 17th, these characters were amongst those who converged on Wall Street and collectively decided that they would not go home until they inspired major systemic change in America. The living conditions in the protest camp were incredibly difficult. There were no bathrooms, running water, or electricity. People were sleeping on the cold concrete in the rain and snow. Yet nearly every day, there was a new creative action to call attention to and brainstorm solutions for our countrys social injustices. The wealth of ideas was astounding. The willingness to sacrifice everything, for the possibility of building a more just, compassionate world, created a palpable sense of hope. Soon, OWS surged from a fringe protest to a major news headliner. Occupations across the world began popping up with tens of thousands of participants worldwide. Occupiers pressed forward with incredible urgency and inspiration - but it also felt out of control and unmanageable. Direct democracy revealed itself to be both beautiful and messy. As the movement exploded, the police became increasing aggressive with their tactics to undermine the impact of OWS. Infiltrators began subverting the movements activities and community meetings. As filmmakers, we were deeply moved by the stories of these remarkable young people and what had led them to abandon their lives and homes to live in Zuccotti Park. With limited resources, we followed our characters through the dramatic events that unfolded over the course of the next year.
