Admiral Yi Sun-sin faces a tough challenge when he is forced to defend his nation with just 13 battleships against 300 Japanese enemy ships in the Battle of Myeongryang.
The film mainly follows the famous 1597 Battle of Myeongryang during the Japanese invasion of Korea (1592-1598), where the iconic Joseon admiral Yi Sun-sin managed to destroy a total of 31 of 133 Japanese warships with only 13 ships remaining in his command. The battle, which took place in the Myeongryang Strait off the southwest coast of the Korean Peninsula, is considered one of the greatest victories of Yi.
ROARING CURRENTS tells the story of one of Korean history's most astonishing military victories by its most revered strategist, Admiral Yi Sun-shin. In 1597, the Japanese navy under Admiral Todo takes advantage of an unsuspecting Joseon state and reinvades, decimating the Joseon fleet in doing so. Despite losing his position for enraging the king, Admiral Yi is reinstated and after a brazen offensive against Todo's headquarters, leads a previously demoralized Joseon navy into the powerful and dangerous currents of the Uldulmok Strait. While the Japanese commanders jockey for power among themselves, Yi lures over 300 Japanese ships into a deadly trap where they meet their fate against only 12 battleships.
Year 1597, Joseon Dynasty has been under Japanese attack for six years. As the nation faces possibility of loss with the Japanese military charging fearlessly to the capital of the nation, Admiral YI is reappointed as the Chief of Naval Operations and assembles a group of soldiers to defend the nation against Japanese attack. Japanese Chief Commander Kurushima (RYU Seung-Ryong), notorious for his cruel personality and clever strategies, respond by destroying Joseon's one last hope, the Turtle Ship. With just 12 battleships and an army of doubtful soldiers, Admiral YI and his soldiers face 330 Japanese battleships in The Battle of Myeong-Nyang.
1597. The Japanese are attempting to invade Korea. At sea, only one man stands in their way - Admiral Yi Sun-Shin. However, while the Japanese fleet has about 300 ships, he has only 12. Moreover, his most powerful ship, a "turtle" ship, has just been destroyed. Despite these odds, Yi Sun-Shin fights the Japanese and using courage, incredible seamanship and knowledge of the conditions, prevails. The battle would go down in history as the Battle of Myeongnyang Strait, one of the most amazing, against-the-odds victories in military history.

