Northpole, the magical home to Santa &amp; Mrs. Claus, has grown into a huge city powered by the magic of holiday happiness around the world. Yet as people everywhere get too busy to enjoy festive time together, the city is in trouble. Who can help save the cherished traditions of Christmas? One young boy, Kevin, might have a chance if he can convince his protective mom, Chelsea, to rediscover the magic of the season. With a little added help from Kevin's charming teacher Ryan, a mysterious elf-like girl Clementine (Madison) and a gospel singer named Josephine, Kevin is determined to bring his mom in on the fun and prove that one small voice can change the hearts of many.
It's just before Christmas. Santa Claus is facing problems where the happy Christmas thoughts from around the world which are supposed to emanate to him at Northpole to signify what the elves are to make for all the boys and girls just is not radiating like it has in the past. One of Santa's more enthusiastic elves, Clementine, wants to do her small part in helping Santa save Christmas by bringing the true Christmas spirit in the world back. She notices one small beacon of hope in the form of adolescent Kevin Hastings. Kevin and his single mom Chelsea Hastings have just moved from Wisconsin to Colorado for Chelsea's work, she a newspaper reporter. Kevin, who loves and believes in Christmas, is concerned that Santa will not be able to locate them in their new house. In Clementine contacting Kevin, they come up with the idea that the small small act they can do is to reinstate the Christmas tree lighting in Greenwood Park, which the mayor this year has canceled due to cost and lack of interest. This cancellation just happens to be the story on which Chelsea is also working, and believes in her investigation that the cancellation has something to do with what looks to be a shady deal between the mayor and a developer named Ernie Pendleton. Chelsea has no issue with Kevin and his new friend Clementine working on this lofty goal, but she does have issue with what she considers Kevin's overactive imagination in that he is doing it all to save Christmas for Santa, this thought somewhat encouraged by Kevin's supportive teacher, Ryan Wilson. In the process, Kevin bringing the Christmas spirit back may have to start at home with his mom.

