A budding photographer seeks out the same true love she finds in an old photo album.
Budding photographer Chloe (Ory) comes from a family of failed romances. At a local flea market, she stumbles upon an old photo album from the 1970s, chronicling the ideal romance of a happy couple (Hindle and Barbeau). Unable to find her own "true love," she sets out to find the couple in the album and prove that true love exists. Along the way, she meets Gabe Sinclair (Macfarlane), a mysterious, but charming bartender, who seizes the opportunity to join Chloe's mission and soon finds himself falling in love with her. With limited resources, the two go on an adventure, searching for clues that will lead them to the couple, and hopefully to true love. As the search continues, Chloe begins taking an interest in Gabe, but won't let these feelings distract her from her mission to find the couple. Will Chloe learn to give up her fear of falling in love and finally find true happiness?
Chloe Davenport, recently transplanted from her hometown of New York City to San Francisco, is trying to make a name for herself as an artistic photographer. Her latest show, the photographs from which are memories of her life, demonstrates her rather clinical as opposed to humanistic outlook. That clinical look is largely due to not having positive role models of love, she having no romance in her life as she believes any relationship, like her parents, will eventually end badly. That outlook has the potential to change when she stumbles across a scrapbook - called a memory book on the cover - at a swap meet, the memory book, which she purchases, presenting the 1971 love story between two young people only identified in the book as Sarah and Jonathan. Engrossed with the photographs and the stories she infers about the couple, Chloe is determined not only to find out Sarah and Jonathan's complete story, but return the memory book to them. Along for the ride to discover Sarah and Jonathan's story is Gabe, a former lawyer currently working as a bartender while he tries to find his calling in life. Gabe and Chloe met at her show, he enthralled with her, but not so much with her photographs. Chloe can admit to herself that she is mutually attracted to Gabe, but cannot see something ever happening between them as she finds him too cocky and impulsive. They finding out about Sarah and Jonathan may have a direct affect on whether Chloe is willing to open herself up to love with Gabe despite their differences, as she believes if Sarah and Jonathan did and could not have a happily ever after based on the memory book, no one can.

