A family that survived the genocide in Indonesia confronts the men who killed one of their brothers.
An Indonesian man with a communist background named Ramli was brutally murdered when the "Communist" purge occurred in 1965. His remaining family members lived in fear and silence until the making of this documentary. Adi, a brother of his, decided to revisit the horrific incident and visited the men who were responsible for the killings and one survivor of the purge. These meetings uncovered sadistic details of the murders and exposed raw emotions and reactions of the killers' family members about what happened in the past - much to Adi's disappointment.
Adi, a young optometrist in today's modern Indonesia, follows the gruesome events that took place on October 1965 in Aceh province, when commoners were labelled as "Communists" after the coup against the government and the total elimination of the Indonesian Communist Party (PKI). Under the Iron Bridge of River Snake, numerous Death Squads of the infamous Komando Aksi butchered more than a million people in less than a year, under the remote supervision of the army that made the mass exterminations look like spontaneous acts of hate--and among the many that were purged--Adi's older brother, Ramli, was one of them. Armed with courage and the desire to reveal the real story behind the ethnic cleansing, Adi follows the tracks of his brother's executioners, only to discover a devastatingly harsh truth: The perpetrators who destroyed myriads of people still remain untouched and rule across the country, having washed their hands of the problem. Even so, life must go on.
Through Oppenheimers footage of perpetrators of the 1965 Indonesian genocide, a family of survivors discovers how their son was murdered, as well as the identities of the killers. The documentary focuses on the youngest son, an optometrist named Adi, who decides to break the suffocating spell of submission and terror by doing something unimaginable in a society where the murderers remain in power: he confronts the men who killed his brother and, while testing their eyesight, asks them to accept responsibility for their actions. This unprecedented film initiates and bears witness to the collapse of fifty years of silence.
