Three stories of abused and forsaken girls who return from the dead to take their revenge.
WRAPAROUND - Alice, a transient runaway who seeks refuge in a dark old house where she meets a most unusual young Girl with dark powers. OVER MY DEAD BODY - Suzy is a sweet young woman who gives her heart away too easily. Travis is a good timing young man whose cavalier attitude about a woman's heart is about to get him into serious trouble. When his former girlfriend shows up at his big open house party, Suzy can see Travis' true nature. But Travis, being a guy, tries to have his cake and eat it, too. Suzy won't share him with anyone. Travis tries to explain, accidentally killing Suzy. With a house full of guests and his old flame vying for his attention, Travis does what comes naturally and gets rid of the body. Only Suzy won't be gotten rid of so easily. THETA PHI'S NEVER DIE - Avery is a bright-eyed college student more focused on books and grades than boys and parties. When her Mother convinces her to rush for her old sorority, Theta Phi, Avery has no choice but to pursue life as a sorority sister. Theta Phi is the school's hottest, most exclusive sorority, and the current members aren't going to let a nerdy girl like Avery taint their image just because she's a legacy. The sisters stage a mock voodoo ceremony to scare Avery away. Only it goes horribly, horribly wrong. With Avery's dead body on their hands and jail in their future, the sisters dump the body and swear to a secret they will carry to their graves. VENGEANCE IS MINE - Maggie is a young woman who has been loyal to the faith all her life, even after the Parish priest began to sexually abuse her. Now that she's 18 and no longer holds any appeal to the good Father, she realizes what has happened. She prays for help, seeks the guidance of the Mother Superior, but no one will believe or listen to her. With no hope left, Maggie turns to someone she never considered before, and with his guidance, discovers it really is possible to get what she wants.
WRAPAROUND - The wraparound story is about Alice, a transient runaway who seeks refuge in a dark old house where she meets a most unusual young Girl with dark powers. OVER MY DEAD BODY - Suzy is a sweet young woman who gives her heart away too easily. Travis is a good timing young man whose cavalier attitude about a woman's heart is about to get him into serious trouble. When his former girlfriend shows up at his big open house party, Suzy can see Travis' true nature. But Travis, being a guy, tries to have his cake and eat it, too. Suzy won't share him with anyone. Travis tries to explain, accidentally killing Suzy. With a house full of guests and his old flame vying for his attention, Travis does what comes naturally and gets rid of the body. Only Suzy won't be gotten rid of so easily. THETA PHI'S NEVER DIE - Avery is a bright-eyed college student more focused on books and grades than boys and parties. When her Mother convinces her to rush for her old sorority, Theta Phi, Avery has no choice but to pursue life as a sorority sister. Theta Phi is the school's hottest, most exclusive sorority, and the current members aren't going to let a nerdy girl like Avery taint their image just because she's a legacy. The sisters stage a mock voodoo ceremony to scare Avery away. Only it goes horribly, horribly wrong. With Avery's dead body on their hands and jail in their future, the sisters dump the body and swear to a secret they will carry to their graves. VENGEANCE IS MINE - Maggie is a young woman who has been loyal to the faith all her life, even after the Parish priest began to sexually abuse her. Now that she's 18 and no longer holds any appeal to the good Father, she realizes what has happened. She prays for help, seeks the guidance of the Mother Superior, but no one will believe or listen to her. With no hope left, Maggie turns to someone she never considered before, and with his guidance, discovers it really is possible to get what she wants.

