After his ninth unsuccessful attempt on his own life, a young man outsources his suicide to an ageing assassin. "If you're serious about ending it, you need professional help"
After another failed attempt to commit suicide, hapless writer William addresses the services of hired assassin Leslie, the inexorable angel of death from the Killers Guild, an organization that is ready to help anyone who needs a quick and painless death. Leslie has a good heart, but an unsteady hand. The authorities want to retire him, and the contract that has turned up is the only chance to postpone the inevitable. However, the case intervenes in the fortuity. The fate suddenly smiled to William: he falls in love.
The movie begins with a man (William) is standing on the ledge of a bridge trying to gain the courage to jump. A man appears behind him and startles him and offers help if William wants it. William tells him to back off, he doesn't need help, the stranger gives William a card as his attempts to help William jump appear to fail. William closes his eyes and jumps, but he crashes through the roof of a boat and lands in the middle of a party alive.William goes back to work as a life guard ( he wants to be a writer) and talks with his boss. Things don't go well, already frustrated about his future, William is dismissed from his job and then heads home. He comes upon a stack of mail inside his door, to his dismay, they are rejections from his submissions. He heads to the bathroom and looks for pills. He then turns on the gas oven and sticks his head in it. Once again, he has failed, the gas has been shut off due to an unpaid bill. William pulls out the card that the stranger on the bridge game him, it reads Leslie O'Neal Assassin , he calls the number.William meets the stranger from the bridge (Mr. O'Neal) in a coffee shop, William tells him he is not what he expected based on his age. Leslie ensures William that he is the angel of death and has killed many people. William explains the many way and times he has tried to kill himself all ending in failure. The last incident ending in being hit by an ambulance, William suggests that he may be immortal. Leslie gives William a book with options of ways people die to choose from. Because William only has 2 thousand dollars, Leslie suggests a bullet from a distance, instant death, they agree and sign a contract.O'Neal goes to his office to register his contract and also asks for a gun, he looks at the score board for hired killers and he is very low on the list, however he notices that one killer has overflowed the chart with his kills. He heads home to have dinner with his wife and they sit down to watch some tv. Meanwhile, William is at home writing his suicide note, satisfied, he kicks back with a smoke. Back at O'Neal's house he and his wife argue about bills and such. Later on William calls O'Neal to tell him the money has been transferred, but O'Neal is in the middle of a job, the call is short and Oneal goes about his business.William has an idea for a book about an assassin, namely his own hired help. O'Neal is shown doing his job around the city. Williams phone rings, it's a woman who wants to talk to him about his book. They set up a meeting for lunch, she tells him not to kill himself before then. Williams goes to see O'Neal to postpone their deal because of the meeting. Oneal reminds him that the have a contract and he must follow through on it. William meets up with Ellie who called him earlier about his book, a rude man on the phone berating someone sits down with them, he is the boss and takes over the conversation. He suggests what he wants to do to twist Williams story about trying to kill himself but he doesn't agree with the suggestions. O'Neal takes aim at William from a window, but as he shoots, William ducks and the rude boss is killed instead, O'Neal takes a second shot again missing William and hitting a waiter.O'Neal is back home with his wife telling her he had a bad day, she suggests that it could have been worse because someone could have been killed. William is at home writing when he hears a knock on the door, it's Ellie. She and William talk about what happened earlier during their meeting and where to go from here. Knowing that he has hired someone to kill him, William struggles but finally breaks and tells Ellie that the bullet was meant for him and not her boss. Ellie tells William that he needs to end the contract so he calls O'Neal. The phone that is ringing is in his apartment and he finds O'Neal in another room, they argue and William is almost killed.William and Ellie run down an alley and steal a parking cops scooter, O'Neal kills the cop, stuffs him in a trash can but is abducted by men putting a bag over his head, O'Neal is taken to his boss where he is told he fucked up, they can't have that as they are professionals. He goes on a rant about Micheal J Fox and then tells him that he is done, washed up, through, out of the game. He is told he has broken the rules because someone else had a contract on his accidental killing. O'Neal tries in vain to take credit for that contract, but is informed that he has been re-assigned. O'Neal is offered a clock as a parting gift but refuses to take it. His boss tells his henchmen that O'Neal has become loose end and should be shot.William and Ellie are at her house that her parents left her when they died in a car crash, she also says that she was dead for about 10 seconds. William comes back with his own story about how his parents were crushed by a piano and that as he looked at his dad hoping for some last words, he just died instead. Ellie suggests that they just kill themselves and get it over with rather than waiting for Williams hitman. They take two knives, Ellie counts to 3 but they drop the knives and start making out instead.O'Neal is back home in bed with his wife complaining about being let go / retired and says he isn't ready, His wife says to stick with his guts and stay in the game. William and Ellie chat about how he decided which way he wanted to be killed and bicker a bit about which way would have been the most interesting. O'Neal and his wife are going about their day, she leaves as he reads the paper, outside a henchman sits in a car. Once the wife is gone, he heads inside the house, O'Neal says goodbye to his birds and leaves. The Henchman finds pictures and such on the table but no sign of O'Neal.William and Ellie head to cliffs overlooking the ocean and then head through some woods. They arrive back at Ellies home only to find O'Neal ready to fulfill his contract. His phone keeps ringing as he attempts to shoot William, it's his wife calling about the house being broken into. The henchman has killed his birds and he is upset. As he goes to shoot William, the henchman shoots O'Neal. He then hands William a gun and tells him to shoot himself. Saying that they will both be considered suicide, Ellie and William explain that he needs the other gun to do it. William puts the gun in his mouth but they henchman is then pummeled to death by O'Neal who has survived the shot to the head.O'Neal tells William he needs to finish the job, Ellie picks up a gun a shoots off a round to let him know she is serious. William tells O'Neal that he had nothing to live for until he met Ellie, and now he doesn't want to die. Ellie comes up with a plan by taking out their own contract. After some time they take O'Neal's car to a bridge where they dump Ellie's boss into the river. O'Neal makes it home to his wife and finds that she has won a first place ribbon. Later on she answers the door, it is O'Neal's boss and he has the clock he had offered earlier. He asks his wife to leave so they can discuss business. O'Neal is told that one of his contracts are still alive, he pushes the contract that William and him had drawn up, guns are drawn under the table. Suddenly O'Neal's wife enters with her award winning pillow. She goes on and on about how some birds mate forever and with both guns still pointed at each other, they wonder what to do. O'Neal's wife picks up the clock and hands it to O'Neal, this means he has accepted retirement and then the boss leaves the house.William and Ellie are walking through a park, a ball is kicked into the street and William jumps out to push the child out of the way, William is hit and lays in the street as people clap for his heroics. Ellie comforts him as an ambulance arrives.
