Based on two historical incidents that deepened the friendship between Japan and Turkey.
Ertugrul, launched in 1863, was a sailing frigate of the Ottoman Navy. While returning from a goodwill voyage from Japan in 1890, she encountered a typhoon off the coast of Wakayama Prefecture, subsequently drifted into a reef and sank. The maritime accident resulted in the loss of 533 sailors, including Admiral Ali Osman Pasha. Only sixty-nine sailors and officers survived and returned home later aboard two Japanese corvettes. The event is still commemorated as a foundation stone of Japanese-Turkish friendship. Wikipedia.
In 1890, Dr. Motosada Tamura (Seiyo Uchino)'s kindness in caring for his patients is winning him the trust of Kashino, a poor village on Kushimoto's Kii Oshima island in Wakayama prefecture. Assisting him is Haru (Shioli Kutsuna), who the shock of losing her fiance to drowning has left mute. In the night of 16 September of that year the Turkish frigate Ertugrul is driven aground in a typhoon and wrecked in the Pacific Ocean off Cape Kashino. Hearing the alarm bell that warns of a vessel in distress, the villagers rush to the shore and are confronted there with the grisly spectacle of vast numbers of dead and dying. With more than 500 crew members dead, it is the largest sea accident in history at that time. Risking their own lives, the villagers rescue who they can, while Tamura and Haru go to work treating the injured. The next morning there are 69 survivors. In the wake of her life rescuing efforts Haru builds a special bond with Mustafa (Kenan Ece), 2nd engineering officer on the Ertugrul. Although being very poor and having hardly to eat, the villagers share what little they have with strangers from a country 9,000 kilometers away.In 1985, during the Iran-Iraq war, a Turkish embassy official named Murat (Kenan Ece) encounters Harumi (Shioli Kutsuna), a teacher at a Japanese school, during a bombing raid in Tehran. Iraq announces that in 48 hours it will start an indiscriminate attack and shoot down any aircraft over Iranian air space. Japanese ambassador Yutaka Nomura (Toshiyuki Nagashima) requests rescue flights from Japan, but is told that a quick response is not possible. Meanwhile rescue flights from other nations are arriving, leaving only the Japanese stranded. Harumi wants to save her students and prevails upon Nomura to ask the Turkish ambassador for help. Out of gratitude for the rescue of Turkish sailors in 1890, Turkish prime minister Turgut Özal (Deniz Oral) decides to evacuate the over 300 remaining Japanese nationals. In the morning of 19 March a Turkish Airlines aircraft takes off for Tehran. But not only are there only a few hours remaining until Iraq's ultimatum expires and Tehran is already under heavy rocket fire. By now Tehran Mehrabad International Airport is full of Turks trying to find a flight to safety. They still need to be convinced that they won't be able to board their own country's evacuation flight. Kimura (Takayuki Takuma), an automotive engineer posted to Tehran, and the other Japanese have all but given up hope of getting onto the last flight. That's when Murat starts speaking out to his fellow citizens about the compassion and sacrifice Japanese villagers had shown to Turkish sailors shipwrecked far away a long time ago.
