A young woman moves to Los Angeles with the task of helping a famous author edit her upcoming romance novel. While dealing with the diva's many demands, she meets two men and realizes the best one for her might not necessarily be the one who looks best "on paper."
After being let down by yet another boyfriend in a long line of deadbeats, Natalie Holland has decided to make a change in her life. Thanks to an opportunity from her long time friend, Avery Goldstein, Natalie decides to move to Los Angeles and work with esteemed author, Beverly Wilcox, as an editor for Goldstein Publishing. Upon arrival, Avery tells Natalie that she needs to start dating men who not only look good in person, but have outstanding credentials that make them look good on paper. So, when she meets the handsome, but seemingly unambitious John Cooper, she makes a conscious effort to avoid falling for him. With the fate of the company riding on the success of Beverly's book, Natalie must put her heart and soul into her job all the while discovering what her heart wants versus what looks good on paper.
Generous, warmhearted Cooper 'Coop', who even acts as father figure for half-orphan rascal Eli, always extends a warm welcome to new tenants in the affordable LA apartment building, but instantly takes a special fancy to uncertain newcomer Natalie Holland, volunteering to introduce her to local ways and places. She moved from Portland as her friend, petty publisher Avery Goldstein, urgently needed a new editor as her only bestseller author, impossible to please Beverly Wilcox, fired another one and threatened to leave. 'Rustic' Natalie's boorish honesty somehow pleases spoiled Beverly, who introduces her exclusively and confides in her. Despite doing everything right, ever-helpful Coop is kept at a distance and is disappointed to learn she follows Avery's advice to look for a good party on paper, two-timing socialite womanizer Bob Lewis who seduces Natalie while luring Beverly to his New York firm, smashing her LA dreams. Through Eli, whose needy mother she helps to hospital, Coop reconsiders and she learns that he owns the building, which a year later leads to a happy end for nearly everybody.

