Kajaki Dam 2006. A company of young British soldiers encounter an unexpected, terrifying enemy. A dried-out river bed, and under every step the possibility of an anti-personnel mine. A mine that could cost you your leg - or your life.
In September 2006, a 3 man patrol of Paras sets off from their outpost overlooking Kajaki Dam in southern Afghanistan, to engage the Taliban. As they make their way across a dried out river bed one of them steps on a mine left from the Russian intervention some 25 years before. His colleagues rush to his aid only to find they are surrounded by mines and every move threatens serious injury or death.
From the Academy Award winning producer of THE KING'S SPEECH this BAFTA nominated thriller tells the true story of the bravery and brotherhood that took place on the Kajaki Dam. Young British soldiers find themselves courageously fighting for each other's lives in a minefield where the next step could be their last.
A platoon from the 3rd Battalion, The Parachute Regiment is dug into a ridge in Kajaki, Helmand. A sniper patrol sets out to disperse a Taliban roadblock. On route to the road block, in a dried out river bed at the foot of the ridge, LCpl Stuart Hale detonates a land mine, losing his leg. Cpl Mark Wright is a mile away when he hears the explosion. He quickly forms a patrol and they run down the steep hill to help. They go to LCpl Hale's side knowing the potential danger they are in. They begin prodding the ground, clearing a path away from the casualty, to an area where a helicopter could land, then carry Hale on a stretcher to the landing site. Cpl Stuart Pearson turns back along the cleared path. As he bends down to pick up a water container, there is another explosion. Pearson is only four or five yards away but any efforts by the patrol to reach him would risk another explosion. Cpl Pearson applies a tourniquet and doses himself with morphine while they wait for the helicopter. It finally arrives, but as it gets closer they realise that it's a Chinook, not the winch craft that was requested. It lands more than fifty yards away across ground that is likely to be covered with mines. There's no question of carrying the casualties to the Chinook. No one moves. The helicopter lifts off empty - its downdraft sets off another mine, blasting shrapnel into the shoulder, chest and face of Mark Wright. Medic LCpl Paul Hartley moves forward to help. He throws his medical pack on the ground in front of him to detonate any mines in his path. He reaches Wright safely. As he moves to the casualty, Fusilier Andy Barlow moves back to give him room, treading on a mine that severs his lower leg. The blast also blows Hartley to the ground and wounds Pte Dave Prosser. The only way the wounded and the stranded can escape the minefield is if they are lifted out, but there doesn't appear to be a helicopter readily available. Despite wounds to his arm, neck and chest, Mark Wright continues to maintain command and keep up his men's spirits, reassuring them that rescue is on its way. Three hours later, two American Black Hawk helicopters arrive to lift the men out of harm's way. On the helicopter, Cpl Mark Wright dies, having successfully coordinated the rescue of his injured comrades. Corporal Wright was posthumously awarded the George Cross.
