Based on the true story of the Fictitious Dance group; their rise to fame, sudden downfall, and their heroic attempt to seek vindication by regaining their lost pride and glory.
The story traces the journey of an Indian dance troupe, a motley assortment of boys and girls who come from the backstreet's of a Mumbai suburb; their rise to fame, sudden downfall and then their heroic attempt to seek vindication by regaining their lost glory and pride. Will they be able to achieve success at the biggest International platform? Will they make their beloved Vishnu Sir proud, who is himself struggling with his not so perfect past? ABCD 2 is a grand 3D Dance Film which travels to the vibrant city of Las Vegas and is a bittersweet journey of love, friendship, betrayal, honor and redemption.
The story begins with the dance group Mumbai Stunners, the most popular dance group in Mumbai. The group participates in a dance competition but get disqualified because they copied a dance routine from another dance group. Half of the group leave, only a few people stay including Suresh (Varun Dhawan) and Vinnie (Shraddha Kapoor). Suresh finds a new choreographer, Vishnu Sir (Prabhu Deva) to help bring the group to an international Hip Hop Competition in Las Vegas. They find new teammates and make their way to Las Vegas. This story is mostly about a hard time in a group's life and their way back up to triumph with some ups and downs along the way.
Suresh (Varun Dhawan) wants to be a big dancer to fulfill his mother's wish. Vinnie (Shraddha Kapoor) wants to be the best hip-hop dancer. They are childhood friends. They form a team and participate in a national level competition where they are disqualified as their moves match the original moves and everyone call them cheaters. Everyone departs to search for jobs. Suresh works in a bar as waiter and Vinnie joins a beauty parlour where they are both insulted as cheaters. Suresh plans to remove the negative tag by winning the hip-hop competition in Las Vegas. One day he watches Vishnu (Prabhudeva) dance in the bar and convinces him to be their choreographer. They audition for people and collect the team. They participate in the qualifiers in Bangalore and win it. Later they go to Las Vegas, but it is revealed that Vishnu has ulterior motives to go to Vegas. In Las Vegas they win qualifiers. Later Vishnu leaves the hotel with the money to meet his son. His son's mother is married to another man and has moved on in life. He talks to his child and leaves. He comes back later and they enter the final. In the meantime, Vinnie gets injured and is replaced by Olive (Lauren Gottlieb). She becomes close with Suresh and a jealous Vinnie tells Suresh that she loves him. The team enters the final, where they make a mistake in the formation and fall down. They don't give up and come back and do the formation once again. They ultimately lose the competition but they have won the hearts of millions.
