Industrial Soundtrack For The Urban Decay traces the origins of Industrial music, taking you on a journey through the crumbling industrial cities of Europe to America's thriving avant-garde scene.
A journey through the crumbling industrial cities of Europe to America's thriving avant-garde scene. Industrial music emerged in the mid 70's, providing a vibrant, provocative and artistic soundtrack to the picket lines, economic decline and cultural oppression of the era. Whether factory workers, students or unemployed, industrial music pioneers were all educated, artistically minded and politically aware artists who started with little to no musical background and went on to change musical history. Industrial musicians found inspiration in Krautrock bands Kraftwerk, Faust and Can, 20th century art movements Dada, Futurism and Surrealism and post-modern writers William Burroughs, Brion Gysin and J.G. Ballard. Mixing the do-it-yourself attitude of punk with mail art and underground fanzines, these pioneers were among the first bands to incorporate tape loops, homemade synthesisers, factory field recordings and cut-up techniques in their music. Discover the personal story of industrial music founders Throbbing Gristle, Sheffield's prolific Dada inspired band Cabaret Voltaire, award-winning soundtrack composer Graeme Revell of SPK, noise music inventor Boyd Rice of NON and fifteen other of the genre's most influential figures, exposing their incredible stories for the first time on film.
Industrial Soundtrack For The Urban Decay is the first film to trace the origins of industrial music, taking you on a journey through the crumbling industrial cities of Europe to Americas thriving avant-garde scene.Industrial music emerged in the mid 70s, providing a vibrant, provocative and artistic soundtrack to the picket lines, economic decline and cultural oppression of the era. Whether factory workers, students or unemployed, industrial music pioneers were all educated, artistically minded and politically aware artists who started with little to no musical background and went on to change musical history.Industrial musicians found inspiration in Krautrock bands Kraftwerk, Faust and Can, 20th century art movements Dada, Futurism and Surrealism and post-modern writers William Burroughs, Brion Gysin and J.G. Ballard. Combining the do-it-yourself attitude of punk with mail art and underground fanzines, these pioneers were also among the first bands to incorporate tape loops, homemade synthesisers, factory field recordings and cut-up techniques in their music. Discover the personal story of industrial music founders Throbbing Gristle, Sheffields prolific Dada inspired band Cabaret Voltaire, award-winning soundtrack composer Graeme Revell of SPK, noise music inventor Boyd Rice of NON and fifteen other of the genres most influential figures, exposing their incredible stories for the first time on film.
