The love life of a man as told through the meals he gives his adopted dog, Winston.
Abandoned on the streets, a lively and always hungry Boston Terrier, during his night escapades for food in the dumpsters encounters a kind-hearted man who decides to take him home, naming him Winston. At last, now Winston can have all the food in the world, and as the years go by, so will his diet evolve.
While licking at discarded fast food wrappers, a stray male Boston Terrier puppy spots a French fry dropped on the ground and eats it. James, the man who dropped the fry, offers a second one to the puppy and decides to adopt him as his pet. James names him Winston and begins feeding him portions of his own meals and junk food in addition to regular kibble.One day, James begins a relationship with a waitress, named Kirby, at a local restaurant. She persuades him to take up a healthier diet and lifestyle, but the change upsets Winston as the leftovers James slips to him now consist of vegetables, which he hates. The couple break up, sending James into a deep depression and causing him to revert to his old eating habits. Winston is initially gleeful to eat junk food again, but he soon recognizes James's low spirits. Seeing a piece of parsley that has reminded James of Kirby and the meals they used to prepare together, Winston decides to bring them back together and steals it, leading to a chase as he brings it to Kirby and overcomes several temptations of delicious food. James follows Winston to the restaurant, where he reconciles with Kirby, and the two marry soon afterward. Winston, relieved that his master is happy again, is initially content to eat normal dog food.Some time after the couple have moved into a new house, Winston spots a couple of meatballs that have rolled across the kitchen floor and eats them. Following the trail of sauce they have left behind, he reaches the base of a high chair occupied by the couple's infant child, who happily throws another meatball to him. As the film ends, Winston gets ready to feast on a tray of cupcakes knocked off a table during the child's first birthday party.
