A hit man traumatized from accidentally killing a young girl during a job is given the mission to eliminate her mother, and begins the ultimate fight to save her life.
Abandoned by his mother shortly after immigrating to America, Gon is raised by the mafia and grows up to become a cold-blooded hit-man. Though usually flawless in taking out his targets, Gon makes a terrible mistake of killing an innocent young girl. A flood of guilt takes over his life and the situation becomes worse when his boss assigns him the job of killing the young girl's mother. Gon's new target, Mogyeong, is a risk manager at an investment firm and has buried herself in work to bury her grief. She is completely unaware of her role at the heart of a dangerous conspiracy. Finally, she meets the man who wants to tell her the truth behind the death of her child.
Abandoned by his mother shortly after immigrating to the United States, Gon is raised by the mafia and grows up to become a cold-blooded hitman. Though usually flawless in taking out his targets, Gon makes a terrible mistake of killing an innocent young girl. Swamped by feelings of regret, guilt and shame, Gon no longer wants to be a hitman, but his boss gives him one last mission.So Gon finds himself in South Korea, the land of the mother that abandoned him, on the trail of his last target. But in bitter irony, that target is Mo-gyeong, the mother of the dead child. Mo-gyeong is a risk manager at an investment firm who now lives in a fog of despair, caring for her senile mother while reliant on alcohol and drugs to get by following the loss of her husband and daughter. She is oblivious to her involvement in a much larger conspiracy until a man approaches her, claiming to know the truth behind her daughter's death.Gon agonizes and faces a life or death choice - to follow the order to kill his target or to risk his own life at the price of redemption for his past.In an emotional, thrilling as well as equally action packed journey he decides to make the ultimate decision, which may though cost him his life but he has actually got nothing to lose, especially when his mother abandoned him; someone whom he wanted to live with forever. He decides to go against his own "family" which sent him on this mission to commit another sin. Coming from the director of "The Man from Nowhere", it stars Jang Dong-gun in the lead role of none other than Gon.
