An inheritance leads a young man and his friends to an abandoned resort inhabited by two sketchy caretakers and a clan of mutant cannibals.
A sudden and mysterious inheritance brings Danny and his friends to Hobb Springs, a forgotten resort deep in the West Virginia hills. Hobb Springs is being looked after under the watchful care of Jackson and Sally
Two bikers, Daria and Nick, ride their bikes deep into the forest to a "secret place" in Hobb Spring bike trail. Daria shows Nick to a hot bubbly spring and tells him to make himself comfortable. The two have sex within the pool. Unbeknownst to them, they are being watched by a hideous mutant hillbilly, Three Finger. Afterwards, Daria and Nick began biking off. Nick falls down and realizes he has been shot through the leg with an arrow. Daria tries to help him but Three Finger shoots and kills Nick with and Arrow through the face. Daria tries to escape but runs headlong into a barbed wire trap set up by two other mutant hillbillies, Saw Tooth and One Eye. The wire goes halfway through Daria's skull and she screams with pain. Three Finger watches her flail in agony for a while before decapitating her with a hatchet. Her body falls forward sprawling out as the title, "Wrong Turn VI" comes on.sometime later, a group of teenage friends are introduced. Danny, his girlfriend Toni, Bryan, Bryan's girlfriend Jillian, Vic, Toni's brother Rod, and Charlie drive off to Hobbs Trail resort, which had once been a sanitarium. While filling a tire on the way, Jillian reveals that she is angry at Rod for taking nude videos of her. Upon arriving, they are met by the caretakers, Sally and Jackson who are brother and sister in an incestuous relationship. A vacationer who had once sexually harassed Jackson is killed while walking through the halls by a flung ax. Jackson reprimands the Hillicker brothers for their misbehavior.As the teens stay at the hotel, they soon realize that things are not as they seem. Danny soon realizes that he is a long lost relative of Sally and Jackson. Jillian is killed by the mutants after having sex when the mutants rip her legs off and cut her throat. One by one everyone is killed in gruesome ways by the mutants. Soon only Danny and Toni are left. Toni manages to wound and incapacitate Jillian and hold a turned Danny at gunpoint, but is shot down by Three Finger.
