A high school student is forced to confront her secret crush at a kissing booth.
When Elle Evans (Joey King), a pretty, late-bloomer who's never-been-kissed, decides to run a kissing booth at her high school's Spring Carnival, she unexpectedly finds herself locking lips with her secret crush- the ultimate bad boy, Noah Flynn (Jacob Elordi). Sparks fly, but there's one little problem: Noah just happens to be the brother of her best friend, Lee, (Joel Courtney) and is absolutely off limits according to the rules of their friendship pact. Elle's life is turned upside down when she realizes that she must ultimately make a choice: follow the rules or follow her heart. Based on Beth Reekle's self-published coming-of-age novel that became an international sensation, THE KISSING BOOTH is a Netflix Film, written and directed by Vince Marcello.
Elle falls for her best friend's older brother. But there's a catch... it breaks rule #9. She tries to hide her feelings but all breaks loose when Elle and her best friend Lee organise a charity kissing booth. Will Elle choose to follow the rules or follow her heart?
Born on the same day in the same hospital, Elle Evans (Joey King) and Lee Flynn (Joel Courtney) have been best friends all their lives. To protect their special relationship, the pair created a set of friendship rule they are sworn to follow. However, after a chance encounter at a kissing booth, Elle finds her first love in Lee's bad-boy older brother, Noah Flynn (Jacob Elordi). Soon a romance with Noah blossoms and Elle finds herself breaking the rules and hurting Lee. Quickly, tensions flare between the two brothers and Elle faces loosing them both.
Born on the same day and time in the same hospital in Los Angeles, California, Elle Evans (Joey King) and Lee Flynn (Joel Courtney) have been best friends all their lives. To keep their special friendship, the pair created a set of friendship rules they promise to follow including rule #9: relatives totally off limits, especially Lee's older brother Noah (Jacob Elordi). On the first day of school due to unforeseen circumstances Elle is forced to go to school wearing a skirt that is too small. Another student touches her butt which almost gets Lee into a fight but Noah instead jumps into the fight. Elle, violates the dress code so she has to serve detention. Tuppen, the student who touched Elle inappropriately later apologizes. Lee and Elle chat and he approves of her going on a date with Tuppen however Elle is stood up. He goes to see her later that night to let her know that he was threatened by Noah not to go out with her. And finds out that, Noah has told other guys besides Tuppen not to date Elle. Elle and Lee decide to create a kissing booth for the school carnival. The two have difficulty finding people to participate but get a group of popular girls called the OMG's to participate by lying to them about Noahs participation. The kissing booth is a success. However, girls become angry when they discover that Noah is not actually working the kissing booth. Therefore Elle is set up to kiss a nerdy kid while blindfolded however Noah interferes causing him to kiss Elle and when she takes off her blindfold he does it again. After cleaning up Elle sees Noah flirting with another girl so she runs home while Noah looks at her. While on her way home it starts to rain and Noah offers her a ride on his motorcycle. However, the rain gets too heavy and they have to stop. They shelter in a nearby glass 'bandstand' in a park. Elle kisses Noah again and he pulls away. After staring at each other Noah goes in for another kiss..

