A movie about the horrific crimes and trial of Kermit Gosnell, America's biggest serial killer.
This police/court room drama is based on actual information on Dr. Kermit Gosnell (played by Earl Billings) who for decades ran a Philadelphia inner-city abortion clinic. In 2010, Philadelphia Police Detectives Wood (Dean Cain) and Stark (Alfonzo Rachel), with DEA and FBI agents, raid the clinic for evidence of illegal prescription drug sales. They are shocked by the clinic's filthy conditions, bags of aborted fetuses in hallways, and fetal body parts stored in a refrigerator. Interviewing clinic workers, they learn: patients are given anesthesia by untrained assistants; one patient died on the operating table from an anesthesia overdose; abortions were performed on babies older than 24 weeks; and some babies were delivered alive, after which Dr. Gosnell cut their spinal cord with scissors. The detectives take the bagged bodies to the coroner and bring the situation to the attention of DA Dan Molinari (Michael Beach). An Assistant DA (Sara Jane Morris) agrees to prosecute the murder case. Getting a warrant, they search Gosnell's home for missing files and other evidence and discover a large amount of cash (the required method of payment for Gosnell's services). In 2013, the DA's office brings Gosnell to trial on murder charges. Gosnell hires an experienced defense attorney (Nick Searcy, who also directs the film) who defends Gosnell as performing a service to minority women. The DA's prosecutor obtains compelling testimony and photos from one of Gosnell's young assistants. The jury deliberates for 10 days before offering their verdict.
Philadelphia Police detectives raid the Gosnell abortion clinic and find bags of aborted fetuses in the hallways. An Assistant DA decides to prosecute when she learns of a patient's death from improper anesthesia and the death of several babies born alive. Testimony from a clinic employee helps the jury decide on a verdict.
This police/court room drama is based on the true story of the trial of Dr. Kermit Gosnell, an MD who for decades ran a West Philadelphia inner-city abortion clinic. The action begins in February 2010 when Philadelphia police detectives, joined by federal DEA agents (Drug Enforcement Agency) and FBI agents, make a drug raid on the Gosnell clinic looking for evidence of the sale of illegal prescriptions for controlled drugs. During the raid, the police detectives are shocked by the clinic's extremely unsanitary conditions, bags of aborted fetuses left in hallways, and fetal body parts stored in containers in a refrigerator and freezer. The detectives later learn that the State Department of Health had not inspected the clinic for years, ostensibly at the direction of the Governor so as not to interfere with women's reproductive rights. (Para) The DEA and FBI agents are concerned only about evidence of the illegal prescription sales, but the detectives refer the situation at the clinic to the District Attorney's office. An Assistant DA agrees to prosecute. Returning to the clinic crime scene, they learn that boxes of files have been removed. Obtaining a warrant to search Dr. Gosnell's home, they begin looking for the files and additional evidence. They find a large box with rolls of cash, which was likely the cash payments made by the clinic's patients. (Para) The detectives question current and former clinic workers about the clinic practices. They learn of the death of one patient on the operating table from a drug overdose and of untrained assistants giving patients anesthesia. No nurses or MD anesthetists work at the clinic. The detectives discover other violations of law, including abortions performed after the fetus/baby is 24 weeks old. Questioning clinic staff, they learn that some babies were delivered alive, after which their spinal cord was cut with scissors by Dr. Gosnell. The detectives take the stored bodies to the coroner's office, and the coroner determines that several of them had live births. (Para) A freelance investigative blogger provides additional information that helps the police and the prosecutor. She is the only journalist or member of the press in the nearly empty courtroom as the trial begins in March 2013. Dr. Gosnell has hired an experienced, forceful and effective defense attorney, who defends him for performing a service to poor and minority women seeking to terminate their pregnancies. The prosecutor obtains compelling testimony and photos from one of Gosnell's young assistants and brings in actual evidence from the clinic. (Para) After 10 days of deliberation, the jury convicts Dr. Gosnell of one count of third-degree murder in the death of one patient and three counts of first-degree murder in the deaths of three babies who were born alive then killed by cutting their spinal cord. The jury also convicts Gosnell of 21 felony counts of performing illegal late-term abortions and 211 counts of violating Pennsylvania's 24-hour consent law. The judge sentences Gosnell to three life sentences to be served consecutively with no possibility of parole.
