To escape her abusive boyfriend, Kat joins a wilderness expedition with a group of women, all of whom are struggling with the uncertainty of life. What was supposed to be an opportunity for personal discovery quickly becomes a fight for survival, forcing each one to discover the strength within themselves that they didn't even know they possessed. While being brazenly chased by a pack of predators, the strong quickly set themselves apart from the weak. In a battle of will, stamina, and heart, these very virtues present themselves at the most crucial moment. With death looming, each is left with what is truly important - the strength within oneself.
The paramedic Katherine "Kat" joins an expedition through the wilderness composed by women and led by Jean. Most of the women are problematic and the objective is to share the experience of living together in the nature for a couple of days. However there is a fire in the woods and Jean is forced to change the traditional route per another through an unknown area. Jean, Kat, Wren, Madison, April, Joy and Brit start walking while Jean's partner drives his van to the destination to bring them back. However a group of psychopaths live in the area and they hunt the women down. Will someone survive?
Homicidal hunter Ted shoots and kills photographer Wilson as Wilson hikes in remote woods. Ted's feral accomplice Aja chases down and kills Wilson's friend Karl.Following a final fight with her abusive boyfriend, Mitchell drops off his sister Kat for a wilderness retreat, even though she is two days late and missed the survival training. Expedition guide Jean introduces Kat to the other hikers: Wren, Joy, Brit, and girlfriends Madison and April.Because a forest fire closed the planned trail, Jean drives the girls to a remote location 250 miles away. Jean's partner Cody comes to meet the group later, but is stopped by a van blocking the access road. Zeke, another member of Ted's murderous group, strangles Cody from behind. Ted's other accomplices Chris and Zeb load Cody's body into the van. Ted later releases Aja to find the women as the other men follow with hunting rifles.While hiking, Kat loses her footing on an incline and knocks down Jean, who dislocates her shoulder. The women decide to stop and set up their campsite for the night.Aja chases down Joy and kills her in the woods. Zeke fires on Jean from a distance and Ted later finishes her off. Chris attacks April, but Madison kills him with a rock to his head.Kat, Wren, Madison, April, and Brit flee together and start climbing down a cliff face to escape. Wren accidentally dislodges a rock that hits Brit, who then falls to her death.The following day, Aja attacks and stabs Madison. The women fight back until April knocks Aja over an incline.That night, the women take shelter in an abandoned cabin where Madison dies from her wound. Kat searches another cabin for first aid supplies and Zeke attacks her. Kat fights back and beats Zeke to death with a metal pipe.Kat flees and eavesdrops on Ted and Zeb in a clearing as they formulate an attack plan. Kat then returns to Wren and April.Aja recovers and attacks April at the cabin. April fights back and stabs Aja to death.Ted confronts Kat and Wren at gunpoint. April puts a knife in Ted from behind and he escapes outside. Kat goes after him.Zeb comes to the cabin and Wren cuts his throat.Kat chases down Ted and they fight. Ted prepares to shoot Kat but she stabs him first, recovers his gun, and kills him.Kat, Wren, and April separately make their way out of the forest and regroup on the road. A car approaches from the distance.
