A man has 2 wives and one does not know about the other. The film shows the funny situations that arise with the man as a result of this.
Anant Kitturkar (Mohan Joshi) has achieved the extraordinary feat of marrying two women - Manorama (Vandana Gupte) and Anjali (Mugdha Shah) - who are unaware of each other's existence. Lies, deceit and fake identities have made Anant confident that he will take his secret to his grave. But there's something else in store for him. And now it's pay-off time.
Anant Kitturkar (Mohan Joshi) is happily married to Manorama (Vandana Gupte) and has a daughter Rashmi(Sai Tamhanker). Anant has a secret that only his best friend know about. He has another wife, Anjali (Mugdha Shah) along with a son Rahul(Sushant Shelar) in a different city. Anant leads a double marital life and the crazy way he handles both his family collaborates to hilarious situations. Things take a drastic turn when his friends in one tight situation are forced to reveal Anant's secret. How will Anant tackle his two families? Watch a single man take on the mammoth task of handling two wives.
Anant Kitturkar (Mohan Joshi) is married to two women - Manorama (Vandana Gupte) and Anjali (Mugdha Shah) - who are unaware of each other's existence. Lies, deceit and fake identities have made Anant confident that this secret will go with him to his grave. But there's something else in store for him. As it happens, due to some stupid mistakes of Dhodapkar (Atul Parchure) - his friend and the only confidante - Anant has to sabotage at any cost the meeting between his two children Rahul (Sushant Shelar) and Rashmi (Saie Tamhankar) who are unaware of their common father, else he would be exposed big time. The plan: Bandyaa (Sanjay Narvekar) is to meet Rashmi as Rahul Kitturkar and make a bad impression about himself. Unfortunately for Anant, Bandyaa falls in love with Rashmi and threatens to expose Anant's dual identity to both his wives and children, which leaves Anant flabbergasted and gasping again for a solution. Now starts the 'Tom and Jerry' show between Anant and Bandyaa, wherein both of them try to outwit each other. Hilarious situations arise out of this major confusion. Added to all this confusion is few more characters like Sharmila (Resham Tipnis) who really is a bar dancer but is also known as Mrs. Anjali Kitturkar to some - and Dhodapkar who is also known as Mr. Anant Kitturkar to some - The story reaches an unbelievable plane where too many fake identities of Anant, Rahul and Dhodapkar are presented to the two set of families. One is mistaken for the other in this film of mistaken identities and this leads to a spate of events that follows a hilarious comedy ending.

