A story about love and loss. And maybe one day - love again.
The film explores the story of Athena (Rose Leslie), a struggling dancer trying to make it in LA. Athena's father Jack (Ray Liotta) interrupts her lonely and detached existence when he asks her to move home to Florida to care for him... big news: he has cancer. Nursing Jack proves more and more challenging for Athena. So much so that when she is called back to LA for the greatest dance opportunity of her twenty-five years, she takes it. What follows is a heart-wrenching journey of growing up told with ample moments of humor and levity, candidly illuminating father/daughter relationships and bonds that despite being broken always find their way back home.
STICKY NOTES is an original Dramatic Comedy in the vein of Little Miss Sunshine, starring Ray Liotta (Goodfellas) and Rose Leslie (Game of Thrones, Downton Abbey), Justin Bartha (Hang Over, National Treasure), and Gina Rodriquez (Filly Brown) The film is written and directed by first time feature filmmaker Amanda Harlib and produced by Katie Mustard (Shelter, Restless City, Night Catches Us, Well Never Have Paris, Match). The story centers around an emotionally detached backup dancer living in Los Angeles who must return home to Florida to take care of her estranged father when he gets diagnosed with lung cancer. Though the basic premise of the story is dramatic, the script procures ample moments of levity, humor, and tenderness.
The story of an emotionally detached back-up dancer, Athena, who must return home to Florida to help care for her estranged father, Jack, when he gets diagnosed with cancer. There she must contend with Jacks denial of his illness, challenging ways, and irresponsible lifestyle while also caring for six year old Honey Bunny who is only beginning to grasp the error in Jacks ways. Meanwhile, Athena learns that she has a call back to be a back-up dancer for Beyonces next tour which puts her priorities into question. In the end, Athena must acknowledge her own flaws in order to grow up and move forward after dealing with her traumatic familial situation.
