Everyone has fantasised about emailing their boss &amp; unleashing what they really think of them. Few actually ever reach for the keyboard. Fewer still end up pressing 'send'. No one has made a film about it - until now. One Rogue Reporter is the story of Rich Peppiatt, a tabloid hack who snaps over his red top paper's fixation with sensationalism over substance and titillation over truth. When the phone hacking scandal engulfs Rupert Murdoch's News of the World, throwing tabloid ethics under the spotlight, Rich decides to use the skills he's honed on Fleet Street to turn-the-tables on the press barons peddling sex, lies and scaremongering under the cloak of journalism. The result is a hilariously satirical documentary: part investigative exposé; part comedy caper; part cri de coeur against unaccountable press power. What began as a critically-acclaimed comedy show at the Edinburgh Fringe has been inventively transferred to the screen with the help of incisive interviewees ranging from Steve Coogan, Hugh Grant and John Bishop through to philosopher AC Grayling and former Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott. One Rogue Reporter is an exploration of the boundaries of privacy, public interest and freedom of expression, using the very editors who abuse these rights as deserving targets of mischief. From infamous former Sun editor Kelvin MacKenzie to feared Daily Mail chief Paul Dacre, this is one riotous tale you won't be reading about in any tabloid newspaper...
Rich Peppiatt delivers a satirical dissection of the newspaper trade by turning the tables on unscrupulous editors. Through a series of mischievous stunts and interviews with heavyweights of journalism, comedy &amp; politics, Peppiatt hilariously exposes the hypocrisy at the heart of modern journalism.
Recovering tabloid hack Rich Peppiatt delivers a mercilessly satirical dissection of his former trade by turning the tables on unscrupulous newspaper bosses. Through a series of daringly mischievous stunts and interviews with heavyweights of journalism, film, comedy and politics, Peppiatt hilariously exposes the hypocrisy at the heart of modern journalism.

