A tormented philosophy professor finds a will to live when he commits an existential act.
A new philosophy professor arrives on a small town campus near Newport, Rhode Island. His name, Abe Lucas. His reputation : bad. Abe is said to be a womanizer and an alcoholic. But what people do not know is that he is a disillusioned idealist. Since he has become aware of his inability to change the world, he has indeed been living in a state of deep nihilism and arrogant desperation. In class, he only goes through the motions and outside he drinks too much. But as far as sex is concerned, he is just a shadow of himself now: depression is not synonymous with Viagra! For all that, he can't help being attracted to one of his students, pretty and bright Jill Pollard. He enters into a relationship with her which remains platonic, even if Jill would not say no to more. The situation remains unchanged for a while until, one day, in a diner, Abe and Jill surprise a conversation that will change the course of their lives dramatically...
The Philosophy Department of Braylin College in Rhode Island is about to welcome its newest lecturer, and the stories surrounding him are already legend. In additional to being an excellent lecturer on Philosophy and an author of many books, Abe Lucas has a colourful history as an activist, womaniser and lover of life. However, the Abe Lucas who arrives is no longer that energetic, positive person. He is now a depressed, empty shell of a man, and an alcoholic. Over time he befriends one of his students, Jill, and another lecturer, Rita, but even their friendship and obvious affection for him doesn't lift his spirits. Then, from a dark, unexpected source, he finds a reason to live...
Abe Lucas, a Philosophy professor, has just started his tenure at Braylin College in Rhode Island. His reputation as a womanizer and loner genius precedes him. He, however, has become disillusioned with life as a whole, the manifestation of his feeling being that he is blocked mentally and physically, meaning that he is no longer writing and has not had sex in quite some time. He is only one step before thoughts of committing suicide, he having romanticized the notion of death. He, as a person, is, however, still able to attract people to himself sexually, two women at Braylin who make their interest known to him. The first is Chemistry professor Rita Richards, who is dissatisfied with her marriage. The second is Jill Pollard, one of his students who is already in a committed relationship with Roy, a fellow student. While Abe does succumb to Rita's advances however unsuccessfully, he is careful to keep his relationship with Jill as a platonic one, despite Jill's feelings for him being what, at her tender age, she may consider true love. While out with Jill, Abe stumbles upon thoughts of an act of existentialism. Carrying out that act, without telling anyone, ends up rejuvenating him and brings him back into the land of the living, in turn altering both his relationships with Rita and Jill. That act has some unintended consequences, which leads to him finding out how strong his instinct for survival is in his rejuvenated state.

