After a young fashion designer runs afoul of her corrupt stepmother and stepsisters, she dons a disguise to help save the family business for her father.
After the Ball, a retail fairy tale set in the world of fashion. Kate's dream is to design for couturier houses. Although she is a bright new talent, Kate can't get a job. No one trusts the daughter of Lee Kassell, a retail guru who markets clothes "inspired" by the very designers Kate wants to work for. Who wants a spy among the sequins and stilettos? Reluctantly, Kate joins the family business where she must navigate around her duplicitous stepmother and two wicked stepsisters, but with help from a prince of a guy in the shoe department, a god-brotherly gay pal in the design office, her godmother's vintage clothes, and a shocking switch of identities, Kate exposes the evil trio, saves her father's company, and proves that everyone can wear a fabulous dress.
Fresh out of fashion design school in New York City, talented Kate Kassell aspires to a career in haute couture. She quickly learns that no one will hire her because of her pedigree of being the daughter of Lee Kassell, whose own Montréal-based fashion design company made a name out of making cheap knock-offs of couture. Kassell was eventually known for affordable yet exciting designs, but has of late lost its way after Kate's mother died and Kassell has largely been in the hands of her stepmother, Elise Kassell. Under the circumstances, Kate, in order to achieve her goal, feels she has no other option but to accept her father's offer for her to work at Kassell. She sees but is not fully aware of how far Elise will go to promote her own two clueless daughters, Tannis and Simone, as the chief designers at Kassell, those lengths including either making Kate want to quit or having some reason to fire her. In this situation, Kate receives some help from her loving and supportive godmother, Bella Shapiro, the owner/operator of a vintage clothing store called After the Ball, and Bella's flamboyant friend, Richard, who devise a gender bending plan to show Lee just how talented a designer his daughter is without Elise's interference, that plan which includes Kate pretending to be "Nate", a fashion forward designer looking for a job at Kassell. Complications ensue as Kate and Kassell's head shoe designer, Daniel Valjean, fall for each other, Daniel who cannot know that Nate and Kate are one and the same. In her role as Nate, Kate may learn that Elise has something more sinister in mind than just promoting Tannis and Simone.

