On their way to a weekend retreat, a married couple find their dream vacation turn into a nightmare when they cross paths with a dangerous gang.
Meera and Arjun are professionals living in Gurgaon. When Meera walks out of a party late one night, she gets attacked by a group of unknown men. Although she escapes through the skin of her teeth, it leaves her traumatized. Arjun, partly blaming himself for not being there that night, tries to make up for it by treating Meera to a luxurious desert holiday. As they stop on a Highway Dhaba for dinner, they witness a young girl being picked up by a bunch of hoodlums. Arjun chooses to step in, unmindful of the danger ahead.
Meera and Arjun are happily married and presently working in Gurgaon. Emergency work forces Meera to break off from a party they both are in and she drives to work alone, when she is mugged. This gives her all reasons to obtain a licensed gun to protect herself from these harrowing experiences. This is when Arjun tries to ease things off by planning to celebrate Meera's birthday in a private villa in NH10, hours' drive away. Along their way, they encounter a young couple who are supposedly eloping, but are caught on the act. Here is where the learned urbane meets the rural; where the verdict of the sarpanch supersedes the law books governing the country.
Meera and Arjun have corporate jobs in Gurgaon. One night, they are enjoying a party when Meera receives a telephone call from her office. She leaves for her office but is attacked by thugs who smash her car's window. Meera escapes but is shaken by the incident; Arjun buys Meera a gun. Arjun suggests a road trip for Meera's upcoming birthday; the couple start their journey the next day. While stopping at a roadside dhaba for lunch, a young woman called Pinky arrives and pleads for help; Pinky tells the couple she and her husband are about to be murdered. Meera and Arjun see a gang of men round up Pinky and a young man, beat them and drag them into their vehicle. Arjun intervenes but Satbir, the gang leader, slaps him and tells him Pinky is his own sister. Arjun drives after the gang; he and Meera witness the ongoing honour killing: Pinky and the young man are beaten and Pinky poisoned by Satbir. Arjun and Meera escape but the gang finds them. As the gang dig a grave for their victims, Satbir uses Meera and Arjun's gun to shoot Pinky and the man in front of them. A fight ensues and Arjun shoots a gang member named Chhote, and runs away with Meera.At night, one of the gang members injures Arjun; Meera shoots the gangster dead. At a railway bridge, Meera leaves Arjun to get help. She finds a police station and asks the officer to help but he ejects her when she says she has witnessed an honour killing. Outside, she meets an Inspector in his SUV and they drive back to find Arjun. Meera then realizes the Inspector is connected with the attackers; she kills the inspector and drives off in his car, chased by the gang. Meera overturns the SUV and finds a hut. The hut's occupants hide Meera from a gang member who comes asking about her; they advise Meera seek help from the sarpanch (chief) of a nearby village.Meera tells the village's chief Ammaji her story; after telling her of the honour killing, Meera sees a pillow cover with the word Pinky stitched on it on Ammaji's lap and a photograph of Pinky in the room. Ammaji locks Meera in the room, calls the gang and hands Meera over to them. They drag her out and beat her. Meera escapes with the gang's SUV and rushes to the railway bridge where she finds Arjun has been murdered.Grief-stricken, Meera returns to the village to avenge Arjun's death; she drives the SUV at the gang members and kills them. Ammaji arrives, finds the dead men; she tells Meera Pinky was her daughter who broke rules and needed to be punished. Meera leaves the village as dawn breaks.
