A kindergarten teacher discovers in a five year-old child a prodigious gift for poetry. Amazed and inspired by this young boy, she decides to protect his talent in spite of everyone.
The teacher Nira (Sarit Larry) is a woman with a warm professional manner and pleasant, ordinary middle-class life. She has a son in the army, a daughter in high school and a devoted husband (Lior Raz) with a decent government job. As a hobby - or perhaps as a vehicle for unexpressed ambitions and frustrated desires - she attends a poetry workshop with other amateur versifiers. Then one day she witnesses a startling act of creation. One of her pupils, a cherubic, sleepy-eyed boy named Yoav (Avi Shnaidman), is being picked up at the end of the school day. "I have a poem," he announces and recites a brief, elliptical love lyric, pacing back and forth as his nanny writes his words in a notebook. Nira is startled and intrigued, and the evolution of her interest in Yoav drives the film's suspenseful, unnerving, bizarre and strangely believable plot. At first, like any conscientious teacher, she is solicitous and encouraging. It's always good to recognize and celebrate what is special in a child. The budding bard is in most respects a perfectly ordinary child, roughhousing and practicing swear words with his best pal, playing in the sandbox and demanding snacks when he's hungry. It's possible to read signs of unusual intelligence in his expressions, but his most prominent feature is a face that seems created to invite a grandmother's pinches. But Nira, a 20-year veteran of the kindergarten classroom, is immune to his cuteness. He acts serious in her company because that's what she expects and also perhaps because he's a little confused by her attention. She wakes him up from his nap and takes him outside in the rain, hoping to stimulate his creativity. She takes over from the nanny as his principal secretary and spends more and more time with him outside school. She signs him up for a poetry reading. And then things become really strange.

