After the apparent suicide of a shy, introverted nerd happens, his older sister discovers a connection between his death and a popular sorority house.
A freshman on campus discovers that the only way to be admitted into the sorority of her dreams is to seduce a nerdy introverted guy and film it. When the sorority "prank" goes viral, the boy is discovered dead from apparent suicide, but his sister does not buy it. She goes under cover to expose the sororities' hidden secrets.
College freshman Natalie is smart, and not your typical sorority girl. She is a legacy to her moms sorority and stands a really high chance at making it, despite one thing. Her initiation is to seduce Sumner; a quiet, and shy track star, and video tape it. But when the prank goes wrong, it's up to Natalie to decide on telling the truth and risk everything or keep quiet and have it all.
Shy orphan nerd Sumner Williams has no idea what happens when foxy freshman Natalie Kellison flirts her way into dating him. Even she is shocked when this hazing task, seducing an assigned student, is cruelly taken over by the seniors invading her room to semi-undress the rape-drugged knave and chase him with impertinent cameras. Dazed and traumatized, Sumner tries to drive home to his campus-employed sister-guardian Danielle, but has a fatal crash. Natalie is torn by conflicting loyalties when the prestigious sorority she earned admission to puts 'loyalty' for cover-up above truth and justice, while she really warmed to Sumner.
Natalie Kellison, a freshman in architecture at Riverton University in Philadelphia, is glad to get away from the issues at home, such as catching her boyfriend, Billy, cheating on her, and her widowed father, Garrett Kellison, now in a serious relationship, which is difficult for Natalie to watch only in thinking about her mother. Natalie is honoring her mother by attending her alma mater in the same program, and plans to pledge the same sorority, Delta Psi Beta, her mother who said her sorority sisters were often more like family that her own real family. But the sorority initiation prank Natalie is asked to do by sorority president, a privileged and entitled young woman named Alexa Cooper, the daughter of a congressman, leads to the unplanned consequence of a sophomore, Sumner Williams, dying. Natalie and the other pledges involved, such as Natalie's roommate Sophia Davis, only knew their small part in the plot orchestrated by Alexa as retaliation against Sumner's sister, Danielle Williams, a career counselor with the university. None of the pledges are willing to come forward out of fear and in not wanting to cross Alexa, who is able to control all the sorority members with veiled threats. Danielle does believe that Alexa was behind Sumner's death, and Natalie, who truly did like Sumner despite her role being to seduce him, wants to do the right thing, but doesn't know if she can without support from any one of the sorority. Natalie and Danielle do find each other, and they may be in jeopardy if they do the right thing in trying to cross or expose Alexa's direct role in Sumner's death.
A freshman on campus discovers that the only way to be admitted into the sorority of her dreams is to seduce a nerdy introverted guy and film it. When the sorority "prank" goes viral, the boy is discovered dead from apparent suicide, but his sister does not buy it. She goes under cover to expose the sororities hidden secrets.
