On a romantic getaway to Iceland, a young American couple wake up one morning to discover every person on earth has disappeared. Their struggle to survive and to reconcile the mysterious event lead them to reconsider everything they know about themselves and the world.
This movie is about the struggle of two person when they know they only human left in earth. One person trying keep optimistic and see the beauty in everything happened to them. The other person (woman) trying to keep happy at first but then got desperate and more desperate at last, see no hope and feel God already left or abandon them. And no use of keep living for her. This movie not trying to say religion or believing there is God is a bad thing but how two person love each other than separated because of different perception of thing especially knowing they are alone in this world. Me, my self will choose the man path at the movie, keep optimistic with addition i will pray to God more often.
The couple, Jenai and Riley are napping on a bus that is traveling in beautiful open land. They stir and wake up. Riley takes out his camera and starts taking pictures. They arrive at their hotel, put their things away and look out the window. Next they are out site seeing and various other activities while Riley continues to take pictures.
They stop to eat and discuss if they can find film for the camera. Riley talks about his love for taking photos. Once again they go sight seeing. They end up at a church and speak to the Pastor who talks to them for a bit about the history of Iceland. Next they go out with a tour group to the mountainside. All the while Riley is still taking pictures. They walk up to a waterfall and stand under it seemly happy and in love.
Next it is the middle of the night and they are asleep in their hotel room. Jenai gets up and noticed there is a light coming from outside. She gets up and looks out the window. There is a strange light in the sky that flashes into a blinding light that encompasses everything. Jenai looks puzzled.
That morning Riley is up and ready to go. He starts to wake up a sleepy Jenai who doesn't want to get up. They go down and find there is no continental breakfast. They decide to head out. Walking down the street they start to notice that it seems empty. They puzzle over what could be going on. As they continue they start to yell out to anyone that could hear them. Feeling panicked they start looking in the buildings but cannot find anyone. They call their families and no one answers. They end up in a restaurant after walking the whole city looking for other people. The restaurant has TV'son and they begin to flip through the channels. The only programs not working are the news shows. They head back to their hotel room. Janei keeps calling and texting her family. Riley is checking the internet trying to find out what's going on. The websites only have yesterday's news. Riley looks for webcams around the world and they are all empty of life. They leave the hotel in search for other people. They find a car in the middle of the road still in drive. They take the car and their search continues. Jenai questions if this could be the rapture. After searching most of the day they go back to their room and go to bed.
The next morning Riley is once again up and dressed while Jenai is still in bed. He tries to wake her but she refuses to get up. Later they are just in the hotel room discussing possibilities of what happened. Jenai continues to worry the apocalypse has happened and they were left behind. Riley assures her that is not the case. They both finally go to the grocery store and fill up 3 baskets of food. They get their belonging and head to a better place to stay. They end up in a 3 story home. Next they go clothes shopping. They have fun going around trying on things and picking things out. They appear to go about their days enjoying each other's company.
The couple is out in the countryside. Riley is following Jenai and taking photos of her. Jenai walks to a mountainside pool and starts to remove her clothes and gets in. Riley follows suit. They have sex.
They are at the grocery store picking out food. Riley is goofing around in a shopping cart. While skating around in the shopping cart it flips and he falls and he hits the ground.
They get dressed up and eat a romantic dinner. At dinner Janei is mad at Riley and tell him they he needs to be more careful. It cuts to a scene back at the grocery store and it shows that Riley's arm is bleeding. Riley says he's not going to stop living his life. Jenai storms out angry. Riley eventually promises Jenai not to goof around anymore. Jenai says all she wants is to go back home.
After another day of searching they are back at their house and the water no longer works. Riley eats a yogurt out of order and Jenai is angry as they are supposed to eat them in order of expiration date. She is worried about the food lasting. Riley says he will take care of it. Jenai says to just eat the food in the correct order.
Time passes as they venture to different sites. Jenai continues to try and contact her family. Riley starts to build something to pump water.
They decide they want a change of scenery so they take a weekend trip and pick a place to stay out in the mountains. Riley goes out to get wood for the fireplace and encounters a man. They are both in shock. The man asks for some water. The mans name is Nils. He asks for food. The man is in bad shape. They help him inside and give him some food. The man continues to have coughing fits. The man seems to have accepted his fate. Late that night while Riley is asleep, Janei and Nils have a conversation where he confesses that his wife left him. Jenai concludes that we are all alone. The next morning Riley informs Jenai that Nils did not make it. They bury him in the cemetery by the lake with his family. Jenai gets upset and starts to question why they are even burying the man. Riley doesn't understand why she is getting upset. Jenai says that none of it makes any sense. That there has to be someone else. She says it can't just be them and leaves without helping Rile bury Nils. Jenai prepares and heads out in search of other people. She goes around marking houses with red duck tape in an 'X'
Once back at home in the city, Jenai is cleaning up dinner when her computer dings that she has a message. She is hesitant but hope full as she goes to open it. The message is from Riley and Jenai is visibly disappointed. Next morning Riley awakes to find a package on the kitchen table
With his name on it. He goes to the kitchen and for the first time turns on the water pumping machine he has made. He goes to the sink and turn on the faucet. As he waits, he opens the package to find that his pictures are developed. As he flips through the pictures he glances up and sees Jenai's sweater outside and gets concerned. He goes outside to take a closer look at the sweater. He looks from the sweater back to the pictures and realizes something. He tosses the pictures and takes off in the vehicle looking for Jenai. While he looks we see the contraption he made is slowly but surly working to bring water to the house. Riley finally finds their other vehicle where they took the swim by the mountain. He runs to the pool and finds that Jenai has committed suicide and drowned herself. . Rileytakes her out of the water and cries over her body. Back at home the water starts to pour in the sink. Riley then jumps into the water in an attempt to kill himself but after a while comes up for air. He then attempts to carry Jenai back but falls. He leaves Jenai's body where it lie and stumbles back to his vehicle. He drives away in a daze. The movie ends.
