Cannibal Fog: Michael is living a life filled with sex, porn and baked beans. One day he discovers the pleasure of eating human flesh and after that he gets hooked on finding that feeling again.
CANNIBAL FOG (complete story contains spoilers)Cannibal Fog is a careful blend of science fiction, horror, and comedy that explores one mans search for meaning in his life.We are introduced to MICHAEL, a young man who is pulled between sexual addiction and his religious family, searching for a meaning to it all. LOTTA, his sexual interest who introduces him to ALBIN, who is a professional food blogger and seemingly distinguished gentleman. Along the way we meet various sorted characters and are introduced to both THE GURU and the ASSASSIN.In the first act, we seem to witness the possible death of Michael, who quickly brings us to the beginning of the story.Michael is present during an assassination, yet unaware of the act due to his nagging mother. He seems to have a sudden change come over him. We then meet his sexual interest, Lotta, who over time develops deeper feelings for Michael. Michael is having a harder and harder time wrestling between reality and the demons that haunt his dreams. Lotta, in an attempt to improve Michaels life, introduces Michael to Albin, via his food blog. Albin seems to have it all together, something Lotta wishes for Michael. Michael is struggling with his internal demons, which seem to be having some effect on his physical body. He is finally confronted by Lotta who thinks he may need professional help... Things don't end well.With a sudden clarity of mind, Michael calls Albin.Albin has a dinner party for a select few of his blog site members. It promises to be exotic. We meet various characters as they mingle and eat at the party, They hadn't seem to notice one of the guests had disappeared. The party descend into madness... Things don't end well!Michael has a sort of communion into a very special world. Albin takes Michael under his wing and teaches him the finer points of good living through food and how to handle things such as the butchering process and how to select the proper coffee type for a gathering. Eventually, Albin decides that Michael should become a member of a special group of people who he respects.Unbeknownst to him, The Guru is a mad sociopath, and not only rejects Albins hope to recruit Michael, but tells Albin to get rid of him. Albin finds this unacceptable and a rift develops between them. The Guru has a sadistic streak and is going to prepare a meal... Things don't end well!Albin moves forward with his plans for Michael, and a baptism takes place. Here, Michael and the films audience begin to understand the full meaning of the words Cannibal Fog!The film ends as it began, but is it an ending at all? Or a beginning?
