An elite counter-intelligence unit learns of a plot, masterminded by a maniacal madman. With the clock ticking, it's up to them to track the terrorists' international tentacles and prevent them from striking at the heart of India.
The country is perpetually under threat from terrorist powers and the common man walks unaware of the threats and the attacks that our Government controls and prevents. While the common Indian fights for everyday issues, there are deeper and bigger threats to him and his family that he will never know exist because it is the men and women in uniform that safeguard them. The men and women who put country before self, the men and women who define our history because they give a damn! Ajay (played by Akshay Kumar) is one such officer who is part of an elite team chosen from amongst the best in the Forces to form a covert Counter Intelligence Unit. In the course of foiling one terrorist attack bid, Ajay discovers a major threat to our nation - a plan to cause damage and strike fear at the heart of our very existence. The plot is masterminded by a maniacal leader whose organization has its tentacles spread across the world. As days progress, the unit goes through escalating challenges with time ticking against them and risks escalating. At all points, the members of the unit give it all they've got and stand tall to guard us with all their strength so that we may sleep safe in our homes. Covert and courageous operations are performed across Kathmandu, Istanbul, Abu Dhabi, Delhi and Mumbai as our protectors will not rest till evil is debated. Will the maniacal Maulana Rehman and his band of evil succeed in striking terror in the heart of India? Will the Indian Government change gears from being reactive to proactive and strike? Will Ajay and his unit be able to prevent this terror tsunami?
Baby is a story about top secret mission carried by Indian intelligence, to catch a terrorist who is just another terrorist- perhaps left hand of main villain. The idea is to go into deeper terror networks and stop what intelligence perceives to be a great threat. Men are left on their own with no support from their fellow country - India. The mission is carried on with the help of elite soldiers without help of higher authorities. It happens so that they get a chance to get their hands over the biggest mastermind, thus gaining a result of 1000% instead of 50% and the story moves towards end.
(Get Ready To Hear "baby for Best Picture") **!
Honestly, I came into this movie with so-so expectations as the trailer I saw in a different movie made me give myself a 50% chance to watch it, up in the air if you will. But from the moment the movie began up until the end, I was gripping for the characters the whole way, the way movies should be.
The film is absolutely amazing and definitely one of the best films I've seen in a long time,The story, acting, pacing, editing, etc. was just fantastic. direction was solid, and the suspense will keep you entertained right through to the last seconds. I loved it.
