Several groups of people try to survive a zombie pandemic that unleashes itself in downtown Seoul.
Taking place in and around Seoul station, a homeless man appears to be the source of a zombie apocalypse. A young runaway woman must try to survive in a world that sees her as disposable. The story revolves around two main characters: Suk-gyu, a father who searches for his runaway daughter (Hye-sun), only to discover she has become a prostitute. Just as he is about to be reunited with her, a zombie epidemic breaks out in Seoul.Hye-sun has just run away from her former life in a brothel. She now lives with her good-for-nothing boyfriend, Ki-woong, who intends to pimp Hye-sun out again due to money problems. After a fight about this, the two separate and are caught in the chaos bursting out of Seoul Station. Hye-sun escapes with a few survivors into a police station and becomes trapped by a group of zombies within a jail cell, only to realize a surviving policeman in the cell with them has been bitten. Meanwhile, Suk-gyu poses as a customer to Ki-woong before interrogating him for her location. The two go to Hye-sun's home, only to find that the landlady had become a zombie.At the police station, the bitten officer calls for backup before succumbing to his infection. One of the survivors beats the officer unconscious, but the officer reanimates and bites another survivor in the cell. Help arrives and draws the infected away, allowing Hye-sun and an old man to escape the cell and get into an ambulance. The old man panics when he realizes they are en route to the hospital, where many reports of bite wounds appear to be coming in. He attempts to take the wheel from the driver and causes the vehicle to crash. Hye-sun and the old man flee through the subway. Outside the station, Ki-Woong calls Hye-sun but their conversation alerts the infected. The two are saved, only to realize they are placed in a quarantine by riot police. They learn from the authorities that they consider the crisis to be an insurrection.Survivors fighting in the quarantine slowly succumb to growing numbers of infected people. After a speech on his poor position in society, the old man tries to lead a revolt. He is quickly killed by gunfire, throwing the crowd into a panic as the infected consume them. Hye-Sun is able to escape.Hye-sun makes her way into an empty showroom. She notifies Ki-woong of her location before falling asleep. When Ki-woong and Hye-sun are reunited, she reveals that Suk-gyu is not her father but rather her previous pimp. As an argument erupts, Ki-woong tries to attack Suk-gyu with a knife but is killed instead. Hye-sun tries to flee but Suk-gyu subdues her on a bed. As he prepares to rape her, she loses consciousness. As Suk-gyu frantically applies CPR, he looks down and realizes Hye-sun was scratched on her foot and infected. As Hye-sun reanimates and kills Suk-gyu, the camera zooms past a dead Ki-woong and the infected overrunning the quarantine.
