An alien touring the galaxy breaks away from her group and meets two young inhabitants of the most dangerous place in the universe: the London suburb of Croydon.
In the '70s, punk-loving teen Enn (Alex Sharp) attempts to crash a party in the London suburbs. He ends up at the wrong house where he encounters a kooky, conformist cult, which includes the naive Zan (Elle Fanning). They hit it off before Enn learns that she is actually a repressed humanoid alien on Earth to complete a fatal ritual. Enn appeals to the punk scene to help both emotionally and physically liberate the lady he's fallen for. Directed by John Cameron MItchell. Based on the short story of the same name by Neil Gaiman.
On their way to a noisy punk concert in the 1970s humdrum London suburb of Croydon, rowdy friends--Enn, John, and Vic--inadvertently stumble upon something that looks like a bizarre house party, crammed with latex-clad people. Little by little, as the boys discover that this unusual gathering is actually a commune of intergalactic visitors, Enn will fall head-over-heels for the enigmatic and rebellious teenage girl, Zan. As a result, for the next forty-eight hours, Enn and Zan will embark on a quick--but wild--field trip to broaden her horizons, and to learn everything about "the Punk". But, is a mere weekend enough?
Young Enn and his best friends stumble upon a bizarre gathering of teenagers who are from another planet, visiting Earth to complete a mysterious rite of passage. That doesn't stop Enn from falling madly in love with Zan, a beautiful and rebellious alien who becomes fascinated with him. Together, they embark on a delirious adventure through the kinetic, punk rock world of 1970s London, inadvertently setting off a series of events that leads to the ultimate showdown between punks and aliens..
John Cameron Mitchell, director of the acclaimed films Hedwig and the Angry Inch and Shortbus takes us to an exotic and unusual world: suburban London in the late 70s. Under the spell of the Sex Pistols, every teenager in the country wants to be a punk, including our hopeless hero Enn. Hearing the local punk Queen Boadicea is throwing a party, Enn crashes the fun and discovers every horny boy's dream; gorgeous foreign exchange students. When he meets the enigmatic Zan, it's lust at first sight. But these girls have come a lot further than America. They are, in fact, aliens from another galaxy, sent to Earth to prepare for a mysterious rite of passage. When the dark secret behind the rite is revealed, our galaxy-crossed lover Enn must turn to Boadicea and her punk followers for help in order to save the alien he loves from certain death. The punks take on the aliens on the streets of London, and neither Enn nor Zan's universe will ever be the same again.

