Pauline Mitchell is a successful business woman, but when she starts misplacing things, loses track of time and doesn't recognize her husband, Aaron; Pauline fears that she has inherited Alzheimer's, the disease that killed her mother. However, she discovers that her husband and her secretary have conspired to make her think she's losing her mind so that they can take control of her company. Pauline must fight back, desperate to prove her sanity to the police, her doctor - even herself.
Aaron and Pauline Mitchell successfully run the toy business her family started. Shortly after she turns down a generous takeover bid from Japanese investors because they won't respect the child-friendly concept, she and her environment, especially her best friend, worry when she becomes ever more forgetful, as this may be symptoms of Alzheimer's, which is hereditary in her family, traumatic in her mother's case. That renders her all but credible when she, who apparently even forgets her husband's face at the doctor's practice, accuses him of adultery with his secretary, who now runs the firm with him, yet she takes her case even to the equally incredulous police to regain company control before it's sold.
A successful woman who has made a success of the clothing company created by her late mother, who in later life sufferred from dementia, which led to her death, is haunted by the possibility of having inherited the same condtion. During a stressful period, when she is being pressed to make a deal with a Chinese businessman, she starts to notice that she is constantly misplacing things such as her cellphone, important documents and even a favorite pair of shoes. Her husband tries to make light of this but envetually agrees to let her see a doctor who proposed some medication, which he administers to her. Her condition now begins to deteriorate rapidly but there are no prizes for guessing who is really responsible for her plight, given that this is a Lifetime movie assembled from the usual stock formulaic elements. OK for easy and undemanding entertainment but clinically free of both novel ideas and last-minute plot twists.
