A young woman takes in her estranged father after he suffers a stroke, but his home-care nurse's attentive dedication may be masking a dark and dangerous secret.
Cara Sutton (Brigid Brannagh) is a woman with answers. As an author of a therapy best-seller and as a relationship counselor, she is happy to begin a new life and practice in the California coastal town where she grew up. Her husband of five years, Brian (Jack Noseworthy), works for a billionaire real estate developer whose nearby hotel/resort is about to open. Everything seems to be on track for them when they move into their new home, but when Cara's estranged father, Frank (John Heard), has a stroke, their well ordered lives suddenly become a little more complicated. Cara agrees to take in her father while he convalesces, along with the private-care nurse provided by her father's insurance. The nurse, Lynette (Willa Ford), seems like a helpful addition to the Sutton household, but something seems a little off. What begins as attentive dedication to her patient, begins to resemble possessive obsession, and while Cara and Brian have no way of knowing, Lynette's true motivation for being there is much darker than they can even imagine. Gregory (T.J. Hoban), a physical therapist sent by the hospital to work with Cara's father, suspects that Lynette is somehow not what she seems, and Cara's nosy neighbor, Mrs. Kiriazi (Barbara Allyne Bennet), seems to know something about Lynette as well. Brian's boss, Mr. Dasseau (David Millbern), on the other hand, is completely captivated by Lynette's beauty, and during a dinner at the Sutton home, manages to coax from her some information about her past. But having information about Lynette's past is a dangerous liability, and both Mr. Dasseau and Mrs. Kiriazi soon meet with an untimely end. Then, when Lynette steps in, with cold and lethal force, to save Cara from an unbalanced and murderous client, Martin (Costas Mandylor), Cara and Brian both realize something dangerous is definitely lurking beneath the surface of Lynette's pretty and poised facade. Cara begins digging around for facts. What she discovers is a hidden past of dark secrets and deceit that sends a shock-wave through her well ordered life. Cara rushes home to confront Lynette who has already gone over the edge. Lynette wants Cara's life, her home, her husband...her father. It's what she believes she deserves, and what she feels Cara took from her. Cara and Lynette struggle, but in truth, Lynette has already lost. Her mind, traumatized early in life by loss and abandonment, is broken, and her life, fragile in the balance, is over. Cara defends to the death, and strengthened by the struggle, she chooses to reconcile with her own past and start a new chapter in her life.
