The first human born on Mars travels to Earth for the first time, experiencing the wonders of the planet through fresh eyes. He embarks on an adventure with a street-smart girl to discover how he came to be.
In this interplanetary adventure, a space shuttle embarks on the first mission to colonize Mars, only to discover after takeoff that one of the astronauts is pregnant. Shortly after landing, she dies from complications while giving birth to the first human born on the red planet - never revealing who the father is. Thus begins the extraordinary life of Gardner Elliot - an inquisitive, highly intelligent boy who reaches the age of 16 having only met 14 people in his very unconventional upbringing. While searching for clues about his father, and the home planet he's never known, Gardner begins an online friendship with a street smart girl in Colorado named Tulsa. When he finally gets a chance to go to Earth, he's eager to experience all of the wonders he could only read about on Mars - from the most simple to the extraordinary. But once his explorations begin, scientists discover that Gardner's organs can't withstand Earth's atmosphere. Eager to find his father, Gardner escapes the team of scientists and joins with Tulsa on a race against time to unravel the mysteries of how he came to be, and where he belongs in the universe.
When a female astronaut who was sent on a mission to establish a colony on Mars, discovers she's pregnant after leaving the Earth and went in to labor when they arrived on Mars and died giving birth. Her son who would be named Gardner would grow up on Mars and they fear that being born on Mars; his physiology would be different and not withstand being on Earth, so they don't allow him to leave Mars. Gardner would be well educated and be a genius. He would want to know about his mother, the planet she's from and who his father is. He would get her personal effects in storage and finds a picture of her with a man whom he thinks is his father. He also would chat with a girl named Tulsa who's a foster child who's frustrated with just being a source of income for her foster parents. He would tells her some lame story of being sick and not being able to go to her in person. Kendra, his guardian, asks for permission to let Gardener go to Earth but Nathanniel Shepherd, the man who built the Mars colony and who was with Gardner's mother when she died and thinks it's dangerous for him. But he's overruled and Gardner comes to Earth and likes what he sees. When they do some tests on him, he senses they're going to send him back to Mars but he wants to see Tulsa and find his father. So he bolts. When they learn he's gone, Shepherd is desperate to find him but why is he worried about him or is he trying to keep his existence a secret. He finds Tulsa and she's not pleased to see him at first because he stopped talking to her for months--when he was coming to Earth. When Shepherd and Kendra find him, they run and try to find his father. And his heath gets worse.
Gardner Elliot (Asa Butterfield), a 16-year-old boy who was the first person born on Mars, copes with his isolated existence on the red planet by striking up an online flirtation with a girl who lives in Colorado named Tulsa (Britt Robertson). Gardner eventually decides to travel to Earth in order to meet Tulsa and find out who his father is, only to discover that his body might not be able to handle Earth's gravity.
In the near future, Nathaniel Shepard, CEO of Genesis, launches the first ever mission to colonize Mars. During the journey, the lead astronaut, Sarah Elliot, discovers that she is pregnant. Shortly after landing, she dies while giving birth to the first human born on Mars. The father of the child is unknown. In a dilemma, Nathaniel eventually decides to keep the child on Mars as a secret, to avoid a PR disaster for his company and also keep the child safe. Sixteen years later, Sarah's son, Gardner Elliot, has grown up into an inquisitive, highly intelligent boy who has only ever met 14 people in his very unconventional upbringing. One day, in order to find out more about his mother, he hacks into Centaur, a robot he helped build, to gain access to the ship's storage. There, he retrieves his mother's items. Among them are a wedding ring and a USB drive, from which he plays a video of her and a man in a beach house. Convinced that the man is his father, he becomes determined to find him..

