On a hedonistic Greek island, a middle-aged doctor becomes obsessed with a young tourist when she lets him tag along with her group of hard partying friends.
For middle-aged Kostis, life has passed him by. As the newly appointed doctor of a tiny island, Kostis spends a dreary winter alone. By the time summer arrives, though, the island has turned into a thriving, wild vacation spot with nude beaches and crazy parties. When Kostis meets the beautiful and flirty Anna, he falls hard for her and goes out of his way to conquer and impress her. Before long, Kostis is spending nearly all of his time getting drunk, partying hard, and even making out with Anna. What starts as a rediscovery with his lost-long youth, though, slowly turns into an obsession as Kostis is willing to do whatever it takes to keep his Anna. Suntan celebrates the beauty and strength of the youthful body, while simultaneously embracing its inevitable decay.
Kostis is a 40-year-old doctor that finds himself in the small island of Antiparos, in order to take over the local clinic. His whole life and routine will turn upside down and fall apart when he meets an international group of young and beautiful tourists and he falls in love with Anna, a 19-year-old goddess.
Single, lonesome, and up against a premature midlife crisis, the sad physician, Dr Kostis, takes up a job as the local practitioner of a sleepy Cycladic Greek island, where the winters are lonely, and the summers are a tourist's Utopia. However, a chance encounter with the injured and free-spirited twenty-year-old vacationist, Anna, will have the good doctor falling head over heels in love with her, balancing between powerful and unprecedented feelings, stinging embarrassment, and finally, bitter humiliation. What will it take Kostis to keep the object of his desire for himself?
Kostis, a middle-aged doctor and general practitioner, arrives on a resort island and greets the mayor. The mayor explains that, outside of the summer months, the population is around 800 and life is quiet. Kostis settles in amid Christmas celebrations, meeting several people, among them Takis, a villager who crudely assures him that the island will be overflowing with hedonistic, young women during the summer. After summer comes along, Kostis treats a young tourist named Anna, who has injured her leg. Her friends - Alin, Mila, Jason, and Morten - insist on accompanying her into the examination room and behave obnoxiously. Kostis humors them and asks Anna several questions while filling out paperwork. After answering, Anna playfully turns the questions on Kostis, who admits that he is twice her age, 21. Before leaving, Anna suggests Kostis come with them to the beach.Kostis leaves for the beach after he is done at work. Overweight and balding, Kostis stands out at the nude beach even more for having arrived fully dressed. After taking off some of his clothing, he makes a pretense toward asking Anna and her friends if they have a lighter. Recognizing him, they invite him to join them. Kostis watches as they frolic nude on the beach, later joining them in the water. When he swims over to Anna and asks how her leg is, she demonstrates by diving underwater and spreading her legs in front of him while upside down. Kostis, infatuated with Anna, begins hanging out at the beach every day after work and supplying her friends with free beer. On one occasion, he turns away an elderly woman who has complained of back pain so he can leave for the beach as soon as his office closes.At the beach, Anna invites him to join a pool party. Though initially reluctant, Kostis chances upon Orestis, a former medical school colleague who is vacationing on the beach with his family. Overhearing Kostis' invitation, he encourages Kostis to go, as the parties have a reputation for hedonistic abandon; Kostis agrees. Once there, the host urges everyone to kiss whomever is near them. The partiers make out with each other, in both heterosexual and homosexual couplings, though Kostis is only interested in Anna. After they make out, she turns to make out with others, and Kostis becomes jealous. Anna chastises him, and he wanders away from the party, dejected. Orestis, who has also attended the party, consoles him, saying that such parties are not for middle-aged men such as them.As Kostis spends more time ingratiating himself into Anna's company, the villagers complain about his behavior, such as turning away the elderly woman. Eventually, Anna invites him to the beach with her alone, and the two have sex for the first time. Ashamed at orgasming too quickly, Kostis apologizes. Anna brushes it aside and says he will have much time over the summer to make it up to her. However, Anna is nowhere to be found for the next few days. Kostis spends the bulk of his time searches the beaches and bars for her, becoming increasingly frustrated and drunken. Finding Kostis at a bar, Takis encourages him to carouse with him. They pick up a female tourist, who eventually grows frustrated with Takis' sexually aggressive behavior. Kostis stands up for her, annoying Takis, and she performs oral sex on Kostis.When Anna finally reappears, she happily jumps into his arms. Angry, Kostis berates her for leaving the island without telling him. When she becomes offended, he apologizes and professes his love for her, but she only becomes more adamant that she does not want to see him again. Crushed, Kostis begins stalking her, watching covertly as she has sex with other random men. When Kostis forcefully attempts to dance with her at a club, the bouncer throws him out.As his life falls apart, Kostis comes in hours late to the clinic during an emergency. The mayor, frustrated with Kostis' behavior, fires him. Kostis sullenly becomes drunk, assaults one of Anna's friends, and kidnaps her. After drugging her and dragging her unconscious body back to the clinic, he takes off her shorts but doesn't go through with raping her. After checking her pulse, he begins crying and treats a wound on her leg.
