A group of seven people, including both con men and common men, plan a small heist with a big reward.
A friendship is formed between 7 inmates in Viyoor Central Jail. Each of them has their own 'tragic story' about how they got in prison. When they find out that some of them have a common enemy, a ruthless businessman named Payas, they plan a heist to extract all of Payas' black money hidden in a locker.
The film is set in Thrissur and starts off with Martin (Chemban Vinod Jose) confessing to a priest (Lijo Jose Pellissery) in a church, explaining his past. Martin gets arrested for stealing from a Hindu temple, while his accomplice Geevarghese (Sudhi Koppa) escapes. He is sent to Viyyoor Central Jail near Viyyoor and meets 6 other people who had been arrested in: Narayankutty (Neeraj Madhav), an electronic shop owner arrested for giving a hidden camera in a soap box to 2 people, who used them in a hotel bathroom; Nobelettan (Nedumudi Venu), a chit fund company owner cheated by Pius Matthew (Joy Mathew) and his younger brother, Christo (Irshad), which cost his son's life ; Shabbab (Asif Ali) who beats up his visa provider who had busted him in a jail at Dubai for 10 months; Vasu aka Leaf Vasu (Sudheer Karamana), the former right-hand man of Pius, after a crowbar fell on his head he suffered a mental disorder; Salam (Salam Bukhari), a circus performer arrested for beating up an irritating spectator; and Krishnanunni (Prithviraj Sukumaran), a bank employee, whose wife Sarah (Reenu Mathews) was killed in a car accident after she was harassed by Pius, who had abused her after she got cheated. After they were released, the seven of them planned to steal money from a safe in the charity hospital where Pius and his brothers had kept their money.After they were released, they sought the help of Annamma (Sanusha), Nobelettan's daughter and a nurse at Pius' hospital, for installing spy cameras which was made by Narayankutty there. After finding the exact location of the safe, Krishnanunni found out that the safe can be only unlocked with 3 keys through the safe blueprint, each of them with Pius, Christo and Franko (Mukundhan). For that, the gang planned of making a duplicate of those 3 keys by imprinting the keys onto a soap piece. They found out that Christo had kept his key in a glass cabinet, Pius carried the key on a chain, and Franko had it in his car.After successfully distracting them and getting the key imprints, Krishnanunni planned to do the heist during a festival. That night, he told Leaf Vasu to put fireworks in the sewage tank of the charity hospital, which gave them access to the back of the hospital. He told Annamma to cut off the main supply so that they could get access to the room where the safe is, through the exhaust fan. After successfully getting to the room, they unlocked the safe. What they didn't know was the safe was connected to an alarm, which alerted the three of them. They chased the sewage trucks where they had put the money, but failing. The gang meet up on the side of the road, but Krishnanunni is missing. It is revealed that Krishnanunni had went off with the money.The story comes back to the present, where Martin was explaining his story to the priest. He explained that the gang had searched for Krishnanunni, but they were surprised to see another person with the same name (Indrajith). After some days, each of them from the gang got a box with solar panels on the top. When they opened it, they found the money given as a share by Krishnanunni for the heist, later crying in joy. Then it is revealed that the Krishnanunni who helped them in the heist was actually a con-man. Then he was shown working on a new heist disguised as a business man dealing solar panels.
