TV MX, the most powerful Mexican Television Corporation, discloses a scandalous story involving Governor Carmelo Vargas in serious crimes and illicit business. Governor Vargas worried about his political future, decides to clean his image and negotiates a billionaire secret agreement with the owners of the TV Corporation. Carlos Rojo, an ambitious young news producer, and Ricardo Diaz, TV network star reporter, are responsible for making a dirty campaign to change the image the public has of the corrupt Governor and make him, at any cost, a political star and a great presidential candidate. Mexican Television believes that democracy is a farce and has already placed one President... Will they do it again?
Mexico's President commits a serious gaffe on live television while welcoming the U.S. ambassador. His allies at the media conglomerate Television Mexicana seek to divert attention by reporting on a bribery scandal involving Governor Carmelo Vargas, who is seen caressing a briefcase full of dollars. Governor Vargas then pays millions to TV MX to improve his image and make him a suitable candidate for the presidency. TV MX lands on the kidnapping of twin girls for this purpose, and shows Vargas as a dynamic leader heading the search efforts. The film is a sardonic, (black) humorous, at times violent look at the convergence of presidential politics and a voracious media monopoly. The viewer is left to decide how much of it is fiction, and how much a true reflection of life at the top in Mexico.
El Presidente de la República comete uno más de sus frecuentes disparates. TV MX, la poderosa Corporación Mexicana de Televisión, tiene que ayudar a su amigo y aliado a salir del problema antes de que se convierta en otra grave crisis de imagen y popularidad. Para desviar la atención, la televisora da a conocer en su noticiero estelar, y de manera muy escandalosa, un video que involucra al Gobernador Carmelo Vargas en horrendos crímenes y graves negocios ilícitos. El Gober Vargas, preocupado por su futuro político, decide negociar un millonario y secreto acuerdo con los dueños de la televisora. Carlos Rojo, un joven y ambicioso productor de noticias; Ricardo Díaz, reportero estrella de la televisora y Javier Pérez Harris, conductor del noticiero estelar, son comisionados para cambiar la imagen que la opinión pública tiene del corrupto y folclórico Gober, y lograr - a cualquier costo convertirlo en una fulgurante estrella política y un posible candidato a la presidencia. La Televisión ya puso un Presidente ¿Lo volverá a hacer?
