His annual Christmas party faltering thanks to his cynical brother-in-law, former Growing Pains star Kirk Cameron attempts to save the day by showing him that Jesus Christ remains a crucial component of the over-commercialized holiday..
Kirk is enjoying the annual Christmas party extravaganza thrown by his sister until he realizes he needs to help out Christian, his brother-in-law, who has a bad case of the bah-humbugs. Kirk's fresh look at Christmas provides Christian the chance to see Christ is where He has always been: at the center of our Christmas celebrations and traditions. Can Kirk save his in-law's opinions on Christmas or will he have to celebrate the holiday without him?
The film starts with Kirk Cameron sitting on a chair by a fireplace and talking directly to the audience, telling them of his love of Christmas but saying the traditional Christmas imagery is "all wrong" and having "nothing to do with Christmas", and blaming atheists for trying to take the holiday away from Christians; he also suggests that Santa Claus is a Christian.Kirk goes to a Christmas party at the house of his sister (played by Cameron's real-life sister Bridgette Cameron Ridenour). While there he notices that his brother-in-law, Christian (Darren Doane), isn't celebrating like the others. When asked why he seems so sad, Christian says he feels the holiday became too commercialized and consumerist. Kirk tells Christian that he is wrong and starts reminding him of the stories of the Bible. Meanwhile, two guests at the party discuss conspiracy theories.As Christian complains that several elements of Christmas, most notably Christmas trees, are not biblical in origin. Kirk tells him that Christmas trees were God's idea, since he made the trees. He also says that each tree represents a Christian cross, and suggests the audience to see a cross each time they see a tree. Kirk's brother-in-law is convinced by his arguments, but then starts complaining about Santa Claus for he sees him as an obliteration of Jesus and noticed that "Santa" and "Satan" have the same letters, but Kirk tells him that the original Santa Claus (before being re-interpreted by western culture) was actually named Saint Nicholas beating up non-believers and people who did not believe enough, thus making Santa a good religious figure; his brother-in-law is now convinced that "Santa is the man".Christian is now convinced of Christmas' faithfulness to its religious roots, and the two return to the party. Kirk then explains that the presents at Christmas represent Jerusalem, and that Christmas is "doing what God does", as he always gave humanity many gifts. He then suggests once more to bring back Christianity in Christmas for our children. His brother-in-law, as a gift for his wife, organizes the same night a hip-hop dance representing his joy of celebrating Christmas, leading to everyone dancing and partying together. Kirk then tells everyone to feast, and suggests the audience organize the best dinner possible for Christmas, but not to forget this is a celebration of God.
