Ove, an ill-tempered, isolated retiree who spends his days enforcing block association rules and visiting his wife's grave, has finally given up on life just as an unlikely friendship develops with his boisterous new neighbors.
59 year old Ove is the block's grumpy man who several years earlier was deposed as president of the condominium association, but he could not give a damn about being deposed and therefore keeps looking over the neighborhood with an iron fist. When pregnant Parvaneh and her family moves into the terraced house opposite and accidentally backs into Ove's mailbox it turns out to be an unexpected friendship. A drama comedy about unexpected friendship, love and the importance of surrounding yourself with the proper tools.
Forced into retirement after more than forty years of dedicated work on the railways, the fifty-nine-year-old widower, Ove Lindahl--a cantankerous creature of habit, and the fear of his well-kept suburban neighbourhood--has, sadly, given up on life. As a result, determined to fulfil a promise to his wife, Ove whittles down the monotony in his life by watching over his small gated community like a hawk, until an unforeseen and reluctant friendship with the new next-door neighbours gives him a new lease of life. Little by little, a subtle transformation starts to take place; however, is the cynical but sympathetic curmudgeon capable of change?
59 year old Ove is the blocks grumpy man who several years earlier was deposed as president of the condominium association, but he could not give a damn about being deposed and therefore keeps looking over the neighborhood with an iron fist. When pregnant Parvaneh and her family moves into the terraced house opposite and accidentally backs into Oves mailbox it turns out to be an unexpected friendship.A drama comedy about unexpected friendship, love and the importance of surrounding yourself with the proper tools. Scriptwriter and director: Hannes Holm Cast: Rolf Lassgård, Bahar Pars, Filip Berg, Ida Engvoll, Catharina Larsson, Börje Lundgren, Stefan Gödicke, Klas Wiljergård, Johan WiderbergFacts:
Based on the Swedish author Fredrik Backmans bestselling book, which has been sold to more than 30 countries world-wide and directed by Hannes Holm (Behind blue skies and the films in the box office hit-franchise about the Andersson family, 2012, 2013) comes this heartfelt, poetic and humorous dramedy about an old curmudgeon who has given up on everything including himself. But his life and negative approach to the world is putt o the test when a new family moves
