Imprisoned by an adult world that now fears everyone under 18, a group of teens form a resistance group to fight back and reclaim control of their future.
After a disease killed 98% of children and young people in the United States, the 2% who managed to survive have developed superpowers, but have been locked in internment camps after being declared a threat. 16-year-old, Ruby, manages to escape from her camp and joins a group of teenagers fleeing government forces.
In the future, the USA has been hit by a virus which has killed off much of its children, and adults are now fearful of teens. When a group of teenagers develop superpowers and are imprisoned in a detention camp, the group must seek a safe haven for themselves and others like them.
A sudden disease kills over 98% of the children throughout the world, leaving the survivors with unusual abilities. As a result, the governments of the world place the survivors in a "rehabilitation camp", where they attempt to cure the children of their disease, distinguishing them into classes based on their abilities. Ruby Daly celebrates her tenth birthday with her family, where her father gives her a key chain. Seeing her parents' concern about the disease, Ruby goes to comfort her parents in the night, touching their hands, and inadvertently erasing all their memories with Ruby. In the morning, her mother locks Ruby in the garage; having no recollection of her, she sends Ruby to an internment camp, where Ruby is determined to be an Orange, the most dangerous class where they have the abilities to control other people's minds and memories. Ruby uses her abilities to convince her supervisor that she is a Green, the least dangerous one with extremely high intelligence..
When teens mysteriously develop powerful new abilities, they are declared a threat by the government and detained. Sixteen-year-old Ruby, one of the most powerful young people anyone has encountered, escapes her camp and joins a group of runaway teens seeking safe haven. Soon this newfound family realizes that, in a world in which the adults in power have betrayed them, running is not enough and they must wage a resistance, using their collective power to take back control of their future.
Ruby Daly never thought she would survive the horrible plague that killed 98% of America's children... but she did. Those who survived the disease were left with unnatural powers that could only be described by a color: the greens (super intelligent), the blues (telekinesis), the yellows (control over electricity), the oranges (power over the mind), and the reds (control fire). Ruby is an orange, a dangerous one. She is sent to Thurmond, a camp for kids like her. She is miserable there and scared of what happened to the others like her. She hides under the facade that she is a green and watched as those like her are taken away. She escapes this horrible place with the help of the children's league, and from there her life changes forever.
When Ruby woke up on her tenth birthday, something about her had changed. Something alarming enough to make her parents lock her in the garage and call the police. Something that gets her sent to Thurmond, a brutal government "rehabilitation camp." She might have survived the mysterious disease that's killed most of America's children, but she and the others have emerged with something far worse: frightening abilities they cannot control. Now sixteen, Ruby is one of the dangerous ones. When the truth comes out, Ruby barely escapes Thurmond with her life. Now she's on the run, desperate to find the one safe haven left for kids like her-East River. She joins a group of kids who escaped their own camp. Liam, their brave leader, is falling hard for Ruby. But no matter how much she aches for him, Ruby can't risk getting close. Not after what happened to her parents. When they arrive at East River, nothing is as it seems, least of all its mysterious leader. But there are other forces at work, people who will stop at nothing to use Ruby in their fight against the government. Ruby will be faced with a terrible choice, one that may mean giving up her only chance at a life worth living.

