A New York teacher, who moves to small town Texas where he's fired for being gay, returns disguised as a mean lady to get revenge on the nasty town.
New York substitute science teacher/stand-up comic Richard Martinez - who isn't even remotely effective at either - finally lands a full-time position in Texas through the Teaching Ambassador Program, but his stint falls short when it's discovered he's gay. With only one friendly local behind him, Richard returns to the school as sassy Bianca Del Rio, an outspoken teacher who'll put the unruly students and hypocritical school staff in their proper places, instantly becoming the best teacher he's ever been and the school has ever seen.
Although being totally committed to being the best he can be at all aspects of his life, Richard Martinez is largely dissatisfied with his life as a gay, stand-up comedian, substitute chemistry teacher in New York City. As such, he jumps at the chance to be the general science teacher at Milford High School in small-town Milford, Texas, not realizing that it is a job no one else wants, as it is located in a conservative backwater, with the students' primary motivations being to make the teacher's life miserable. Regardless, he is quickly fired from the job solely for being gay, which is allowed in Texas. Despite given the official word by Principal Wayne, Richard's firing was orchestrated by the extremely conservative faction at the school, led by Deborah Ward, a fellow teacher and Richard's supervisor in the Teacher's Ambassador Program through which he got the job. Spending an evening with who would become his first real friend in Milford, radio self-help talk show host Karma Johnstone, Richard comes up with a way to get his job back: to disguise himself as a woman, his drag persona being Bianca Del Rio. Beyond the need for money, Richard wants the job back primarily to get back at the people in Milford who made his life miserable. Richard will find there are unintended consequences to his actions. In the process, he also aims to help his friend Karma with a personal family issue which she has been hiding from since she was young.

