Daniel is 25 and writes books. He has never been in a relationship and knows there will never be a partner for him. Daniel is a pedophile and his life is an everyday experiment of living and surviving.
Daniel is a young man. Daniel is a student and a writer. Also Daniel is a pedophile. He is in love and makes no secret of his sexual orientation; even not in front of the parents of his beloved boy. Daniel has never hurt any child. What is the way of the most intimate of feelings in Daniel's and his friends' heart? The film introduces the rises and falls of people living with pedophilia. It portrays Daniel and the Czech community of pedophiles. It narrates a story of forbidden love and a constant struggle to come to terms with oneself and the society.
Daniel is 25 years old. He studies at Academy of Literature and writes books. His stories are about a man who loves little boys. Once his friends asked him: Are you the pedophile you are writing about? Daniel stayed silent for a while and then he said: Yes, that's me. And there it was...
Daniel was the only member of the Czech pedophile community who decided to come out publicly. He felt it was another necessary step on his way to overcoming his fear. His fear of his surroundings, of his fantasies, of himself. His fear of being a pedophile. As he was growing up this word became his nightmare. After all everyone sees a pedophile as a pervert, a sicko and a deviant. Daniel was gradually learning how to talk to people about it. And some of them have learnt to listen. Still, he knows he will have to face more or less hidden resentment from the society. It all seems better to him than hiding from himself for the rest of his life.
Can a pedophile lead a happy life? That is what Daniel asks himself every single day. Sometimes he feels he can. For example when he can spend a day with little Misha with whom he fell in love three years ago. These brief moments fill him with energy. Afterwards he writes theatrical plays, attends conferences or LGBT rallies where he patiently explains that being a pedophile does not mean automatically being a rapist. Things get worse when there is a long period of hopeless waiting for an invitation from Misha's parents. Or when he realizes that his Misha will grow up to become an adult one day. That is when Daniel feels the burden of loneliness. He falls silent, hides from people, struggles with depression.
Daniel does not know what will eventually prevail in his life. Will it be joy or sorrow? Every day is a small battle against himself. Daniel is patiently gathering his little victories and little defeats, hoping that despite all this he will never have to do without a possibility of being close to children.
