Cinema's top lethal lady vengeance returns in the most anticipated sequel of all time.
Jennifer Hills is back. Forty years after 1978's I Spit On Your Grave shocked the world with its story of a beautiful career woman assaulted and left for dead, and her notorious revenge on those responsible, cinema's most lethal lady vengeance returns in the most anticipated sequel of all time. Reuniting star Camille Keaton and original director Meir Zarchi, I Spit On Your Grave: Déjà vu sends now successful writer Jennifer Hills hurtling back to where it all began - to face the wrath of the families of those she murdered. Kidnapped along with her daughter scream queen star Jamie Bernadette, it's a tense game of hunt - or be hunted - against a lethal gang of degenerates overseen by a violently unhinged matriarch Maria Olsen. Meir Zarchi delivers the next explosive saga in the most controversial tale of an eye-for-an-eye ever committed to celluloid. Some grudges refuse to be buried- David Maquire.
Nearly 40 years after the events of the previous film, Jennifer Hills, (Camille Keaton) wrote a bestselling memoir based on her rape and has become a successful rape counselor. Her daughter, Christy Hills (Jamie Bernadette), is a successful model, having been one since the age of 10. Johnny's wife, Becky (Maria Olsen), has been planning revenge against Jennifer Hills for years and decides to take action along with the relatives of the other rapists which include Matthew's father Herman, Andy's cousin Scotty, Johnny's parents Henry and Millie, Matthew's grandmother 'Beady Eyes' Duncan, and Stanley's brother Kevin.Christy meets Jennifer at a restaurant where she expresses her desire to leave modeling and pursue something more challenging. When the two women leave, Kevin and Scotty pull over their truck and ask Jennifer to sign a copy of her memoir. They kidnap the two women and take them to the country. There Becky meets up with them and expresses her anger. Both Kevin and Becky take Jennifer to the sight where she hung Matthew while Scotty drives Christy to an unknown location. Jennifer is forced to dig a hole while listening to classical music (Due to Johnny being killed with classical music playing in the background). Jennifer is nearly killed by Matthew's father, but she escapes.Meanwhile, Christy convinces Scotty to pull over on the premise of her needing to use the restroom. Instead, she seduces him and knocks him out with a rock. She steals his truck and drives back to the location.Jennifer is greeted by an old woman who threatens her and is then picked up by an old odd couple and is dropped off at a church. She finds it to be locked and is met by Becky who, after forcing her to beg for her life, decapitates Jennifer. Christy arrives moments later and finds her mother dead, and tries to find help. When she arrives back to the church, someone in the truck is shown to have Jennifer's body. Christy is then chased by Becky into the woods where she is gang-raped by Kevin and Becky. Herman manages to stop the rape and Christy runs away only to be chased by the gang. She manages to hide from them in the night.The gang go to the rapists' grave from the first film and celebrate their victory before dumping Jennifer's decapitated body into an empty grave. Meanwhile, Christy wakes up the next morning and steals clothes from a house. She finds Herman's house where she steals food and kills him by surprise with a meat cleaver, before shooting his dead body over and over.Becky orders Kevin and Scotty to find Christy. The two go looking for Christy and find Herman's car pulled over by the side of the road. When Kevin goes out to investigate, Christy ambushes him with a gun and orders him to strip (Much like her mother did with Johnny). She then seduces him and gives him a hand-job before stabbing him in the crotch with a broken beer bottle. Scotty comes after hearing Kevin's screams and is shot by Christy. Scotty pleads for his life (much like Andy) and is anally raped by Christy with the gun before she shoots him throughout his rectum.Meanwhile, Becky decides to look for the gang due to not being able to reach them. She finds Herman's, Andy's and Stanley's body and realizes Christy is likely to be alive. She ambushes Christy and almost kills her but is stopped the same old odd couple Jennifer encountered. Christy murders Becky and the couple shows Christy where Jennifer's body is saying "It's right next to your father's grave". When the two arrive at the cemetery, it is revealed Johnny, the leader of the rapists from the first film, is Christy's father and that Christy knew along. She speaks to her mother and says she loves her and although Jennifer didn't tell her who her father was, she knew all along.Suddenly, Christy is pushed into the hole by the old couple and the old woman Jennifer encountered previously. The old couple is Johnny's parents and the old woman is Matthew's grandmother. The two throw dirt and continuously hit Christy until she passes out.The two recite prayers until Christy manages to climb out of the hole. Now deranged with rage, Christy impales the old woman with a shovel and beats Johnny's mother to death. She threatens Johnny's father and makes her put Jennifer's body into his truck. She decides not to kill him, but instead, he shoots himself.The film ends with Becky and Johnny's children coming to the gas station and wondering where their mother is, only to see Christy in their grandparents' car passing by.
