Elyse, a rich heiress, meets Rob, a bullied lawyer, and the two fall in love during a costume ball.
About the Movie - Midnight Masquerade Young businesswoman Elyse Samford's (Autumn Reeser) life takes a turn when she inherits Samford Candy, a multi-billion dollar corporation, from her retired father (Richard Burgi). A trademark infringement lawsuit against a rival company brings Elyse to Higgins Attorneys and Sons, where Rob Carelli (Christopher Russell), a young, too-nice-for-his-own-good lawyer, is bullied by his boss, firm founder Carter Higgins (Chris Gillett), and his two arrogant sons (Damon Runyan and Danny Smith). Despite his workplace woes, Rob becomes instantly smitten with Elyse. With Halloween just around the corner, Elyse invites the Higgins law firm staff to an opulent masked Halloween costume ball. Rob obeys an order to remain in the office working that night, but has a change of heart when his spunky, 12-year old niece, Ruby (Helen Colliander), convinces him to attend the ball wearing a prince costume. After a magnificent waltz and magical exchange with the handsome "prince," Elyse yearns to locate this mysterious man and hopefully find the romance her life has been missing.
A twist on the "Cinderella" tale is presented. Rob Carelli ("Cinderella"), a hard working and generally all 'round nice guy, is a junior lawyer at Higgins and Sons, a family law firm. He has to work twice as hard as the Average Joe or Jane not just to get ahead but to keep his job, as his boss, the company owner/senior partner Carter Higgins ("Wicked Stepmother"), is all about nepotism in favoring the "sons" of the company, Emmett Higgins and Andrew Higgins ("Wicked Stepsisters"), who he either does not see or chooses not to see are both slackers and brown-nosers. As is standard practice behind the scenes, Rob does all the work but gets none of the credit in preparation for a meeting with their clients, the representatives of Samford Candy Corp. in a potential lawsuit. Elyse Samford ("Prince Charming") has just been appointed CEO of Samford in the retirement of her father, former CEO Howard Samford ("Queen" and "King" in combination). It is at that meeting that Rob finds out that Elyse and the woman who he was attracted to at the local bowling alley are one and the same. In doing things in a slightly different way than her father, Elyse invites the entire staff of Higgins and Sons to the corporation's annual Halloween masquerade ball. Despite not doing Halloween or balls, Rob intends to go to the ball in getting to know Elyse in more of a social setting. Rob is supported by various people both in getting ready for the ball and in his professional life, including Sam, the office building's straight talking security guard, a former lawyer himself, Rob's older sister Helen, and Helen's twelve year old daughter Ruby (the collective "Fairy Godmothers"). Rob's attendance at the ball and his job are threatened by a plan by Carter on the Samford file using Emmett to make himself rich beyond his wildest dreams. When Rob thinks he discovers Carter's plan, he has to decide how to proceed, in his want to maintain a source of income while protecting Elyse and possibly telling her how he truly feels about her.

