Internationally known graffiti artist, Banksy, left his mark on San Francisco in April 2010. Little did he know that this act of vandalism would spark a chain of events that includes one of his rats being removed from a wall, Museums ignorantly turning down a free Banksy street work, and a NY gallerist who has made it his business model to remove Banksy street works from all over the globe doing whatever it takes to get the rat in his possession.
What would you do if someone offered you a small fortune for a painting the artist didn't want sold? When the worlds most infamous street artist visited San Francisco he created an art world frenzy. His 'illegal' art was loved by the public, destroyed by city officials, dismissed by art experts and coveted by art dealers.
Saving Banksy is the story of one misguided art collectors attempt to save Banksy's famous "Haight Street Rat" from destruction and the auction block. His efforts to save the Rat are met with threats from city officials, snubs from museums and a flurry of six-figure offers from art dealers eager to cannot to get their hands on the painting. Saving Banksy is a rare backstage look at the elusive world of Street Art and Graffiti. The films narrative is driven by multiple perspectives from Street Artists who paint graffiti illegally, and from art dealers who remove their graffiti from public walls for profiteering purposes. Saving Banksy opens by serving it's plot up for debate. "What would you do if you found a million dollar Banksy spray-painted on the side of your house?" Since the birth of modern graffiti, Street Artists and graffiti writers have embraced the brevity of their public art. Their public work has always been subject to destruction by property owners, law enforcement, and other graffiti artists. However, with Street Art quickly becoming the hottest commodity on the auction block, these artists are rethinking their public art work in an effort to outsmart the commercialization of graffiti. Saving Banksy features interviews with some of the top names in Street Art and Graffiti including Ben Eine, Risk, Revok, Niels 'Shoe' Meulman, Blek Le Rat, Anthony Lister, Doze Green, Hera, and Glen E Friedman.

