A documentary film about session and touring musicians that are hired by well established and famous bands and artists like Metallica, KISS, and Billy Joel. These hired guns may not be household names, but are still masters of their craft.
Session Aces. Keepers of Time. Vocalists. Composers. The sidemen and sidewomen who play the riffs and fills we imitate in the air. When we turn up the radio, chances are we are listening to one of these players. A-listers have them on speed dial. International tour or recording session, who're they gonna call? A "Hired Gun." This feature length one-off documentary introduces the prolific musicians who are virtually unknown to the public. Billy Joel, Whitesnake, P!NK and Metallica are synonymous with their own artistry and success, but who is responsible for their instrumental solos? Who tours with them live? It is the consummate side players who kill it show after show, often playing circles around the actual band members. In "Hired Gun," viewers learn the firsthand stories from individuals who have mastered their craft and perform on the world's biggest stages. This film details the highs and lows of touring life, the demands of hectic session schedules, and the dedication required to make dreams a reality. The unsung stories of these heroes are now brought to the screen. "Hired Gun" explores the creative process and sound of the best permanently on-call musicians in the world. Some have been constantly undervalued and face the wreckage of a failed career. Some remain in demand, happy to be playing, singing, and songwriting in relative obscurity and supporting the star. Some step into the spotlight and become leaders in their own band.
Millions of fans have seen them. Tens of millions fans have heard their music. But who are these world-class musicians living in the shadow of the spotlight? You've heard them put their stamp countless studio recordings and you've seen them perform on stages behind the stars that hire them. But who are they? What was their path that go them there? Why have some succeeded while others have failed? Why are some in demand while others are beat up, beat down and left for dead in the wreckage of a failed career? Hired Gun is a compelling story about the music industry's hired guns, sideman and session players, the A-list musicians, songwriters and producers that are paid by the hour or by the job. They all possess the same gift of uncommon musical ability, but most of them make a living playing, singing, and songwriting in relative obscurity. Some try to take the road less traveled, the road to independence as an acclaimed musician, singer or songwriter in their own right. Some make it big, most of them do not, and when they don't--what happens to them?
We've all heard them perform at concerts and on countless recordings. Millions have watched and listened to them play the music of the famous stars who hire them. They are the First Call, A-list musicians, the go-to players standing in the shadows of our favorite stars on stage and backing them up in the studio. They are an indispensable part of every performance but who are they really? What makes them tick? Why do some succeed while others fail? Why are some in demand while others are left for dead in the wreckage of a failed career? This is the story of the talented musicians who stand next to the spotlight; sometimes by choice and sometimes out of necessity.
Hired Gun is a compelling film about the dynamic personalities and creative genius of the best session players and back up musicians in the world. Collectively, they are a group that possess uncommon musical ability and an uncanny knack for being able to deliver a great performance time and again. Most of them make a living playing, singing, and songwriting in relative obscurity. Individually, they are a diverse lot with vastly different backgrounds and experience in the music world. Some try to take the road less traveled, the road to stardom as an acclaimed musician, singer or songwriter. Most do not make it; some do.
Unlike other films that have tried to provide us with a glimpse into the world of a paid musician, Hired Gun delivers far more. Director Fran Strine has gained unparalleled access into the lives and homes of these artists. Due to his credibility in the music world, Strine is able to share intimate details of the personal and professional lives of these musicians. Hired Gun reveals the artistic choices and resulting implications of these men and women in the background. The film ultimately delivers euphoric highs, crushing lows and the hilarious anecdotes and dramatic tragedy inescapable in life. Music documentarian Fran Strine (Dolly Parton: Live in London; The Making of Staind; Battlefield of the Mind) and producer Jamie Talbot (Sunset Strip, Radio Caroline) use a masterful blend of live interviews, archival performance footage and sound recordings to deliver a thoughtful, spirited look at the Hired Gun and the stars that depend on them.
