Jennie Stanton (Torrey DeVitto) throws the best Christmas parties every year for her company, Petra's Parties. Things are a little different this year, as Petra is retiring and looks to the next generation to take over. Jennie thinks she has her new job in the bag, until Petra's charismatic nephew, Nick (Steve Lund), shows up as "seasonal help" and his natural talent and confidence clashes with Jennie's stern work ethic and traditional values. The pair battle it out for the top job with unmistakable chemistry and symmetry, but when the new owners of the legendary Tyrell's Toys put the bottom line before Christmas spirit, threatening to pull the plug on Tyrell's Toys' annual Christmas party for the community, Jennie and Nick are forced to work together to throw the greatest Christmas party ever.
Twenty-something Jennie Stanton is the second in command at Petra's Parties, New York City's preeminent events planning company. The company has long held the contract to organize Tyrell's Toy Store's Christmas party, which is open to the public and which at its core provides Christmas cheer to those less fortunate. Arthur Tyrell, the store's original owner, gave Jennie's father a job when Jennie was a child, at a time when the Stantons' outlook was at its most bleak. It is her remembrances of the parties as a child and her fondness for Arthur Tyrell that made Jennie want to become an events planner, and why Tyrell's is the job she looks the most forward to year after year. Arthur Tyrell has sold the store to a conglomerate called Piedmont, which will continue with the parties. Piedmont's liaison on this file, Todd Perry, seems more interested in Jennie as a woman than as an events planner, largely leaving the details of the party to her. Petra's Parties has another major shake-up when Petra announces at the beginning of this Christmas season that she will be going into retirement after Christmas. She has brought in her fraternal nephew, Nick Forbes, to help at the company this season, Petra wanting Jennie to show him the ropes. This request does not sit well with Jennie as Nick's easy going and off the cuff style, largely an extension of him being an actor, does not mesh with her more detail-oriented focus. Jennie's worst nightmare comes to pass when she eventually learns that Petra plans to hand over the reigns of the company to Nick, rather than to her, which was her expectation before Nick came into the picture. Nick, on the other hand, wants to learn, and has nothing against Jennie whatsoever, he who sees this opportunity as a means to lead a more stable life than the struggle of going on audition after audition. He even has Jennie's back, believing Todd to be nothing more than a player. Although continually butting heads at the beginning, Jennie slowly warms to the strengths that Nick has in dealing with customers, that innate free-spirited charm which she admits she doesn't have. But the true test of if they can indeed be a team ends up being Piedmont, Todd who does have specific ideas of what he envisions the party to be, which is not what has traditionally been done. Jennie and Nick have to find a way to retain the true meaning of Christmas at Tyrell's while either getting Todd and Piemont on board or circumventing Piedmont's wants.
Hedonistic, imaginative young natural Nick Forbes's arrival wrecks stickler Jennie Stanton silent expectation of succeeding his aunt Petra as manager of New York's leading party planning firm, she even announces her impending retirement with Nick, who felt his Hollywood career wasn't getting him far enough, as 'heir', whom Jennie is instructed to work in. His people skills, originality and feel for fun prove far superior, and he quickly learns the technicalities from her. When they collaborate, the result is brilliant, but her jealousy and his impulsiveness keep complicating team work. Then she fails to convince the senior executive -with a clear crush on her- of Piedmont conglomerate, which took over retiring Arthur Tyrell's toy firm, her favorite client, whose traditional charitable parties mean the world to her, but Nick finds a way, despite being offered a tempting Hollywood career.

