Once upon a time (in 2010 - to be more exact), there was a naive young man called Zizou, who came to a magic city (Tunis, to be more precise) where, on a popular souk and after some vexations, he found both work and a couple of friends named Adel, Hamma, Sindicato, Hadj Omar.... But life was not easy for all that as there were also villains (henchmen of power, Islamic fundamentalists and other mafiosi - to be more explicit) who alternately lured him to their sides, causing our gullible hero to endure blows, slaps and humiliations galore. Of course, there is no fairy tale without a pure, selfless love and a pure, selfless love did arise when Zizou, working a roof, caught sight of the most beautiful creature he had ever seen. Unfortunately Aicha, the new princess of his heart, was confined in a house against her will by a gang of dangerous mafiosi. With such an obstacle to overcome, would the young man manage to save the belle, end up marrying her and live happily after? All the more as at that point people took it into their heads to start a revolution against their tyrannical grand vizier (Ben Ali - to be correct) and he found himself caught in the middle...
Aziz, nicknamed Zizou, young unemployed graduate, leaves his village on the border of Sahara for Tunis, the capital in quest of a job. He becomes installer of satellite dishes on house roofs. Still keeping his honest and candid soul, he frequents all social sets: from the richest to the poorest, trendy modernists to supporters of despotic regime, or underground islamist opponents. One day, while working on the terraces of the beautiful village of Sidi Bou Saïd, he falls madly in love with a girl, who looks locked up by a mafia group close to the regime. Henceforward, his dream is to set her free This quest for love becomes his reason for living, and he will proceed unconsciously against the tide of the Revolution that is about to burst in Tunisia and so, trigger in the whole region the crazy hopes of a Spring of freed peoples! Through his clumsiness and naivety, he will come across hundreds of adventures and end up an unwilling hero!
