Leading up to the Olympics in Sochi, a law banning 'propaganda of nontraditional sexual relations to minors' was passed in Russia. Gay Olympians were confronted with a tough decision: whether to protest in defense of their Russian comrades or compete in silence. Featuring world medalist Johnny Weir, Billie Jean King, Greg Louganis, Martina Navratilova, Simona Meiler and others.
After being awarded the 2014 Winter Olympics but before the actual games themselves, the Russian government enacted some anti-gay laws, which potentially could be enforced against any LGBT person attending the games if they "flaunted" their LGBT status. Most western nations in particular denounced the laws as discriminatory. Many organizations and individuals contemplated what to do about the situation, especially human rights organizations and activists as well as LGBT persons who would be most affected. The documentary follows in the lead up to the games primarily four LGBT persons who potentially would be attending the games. Three of those are athletes - Blake Skjellerup, Belle Brockhoff and Anastasia Bucsis - who may not only be influenced by their own beliefs but by the directives of their respective national Olympic committees and their sports federations. The fourth is former Olympic figure skater Johnny Weir, who would be attending as a media commentator and who no one could ever describe as not being gay. The documentary also follows the efforts of Russians Elvina Yuvakaeva and Konstantin Yablotskiy to hold, starting three days after the conclusion of the Olympics, the Open Games in Russia, which would be inclusive of all persons regardless of sexual orientation. As the Olympics come and go and as the Open Games come and go, all involved reflect on what they thought would happen in comparison to what actually happened. But the face of the story may very well be Vladislav Slavskiy, a gay youth living in Sochi who has to live with the discrimination supported by the anti-gay laws 24/7 and not just for the fourteen days of the Olympics.

