A re-imagining of Jane Austen's "Pride and Prejudice" set in modern day, rural Virginia with Elizabeth Bennet as a man. Ben Bennet is an affluent but seemingly arrogant attorney who unknowingly insults Lee Darcy, a detached factory worker wrongly charged with domestic abuse. Both men form an immediate dislike for each other which becomes a significant problem when Ben falls in love with Lee.
It's a classic case of opposite attraction: Handsome Ben Bennet (Ethan Sharrett) is a gay, affluent, stylish attorney at the top of the genteel social set in southern Virginia, while Lee Darcy (Chase Conner) is a rough-hewn welder with a secret that he nightly tries to blot out with an excess of liquor. When Lee roughs up his girlfriend and is charged with domestic abuse, he overhears a derogatory comment made about him in court by Ben. Soon after, the men inadvertently come face to face and, surprisingly, find common ground when hiking with a group of friends in the gorgeous nearby wooded ridges. A quiet friendship slowly forms that is complicated when Ben discovers that he has a secret of his own - he has fallen in love with Lee. Byrum Geisler's cinematically gorgeous directorial debut is a modern day variation on Jane Austen's classic novel "Pride and Prejudice," re-imagined as a heartfelt, deeply satisfying gay romance.
In this inverted version of the classic story, Elizabeth Bennet, now reimagined as the male character Ben Bennett (Ethan Sharrett), is a dashing attorney at the top of the genteel social set in southern Virginia. This placid existence is turned upside down when the rough-hewn Lee Darcy (Chase Conner) comes to town. Darcy is a brooding, beaten-down welder with a secret he tries to drink away. After an altercation with his girlfriend, Darcy is wrongfully charged with domestic abuse. Ben inadvertently insults Darcy at the courthouse and the two men form a strong dislike for each other. This awkward situation is made worse when the two are repeatedly forced to encounter one another in their close-knit town. As the people around them struggle through romantic misunderstandings, Ben discovers that he has a secret of his own - he has fallen in love with Lee.

