Ten stories are woven together by their shared theme of Halloween night in an American suburb, where ghouls, imps, aliens and axe murderers appear for one night only to terrorize unsuspecting residents.
Named "the best horror anthology since Trick 'r Treat" by Fangoria and "among the best Halloween-themed horror movies ever made" by DailyDead, this critically acclaimed film weaves together ten chilling tales from horror's top directors. Ghosts, ghouls, monsters, and the devil delight in terrorizing unsuspecting residents of a suburban neighborhood on Halloween night.
Ten segments by ten different directors as follows: 1st) "Sweet Tooth": A boy collects candies in the Halloween, and his babysitter and her boyfriend tells the legend of an evil being that has sweet tooth and kills those who do not share candies with him. They eat the boy's candies and discover the truth about the legend. 2nd) "The Night Billy Raised Hell": a boy dressed like a devil is forced by his sister and her boyfriend to throw an egg at the house of a secluded man. However the man is the devil and he teaches how to create havoc in the Halloween night. 3rd) "Trick": a group of drugged and drunken friends are attacked by kids that ring the bell and break in their house. Why are they under attack? 4th) "The Weak and the Wicked": a gang led by a teenage girl bullies a teenager and he summons a demon. The three bullies hunt him down and he run to the place where his house and his parents had been burned to ashes by the gang. 5th) "Grim Grinning Ghost": a young woman goes to a Halloween party at her mother's home that tells a story of a fiend. When she goes home, her car breaks and she has to walk home. She startles with footsteps and a laugh behind her on the street. Could it be the evil spirit? 6th) "This Means War": a man discovers that his wife is a witch that likes to eat children. 7th) "This Means War": a man is proud of his Halloween decoration that attracts many viewers. However his new neighbor with his friends dispute with him the best decoration and they begin a war. 8th) "Friday the 31st": a disfigured serial-killer confronts an alien that possesses the body of one of his victims. 9th) "The Ransom of Rusty Rex": two thieves abduct the son of a wealthy man o ask for ransom. However the man refuses to pay and the men have a surprise. 10th) "Bad Seed": a man carves a pumpkin that eats him. A skeptic detective has to hunt down the pumpkin and finds where it was produced.
Sweet Tooth
Mikey goes through his Halloween candy while Kyle, the boyfriend of Mikey's babysitter Lizzy, tells him the urban legend of "Sweet Tooth." 15 years earlier in the same town, Timmy Blake was a boy whose parents refused to let him eat candy brought home from trick or treating. One Halloween, Timmy sneaked downstairs to find that his parents secretly ate his candy as an aphrodisiac. Timmy killed his parents and his first taste of candy gave him an insatiable sweet tooth. Still craving more candy after eating what remained, Timmy cut open his parents and ate the candy from their stomachs. Timmy's evil spirit now returns as "Sweet Tooth" to take candy on Halloween night, even if it is already eaten. To ward off Sweet Tooth, Mikey puts a candy bar on the floor of his room before going to bed. Downstairs, Sweet Tooth appears, kills Kyle and Lizzy, and tears out their stomachs. Mikey hides under his bed as Sweet Tooth comes to take the candy bar. Lt. Brandt-Mathis and her husband Alex come home to the carnage and Mikey tells them that Sweet Tooth is responsible.The Night Billy Raised Hell
Dressed as a masked devil, Billy Thompson is coerced by his older sister Britney's boyfriend Todd to throw an egg at Mr. Abbadon's house. Abbadon catches Billy in the act, pulls him inside the house, and vows to teach him what a true Halloween prank is. Abbadon and Billy go out that night and mercilessly torment the town. Upon returning home, it is revealed that Abbadon actually left Billy tied up and went with a diminutive devil named Mordecai in Billy's place. Billy is released and confronted at gunpoint by police holding him responsible for Mordecai's crimes.Trick
James, Maria, Catlyn, and Nelson watch "Night of the Living Dead" on TV while trick-or-treaters visit. A young girl dressed as a witch comes to the door and suddenly stabs Nelson. Maria is murdered by a swarm of children when she goes to get the car. James is set on fire and forced to choke on poison. Catlyn hides in another room where a young girl is tied to a table with her eye torn out. Pictures on Catlyn's phone reveal that Catlyn and her friends had been torturing the girl. The other children enter, free the captive girl, and finally take their revenge on Catlyn.The Weak and the Wicked
Alice, Isaac, and Bart torment a boy dressed as a cowboy in an alleyway. A stranger dressed as a demon intervenes, claiming that he represents a creature that spills the blood of the wicked who harm the weak. The bullying trio chases the stranger. Alice realizes that the stranger is actually Jimmy Henson, whose parents the bullies intentionally burned to death when they were all children. Alice, Isaac, and Bart begin beating Jimmy, but the real Demon of All Hallow's Eve is summoned to kill the bullying trio.Grim Grinning Ghost
At her mother's Halloween party, Lynn hears the legend of Mary Bailey, a bullied and disfigured woman who returns from the dead to taunt the living behind their backs on Halloween. Lynn is forced to walk home alone when her car loses power and she begins racing from an apparition of Mary Bailey. Lynn makes it to seeming safety inside her home until Mary Bailey suddenly appears sitting next to her on the couch.Ding Dong
Frustrated with her inability to bear children, a demon possesses Bobbie and she lashes out at her subservient husband Jack for dressing their dog as Gretel on Halloween. The following year, Bobbie forces Jack to greet trick-or-treaters as Hansel. Fearful of his wife's dangerous obsession, Jack stops Bobbie from abducting a young boy named Toby. When Jack later admits that he secretly had a vasectomy because he didn't believe his wife was stable enough for a child, Bobbie becomes possessed again and puts Jack into the oven. While Jack burns, Bobbie cries and her demon form melts.This Means War
Boris and his new neighbor Dante enter into an escalating war over who can create the most impressive decorative yard display. Onlookers gather as their battle turns into a fistfight on Halloween night. As cops arrive at the scene, Boris and Dante stumble and accidentally impale each other on a broken wooden post.Friday the 31st
A woman dressed as Dorothy is chased by a deformed maniac who catches and kills her. Suddenly, a UFO appears overhead and a tiny alien beams down to trick or treat. The killer steps on the alien and it transforms into goo that possesses Dorothy's body. Dorothy reanimates and has a limb-severing showdown with the killer that ends when they decapitate each other. The alien reemerges from Dorothy's severed head and beams back aboard its UFO, taking the killer's head with it.The Ransom of Rusty Rex
Bank robbers Hank and Dutch kidnap millionaire Jebediah Rex's son Rusty. With Rusty tied up in a warehouse, Hank calls Jebediah with a ransom demand only to discover that Jebediah refuses to take Rusty back. Rusty turns out to be a monstrous imp who escapes his restraints and attacks Hank and Dutch. The duo recaptures Rusty and dumps him in a swamp, but the imp follows them back to their hideout. Hank calls Jebediah again and learns that Rusty is not the man's son. Rusty showed up trick or treating five years earlier and has held Jebediah hostage ever since. Hank and Dutch set the imp on fire and drive away. Hank exits a gas station some time later and when he returns to the car, he finds Rusty in the back seat with Dutch's severed head.Bad Seed
Ellen Bishop watches in horror as her husband Ray is eaten by a sentient jack o' lantern that Ray carved. The pumpkin sprouts tentacles and slithers away. A trick-or-treater named Kevin is killed next. Police captain J.G. Zimmerman assigns Detective McNally to investigate. With the pumpkin causing mayhem in the streets, McNally finally confronts and kills it when forensic analyst Bob arrives with a shotgun. After seeing the label on the pumpkin, McNally and Bob visit Clover Corp where the Super Pumpkins are grown. McNally and Bob realize there is a much bigger problem when Professor Milo Gottlieb shows them a warehouse filled with thousands of similar Super Pumpkins.
