A scientist becomes obsessed with bringing back his family members who died in a traffic accident.
A daring synthetic biologist, after a car accident kills his family, will stop at nothing to bring them back, even if it means pitting himself against a government-controlled laboratory, a police task force and the physical laws of science.
Neuro-scientist William "Will" Foster is on the verge of successfully transferring human consciousness into a computer when his family is tragically killed in a car crash. Desperate to resurrect them, Will recruits fellow scientist Ed Whittle to help him secretly clone their bodies and create replicas that soon causes him to become a threat towards a government task force. Will eventually faces a "Sophie's choice" when it turns out that he can only bring three of the four family members back to life.
In Puerto Rico, the scientist Will Foster is researching the transference of the brain memories of soldiers to a synthetic body in the laboratory where he works with his partner and friend Ed. The experiment does not work and the body is rejected by the donors, and the manager Jones is pressing Will telling that the government will shut down the experiment. While traveling with his family to Ed's boat in a stormy night, Will has a car accident on the road and his beloved wife Mona and their three children die. Will calls Ed and convinces him to develop clones of his family members to transfer their memories. They have only three pods and the youngest daughter is sacrificed. Now Will needs to make his experiment work since he will not have a second chance.
Replicas is the most recent Keanu Reeves' 2019 sci-fiction action film. It was shown at the Night Visions International Film Festival in Finland in November 2018 and was theatrically released in the United States on January 11, 2019.He as a neuron-scientist William Foster is on the verge of successfully transferring human consciousness into a computer who "violates all possible laws and principles in order to bring his family members back to life, after they died in a car accident. He specializes in synthetic biology and mapping of the mind's neural pathways, while Whittle's specialty is reproductive human cloning. He has the knowledge to resurrect them, so William recruits fellow scientist Ed Whittle to help him secretly clone their bodies and create replicas. Both characters work for Biodyne corporation in Puerto Rico.You get to see him tell actress Alice Eve his wife Mona about 20 years his junior to her face that she's a replica and apparently Replicas doesn't seem to be doing anything normally.When Foster notices his wife's central nervous system reacting to his touch, he realizes why Subject 345 a soldier he had tried earlier to this event fails when the soldier wakes up in horror at the android body kills himself. He realizes that because the mind expects connection to a biological body with heartbeat and respiration, rather than a synthetic one a I-robot type transition is problematic.When the next dead body he receives has suffered too much brain damage to be viable, Foster makes the decision to recording his own mind for the android transfer. Sophie his daughter has a nightmare of her mom's death, and Mona catches Foster erasing her memory of the event. He confesses that they died in a car crash and that he resurrected them. The family now knows of Zoe's existence and he admits that he couldn't save Zoe and erased their memories of her to ease their pain.Jones now tells Foster he is aware of what Foster and Whittle have done and have been monitoring their activities for weeks. He tells him the research is not for medical purposes, but is a government program seeking a military weapon, and threatens that his family will be terminated. Foster destroys the mind-body interface, escapes from Jones and his men and flees, attempting to escape by Whittles boat.His family is soon captured at the boat due to Whittles sell out to Jones and taken back to Biodyne. Jones brutally kills Whittle to express to Foster that he is serious about obtaining the algorithms that are now only in Fosters head. Foster now uploads his own mind into Subject 345, who protects Foster and his family so they can escape. The dual Fosters make a deal with Jones: he can live in a cloned body and become rich by working with Foster-345, selling clone transfers to wealthy people looking for a extended life. Meanwhile, Foster can retire in peace with his family, including the newly cloned Zoe.Replicas also stars Thomas Middleditch, and seems to feature some heavily I, Robot-inspired android bodies as well.Interesting movie with no new conceptual stories or dynamic plots and or twists. Uneventful over all but worth seeing. - Martin Snytsheuvel
