A grounded, soulful, celebratory comedy about three mothers and their adult sons. The film explores the stage after motherhood, Otherhood, when you have to redefine your relationship with your children, friends, spouse, and most importantly, yourself.
On Mother's Day, feeling marginalized and forgotten, longtime friends Carol (Angela Bassett), Gillian (Patricia Arquette) and Helen (Felicity Huffman) decide to drive to New York City to reconnect with their adult sons, and in the process, they realize their sons are not the only ones whose lives need to change. A journey to relate becomes a journey of rediscovery that forces these women to redefine their relationships with their children, friends, spouses and most importantly, themselves.
"Otherhood" captures the highs and lows of female friendship, marriage, and motherhood from the perspective of three women whose sons grew up together in Poughkeepsie. This year, on Mother's Day, feeling marginalized and forgotten, the women decide to drive to New York and make their sons love them again, and in the process, they realize their sons are not the only ones whose lives need to change. Carol Walker (Angela Bassett)'s first Mother's Day as a widower makes her realize her empty nest is more like a crater. She's tired of sending herself flowers from her handsome, successful son, Matt (Sinqua Walls), so she goes to NY to make him love her again. While there she realizes maybe he's not wasting his life, maybe she is. Gillian Lieberman (Patricia Arquette) is worried about her son, Daniel (Jake Hoffman), who hasn't contacted her since she voiced disapproval of his last girlfriend Erin (Heidi Gardner) months ago. Upon seeing him she realizes she "underworried" for the first time, and he really needs her help, if only so she can stop imposing solutions and start really hearing and seeing him for who he is and who he loves. Helen Halston (Felicity Huffman), on her second marriage (but still angry about the end of the first) knows that her son Paul (Jake Lacy) is gay, and he knows she knows, but they've never talked about it. This "don't ask/don't tell" situation has limited their ability to be close, and Helen goes to NY to change that. She also never wanted to be a grandmother (she doesn't want to feel that old, plus she secretly suspected she never would be one), so finding out she might be a grandmother changes her whole outlook on the second half of life. "Otherhood" is for all of the mothers and sons and daughters in the world who grow up, but don't outgrow their need for love.
