Three suitors pursue a hopeless romantic after she makes a wish to find true love before Christmas
Although she is still upset from a recent breakup, Corrine (Gilsig) happily prepares for her favorite holiday: Christmas! A gifted musician, Corrine auditions for a solo in a community Christmas concert and plays Christmas carols on the piano to patrons of the music store where she works with childhood friend Dave (Abbey). Her holiday season gets an unexpected dose of romance, when Harold (Di Zio), a mysterious new coworker, tries to form a love connection between Corrine and Dave. With Harold's help, Corrine begins to view Dave in a new light, though she questions Harold's intense interest in her love life. Unbeknownst to Corrine, Harold is on a Christmas Eve deadline from a higher power to fulfill this holiday fairytale! As the clock ticks down to Harold's fairytale mission deadline, Corrine must decide if she will open up to Christmas love.
Corrine Nelson works at Dave's Music Shop in New York City, straight-laced Dave Sheridan, the store owner and her boss, with who she has been platonic friends since they were children. In the lead up to Christmas, Corrine receives two disappointments: that she isn't chosen to sing the solo at the community center's annual Christmas concert, the center where she volunteers in teaching children music; and that her serious boyfriend, Tim, breaks up with her, she still pining for him despite everyone around her knowing that he was not the right guy for her. In these circumstances, the big guy from up above dispatches a rather cynical angel with the sole mission of bringing together soul mates Corrine and Dave by midnight on Christmas Eve. Given the back story of being Harold Wagner from Silverton, California, the angel goes undercover as a seasonal employee at the shop. In working on Dave who has always been in love with Corrine but who believes the possibility of she seeing him as anything more than just a friend has long passed, Harold has to convince him to expose those personal parts of his life to her that touch upon those romantic aspects in her being. And in working on Corrine, Harold has not only to open her eyes to who Dave is behind his staid exterior but to get her to take off her rose colored glasses in the way she views Tim, to who she would probably run back if he came back. As Harold hits one roadblock after another in this mission, he may get a new appreciation for the urgency in getting the task done when he figures out the reason why he was the angel chosen.

