A gunman forces a paramedic to drive an ambulance, while his partner treats the man's injured brother.
After a robbery gone wrong, Camilla, a veteran paramedic, and her partner Gerry are hijacked and forced to tend to the gunman's badly wounded brother. Held at gunpoint in the back of the rig, Camilla must perform dangerous medical procedures in order to try and save the young man's life, while Gerry drives around the city evading the police. But even if she is successful, can she trust the criminals to honor their word and let them go? Camilla realizes she may have to sacrifice the life she is trying to save in order to save herself and her partner.
Philadelphia paramedics Camilla and Gerry, friends outside of work, are partnered for the evening. On their way to a call at a nightclub where gunshots were apparently fired, they are commandeered by two masked gunman, the criminals involved in the nightclub incident. The one wielding the gun at them is demanding they help the other, who has sustained what looks to be a serious gunshot wound, which may not be life threatening if they are able to stabilize him and get him to the hospital for treatment. The one brandishing the gun will not have anyone else involved, including no hospital, in the hopes that he and his partner, who they will eventually learn is his brother, will be able to elude eventual capture while still getting away with the stolen loot. Gerry is largely tasked with driving the ambulance, while Camilla attends to the wounded man. Camilla and Gerry are hoping to make it out of this incident alive. They take differing paths on how best to proceed, based on their assessment of the two criminals, and their own current personal situations, Gerry married with a newborn, and Camilla who is still working through what was the end of the complicated relationship with her former fiancé Spencer. Camilla also uses her remembrances of her time as a field medic during the Iraq War for this situation. They have to decide how far they will go, including if they will kill the two criminals if given the opportunity, which is against their professional code. Their assessment of the two criminals include the fact that the gunman is high on coke, and learns that the person they shot at the scene, who died of his wound, was an undercover police officer, meaning that the gunman now has nothing to lose in killing anyone else. What Camilla and Gerry may or may not be aware of is they have some help on the other end of their radio in the form of Bryan Tadman, the dispatcher on duty for the evening, a personal friend of Gerry's who he is trying to set-up with Camilla in wanting her to move on with her personal life post-Spencer.

