It starts off talking about how animals adapted to become venomous and how they are still adapting and using their skills to this very day.
There is an island where venom comes first. Predators here have adapted their form and function to compliment the toxic cocktails that they carry. From the worlds biggest venomous animal to the oceans most dangerous creature, Dr Brian Fry tackles Komodo islands ranks of poisonous creatures. His research exposes a secret about the islands' most notorious beast, the komodo dragon.
There is an island where venom comes first. Predators here have adapted their form and function to compliment the toxic cocktails that they carry. From the worlds biggest venomous animal to the oceans most dangerous creature, Dr Brian Fry tackles Komodo islands ranks of poisonous creatures.
Komodo and Rinca islands are a vast mass of torn and splintered mountains.
Creatures from both Asian and Australian origin compete in the art of survival here. Both land and sea are an evolutionary melting pot of predators.
Dr Bryan Fry studies venom in all animals and his theory is that these creatures model themselves and their hunting techniques on the toxin that they have available.On the islands, the komodo dragon sits unchallenged on top of the food chain.Dr Frys research has now shed light on the once popular notion that the bacteria-ridden saliva is what causes death. He has since discovered a potent venom within the saliva.The islands are writhing with venomous snakes.
Russells vipers, green tree pit vipers and asian spitting cobras all hunt here. The waters surrounding the islands are teaming with lethal creatures. Sea kraits, stonefish, squid and box jelly fish have evolved alongside the potent venoms they possess. In this 1hr HD special we will follow Dr Brian Fry as he tracks, captures and milks some of the planets most dangerous creatures to learn more about how they have evolved to fit their venom, and which of these predators excels as the most effective.
