Callboy Vincent spends Christmas alone. In the evening he sits in a pub and treats a beer, then goes home and goes into the hot tub. But then burglar bursts into the apartment, which at Christmas suspects no one at home.
Amateur beekeeper Robert lives with his wife Maschjonka and the daughters Swentja and Sonja in a terraced housing estate. The marriage is cold. The family is moving to a smaller apartment where Robert can not bring his bees. He leaves his frustration in an "Anger Room" in which you can build a scene of life from props and then destroying them by means of slashing and stabbing weapons to reduce negative energies. The Anger Room is run by former teacher Ecki, who had to give up his beloved profession on charges of sexual harassment to a student; an event that he denies and seeks to process therapeutically. The triggering student is what he does not know, Robert's 14-year-old daughter Swentja. She gets to know Mahmud, who makes her offerings of a sexual nature. This is where Swentja, out of curiosity and boredom, first enters, later they both develop a real interest in each other. Mahmud, who lives in precarious circumstances with his precocious, younger brother Faisal, was previously beaten up by racist policeman Thomas, who in turn sought to win over his colleague Carla, plagued by an anxiety trauma caused by an incident at a refugee center, through constant demonstrations of paternal superiority. For ex-teacher Ecki, a product taken from the assortment of his local supermarket is the cause for a raging attack, whose market leader Uwe can only be mastered by the use of watchmen. Uwe lives in divorce from his wife Julia. While Uwe meets and dates the self-confident artist Janine via the Internet, who had previously portrayed Robert as part of an exhibition project. Julia, who has decided to spend a single life in a single life, has booked callboy Vincent to satisfy her sexual urge. He lives together with his also prostituting girlfriend Vivian. One of Vivian's clients is the deeply religious teenager Johannes, who is in love with Sventja and visits Vivian to come to terms with his burgeoning, profoundly confusing sexuality. Robert and Ecki become friends, and gradually Robert realizes that he is developing feelings for Ecki.

