A divorced father and his eight-year-old son are about to spend a somewhat predictable weekend together, nevertheless, when a valuable toolbox gets stolen, the search for the thieves will soon turn into a true family bonding.
Eight year old Anthony is somewhat uneasy about spending the weekend with his alcoholic, down-on-his-luck carpenter dad Walt while his mom Bonnie and her new husband Kyle go to a Catholic retreat together. Walt is just as uneasy about spending time with Anthony, especially since their first day together is a series of characteristically unfortunate events, including his truck breaking down, his landlord locking him out of the house, and the theft of his toolbox, which he needs for an upcoming job. As Walt and Anthony set about finding the guy who stole the tools and improvise around their other misfortunes, they begin to discover a true connection with each other, causing Walt to become a better father and Anthony to reveal the promise and potential of the good man he will become.
Deadbeat Walt, a carpenter who takes pride in his work, moreover, a troubled recovering alcoholic whose addiction cost him his marriage, is about to share a weekend with his eight-year-old son Anthony while his ex-wife, Bonnie, is away with her new husband. During a somewhat predictable weekend, Walt will attempt to reconcile with his tender son while he struggles to remain sober and find a job, any job that could help him pay back his debts. Fortunately, before long, opportunity will knock, nevertheless, when Walt's precious tools bestowed to him by his father are stolen, the search for the thieves will soon turn into a true father-son bonding. Eventually, young Anthony who is preparing for a religious rite of passage, in the meantime, he will also receive the confirmation that, no matter what, his father will always be there for him.
The film takes place over one weekend. While the mother and her new husband attend a 'couple's retreat' she gives her son to his biological father. The mother reluctantly hands her son over to a man she divorced because of his alcoholism. All Anthony (the son) knows about his father is what he was told by his wife Bonnie. Once alone, Walt (the carpenter father) and Anthony have a series of adventures (the father's truck breaks down, he is evicted from his home) and misadventures (his carpentry tools are stolen). The tools were stolen while Walt was in a bar. This only confirms what Anthony was told by his mother. That is where the father/son escapade starts. The movie follows their efforts to get the tools back. Walt and Anthony run into a weird cast of characters in their adventure to retrieve the tools. The trip allows them to form a bond where none existed before. At the end of the weekend, father, son, and mother have all grown as individuals but the father/son relationship has developed the most.
