An unedited shot of a bear (albeit with commercial interruption).
In the first shot, we see a bear in its natural habitat. We can hear a cameraman talking about the bear. Then, we cut to a YouTube ad for a fictional product entitled "Claridryl". In it, a single mother is having trouble with her kids at a playground. We can notice that the ad timer is going up instead of down. The mother then talks about how Claridryl solved her problems. A voice then talks about the side effects of Claridryl. The mom gets into her car and drives. She seems to be addicted to Claridryl, as if it were a drug. Where her kids would be lay empty bottles of Claridryl. Her glove box is stuffed with Claridryl, which are all empty, aside from one which she takes out of the glove box and uses it. We then see a crime scene, where police officers are investigating a house. One officer is sitting on the street, crying, while another comforts him. The mom continues driving until she sees a yellow cardigan in the middle of the road. She gets out of her car to analyze it, and realizes that it's her cardigan she is wearing. She looks up, and sees an identical twin of herself, running to her. She runs, until the clone catches her, beating her up in her car. She throws out the original onto the road, and backs up the car to run her over.Several hours later, Original!Mom wakes up to see her living room light on. It turns out the clone had been surprising her kids with gifts, then emotionally abusing them, making the son depressed and the daughter crying. Clone!Mom heads to the kitchen. Her phone rings, and she picks it up. She says "Donna?" and we cut to another clone of the mom outside. She pretends to shoot the chairs (a reference to Alantutorial, another work of Alan Resnick) and the fourth one falls. She runs and we cut again to yet another clone of the mom, wearing a black cocktail dress and lipstick applied. She begins to whisper into the wall. Original!Mom crawls slowly to the house, bleeding out as well. Clone 1 is screaming into her phone at this point. Clone 2 is running, and Clone 3 is in hysterics. Finally, Original!Mom gets to the house, and whispers her final words, as 911 rolls into the house. Roll credits.
