Anna is stuck: she's approaching 30 and living like a hermit in her mum's garden shed, avoiding fully living her life due to the fact that she is crippled by the loss of her twin brother. She spends her days making videos using her thumbs as actors - thumbs that bicker about things like whether Yogi Bear is a moral or existential nihilist. A week before her birthday her Mum serves her an ultimatum - she needs to move out of the shed, and move on with her life. However, when her school friend comes to visit, Anna's self-imposed isolation becomes impossible to maintain. Soon she is entangled with a troubled eight year old boy obsessed with Westerns, and the local estate agent whose awkward interpersonal skills continually undermine his attempts to seduce her.
Anna is deeply grieving the death of her twin brother, and retreating into herself. It takes her mother's nagging, her grandmother's wisdom, Brendan's infatuation with her, and a troubled little boy going through the same life-altering experience she did to get her out of the rut.
Anna is stuck: shes approaching 30, living like a hermit in her mums garden shed and wondering why the suffragettes ever bothered.She spends her days making videos using her thumbs as actors thumbs that bicker about things like whether Yogi Bear is a moral or existential nihilist. But Anna doesnt show these videos to anyone and no one knows what they are for.A week before her birthday her Mum serves her an ultimatum she needs to move out of the shed, get a haircut that doesnt put her gender in question and stop dressing like a homeless teenager. Naturally, Anna tells her Mum to BACK THE F-OFF.However, when her school friend comes to visit, Annas self-imposed isolation becomes impossible to maintain. Soon she is entangled with a troubled eight year old boy obsessed with Westerns, and the local estate agent whose awkward interpersonal skills continually undermine his attempts to seduce her.This is a story about confronting the things we are most scared of a story that explores the universal themes of being lost and finding yourself, making peace with who you are, and regaining self-confidence and dignity.It is basically the same themes as ROCKY if you think about it. But with thumbs. And a cowboy. And no boxing.
