As a mother and daughter struggle to cope with the terrors of the post-revolution, war-torn Tehran of the 1980s, a mysterious evil begins to haunt their home.
In the 80's, during the war between the Islamic post-revolutionary Iran and Iraq, the former leftist medical student Shideh tries to return to the university but is barred by the dean. The upset Shideh returns home and when her husband Dr. Iraj is assigned to work in a war zone, she refuses to move to his parent's house with their daughter Dorsa. Shideh prefers to stay in her apartment with Dorsa, who loves her doll Kimia and has constant fever. Dorsa is afraid of demoniac Djinns and when Shideh asks who told her about the legend, she tells that her friend that lives downstairs. Shideh visits her neighbor and asks his mother to tell her son to not tell horror stories to Dorsa and she learns that the boy is mute. Then Kimia and Shideh's Jane Fonda workout tape disappear. When a missile strikes their building, the neighbors decide to leave Tehran, but Shideh stays in the apartment with Dorsa, who is increasingly disturbed. Soon Shideh reads about Djinns and finds that there is an evil entity in the apartment. Further she must find Kimia; otherwise Dorsa will be in danger since the Djinn will be attached to her.
Drafted to fight during the Iran-Iraq war, a man leaves his wife, Shideh, and daughter, Dorsa, alone in their apartment during the 1984 Tehran missile attacks. Under the Shadow is a literal representation of an Islamic belief that Djinn are carried by winds into places governed by fear and anxiety, seizing items valued by the individual they want to remain attached to -in this case, little Dorsa's favorite doll. While the rest of the tenants flee both the Djinn they know to occupy the building and the cities bombing raids, Shideh and Dorsa remain alone, searching desperately for the missing doll and at the mercy of both air attacks and the lurking Djinn, who seem intent of separating mother from daughter.
As the devastating Iran-Iraq War draws to a close with the Iraqi bombs raining down on battle-scarred Tehran, a missile embeds itself in the roof of the aspiring doctor Shideh's apartment, and strangely, it doesn't explode. With her husband away in the front line and the building already empty of tenants, the young mother will have to look after her little daughter, Dorsa, all alone, as hair-raising indications of a sinister supernatural presence in the house chill the bone to the marrow. They say that the malevolent entities known only as "Djinns" are drawn by fear, moving from place to place until they latch on to their victims. Could Dorsa's persistent nightmares be an early sign of demonic possession?

