Based on a true story, Little Big Master chronicles the struggles of the lowest-paid headmistress in Hong Kong history.
Feeling unsettled, Hung (by Miriam Yeung) steps down as Headmistress from a famous kindergarten. Retiring at her age seems to be a perfect timing to achieve the dream of traveling around the world with her husband, Dong (by Louis Koo), who works as a designer in the museum. However, Hung understands this retirement is only a mean to walk away from her fading passion towards education.Hung notices a recruitment ad of a kindergarten in a village recruiting headmaster and school keeper in a single post. If the school can't get a new headmaster in time, it will have to be closed down, then the five kids left will lose the chance to attend school. Hung is worried for the uncertain future of the kids. With a hope to search them a better school before the coming school year, she decides to apply for the Headmistress despite of low salary and delay of her retirement trip.At first when Hung visits the five kids, Siu Suet, Ka Ka, Chu Chu, and the South Asian sisters Kitty and Jennie, they strongly refuse to open their hearts to strangers, but after showing the kids much care and patience, Hung quickly gains their trust. The pure innocence of the kids touches Hung and relights her passion towards education and she gets to know about the story behind each of them bit by bit.There are a lot more to do besides planning the curriculum, including fixing the old school building, cleaning the toilet, taking the kids to school. She even has to stand the sarcasm from the public after assisting the poor parents. Nevertheless, she overcomes all the difficulties with her great passion and gets to love this place gradually. She determines to run the school and starts to recruit new students...Dong worries about Hung's health so much after knowing that this is not just a temporary job. In the meantime, parents are instigated to drop out of school, Hung receives the final notice of removal, all these things come together and make Hung too helpless and stressful, she finally gets sick...The school is going to be wound up as Hung is unable to recruit new students, the kids are desperate to make a great performance at the graduation ceremony in order to reward their beloved Headmistress and to farewell all fellows. All people in the village are deeply touched and Hung realizes her perseverance and hard work pays off and gains others' support...
