A man involved in a horrific car crash is pronounced dead, only to come back to life an hour and a half later, claiming to have seen Heaven.
Based on a true story. A man was in a car crash and was in the car, without a pulse for an hour and a half, while EMT's and police waited for the coroner to pronounce him dead before he can be moved. A man comes along, who feels led to pray for the victim, gets in the car and starts to pray while singing praise songs. The 'dead' man starts singing along and EMT's confirm he now has a pulse. The victim fights his recovery, as he is angry that he was in heaven, only to have God bring him back in incredible pain. Was there a purpose to his return to earth?
In the aftermath of a head-on collision with a semi a man is pronounced dead by emergency first responders. A bystander is allowed, with hesitation, to crawl into the wrecked car and pray for the man while they await the coroner's arrival. While praying, the bystander begins singing as he prays only to be surprised when the dead man begins singing along. After being rushed to the hospital the man who was dead begins the long arduous journey of recovery and figuring how to tell everyone that while he was dead for those 90 minutes, he was actually in HEAVEN.
Don Piper is involved in a horrific car crash, pronounced dead at the scene and covered by a tarp. Ninety minutes later, having been brought to a hospital, he returns to life and claims to have seen Heaven and visited with deceased relatives while there..
Pastor Don Piper died January 18, 1989 when a semi-tractor truck crushed his car. Declared dead by the first rescue workers to arrive on the scene, Don's body lay under a tarp for the next 90 minutes. Don's soul, meanwhile, was experiencing love, joy, and life like he'd never known before. Don was in Heaven.When another pastors prayers helped bring Don back to life, he became a living miracle! Yet this is one miracle Don wished never happened. Heavens bliss was replaced by excruciating pain and emotional turmoil. With the support and prayers of his beloved Eva, their three kids, and friends near and far, Don clings to his faith in God and fights to regain a semblance of his previous life. The Piper family's incredible true story of perseverance and overcoming the challenges of life and death will bring hope and encouragement to all who see it.Starring Hayden Christensen and Kate Bosworth, 90 MINUTES IN HEAVEN is based on the inspiring book that has sold 7 million copies. In theaters everywhere this fall, Hope Lives!
