A young man discovers suddenly to have the gift of healing. Trying to understand it and the new reality that it offers, a teenage girl with terminal cancer unexpectedly will show him the way.
Alec Bailey is a gambling, womanizing bankrupt electrical repairman who still is traumatized by the death of Charlie, Alec's twin's brother. Without a penny and almost in the poorness, Alec realizes a long-time stranded uncle Richard Heacock, a brother of his mother who lives in Halifax, Nova Scotia, that accepts to solve Alec's money debts with one condition: that Alec moves Halifax by a year. Reluctant to the travel but threatened by a local pawnbroker, Alec accepts uncle Richard's propose. Therefore, when he arrives Halifax, discovers that the villagers believe that he is "The Chosen One", a man with the ability to heal all diseases, at the same time that Halifax's local Sheriff starts a procedure against Alec, in the belief that he's a fraud and he's cheating people. Trapped by a situation that little by little overpass him, Alec finds a friend in Cecilia, beauty and lovely local veterinary, discovering by Richard that all his ancestors are a long-time family of healers, which gift is the capacity to heal all those disease if it's in the fate of the each person that can be healed. Resigning to his gift, at the next day Alec meets Abigail, a sassy, worldly and sarcastic 14-years-old with terminal cancer. Trying to convince to Abigail's parents that he can't heal her, Alec accepts Abigail's idea to spend together the weekend, in order to escape two days from her overprotective parents. Discovering in Abigail a force of nature full of life and energy at the same time that the feelings between Cecilia and him comes out, Alec starts to question himself and the bad decisions in his life, asking a second chance to recover his gift and save Abigail. But when uncle Richard reveals that the gift can't recovered after renounce to it, Alec looking his own way to know who is him really and his reason to live, running against time to give Abigail the life she deserves.

