A busy attorney, worried that his anorexic daughter Olga might try to harm herself, since she's still grieving over her recently deceased mother, sends her to see a psychiatrist, Anna, who's dealing with her own loss in an unusual way.
Janusz is a middle aged district attorney who frequently investigates violent crime scenes. He lives in Warsaw with his daughter Olga, who is a bulimic and seems to resent her father for his alcoholism and obesity. It is revealed that it was mainly the tragic death of Janusz' wife Helena six years ago which caused the father-daughter-relationship to disintegrate. Meanwhile, we are introduced to Anna, a therapist working at a psychiatric hospital and part-time psychic-medium. Anna is unmarried and lives alone with her giant dog and later into the story, it is revealed that she discovered her ability to communicate with the dead after the crib-death of her eight month old son several years ago. After Olga unsuccessfully attempts suicide by swallowing pills, she is admitted into the psychiatric ward and joins the therapy-group led by Anna. When Anna meets Janusz at the clinic, she informs him that she is feeling the presence of his dead wife's spirit and believes that she would like to contact her husband from the grave. Janusz is skeptical at first, but is baffled when he learns that there was a flooding at his wife's burial site and remembers that Anna mentioned "the casket being surrounded by water". After he starts to hear strange noises inside the apartment while he is home alone and notices a drop in temperature aswell as other inexplicable phenomena, he contacts Anna, who advises him to place an empty sheet of paper and a pen inside a drawer in his late wife's desk so she can contact him directly. When he fails to receive a message, Janusz angrily decides to cease communicartion with Anna and have his daughter released from the hospital. Later, when Janusz is finally cleaning out his wife's room, he happens to take another look into the drawer and indeed finds that a message has appeared on the piece of paper. He immediately goes to see Anna and the two return to Janusz' and Olga's home and attempt to contact Helena in a seance.
