A woman goes to a resort to get married while she waits for her fiancé to show up, she meets another man.
Nurse Georgie Dwyer is all set to marry her practically perfect fiancé, Dr. Phillip Hamilton. That is, until a nagging mom and underwhelmed future mother-in-law drive her to a chance encounter with a handsome stranger that leaves her questioning what her heart truly feels.
Georgianna Dwyer, who prefers the name Georgie, has been a nurse to renowned plastic surgeon, nose specialist Dr. Phillip Hamilton, for four years. Along the way, they decided that their perfect working relationship meant they were destined to be together in their personal life, their upcoming family-only wedding being planned by Georgie's mother, Emma Dwyer, due to Georgie not being a "wedding person". That wedding is to take place at an island resort specializing in weddings, it which operates more like a factory holding an average of four weddings a day. One person not happy about the marriage is Phillip's socialite mother, Felice Hamilton, who does not like Georgie solely because of she not traveling within the same social circle. As such, Georgie is certain Felice will abhor the cookie cutter stereotypical wedding Emma has chosen from the many cookie cutter wedding packages available through the resort. One who quietly accepts but doesn't like Georgie's decision is her father, appliance salesman Judd Dwyer, a fishing and baseball type of guy who would prefer a son-in-law he could hang out with, unlike golf playing Phillip. En route to the island for the weekend long event, Georgie meets Luke Griggs, a typical granola who bought the picturesque property adjacent to the resort before it became the wedding factory it has become. Once an architect, he still enjoys the work but not the general goal of the development community to make things bigger, and thus in their minds better, much like the thought behind the recent expansion of the resort. It's love at first sight for Luke when he meets Georgie. As Luke seems always to be around during the pre-wedding events, Georgie begins to see Luke through what was their initial somewhat antagonistic meeting. Through this situation including Phillip's constant emergencies bringing him back to the city, Georgie may view her current situation with a bit more clarity.
Architect Luke Griggs took time of and refused a project to put him back in business because it would stifle his creativity. Sulking at his coastal home, the peace and quiet of which was wrecked by the 'wedding factory' resort next door, he wanders in the hotel restaurant, rebuked for 'stealing' from the open buffet. Thus he meets and sort of clicks with nurse Georgianna 'Georgie' Dwyer, whose bossy mother booked the resort's wedding package while the groom, her boss plastic surgeon Dr. Phillip Hamilton, is hardly ever around, giving priority to his spoiled-rotten patients. Luke duly questions her ill-considered wedding plan and starts looking like a charming alternative, getting interested in her too, as she ducks away from the meddling families who don't get along.

