A stuffy businessman finds himself trapped inside the body of his family's cat.
Tom Brand (Kevin Spacey) is a daredevil billionaire at the top of his game. His eponymous company FireBrand is nearing completion on its greatest achievement to date - the tallest skyscraper in the northern hemisphere. But Tom's workaholic lifestyle has disconnected him from his family, particularly his beautiful wife Lara (Jennifer Garner) and his adoring daughter Rebecca (Malina Weissman). Rebecca's 11th birthday is here, and she wants the gift she wants every year, a cat. Tom hates cats, but he is without a gift and time is running out. His GPS directs him to a mystical pet store brimming with odd and exotic cats- where the store's eccentric owner- Felix Perkins (Christopher Walken), presents him with a majestic tomcat, named Mr. Fuzzypants. En route to present his daughter with her dream pet, a bizarre turn of events finds Tom trapped inside the body of Mr. Fuzzypants. Adopted by his own family, he begins to experience what life is truly like for the family pet, and as a cat, Tom begins to see his family and his life through a new and unexpected perspective. Meanwhile, his family adjusts to life with an odd and stubborn cat, and his son David (Robbie Amell), steps up in ways Tom never expected. If any hope exists of returning to his family as the husband and father they deserve, Tom will have to learn why he has been placed in this peculiar situation and the great lengths he must go to earn back his human existence.
When a business man goes to find a cat for his daughter he ends up getting more than what he bargained for ending up becoming the cat in order to restore his relationship with not only his daughter but his whole family as he is always busy.
Tom Brand is a businessman who's driven to be the best, and his attitude ruined his first marriage and caused a rift between him and his son who now works for him who strives for his approval. He's now married to his second wife who's a little more tolerant of him and has a daughter. It's her birthday.and all she wants for years is a cat which he refuses to give. But not wanting to disappoint her gives in and goes to a pet store called Purr-kins. The owner who's a little weird, tells him he doesn't pick the cat, the cat picks him. And the cat that picked is called Mr. Fuzzypants. Brand is on his way home for the party when he decides to see Ian Cox, one of his people who's in charge of making the "tallest building in the Northern Hemisphere", when he learns that another building will be taller. They have argument that ends with Brand firing Cox but there's a storm and Brand is blown off the building along with the cat. He falls to the ground when he passes out and wakes up in the cat's body and sees his body is unconscious. The owner of the pet shop goes to see him, apparently he knows what happened to him and can talk to him. He tells him to figure out why this happened to him. His wife and daughter take him home. He acts all crazy which drives them mad but he slowly comes to realize how much he has ignored them. He also learns that Ian is trying to take the company public and his son whom he has also mistreated is trying to stop him.
Tom Brand (Kevin Spacey) is a major business tycoon in New York City whose workaholic attitude ruined his first marriage with Madison (Cheryl Hines) and caused a rift between him and his adult son David (Robbie Amell) who now works for him and strives for his approval. He now lives with his second wife Lara (Jennifer Garner), who is a little more tolerant of the fact that he is never at home, and his daughter Rebecca (Malina Weissman). His eponymous company FireBrand is nearing completion on its greatest achievement to date: the tallest skyscraper in the northern hemisphere that will be the new headquarters..

