After returning to the criminal underworld to repay a debt, John Wick discovers that a large bounty has been put on his life.
Bound by an inescapable blood debt to the Italian crime lord, Santino D'Antonio, and with his precious 1969 Mustang still stolen, John Wick--the taciturn and pitiless assassin who thirsts for seclusion--is forced to visit Italy to honour his promise. But, soon, the Bogeyman will find himself dragged into an impossible task in the heart of Rome's secret criminal society, as every killer in the business dreams of cornering the legendary Wick who now has an enormous price on his head. Drenched in blood and mercilessly hunted down, John Wick can surely forget a peaceful retirement--as in this lethal ballet of bullets--no one can make it out in one piece.
John Wick (Keanu Reeves) drives to a warehouse owned by Abram Tarasov (Peter Stormare) to get his car back. Abram wants payback against John for killing his brother Viggo and nephew Iosef. John is killing all of Abram's guards before he finally gets to his car. As he drives away, a number of Abram's men attack John. His car is seriously damaged when the henchmen crash into his car, but Wick fights off each of the men before making his way to Abram's office. Once there, John pours Abram and himself a drink. He chooses to spare Abram and offers him peace. Abram questions John as to whether or not he can actually find peace.John returns home to the still unnamed dog he took at the end of the first movie. He calls Aurelio (John Leguizamo) to come pick up the car, which, while drivable, is a wreck. Still, Aurelio say he will fix it. After Aurelio leaves, John reburies his weapons and gold beneath fresh cement, believing he is done with the assassin life. He watches a video on his phone of himself and his late wife Helen (Bridget Moynahan)Later that night, John is visited by another assassin named Santino D'Antonio (Riccardo Scamarcio). He presents John with a marker that John gave him when he was completing the task which allowed him to leave his former life behind. The marker is represents a blood oath obligating John to perform any service required by Santino. John refuses to help Santino, despite knowing the consequences. Santino leaves John's house and fetches an ARWEN 37 (standing in for a grenade launcher) to fire grenades that destroy John's house. John and the dog escape.John goes to the Continental hotel to meet with Winston (Ian McShane) to discuss the marker and what Santino has requested of him. Winston cannot do anything about it since John took the oath, and if he continues to refuse it, his life will be up for grabs. John departs and leaves the dog in the care of the hotel's concierge, Charon (Lance Reddick).John tracks down Santino and finally agrees to do one job for him. Santino wants John to kill his sister Gianna (Claudia Gerini), who is set to ascend to the High Table, a group of powerful assassins. John argues that this is an impossible target to which Santino replies that this is exactly why he wanted John for the task. He needed the best. Seeing no way out of it, John travels to Rome to complete the task.He stays at the Rome Continental, owned by Julius (Franco Nero). John meets with suppliers to prepare -- a tailor to buy custom, bullet-resistant lined suits, a historian to obtain maps of the catacombs, and an armorer to procure weapons.John attends a party that is Gianna's "coronation" and welcome to the High Table. She is accompanied by her loyal bodyguard Cassian (Common). John sneaks into Gianna's room and confronts her alone. He tells her that Santino sent him. She warns him of the events that will unfold once she is dead. She chooses to die on her own terms by slitting her wrists. Gianna lays in a pool as she dies. In honor of their past friendship, John holds her hand until she passes out. To grant his friend an honest chance at Paradise without the weight of suicide which her Catholic religion prohibits, and to claim the marker, John shoots her in the head.Cassian spots John as he is leaving. Upon learning that John is working, Cassian draws his weapon, as does John, and each shoots the other, though they are uninjured due to their bullet-resistant clothing. John runs into the catacombs where is has pre-positioned the weapons he bought earlier. He is attacked by dozen's of Santino's henchmen, who intend to "tie up loose ends" by killing him. He realizes Santino is double crossing him and kills every one before he gets away.Cassian catches up to him and they fight until they crash through a window of the Rome Continental. Since no blood may be spilled on Continental grounds, John and Cassian sit at the bar and have a drink together. John explains the marker that Santino called on him to kill his sister. Cassian understands but also cannot allow his ward's killer to go unpunished. He pays for John's drink and leaves. John then spots Ares (Ruby Rose), Santino's mute bodyguard. She lets him know through sign language that she'll be seeing him. He replies in sign language that if she keeps following him, he'll end her.As John is heading back to New York City, Santino puts out a $7 million contract to kill John. The contract is distributed to all the assassins in the area. A female violinist in the subway pulls out a gun from the violin and tries to kill John, but he subdues her and breaks her neck. A heavyset Asian man goes after John and gets his brains blown out. Two men in the subway try kill him, and John brutally kills them with a pencil. Cassian finds John as he gets on the subway and fights him in the train. John stabs Cassian and pushes the knife into his chest, piercing his aorta. He allows Cassian to live as a 'professional courtesy,' telling him that if he pulls the knife out, he will bleed to death. John leaves Cassian on the subway.Injured, John seeks out what appears to be a homeless man and asks for his help. John gives him a coin and ask to be taken to "him". The homeless turns kills two men dressed as janitors who are looking for John."Him" turns out to be the Bowery King (Laurence Fishburne), an assassin that once had a run-in with John and was left with a scar on his neck. John spared him, and so now the Bowery King views himself as unbreakable. He also knows of the bounty on John's head and is very tempted to take the contract but John convinces him otherwise. With BK's help, John is able to locate Santino's whereabouts.John heads to a museum where Santino is set to take his place at the High Table. John crashes the party and as Santino's men attempt to stop him, he kills them all. John chases Santino through a hall of mirrors before having to fight Ares. John manages to stab Ares and leave her to die, not giving her the same professional courtesy he gave to Cassian.Santino rushes to the New York Continental to seek refuge, knowing that he can't be attacked within. John finds Santino in the lounge. Winston knows what John is about to do and tries to calm him down. Still, John kills Santino, shooting him in the head. John returns to pick up his dog from Charon.The next day, John goes with his dog to meet with Winston at the park. Winston informs John that because he killed on Continental grounds, the High Table has doubled the contract and sent it to every assassin across the globe. Winston must mark John as excommunicado, but he gives him a one hour lead before the contract takes effect. It then becomes evident that every single person in the park is an assassin, and they have their eyes on John. John tells Winston to let everyone know that if they go after him, he will kill them all. Winston agrees. John leaves as Winston puts the word out. Every passing person looks at John, knowing who he is and what they want from him. John is forced to take the dog and keep on running.
