Canterlot High and a rival school face off in a series of sporting events.
Every four years, Canterlot High has 'The Friendship Games' where they must rival with different schools with a series of different sporting events and every year, the cup has gone to Crystal Prep. So Fluttershy, Pinkie Pie, Rainbow Dash, Rarity, Applejack, and Sunset Shimmer must work together to win the cup. But they find out that the other Twilight Sparkle is on the opposing team.
This year comes the Friendship Games over at Canterlot High ~ meanwhile, that there really is another Twilight after all and nobody realizes that she's Twilight Sparkle of their world unless that the real Twilight Sparkle of Equestria travels through and find out...
The quadrennial Friendship Games - an event filled with various kinds of sport - has always been won by Canterlot High's rival, Crystal Prep Academy. But this Christmas, things will be different! When Sunset Shimmer and the Equestria Girls decide to compete in the Games, they believe they have a probable fighting chance. Little do they know that there's a new girl on their rivals' side: the Twilight Sparkle from their world!! Can the girls win the trophy, or is there more to the human Twilight than meets the eye?
Sunset Shimmer, Applejack, Fluttershy, Pinkie Pie, and Rarity meet Rainbow Dash in front of Canterlot High School due to an emergency text...but are all rather put-off that Dash mainly called them as one of her guitar strings broke.As the group disperses, Sunset Shimmer writes to Twilight Sparkle in the Pony-verse, in her special journal. However, her attention is drawn to a hooded figure, that is poking around the statue in front of the high school. When Sunset inquires what the girl is doing, the hooded girl flees onto a nearby bus, headed towards the city.Sunset tells the others about this the next day, with Rainbow Dash thinking the girl may have been from their crosstown rival, Crystal Prep Academy. Crystal Prep has constantly beat Canterlot High in a number of sporting events. As well, both schools compete in The Friendship Games every four years, and this year, the schools will be competing...though Rainbow Dash feels with their 'pony-up' powers, they'll be able to have an advantage over the other school.Dash also uses her enthusiasm and the school's marching band, to energize the school's rather depressing rally for the upcoming games. Dash's ponying-up during the rally, has Principal Celestia and Vice-Principal Luna a little concerned. As Dash and the others don't know what causes them to 'pony-up,' they ask Sunset Shimmer to research why this could be, wanting to be sure they can suppress these 'outbursts,' to keep from being accused of cheating.Meanwhile, across town at Crystal Prep Academy, we find out that the hooded figure was actually this world's Twilight Sparkle, who has been investigating mysterious goings-on at Canterlot High. Isolating herself in a room in the school, she has come up with a special device that can detect magical energy spikes, and is eager to try it out around Canterlot High during the games...of which she is not planning to participate in.Her work is interrupted by Dean Cadance, who tells Twilight that she is concerned about her isolationist attitude, though
