After falling in love, three roommates experience changes in their lives.
Three simple and fun loving guys living in Gurgaon are looking for love. Each finds a girl of their tastes and all seems well. As time moves on, slowly and steadily they begin to wonder if their other halves are actually in love with them? What makes them think so? Are they right? Will their efforts of finding and keeping love pay off?
Anshul a.k.a. Gogo (Kartik Aaryan), Siddharth a.k.a. Chauka (Sunny Nijar) and Tarun a.k.a. Thakur (Omkar Kapoor) are flatmates and best friends. Gogo meets Ruchika a.k.a. Chiku (Nushrat Bharucha) and gives her his number. Siddharth ends up meeting Supriya (Sonnalli Seygall) at a family wedding and instantly falls for her. Thakur meets Kusum (Ishita Raj Sharma) while working out at the gym and they start seeing each other. The guys get into relationships with the girls. However, love gets lost in a while. Gogo disapproves of the proximity between Chiku and Sunny, her best friend. Siddharth helps Supriya and her family in their chores, but Supriya is not willing to take the relationship forward. Kusum does not support Thakur in his business adventure and is using him for her luxuries. After some time, Gogo finds out that Chiku always badmouths about him with her friends, Thakur has an argument with Kusum about his business and he realizes that Kusum is selfish. Supriya's marriage is fixed with an NRI Pankaj, when her parents find out about Siddharth's love for her they disapprove the match. That night Supriya arrives and says she will only marry Siddharth, The following morning Supriya's father arrives with police. Supriya testifies against Siddharth due to her father's threatening. Siddharth explains to her father that he will never see Supriya again and she can marry Pankaj without expecting any hindrances from him in exchange for dropping the police case against him. All three boys leave the girls. The film ends with them acknowledging that the only place where they can get true love is from their mother.
