In Gracefield, three couples are spending a long weekend in a luxurious cabin when suddenly an uninvited guest in the form of a meteorite, comes crashing the party...
Mathew Donovan loses his right eye while in a violent car crash with his pregnant wife Jessica. Jessica loses her baby.10 Months Later - Matt installs a camera for recording video inside his prosthetic eye. A news bulletin reports on a satellite destroyed by an unidentified object over Canada.To celebrate Joe's 30th birthday, Matt and Jess take Matt's best friend Joe Mendez and Joe's girlfriend Liz Blackburn to a remote cabin in Gracefield, Quebec. Also joining everyone at the cabin, which is owned by Matt's Bigfoot-obsessed boss, is Jess' younger brother Trey Myers and Trey's girlfriend Julia Gilbert.On the first night at the cabin, a streaking light in the sky passes overhead. Matt and Joe investigate and recover a meteorite from a small crater in the ground. An alien creature tries grabbing at Matt, prompting both men to flee.Matt hears his dog Teddy howling in the distance. Trey takes the meteorite while Matt and Joe search a nearby cave for the dog. The alien creature grabs at Matt once more before chasing Matt and Joe back to the cabin.Trey tells the women that they saw something in the woods, but Matt and Joe refuse to get specific for fear of upsetting them. Because he does not want to risk running out of gas in the darkness, Matt suggests that they prepare to leave at daybreak.Matt has a serious conversation with Jess about his difficulty starting a family since the accident. Something hits a cabin window and leaves a strange pattern in the fractured glass. Matt and Joe also talk about Matt trying to have another baby.The alien attacks Trey inside the cabin while everyone sleeps. Matt is woken by strange supernatural activity and finds Trey entranced on the couch. Matt carries Trey to his bed before seeing a strange symbol flash on the TV.Julia tells Matt that Trey is missing. They review surveillance camera footage and discover that Trey headed into the forest while in a trance. Julia impulsively goes after Trey.Matt and Joe head into the forest to look for Trey and Julia while Jess and Liz stay behind at the cabin. Matt and Joe have another encounter with the alien.Jess tries calling 911 for help. Liz finds a map identifying Bigfoot sightings throughout surrounding landmarks.The alien attacks Julie in the woods. Matt and Joe find Julie's clothes scattered in tree branches overhead.After following a scream, Matt and Joe become lost in a cornfield. They tie helium balloons to Joe's phone in order to get an aerial view of their surroundings. Matt sees an enormous crop circle in the field that he recognizes as the symbol he saw on the television. Matt theorizes that the symbols indicate the alien is trying to communicate with them.The alien chases Matt and Joe into the woods. The men make it back to Jess and Liz at the cabin, but are unable to leave when the car won't start.Joe and Liz decide to ride bicycles to a gas station for help. An unseen force pulls Joe and Liz into the sky and they vanish.Matt and Jess review footage recorded earlier. Matt recognizes the crop circle symbol in the broken glass and in a flash of news footage featuring the destroyed satellite. On a hunch, Matt recovers the meteorite found earlier and it suddenly glows with the same symbol. Matt realizes that the alien has been attempting to recover the rock the entire time.Supernatural activity erupts throughout the cabin. The alien chases Matt and Jess through the cornfield until Jess is pulled into the air and disappears.The alien confronts Matt. Matt presents the meteorite. When the alien touches the rock, it glows and then hatches, revealing an alien infant inside. Matt apologizes to the adult alien. The aliens vanish in a bright light as their spaceship flies into the sky.Once the ship is gone, Jess, Joe, Liz, Trey, and Julie return naked and in a state of confusion. The Canadian Air Force arrives in a rescue helicopter.A Year Later - Matt and Jess welcome their newborn daughter Emily.
