A profile of an ancient city and its unique people, seen through the eyes of the most mysterious and beloved animal humans have ever known, the Cat.
In the city of Istanbul, there are more than just human inhabitants. There are also the stray domestic cats of the city who live free but have complicated relationships with the people themselves. This film follows a selection of individual cats as they live their own lives in Istanbul with their own distinctive personalities. However, with this vibrant population, is the reality of an ancient metropolis changing with the times that may have less of a place for them.
Undeniably, the cat is picturesque Istanbul's soul. Even from the Ottoman era, countless kinds of cats began living in the city, and later on, when the first sewers were built and giant rats made their appearance, not a single house was without a mighty cat. Nowadays, cats are practically everywhere, and thousands of independent strays colour the ancient city not only with their diverse personalities and quirks but also with their elegant feminine posture and their distinct traits while strolling indolently Istanbul's dense and bustling neighbourhoods. Obviously, a love for cats is a special kind of love, as some believe that the resourceful and autonomous companions can absorb the negative energy, giving off only good vibes, while others think that cats are aware of God's existence instead of dogs. Who knows? Either way, cats are never ungrateful, we, humans, just need to form a special shared language, because from cats with a strong-willed character to those delicate and jealous ones, and from tough fish thieves to aristocratic and carefree vagabonds, one thing is for certain: the felines of Istanbul are without a doubt a cultural symbol.
Kedi is a love story branded a documentary of Istanbul......with cameras mounted on catback, movie goers are treated to life from cat prancing views....humans are interviewed in relation to cats looking in windows,cats waiting near cafe or markets to be fed and cat lovers bearing their souls in life with cats.....several are featured by name and paths followed many other cats are worshipped in this ancient city of Emperor Constantine....go wherever you can to screen or purchase these hours of cat love purrfectly narrated and starring KEDI

