Paddington (Ben Whishaw), now happily settled with the Brown family and a popular member of the local community, picks up a series of odd jobs to buy the perfect present for his Aunt Lucy's (Imelda Staunton's) 100th birthday, only for the gift to be stolen.
Paddington (Ben Whishaw) is happily settled with the Brown family in Windsor Gardens, where he has become a popular member of the community, spreading joy and marmalade wherever he goes. While searching for the perfect present for his beloved Aunt Lucy's (Imelda Staunton's) 100th birthday, Paddington spots a unique pop-up book in Mr. Gruber's antique shop, and embarks upon a series of odd jobs to buy it. But when the book is stolen, it's up to Paddington and the Browns to unmask the thief.
Paddington (Ben Whishaw), having settled with the Brown family in Windsor Gardens, has become popular in his community, offering people emotional support in various ways. To purchase a unique pop-up book of London in Mr. Gruber's (Jim Broadbent's) antique shop for Aunt Lucy's (Imelda Staunton's) 100th birthday, Paddington performs several odd jobs and saves his wages, but the book is stolen. Paddington gives chase, but the culprit escapes, and Paddington is framed and arrested. Although Mr. Gruber and the Browns do not believe that Paddington stole the book, with no evidence that the thief even existed, Paddington is wrongfully convicted and jailed. The thief soon returns home and is revealed to be Phoenix Buchanan (Hugh Grant), an egotistical actor who lives opposite the Browns.
Paddington Bear, having settled with the Brown family in London's Windsor Gardens, has become popular in his community, offering people emotional support in various ways. The Browns have changed in many ways. Mary Brown is training to swim the English channel; Henry Brown does not get the promotion at work he has hoped for; Judy has broken up with her boyfriend, Tony, and has started a newspaper; Jonathan has dropped his old, independent self and has become a classic teenage boy. To purchase a unique pop-up book of London in Samuel Gruber's antique shop for Aunt Lucy's 100th birthday, Paddington performs several odd jobs and saves his wages over time, finding a good niche as a window-cleaner after a failed attempt as a hair dresser.When he is just a day away from having enough money for the book, he witnesses it being stolen from the shop by a bearded thief, and is accused of the crime and subsequently arrested when the true culprit flees after a brief chase. Although Mr Gruber does not believe that Paddington stole the book, with no evidence of the thief's existence, Paddington is wrongfully convicted and jailed. The thief soon returns home, removing a disguise to be revealed as Phoenix Buchanan, an egotistical actor who lives opposite the Browns and whom Paddington met at a carnival opening ceremony some days prior and had shared the existence of the pop-up book, which Buchanan had thought to have been lost.Whilst in prison, Paddington initially has a mishap with the laundry, but soon befriends many of the initially hostile inmates, including the short-tempered chef Nuckles McGinty, who hires Paddington as his assistant when amazed by his marmalade sandwich recipe. The Browns, in the meantime, continue to try and clear Paddington's name, putting up sketches of the thief drawn by Mary based on Paddington's description. Buchanan begins using the pop-up book to locate a series of clues within London's famous landmarks, which he believes will unveil the location of a secret treasure his grandfather had known about.During their efforts to prove Paddington's innocence, the Browns soon encounter the carnival fortune teller who informs them that the stolen book leads to the hidden fortune of the original author who had once been the carnival's biggest star and had been killed by Buchanan's grandfather for the treasure, but who had only found the pop up book in place of the treasure before being stopped by the rest of the carnival people.With Paddington's efforts, the prison finds itself a much livelier and comfortable place, though he still struggles to remain positive when the Browns remain unable to prove his innocence. Soon convinced that Buchanan may indeed be the culprit after Mrs Brown speaking to him, the Browns organize a scheme to lure him out of his house and break in to locate the stolen book. Whilst inside, Henry and Mary find a secret attic where Buchanan's various costumes are stashed, as well as the book itself. Before they find the book and can act further, Buchanan returns home and suspects something is wrong. The Browns soon realize that they have missed the visiting session at prison, leaving a heartbroken Paddington convinced that they have forgotten him.Paddington soon takes part in a prison break alongside several other inmates, including Nuckles, who promises to aid in proving his innocence but promptly abandons the idea in order to leave the country as a free man, inviting Paddington to come with him to fly out of the country. Paddington refuses and, whilst roaming the streets and avoiding the police, uses a public telephone to contact the Browns, who insist they would never forget him and that they know Buchanan is the real culprit. To catch him, they arrange to meet at Paddington Station, where the carnival train carrying the supposed location of the hidden fortune is due to leave shortly.Paddington reaches the station and makes it onto the train just as it leaves, the Browns begin their pursuit in another steam train at the opposite platform, LNER Peppercorn Class A1 60163 Tornado. Buchanan finds the treasure in the carnival organ by playing the music keys he found at each landmark in order but before he can take it Paddington takes the pop-up book back. When caught up, Henry, Mrs. Bird and Judy board the Tornado and confront Buchanan, who overwhelms them and makes good his initial escape.Paddington is left stranded in the train's rear carriage which Buchanan severs the coupling for, leaving it to crash into a nearby river. Mary tries to rescue Paddington from drowning but struggles to open the locked carriage; she is soon assisted by Nuckles and the other inmates, who have a change of heart and decide to help Paddington as promised and land their small water plane on the river. Eventually, Henry knocks out Buchanan just as he tries to access the so called treasure, and he is promptly detained.Paddington, now declared innocent, becomes very ill after the events, slipping into a short three day coma yet recovering well once waking up on Lucy's birthday. With the book taken in as evidence by the police, Paddington is left disappointed that he was unable to get Lucy a present as promised, though soon discovers the Browns, with the help of various other people in the neighborhood who missed Paddington, made sure Lucy could come to London and see it for herself. Paddington reunites with Lucy.During the credits, Buchanan is convicted and jailed, and while in prison, he performs his one-man show. Meanwhile, Nuckles and the other inmates who saved Paddington are pardoned.
