CHRONICALLY METROPOLITAN is a cynical and clever coming of age film about first time novelist Fenton Dillane, who, unannounced returns to New York City to confront his family, his ex- girlfriend and a few lingering childhood fears.
Full of wry wit, Chronically Metropolitan, is a cynical family drama about a young writer, Fenton, who is forced home to help the family cope when his larger than life father, Christopher, gets into a car accident with a truck full of crabs.
Fenton Dillane, the son of acclaimed novelist and now English professor Christopher Dillane, is a writer in his own right. Without a word, Fenton abruptly left his New York City home to live in San Francisco following the publication of "The Birthday Party" in the New Yorker, it a short story and his first published work. That departure was due to the consequences of the story itself, it deemed fiction but the characters who were manifestations of people around him, it which exacerbated the disintegration of the marriage of his then girlfriend Jessie's parents, Jessie an aspiring photographer. Just over one year later, Fenton, again without a word to anyone, heads back to New York City for the first time upon the news of a salacious incident involving his father belying his pristine public image, that incident which resulted in Chris being hospitalized. The marriage of Fenton's parents has long been in name only, Chris not wanting a divorce if only to maintain some stability in their lives. While the incident that landed Chris in the hospital is only the tip of the iceberg of his life, Fenton's mother, Annabel Dillane, copes with the therapeutic help of Fenton's childhood friend, John Roth, and a new relationship with Ahmed Hosseini. Upon seeing Jessie, Fenton admits to himself that he still has feelings for her. Problems for Fenton with regard to reuniting with Jessie are that although she could defend the story, she felt abandoned when he left, and that she is scheduled to get married in one week's time to Victor, the wealthy and high powered owner of the contemporary art gallery where she currently works.

