At the height of the Peruvian gold rush, an Andean woman able to communicate with water spirits uses her powers to prevent a mining corporation from destroying the lake she considers to be her mother.
Nelida is an Andean woman able to communicate with natures spirits. She feels she is the daughter
of the lakes that provide water to her village.But just beneath her lakes, Yanacocha, Latin Americas largest gold mine, has discovered a deposit
valued at billions of dollars. They have the Peruvian governments support to mine it, even though
it means drying out the lakes.Farmers who live downstream oppose the project, because they fear running out of water. Its a life
and death struggle. The police have killed five men during the protests and the farmers not only
have to confront the political and economic powers, but also the people in their communities who
now depend on the small jobs the mine has given them.When Nelida joins the march from her homeland to Lima, the countrys capital, over a thousand
kilometers away, she realizes shes not alone. There are thousands of people who want to protect
the Andean water sources.Nelida's story has parallels in Bolivia too, where a group of women live on dried out land. Their
water disappeared after years of incessant mining. Then there is Bibi, a Dutch jeweler who exhibits
her pieces on spectacular catwalks in Europe and who decides to visit Peru to discover the origin
of the gold she uses.Back in Peru, again, there is retaliation against the protesters. Marco, an ex-priest and Nelida's
mentor, is brutally detained by police whilst sitting in a public square, demonstrating peacefully.The conflict goes on. We see how, in front of 150 policemen about to evict a peaceful protest at the
lakes, Nelida grabs a phone and communicates with journalists in the city of Cajamarca. Her determination
prevents a brutal attack. But her participation in these demonstrations has consequences:
Nelida's father, who works for the mine, loses his job.But this doesn't change her determination. She goes back to the lakes and prays to the water
spirits. She makes them an offering of flowers and the photos of the five farmers killed during this
seemingly endless conflict. Finally, Nelida asks her mother for the strength to keep going in her
struggle for justice.
