Bill Murray worries no one will show up to his TV show due to a terrible snowstorm in New York City.
Murray, playing himself, trying to avoid a Hollywood figure who wants to represent the actor, who famously forgoes having a manager or agent. And somewhere in there will be rooms for Christmas carols to be sung by the actors (everyone is playing themselves) and probably more bits and pieces of holiday cheer.
On December 24, Bill Murray (playing himself) waits in his hotel suite at the Carlyle gradually realizing that a massive snowstorm has caused most of the guests for his live Christmas special to cancel. As time runs out his two producers, Liz (Amy Poehler), and Bey (Julie White), coerce him into going on with the show as he is financially on the hook if he cancels. With minimal crew Murray goes live but in the middle of singing a song he begins to weep and then flees the studio. While trying to leave the hotel he sees Chris Rock whom he forces into performing "Do You Hear What I Hear?" with him. During a power outage Rock flees and the producers inform Murray that as the power outage is considered an Act of God the special can now be cancelled.Filled with relief Murray goes to the Carlyle bar where he sings a song with an anonymous waitress (Jenny Lewis). After they hear the chefs shouting they go to investigate and realize that the French chefs (Phoenix) are overwhelmed as the fridges have stopped working and the food is about to go bad. Murray encourages them to bring the food to the bar so that the few patrons can eat it all. On his way back to the bar he passes a weeping bride (Rashida Jones) who informs him that her wedding was called off due to the cold and who is also upset because she has fought with her fiancé, Elliot.The French chefs sing "Alone on Christmas Day", followed by the lounge singer (Maya Rudolph) performing "Christmas (Baby Please Come Home)". Afterwards the bride comes out wheeling a cake and asks Bill Murray about his theory of love. He asks Elliot and the bride to look at one another and think of the moment when they fell in love with each other. The couple sing "I Saw the Light" and become re-engaged. At 12:01 AM the remaining guests at the hotel wish each other a merry Christmas and then sing "Fairytale of New York" together. At the end of the song, Murray, who had been drinking heavily, passes out.While unconscious Murray dreams that he awakens on a beautiful set in the middle of his Christmas special. In his dream he is joined by George Clooney and Miley Cyrus. As Clooney prepares martinis, Cyrus and Murray sing "Sleigh Ride" together. After a few more musical numbers between himself, Cyrus and Clooney, Murray reawakens back in his suite at the Carlyle where he realizes it is still Christmas.
