Accused of heinous crimes he didn't commit, a prosecutor sets out on a mission to clear his name.
Tenjin Pharmaceutical's 65th anniversary party also happens to be the farewell party of the company's high-power attorney Du Qiu (Zhang Hanyu). Company head Sakai tries to convince him to stay, but he has already made up his mind. At the party, a girl named Mayumi draws Du Qiu's attention. She intentionally leads him away from the party and sets up a rendezvous with him before leaving. Later that night, Du Qiu is suddenly knocked out when he returns home.The next morning, Du Qiu wakes up to find his colleague, Kiko, half-naked and dead on his bed. Making things worse, he's holding the murder weapon. Detective Asano leads a team to Du Qiu's home to apprehend him in such perfect timing that it almost appeared to be set up. Knowing that he's been framed, Du Qiu flees his home before the police can arrest him, setting off a large-scale manhunt. Notified by his new assistant, Rika, hard-boiled detective Yamura (Masaharu Fukuyama) rushes to the scene as backup. Du Qiu manages to crawl into the sewer in the nick of time, but the brilliant Yamura, having guessed Du Qiu's escape route, is already waiting there. Du Qiu manages to fight back and takes Yamura as hostage, using him as leverage to escape. On the road, Du Qiu insists that he's innocent. He eventually lets Yamura go and throws away his gun, which convinces Yamura that this case isn't as simplistic as it seems after all.Now Osaka's most wanted man, Du Qiu uses every trick up his sleeves to evade the police, hiding in any spot he can find. During his escape, he learns that a mysterious group has been using cash to bait homeless people into a black van and taking them away for good. Even though Du Qiu has successfully avoided capture, he suddenly finds himself the target for a group of assassins led by Rain and Dawn. Du Qiu realizes that this conspiracy reaches deeper into his life than he has ever imagined.With no one else to turn to, Du Qiu can only rely on Mayumi for assistance. With her help, the two manage to escape Osaka to Mayumi's farm in the countryside. Du Qiu asks Mayumi to provide an alibi and prove his innocence, but she refuses. She takes Du Qiu to the woods and reveals that her only reason for getting close to him is to get revenge for her pharmacist finance, who committed suicide three years ago. Mayumi believes that Du Qiu, who represented Tenjin in court, is the reason that her finance was framed and convicted. Just as she is about to pull the trigger, Dawn suddenly appears to kill them. Yamura arrives just as Du Qiu and Mayumi are surrounded by assassins, and he helps the pair fight off the assassins. The near-death ordeal makes the three change the way they see each other. Dawn, who injected a mysterious drug that enhanced her powers during the fight, dies just as Rain arrives to witness everything.Later, a suspicious Mayumi returns to the farm in search of evidence and accidentally finds a file that was hidden by her finance. Mayumi has believed all along that he is innocent, but the file reveals the truth about his involvement in a conspiracy involving Tenjin. Du Qiu finally unlocks the puzzle, which points to Sakai and his son being the mastermind behind the scenes. To prevent an even bigger tragedy from happening, Du Qiu puts his life on the line and goes to the pharmaceutical plant on his own.It turns out that the Sakai family's crimes are far worse than imagined - Tenjin Pharmaceuticals is actually the mysterious group that has been taking homeless people off the streets for their inhumane medical experiments. The company is trying to use the experiments for a dangerous drug that would turn humans into weapons of war and sell it to terrorist organizations. Du Qiu is taken by guards and becomes an unwilling participant in the experiment. He is eventually forced to fight Yamura, who has come to the plant to save him. However, Du Qiu manages to retain his free will with sheer will power, despite having been tortured and drugged. The two men team up and fight back against their captors. Rain, who was kept in the dark about Tenjin's plans all along, decides to turn her back against the company and join the two men in a fight to the death.
