A nanomaterials expert sees a mysterious countdown superimposed in his field of vision and finds himself under military investigation. To unravel the mystery, he enters the VR game "Three Body" developed by a secret organization ETO, and discovers the truth behind the deaths of dozens of scientists and a tragedy from the days of the Cultural Revolution.
This is China's first attempt at a sci-fi film. They have taken the Hugo Award winning book by Cixin Liu, which harks back to incidents in the Cultural Revolution. Ye, the main character, is a woman recruited by Yang and Lei, two military physicists working under Red Coast (a secret Chinese initiative to use high powered radio waves to damage spy satellites) who require Ye's skills in physics. Ye discovers the possibility of amplifying outgoing radio waves by bouncing them off the sun and sends an interstellar message. Eight years later, by now in a loveless marriage with Yang, Ye receives a message from a concerned alien pacifist from the planet Trisolaris, warning her not to respond or else the inhabitants of Trisolaris will locate and invade Earth. The alien proceeds to describe Trisolaris's environmental conditions and societal history. Ye, who has come to despise humankind, responds anyway, inviting them to come to Earth to settle its problems. Ye murders her husband, Yang, along with Lei to keep the alien message a secret. They are informed that the Trisolaran invasion force has departed, but will not reach Earth for 450 years, as they are traveling at 1/100-th of lightspeed.
The problem in the title is the predicament of the Trisolarans, whose planet orbits in a three-star system (alpha Centauri), experiencing extremes of heat and cold, and doomed ultimately to plunge into one of the stars.
Various complex plans are made, including the creation of the militant and semisecret Earth-Trisolaris Organization (ETO) as a fifth column for Trisolaris, which appoints Ye as the leader. The society attracts numerous scientists, minor government officials, and other educated people who are disappointed with world affairs. They go on to assemble a private army and even to build small nuclear weapons. However, Evans retains control of most resources and starts to alter and withhold alien messages from Ye and others. Furthermore, the society splits into factions, with the Adventists, led by Evans, seeking complete destruction of humanity by the Trisolarans, and the Redemptionists, led by Shen Yufei, seeking to help the Trisolarans to find a computational solution to the three-body problem, which plagues their home planet. A third, smaller faction, the Survivors, consisting mostly of Chinese people, intend to help the Trisolarans in exchange for their own descendants' lives while the rest of humanity dies.
The film begins in flashback from the point when, in the present day, Wang Miao, a nanotechnology professor, is asked to work with Shi Qiang, a cunning detective, to investigate the mysterious deaths of several scientists. The two of them notice that the world's governments are communicating closely with each other, and have put aside their traditional rivalries to prepare for war. Over the next few days, Wang experiences strange hallucinatory effects. ..
