During the tumultuous 1943, against the backdrop of a German-occupied Thessaloniki, two star-crossed lovers struggle to surmount prejudice and fear, as the brutalities against the town's persecuted Jewish community escalate.
During World War II in Greece, under the submission of Germans, one Christian, Giorgos, falls in love with a Jewish, Estrea, something completely forbidden. Can they and their families overcome all the obstacles, along with racial discriminations and hardship? The story mainly takes place in an ouzeria, in which Tsitsanis works, one of the greatest Greek composer, librettist and singer in the 20th century.
The main theme of the film is the Holocaust of the vibrant, 500-year old Jewish community of Thessaloniki, during the brutal German occupation of Greece. In the Spring of 1943, they were betrayed by their complacent community leadership, and deported, non-resisting, to their doom in Poland. Two plot lines run parallel and intersect with this theme: A doomed love story and the early years of famous Rembetico music composer Vasilis Tsitsanis. In the small tavern where Tsitsanis' company performs, intermingle German officers, Greek collaborators, black marketeers, and undercover Resistance fighters. Young carpenter Yorgos, works there in the evenings. Yorgos is involved in the nascent Greek Resistance, as the operator of a radio transmitter. When Jewish girl Estrea is assigned to be his assistant, a passionate, forlorn love blooms.
Against the backdrop of a German-occupied Thessaloniki during the tumultuous 1943, the forbidden love between two hopeless dreamers, Yorgos, a rebellious Christian carpenter, and Estrea, a strong-willed Jewish girl, finds refuge in a small but busy tavern: the town's historic "Ouzeri Tsitsanis". There, under the Nazis' heavy thumb, the monumental and prolific composer, Vassilis Tsitsanis, is inspired to write some of his most memorable songs, including the haunting and heartbreaking "Cloudy Sunday". In the end, as the star-crossed lovers struggle to surmount prejudice and fear, the brutalities against the nearly thousand-year-old persecuted Jewish community of Thessaloniki escalate, leading to an inescapable and horrible fate.

