Based on the true events revolving around Beaver Island, Michigan, and King James Strang.
Based on the true events revolving around Beaver Island, Michigan, and King James Strang... Elder Island. 1856. Peter Wiggentstein turned to the men of the five island families around him and warned, "Tell nothing of this," as the men all looked at the body of their former Reverend - gunned down just outside his own home - and a decision was made. They secretly buried the body on Graves Island, and the reign of America's first and only king ended; but for every end, there is always a new beginning, for an evil was born that night. Five families have always controlled the Island. Five families share the Island's fortune; five families share its curse.
Based on the true events revolving around Beaver Island, Michigan, and King James Strang...Elder Island. 1856. Peter Wiggentstein turned to the men of the five island families around him and warned, "Tell nothing of this," as the men all looked at the body of their former Reverend gunned down just outside his own home and a decision was made.
They secretly buried the body on Graves Island, and the reign of America's first and only king ended; but for every end, there is always a new beginning, for an evil was born that night.Five families have always controlled the Island. Five families share the Islands fortune; five families share its curse.
Elder Island has, throughout the intervening years, gone from being a wealthy community to a broken down little town. From bountiful logging, fishing, copper mining, and rum-running, to an Island drained of its life, Elder Island has ever been the nexus for fortunes; good and bad. Over the last 75 years, the Island's fortunes have plummeted. It has slowly become a worn out hull of a place, torn apart by years of fear, guilt, disgust and hatred, with no hope or change in sight, where its few citizens struggle to stand each other's existence.In the summer of 2015, as the locals await a documentary crew that could put the Island back in the public's consciousness, Jacob Wiggenstein dutifully walks to the old tree in his backyard and gasps as he sees the telltale sign. For generations, his family's responsibility has been to look for and hoping not to find the Reverends mark."Mein Gott," he says to himself. He was a much younger man the last time it happened; the last time the shade returned -- the time of the sacrifices.While Jacob and the Sheriff reluctantly prepare, Lucas Heidegger awaits the Reverends return with glee. This is Lucas' chance to make the Reverend proud, and to hell with Jacob, the Sheriff, anyone who would dare get in between him and his Mentor.There are no cell phone towers on the Island, limited Internet access, and only a handful of ways to leave; all controlled by the families. They fear outsiders, but desperately need them. Their secret cannot get out, but they must have new citizens to keep their town alive. Only Sheriff Ree chose to stay once he knew the Island's secret, and he really had no choice at all.Over the course of one weekend, it is this hell that documentarians Ned, Stacy, and April, and young Island residents Sam and Brooke, are about to be thrown into. They must find each other and a way off Elder Island, fast. After all, the Reverend will not stop until he's had his sacrifices... and his blood.
