Forced to work together, two event planners learn that opposites can produce the most unexpected results.
When an engaged couple can't agree on anything, the mother of the groom (Linda Gray) hires a wedding planner (Danica McKellar) and an event planner (Paul Greene) to help put together the wedding of their dreams. The two planners are as different as night and day, but as they too learn to compromise, they discover opposites do indeed attract and can combine to produce incredible results!
Long divorced Jessica Summers is the owner/operator of her own wedding planning business, Jessica Summers Wedding Designs. She tries to balance her work with being present in her preteen son Luke Summers' life, the latter including providing him a stable, predictable existence and which also includes never missing one of his basketball games. Jess has never quit a job until now, that being the upcoming wedding of Lucy and Paul. The issue is not Lucy or Paul per se despite their differences in what they want for the wedding - Lucy who wants the traditional, romantic, formal wedding, Paul who wants something fun and casual, he getting married in sweatpants at a backyard BBQ if he could - or even Paul's mother, Gabby Taylor, who is the only parental influence in the process as Lucy's parents won't be arriving into town until one week before the planned date, but that Paul, without telling anyone, has called in his cousin, Adam Parker, an event planner who he admires, as an advisor. Jess had an antagonistic run-in with Adam earlier in both wanting the same space for an event at the same time. Unlike Jess, Adam is all about adventure, both in the events he plans and in his life, as demonstrated by the fact that on his birthday every year, he throws a dart at a map to decide where he will depart the following day for his annual vacation, let the dart point where it may. Through some manipulation by Gabby, Jess and Adam ultimately decide to work on the wedding together as Adam realizes that he is out of his element with a wedding, while still wanting to ensure that Paul's wants, which more closely match his own thoughts as not really believing in the institution of marriage, are not dismissed in the process. Jess and Adam's differences and the way they deal with Lucy, Paul and Gabby are highlighted at every step along the way, which threatens Jess' involvement, but that doesn't stop Jess and Adam falling for each other, which Gabby and Luke in particular can see, a personal relationship which they try to foster. Jess and Adam may not yet be ready to put aside the direction they have each steered their life, Jess who will still sees Luke, and not herself, as her number one priority.

