A distanced couple decide to take in a seemingly innocent pregnant woman in hopes of adopting her unborn child. However, there is more to a book than its cover.
Living in the small town of Storm Lake, married upper middle class couple Robert and Sarah Benson faced a life changing incident five years ago when a freak accident led to a then pregnant Sarah, an organic hobby farmer, losing the baby and not being able to conceive children anymore. Feeling guilty for not fixing their broken dock which caused the accident, Robert, an author of personal financial management self help books, took to the bottle, although he has now been sober for six months. Robert dotes on their only child, six year old Sully, and constantly worries about her diabetic condition. They are pursuing adoption as Sarah believes another child would bring a much needed balance into their lives, especially in getting Robert out of his funk. He has been in this state specifically since his last book tour, about which he does not remember much due to his drinking and hard partying. They believe they have finally found the perfect adoption mother in Bridgette Gibson, a young woman in a difficult personal situation, she who is currently living in a shelter. As such, Robert and Sarah decide to let Bridgette live with them until the child is born in three months time. Bridgette entering their lives is not by accident, she who orchestrated it along with her redneck boyfriend Dwayne Tisdale. She is keeping a couple of secrets, one from the Bensons and another from Dwayne in getting what she alone wants. These secrets are added to one already kept by Robert, who has to balance his against his family's best interest in whether to come clean. This mixture of secrets has the potential to lead to deadly consequences.
Robert Benson (Will Ferrell) sits in his luxurious garden on a sunny afternoon chatting to his friends, with his baby in his arms. He is an author and his friends agree that his bestselling books have helped them manage their money. They toast him and wish him well on his journey as a "financial guru".Robert's pregnant wife, Sarah (Kristen Wiig) calls to him from the jetty at the bottom of the garden, "Hey! Let's take the boat out!" Robert tells his friends that the dock is rotten. Sarah is insistent and she leans back against the jetty railing which gives way. She falls, in slow motion, into the water. Robert (in slow motion) dashes into the water after her and they disappear below the surface. Suddenly bubbles arise and he emerges from the water with Sarah in his arms.As his friends stand around and watch, he pleads for her to wake up. He performs perfunctory mouth-to-mouth which appears to do nothing. He places his hand on her heavily pregnant stomach with another "Please, Sarah!", which appears to revive her.An ambulance drives her to the hospital. Robert walks into her hospital room and she shakes her head. "I'm so sorry," he cries.Opening credits begin to roll over a bird's eye view journey over a dark river and a wintery pine forest."Five years later" appears on the screen as we pan up from Storm Lake to the Benson's dark, forlorn house. The remains of the dismantled jetty are strewn across the bottom of the garden.We are introduced to Robert's office. He is typing busily and we see certificates of his philanthropic endeavours from 2010 and 2011. He is interrupted by his New York agent, Debbie. "My word, the recluse!" she exclaims. Robert discusses his desire to help people with his new book. He confirms that he is "clean and sober", when she asks him how everything else is going. However he opens his desk drawer to a large bottle of alcohol, and sighs.Sarah is at an outdoor local farmer's market full of happy, good-looking families. She is selling her organic, refined-sugar-free pies and honey. Her assistant Charlie (Bryan Safi) confirms that all the gluten-free produce went fast. "Either this town's getting hip, or it actually tastes good." Sully Benson (Alyvia Alyn Lind) runs up to her mother with Robert not far behind. It is Sully's birthday and Sarah gives her a new bike. Robert looks aggrieved and complains that they had decided to wait another year before giving her a bike. "We've talked about this, you know exactly what this will do to her blood sugar level!" he declares. He relents in the face of his daughter's excitement.At Sully's birthday party, Sarah complains to her friend Julia (Antonia Stout) that Robert babies his daughter and is obsessed with checking her blood sugar levels. "Something's different", she says. She confirms that Robert hasn't had a drink in 6 months. Julia asks how the baby search is going and Sarah is excited that the agency has a new birth mother for them to meet. She thinks that another baby will bring "the old Robert" back. Julia says she remembers the old Robert. "He used to dance around this kitchen to corny old music!"Later in bed, Robert and Sarah talk about the day. Robert says he is distracted by his book deadline and his anxiety around the day of Sarah's accident. "Robert, stop beating yourself up. You know what happens," Sarah warns. Sarah hopes that meeting the new birth mother will improve matters. Sarah and Robert cuddle.The next day Sarah is watering the garden when a car pulls up. A lithe leg in high heels emerges from the car. Bridgette Gibson (Jessica Lowndes) appears. She is doe-eyed with a dewy complexion and long luxurious locks. Her white slip covers her large, pregnant belly. The adoption agency contact, Ellen (Debra Christofferson) introduces Bridgette, who is eager to see the Benson's huge luxurious house.Bridgette and Sarah chat nervously and Sarah shows her a photo of their daughter. Robert meets Bridgette and appears taken with her. When Bridget extends her hand in greeting she drops the photo and the glass breaks. She is flustered and apologies profusely. Bridgette says she lives in Idaho Falls and had to drop out because she couldn't afford it. She says she read one of his books: "Debt: Not just a four letter word" which preaches fiscal responsibility. She says she is living in a shelter, and that it would probably be better if she could rest a little more. She is carrying a boy and is 6 months pregnant. The Bensons look at her approvingly as she declares her love for her baby, and her desire to afford a house like theirs and to give him a life like the Bensons could.As Bridgette leaves she scolds Scully for not wearing a helmet. "Let's keep that head safe so you can grow up smart like your mom and dad," says Scully gently. The Bensons are concerned about Bridgette living in a shelter. They invite her to live with them until the baby is born.Robert broods over Sarah's accident. Later that evening, they decide that they like Bridgette. "If she's read one of my books she can't be that bad," affirms Robert.Bridgette arrives to her new home in a flowery slip. Sarah shows her the guest room. "It's nice, it's so big!" says Bridgette happily. Sully runs into the room. Sully asks her how the bike riding is going. "My daddy won't let me take off my training wheels," she says sadly. "Is that a baby in there?" Sully asks, looking at Bridgette's belly. Bridgette says it is Sully's baby brother and asks her if she wants to feel it. Sully shyly declines. Bridgette asks for a bowl of ice-cream. Sarah says that because Sully is diabetic they don't keep sweets in the house. "Just to warn you, I'm one of those organic people," says Sarah. Charlie arrives and meets Bridgette. "I like her!" he exclaims.Later that evening Bridgette texts someone, "I'm here." She sighs and looks at photos of the family. She sees a magazine with Robert and Sarah on the cover, and rips Sarah's photo away. ""Oh Robert, what a mess," she says, rubbing her belly.Bridgette comes down to breakfast in a tiny camisole and shorts. They discuss plans for the day. Bridgette asks if she can head down to the dock to read. The Bensons look at each other awkwardly and say that the dock is off limits. Sarah and Sully head into town and Bridgette stays at home while Robert works.Robert's agent presses him to go on a book tour to sell his new books. She doesn't understand why he refuses to go on one since his last book tour 6 months previously. He "blacked out last time" and doesn't want a repeat of his boozy book tour. Bridgette knocks on his door and nervously asks him for sunblock. She bashfully says that she must be bothering him, but he assures her he is just used to being in his own Writer's world. "It must get hard, Robert," she says demurely. "Hard?" he asks nervously. "It is sometimes," he admits. "Alone, all the time," she replies.Bridgette and Robert head into the store room. She hides the sunblock behind a bottle. "I don't see it," she says. He reaches over her should in triumph. "Found it!" She turns around quickly into his arms and they share a too-close-for-comfort moment together. She looks up into his eyes disarmingly. "If you need anything else, batteries, lighter fluid, it will be in here," he says uncomfortably.Back at the farm stall, Charlie asks Sarah about Bridgette. "You just leave her in the house with him?" Charlie wonders. "She's six months pregnant," Sarah scoffs. "Some men like that!" says Charlie, and acknowledges that though he might be gay, he knows what men like. "Although knowing Robert, he's probably hiding in his attic too afraid to even talk to her."Robert steps outside onto the patio to see Bridgette sleeping lazily in the sunshine. Her breasts heave gently, and she opens her eyes to see Robert staring at her. Bridgette says she is too tired to go into town. Sarah is disappointed to see Robert's text letting her know they are staying at the house.Later that day, Bridgette argues harshly with someone on the phone while in a coffee shop. "These things take time! Would you stop freaking out!" Charlie bumps into her, and she softens completely once he reminds her of his friendship with the Bensons. When he asks to feel her belly, she declines awkwardly. Charlie watches her walk away with a questioning look in his eyes.Later at dinner they discuss the town. Bridgette agrees with Robert that she prefers a smaller quiet lake. She tells a story about an ex-boyfriend who made her sit on the front of his large boat in a bikini "just to show me off." Sarah talks about her relationship with Charlie and how he encouraged her to expand her business. Robert says he hopes to retire. "Sarah can work and I'll stay at home with the two kids." "That sounds perfect," says Bridgette wistfully. Bridgette shares with the family that she is overjoyed her baby will have such a perfect home. Sarah says that she, too, will have a perfect life one day. "I hope it's in a town like this with a family like yours," Bridgette replies. That night Bridgette watches over Sully as she sleeps.The next morning Bridgette teaches Sully to ride without training wheels. She lets her go straight into the road as car drives by. Sully screams and disappears out of sight. She runs into a greasy looking tattooed hunk. Bridgette knows the man, Dwayne. She tells him he has to wait for her at the cabin, and leave straight away. As he leaves, Bridgette soothes Sully. "Men like that, you gotta be careful, Sully. Most of them just want to use you." She tells Sully to keep the encounter with Dwayne a secret.Later Sarah and Charlie agree that Robert has been "a little off" lately. She sends Charlie to the store for coffee.Bridgette and Robert sit watching the lake. He tells her about Sarah's accident and the loss of their child. "The worst part is, I blame her. If she just hadn't acted so foolishly. Sometimes I think I may never love her the way I used to. It's funny, I've never told anyone that before." He agrees that he might feel safe around Bridgette. He asks her if she is happy. She think she will be happy, "soon". "You really are a strange girl," Robert muses. They chuckle.Charlie, on his coffee run, sees Bridgette and Dwayne arguing in the street next to his green pick-up truck.Sarah and Charlie sit by the fire in the evening. Charlie blames Sarah for leaving chocolates in the pantry. "You know the dangers of diabetic ketoacidosis!" he accuses. Sarah says that Robert has to trust Sully. "Even since you got back from your last book tour you have completely shut down! It is suffocating! What is going on?" Sarah demands.The next day Bridgette prepares to have a shower, Sully rushes into the room and sees her in her underwear. Bridgette is wearing a fake pregnancy belly. She assures Sully that some women don't show when they're pregnant and she wants the Bensons to believe her that she really is pregnant. Bridgette makes Sully promise not to tell, "otherwise something really bad is going to happen".The next day, Bridgette asks Sarah if she can take Sully to the park. "Robert's idea. Wanted to check w/ you :)" Bridgette tells Robert that Sarah asked Sully to take her to the farm stand. Robert agrees, but looks suspicious. He goes to her room, which is vacant. He feels her silky pink camisole. He finds the Debt book Bridgette mentioned earlier ("Dare to Save"). It has an inscription: "To Joni - Don't stop Daring. Robert".He flashes back to his last book tour at a busy bar. He is drunk and a red-head asks her to sign his book to her, Joni Mathers. They run out into the rain laughing and kissing. "Not here", she says and takes him to her motel room. After they have sex Robert sits with his head in his hands. "It'll be our little secret," she says. Lightning flashes and we see that Joni is, in fact. Bridgette.Robert rushes to Sarah to ask her where Sully is. They call the police. Robert is asked why he went into Bridgette's room and why she might want to take Sully. He says he is just concerned and has no idea. Sarah thinks that Robert is overreacting. The police show the adoption agency's picture of Bridgette to the Bensons. She is a different woman and not the Bridgette they know. They realise they have been duped.Bridgette/Joni drives to the cabin in the woods with Sully. "We'll get crazy money," smiles Joni.That evening, Robert admits his infidelity to Sarah. "I did something I can never take back. And it consumes me every day. I know you hate me, but I hate myself more." Sarah denies hating him for lying. "I hate you for endangering our child!"In the morning, Sully wakes up groggily as Joni watches her from the doorway. Joni has transformed: she wears heavy make-up has ratty hair extensions and is dressed in a very revealing outfit. Joni says that Sully's parents had to go and help a sick friend. Sully says that she has a stomach ache. Joni realises that she forgot Sully's diabetic medicine. Dwayne says that his brother had the same condition: "Low blood sugar. Just give her a couple candy bars". Dwayne heads into town to find candy. He tells Joni to call Robert and demand ransom.Charlie is at the police station and informs them about the fight he saw Joni having with Dwayne. Charlie can't remember anything much about the car. He describes Dwayne in detail.Robert searches through his emails to Ellen, the adoption agent. He hasn't heard anything from her. Charlie spots Dwayne in town. He follows him to the lake cabin, and calls Sarah along the way. The call breaks up.Charlie snoops around the house and is knocked unconscious by Dwayne. Dwayne just wants to leave. Joni wants to stick to her plan. Dwayne and Joni take Charlie out to the forest and shoot him.Slow motion montage of missing child posters, and sad folk music.The police tell Sarah that Ellen has been murdered. They show her a picture of Dwayne, and tell her he is wanted in Texas in connection with two murders. The policeman asks Sarah if it possible that Joni and Robert are together. Sarah is speechless.In the cabin, Dwayne is concerned that Joni is going to meet Robert. Sully is still sick. Dwayne fights with Joni. "You're not keeping the kid! I'm in this for the money," he says. Dwayne is not happy.Joni confronts Sarah in her garage. Joni reveals that she was 3 months pregnant with Robert's child. She lost the baby and was furious when she saw Robert and his family on the TV. "I hate you for stealing him away from me," she growls. They fight and Sarah is overpowered. Joni puts an unconscious Sarah in the drivers seat and pipes the running car's petrol exhaust into the car, in an attempt to suffocate Sarah.Joni finds Robert and attempts to persuade hi to run away with her. Robert demands to know where Sarah is and pushes Joni away. "Robert, you're acting very strange. Don't you get it? We have everything ok? We can start our lives together. This is what we always wanted. You told me you were unhappy." Robert tries to call the police and Joni shoots him in the arm. Robert tries to convince Joni to take him to Sully. He lunges for the gun and it goes off. Robert falls to the ground. Joni runs away.Back at the cabin, Dwayne realises that their plan was about Robert all along. He refuses to let Sully go with Joni. Joni shoots Dwayne. "I'm your new mommy now," Joni assures Scully.Back at the hose Robert comes to and rescues Sarah from the garage. He walks out of the slowly opening garage with Sarah in his arms to the sound of heroic trumpets. He lays her on the floor. "Sarah, breathe!" he demands as he gently touches her face. Sarah tells Robert about the cabin.Robert is determined to rescue Scully. "The only other way out of Storm Lake is across Mackinaw Bridge." "Robert, you, you can't," says Sarah faintly. Robert looks up, determined.Robert powers his boat down the lake, his wedding band gleaming in the early dawn light. He wears a look of grim determination. A distressed Sully and erratic Joni drive out of town. Dwayne is found by the police and arrested.Sully looks at Joni, crying and sick. Robert motors down the lake, parks his boat and stands in the middle of the bridge. Joni appears in Dwayne's pick-up and tries to mow down Robert. Sully squeals and pulls the steering wheel. They crash. Sully runs towards Robert. Joni interrupts their reunion angrily and the Bensons stare down the barrel of her gun. "You used me, Robert. You are never going to use me again," she declares. She demands Sully return to her. Robert whispers something into Scully's ear. "I trust you, ok?" Robert says to Scully.Scully walks hesitantly towards Joni. She stops and dives off the edge of the bridge. Robert follows her. They swim to the motor boat and struggle to start the engine. Joni takes careful aim and is about the pull the trigger. We hear a shot ring out and see a bullet wound on Joni's shoulder. Sarah stands at the end of the bridge, having mortally wounded Joni. Joni falls, in slow motion, into the water.Six months later, Scully is riding on her bike without training wheels. The sun is shining. Gospel music is playing. Sarah and Robert are in the kitchen. Robert looks on adoringly as Sarah rolls out some pastry. "She sure loves that bike. I told her she could ride it into town tomorrow," says Robert. "Look at you," smiles Sarah. "Not a care in the world!" Robert acknowledges that she can't be a baby forever. "At some point you just have to trust her."An upbeat song comes on the radio. "I love this song!" Robert exclaims. He turns up the volume. He invites Sarah to dance with him. Scully skips into the kitchen and dances with her parents. The dancing goes on. They keep dancing. Sarah boogies. Robert pretends to play the trumpet. Sarah does the twist. They continue to dance.They fade away and the words "inspired by a true story" appear.
