A rich and famous self-help guru's controversial philosophy of extreme selfishness is put to the ultimate test when his only daughter is kidnapped and held for ransom.
Patrick Spencer is a legend in the self-help world, teaching a level of considered selfishness that would make Ayn Rand jealous. "Why are we sitting in cubicles, flushing the hours of our lives down some corporate toilet, and not even reaping the rewards! Instead our toil goes to wives and husbands and daughters and charities and relatives who are down on their luck, and other such parasites who would drag you down and keep you from your truest self. They will pull you under. It is you or them." Brian Calhoun is a giant, towering over 7 feet tall. He's also a homeless heroin addict, living in his Dad's old Cadillac, who's been recruited by his dealer to be his thug - paid in free heroin. "I mean, that is like a lot of heroin, a week's supply! Maybe I could get ahead on my bottle collecting...to an addict like me, that's like a dream." Diana Spencer is the disaffected daughter of a famous and emotionally detached father in a support group for her sex addiction. "My sex life was getting kind of dicey. Like if that's what you mean by being a harmful addiction, I guess you could argue a point. I was getting into some stuff with some questionable dudes." It's Not My Fault and I Don't Care Anyway is a tale of Brian, who is coerced by his drug dealer boss, against his nature, to help kidnap Diana and hold her for ransom. It's a tale of Patrick, who sees his daughter's kidnapping as a test of his famous philosophy of selfishness and, despite the threats against his daughter's life, decides not to pay the ransom, . And it's a tale of Diana who, devastated by her father's abandonment, puts a brutal revenge plan against her father into action. Based on the award-winning play by Chris Craddock, It's Not My Fault and I Don't Care Anyway is a dramatically introspective tug on your soul, set to have you question your ethics or bend your moral code in this examination of humanity, asking the question: Does anyone really care about anyone?
Based on the award-winning play by Chris Craddock, It's Not My Fault and I Don't Care Anyway is a dramatically introspective tug on your soul, set to have you question your ethics or bend your moral code in this examination of humanity, asking the question: Does anyone really care about anyone?

