A recovering drug addict takes a job with a documentary crew who plans to interview three subjects who claim to be real life monsters.
When aspiring horror filmmakers post an online casting call looking for "real life" monsters to interview for their upcoming documentary called, The Monster Project, they find three individuals claiming to be a skin-walker, a vampire, and a demon. Meeting these monsters at a remote mansion in the woods on the night of a total lunar eclipse, the filmmakers invite the three subjects to share their haunting, personal experiences. Working on the crew is a recovering drug addict who suffers withdrawal and paranoia. As a person of faith, he fears his friends underestimate the dark powers they are summoning. When the interviews turn deadly, he must battle the demons, inside and out, to escape the house and defeat the rise of evil incarnate.
After an increase in views and a small success in their YouTube channel specialised in staged paranormal manifestations and mock monster sightings, best friends and aspiring filmmakers of all things horror, Devon and Jamal, decide it's high time they upped their game. So without delay, the friends put out an online casting notice for a compelling video-series named "The Monster Project", with the intention to start documenting actual, real-life monsters, or at least, people who believe they are. Shortly after, three eager adversaries of humanity will appear: a manipulative vampire, a damned skinwalker and an incarnate furious demon. Eventually, with a derelict mansion nestled deep in the undisturbed woods and an imminent rare total lunar eclipse, the stage is finally set for the interviews, however, the crew seems to forget that sometimes, one may actually get what he wishes for.
Devon Adams and his friend Jamal stage a fake monster sighting that they record and post online as real. Looking to maximize hits, Devon suggests turning their scenes into a show where they go out in search of real monsters. Jamal calls it "The Monster Project." Devon posts a Craigslist ad asking people who believe they are genuine monsters in Los Angeles to contact him.Jamal's roommate Bryan Jay, a recovering drug addict, records a sobriety video for his parents. His friend Murielle, whom Bryan is romantically interested in, briefly interrupts.Devon and Jamal go to a Navajo reservation where they meet Steven, a reservation police officer who claims to be a Native American skinwalker. Because of a low camera battery, Jamal fails to record the meeting. However, Steven agrees to participate in Devon's interview project.Devon goes back to Jamal's apartment and meets Bryan. Devon briefly has an awkward encounter with Murielle, who was once in a relationship with Devon that ended badly.Tattoo artist Shayla contacts Devon and Jamal claiming to be a vampire. She offers to be interviewed in exchange for a vial of blood. Devon and Jamal convince Bryan to draw his blood. The three men then take the vial to a dead drop in a park. The vial mysteriously vanishes. Devoutly religious, Bryan warns Devon to be careful about what he is getting involved in.Jamal is woken that night by loud banging on his door. On the doorstep he finds a DVD from an Asian woman named Shiori, who claims to be possessed by the demon Baphomet.At a birthday party for Bryan, Devon apologizes to Bryan for previously referring to him as a junkie. Devon offers Bryan a job on "The Monster Project" as a production assistant.Murielle has another angry confrontation with Devon. It ends with Devon offering Murielle a job directing "The Monster Project," which is a gig in line with her career ambitions.Once the party guests are gone, Bryan and Murielle share a private moment together. Murielle kisses Bryan, but abruptly leaves afterward. Out of frustration over Murielle rejecting him, Bryan throws a chair in a fit of anger. Bryan tries talking to Murielle about their kiss the next day, but she says it was a mistake and does not want to ruin their friendship.Devon, Jamal, Murielle, and Bryan arrive at an old mansion that Devon rented on the night of a lunar eclipse to interview the three supposed monsters. Property caretaker Richard tells them that the house was the site of satanic activity in the 1960s. The group briefly has a strange encounter with Richard's catatonic wife Martha, who is bound to a wheelchair.Seemingly supernatural activity plagues the house as the night goes on, making the crew uncomfortable. Shiori, Shayla, and Steven arrive at the house one by one.Steven is first to be interviewed. Steven confirms that to become a skinwalker, one must kill a family member in order to make a pact for power with The Devil.Shayla is interviewed next. Having tasted his blood, Shayla insists that Bryan be the person who asks her the questions. During her interview, Shayla mentions that she tasted oxycontin in Bryan's blood. Livid that Shayla revealed he is still using drugs, Bryan storms off the set.Jamal angrily confronts Bryan over lying about his sobriety. Jamal confiscates Bryan's pills and kicks him off the set. Bryan throws another tantrum.During her interview, Shiori claims that "the bad man" has been with her since birth and promised to leave her if she did the interview. Shiori shows the crew wounds suffered from the demon as the video feed glitches. Shiori starts screaming. The power in the house suddenly goes out.Steven transforms into the skinwalker and attacks. Shiori becomes possessed and also starts terrorizing Devon, Murielle, and Jamal. Steven attacks Jamal and pulls him away.Hearing the screams, Bryan returns to the house and regroups with Devon and Murielle. They find Jamal badly injured.Shayla attacks in vampire form. Murielle is bitten in her neck. Jamal rescues Bryan by staking Shayla, who is destroyed.Steven attacks again, forcing the quartet to hide. They discover Shiori hiding too. Hoping to rescue her before the demon possesses her again, the group brings Shiori with them.Steven chases the quintet. Devon discovers that all of the exits are sealed and everyone is trapped in the house.Possessed once again, Shiori lunges at Bryan. Bryan enters a nightmarish vision in which he is forced to confront all of his junkie friends who died because he gave them tainted drugs.Bryan returns to reality to pray over Shiori. Murielle goes into convulsions as the demon moves to her body. Murielle returns to normal when the demon is seemingly banished.After Murielle recovers, she, Devon, and Bryan find Jamal morphing into a skinwalker. Steven suddenly attacks Jamal. Devon and Murielle flee upstairs. Bryan follows after them.Murielle begins dying from her vampire bite. Devon tells her that she was part of his plan all along.Bryan briefly confronts a robed cultist in an animal skull mask who says, "he is coming." Bryan is forced to kill Murielle when she transforms into a vampire and attacks.Still in skinwalker form, Steven resumes his pursuit of Bryan. Steven knocks Bryan outside from a second story window. After another chase, Bryan ends up in a room with satanic symbols and photographs indicating that everyone else was intentionally sacrificed.Devon, the man in the skull mask, and several robed cultists enter the room. Bryan is captured. Supernaturally empowered, Devon partially explains that everyone had to die on that night in that house as part of an occult ritual.The man in the mask proclaims, "anoint the head of your king." The man removes the mask, revealing himself to be mansion caretaker Richard, and places the animal skull on Devon's head. Thanking his wife Martha, Richard makes an invocation to Satan and slits Bryan's throat.The satanic summoning begins. The camera cuts to black as the house begins shaking violently.
