On the eve of retirement a middle class, judgmental snob discovers her husband has been having an affair with her best friend and is forced into exile with her bohemian sister who lives on an impoverished inner-city council estate.
Approaching their senior years, British sisters Sandra and Bif have been estranged for ten years because of their differences. Sandra, newly minted Lady Abbott in her lawyer husband Mike Abbott having been knighted, does whatever needed to present a perfect upper crust life and marriage, including maintaining a proper decorum. Older Bif is the carefree one, living for the moment, including not caring that her council estate apartment in inner city London is a pigsty, just as long as she can find whatever she needs. While Sandra has no place for someone like Bif in her life, Bif laments what Sandra has become when she married Mike, Sandra once having had a real zest for life. When Sandra learns first hand that Mike has been having an affair for five years with one of her closest friends Pamela and eventually asks for a divorce in wanting to marry Pamela, Sandra, feeling like her planned retirement life with Mike has been pulled out from under her, turns to Bif for emotional support in not being able to turn to any of her friends in the shame. While Bif does whatever she can to accommodate Sandra, Sandra feels like a fish out of water in Bif's environs, which includes the adult community dance class she attends and which is populated by who are her closest friends. Among those is Charlie Glover, who, like Sandra, is going through a relationship crossroads in his marriage as his institutionalized wife Lilly is slowly slipping away from him with her Alzheimer's. In finally opening up to the joys of the dance and making connections with Bif's friends including Charlie, Sandra will have to evaluate her life in its entirety including if she is ready to put her upper crust life behind her and embrace a new life with someone caring like Charlie. Bif going through her own challenges may provide a deeper perspective for Sandra in what she really wants.

