Harold and Lillian eloped to Hollywood in 1947, where they became the film industry's secret weapons. Nobody talked about them, but everybody wanted them. Theirs is the greatest story never told-until now.
Movie fans know the work of Harold and Lillian Michelson, even if they don't recognize the names. Working largely uncredited in the Hollywood system, storyboard artist Harold and film researcher Lillian left an indelible mark on classics by Alfred Hitchcock, Steven Spielberg, Mel Brooks, Stanley Kubrick, Roman Polanski and many more. Through an engaging mix of love letters, film clips and candid conversations with Harold and Lillian, Danny DeVito, Mel Brooks, Francis Ford Coppola and others, this deeply engaging documentary from Academy Award®-nominated director Daniel Raim offers both a moving portrait of a marriage and a celebration of the unknown talents that help shape the films we love.
The lives of Hollywood married couple Harold Michelson, who worked largely as a storyboard artist before moving into production design, and Lillian Michelson, a movie researcher, from the time of their marriage to present day is presented. Although the Michaelsons are not household names, those in the know within the Hollywood movie making business consider them to be *the* Hollywood power couple, both in their love for each other (their marriage against some initial obstacles) and their symbiotic and most often uncredited work in for Hollywood A-movies, they responsible for some of the most iconic images ever placed on screen. That symbiosis had them take reality to turn into the fantasy process of movie-making to turn back into reality for the movie-going public. Beyond the stories behind their filmography and items overriding their marriage, key moments in their personal and/or professional lives, often which melded together, are shown, including: the role that having an autistic son played in their lives; and the debilitating injury Harold suffered in a freak accident in 1974, and the somewhat happenstance and bittersweet situation that largely resolved that physical debilitation a few years later. The history of what was known during the course of her ownership as the Lillian Michaelson Research Library is also shown. Their stories are presented through interviews, archive footage and/or drawings of the incidents largely mimicking such drawings Harold would have done for his storyboards.

