When a group of Burmese refugees join the congregation, the pastor of a failing Anglican church attempts to aid them by planting crops and enlisting the help of the community.
ALL SAINTS is based on the inspiring true story of salesman-turned-pastor Michael Spurlock (John Corbett), the tiny church he was ordered to shut down, and a group of refugees from Southeast Asia. Together, they risked everything to plant seeds for a future that might just save them all.
Based on a true story, a newly ordained former sales exec-turned pastor, gets as his first assignment, a failing Episcopal country church in Tennessee, which has been slated for shut-down. His job is to successfully manage that task, after which he will be reassigned to a church in a major city; a job he and his family are looking forward to. His assignment, and his life, get very complicated and challenged when some newly arrived refugees from war-torn Burma, come to the church for help.
ALL SAINTS is based on the inspiring true story of salesman-turned-pastor Michael Spurlock (John Corbett), the tiny church he was ordered to shut down, and a group of refugees from Southeast Asia. Together, they risked everything to plant seeds for a future that might just save them all.After trading in his corporate sales career to become a pastor, Michaels first assignment is All Saints, a quaint country church with a dozen members. It comes with a catch: he has to close the church doors for good and sell the prime piece of land on which it sits. While developers eagerly eye the property and the congregation mourns the inevitable, Michael and his family look forward to moving on to an established church where they can put down roots.But when the church hesitantly begins welcoming Karen (kuh-REN) refugees from Burmaformer farmers striving for a fresh start in AmericaMichael feels called to an improbable new mission. Toiling alongside the Karen people, the congregation attempts to turn their fertile land into a working farm to pay the churchs bills and feed its newest people. Jeopardizing his family's future by ignoring his superiors, Michael must choose between completing what he was assigned to doclose the church and sell the propertyor listening to a still, small voice challenging the people of All Saints to risk it all and provide much-needed hope to their new community.
