When a mysterious woman seduces Dominic Toretto (Vin Diesel) into the world of terrorism and a betrayal of those closest to him, the crew face trials that will test them as never before.
Now that Dominic Toretto (Vin Diesel) and Letty Ortiz (Michelle Rodriguez) are on their honeymoon, and Brian (Paul Walker) and Mia (Jordana Brewster) have retired from the game, and the rest of the crew has been exonerated, the globetrotting team has found a semblance of a normal life. But when a mysterious woman seduces Dom into the world of crime he can't seem to escape, and a betrayal of those closest to him, they will face trials that will test them as never before. From the shores of Cuba and the streets of New York City to the icy plains off the arctic Barents Sea, the elite force will crisscross the globe to stop an anarchist from unleashing chaos on the world's stage, and to bring home the man who made them a family.
The family has been doing their normal thing. Everything has been cool with them as it always has. All of a sudden, a mysterious decoy (woman) lured Dominic Toretto (Vin Diesel) and enthralled him to the state of betrayal. He betrayed his family and set them to face trials they never imagined to face alone without Dom.
With Dominic Toretto (Vin Diesel) and Letty Ortiz (Michelle Rodriguez) on their honeymoon in Cuba, a mysterious woman somehow manages to make Dom betray the family he has fought hard to protect. Now forcing to team up with Mr. Nobody (Kurt Russell) and Deckard Shaw (Jason Statham), the team must travel from New York City to the icy plains of the Barents Sea to bring home the man who made them a family,
Dominic Toretto (Vin Diesel) and Letty Ortiz (Michelle Rodriguez) are on their honeymoon in Havana when Dom's cousin Fernando (Janmarco Santiago) gets in trouble owing money to local racer Raldo (Celestino Cornielle). Sensing Raldo is a loan shark, Dom challenges Raldo to a race, pitting Fernando's re-worked car against Raldo's, and wagering his own show car. After narrowly winning the race, Dom allows Raldo to keep his car, earning his respect, and instead leaves his cousin with his show car. The next day, Dom is approached by the elusive terrorist Cipher (Charlize Theron), who coerces him into working for her. Shortly afterwards, Dom and his team, comprising Letty, Roman Pearce (Tyrese Gibson), Tej Parker (Ludacris), and Ramsey (Nathalie Emmanuel), are recruited by Diplomatic Security Service (D.S.S.) Agent Luke Hobbs (Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson) to help him retrieve an E.M.P. device from a military outpost in Berlin, Germany. During the getaway, Dom goes rogue, forcing Hobbs off the road and stealing the device for Cipher. Hobbs is arrested and locked up in the same high-security prison in which he helped imprison Deckard Shaw (Jason Statham).

