Recovering after a terrible accident, Dana struggles to regain her life and family when she encounters a malevolent ghost in her hospital room.
Dana Milgrom (Shauna Macdonald) is a track coach and mother who's survived a near-death car accident, only to find herself paralyzed and trapped inside her own body. Forced to communicate via an artificial voice program and hooked to a breathing machine, she becomes convinced that a terrifying presence called Nails exists inside her hospital room. No one believes her - not even her own husband, who think she's experiencing a mental breakdown. As her marriage disintegrates and her grip on reality starts to shred, Dana fights to convince the doctors and staff that Nails is real and intent on destroying her.
Partially paralyzed after being badly injured by a hit-and-run driver while jogging, Dana Milgrom undergoes a painful recovery at Hopewell Rehabilitation Hospital. Dana's dislike of the hospital intensifies when she comes to believe that someone is secretly stalking her at night, which her nurse Trevor Helms dismisses as an unlikely possibility.Dana's husband Steve and their daughter Gemma visit Dana. Trevor warns Steve that Dana may be hallucinating. Gemma meets hospital director Elizabeth Leaming. Steve tells Dana about Ashley, a promising new member of the track team he coaches.While alone at night, Dana experiences another vision of the figure seemingly haunting her room. Dana describes the presence to Dr. Ron Stengel, who is more fascinated by the fact that Dana was dead for three minutes following her accident.Dana nearly dies when the ghost disables her breathing machine. Dana tells Steve about seeing a man with a weird face and long hands. Surveillance cameras are installed in Dana's room. Steve threatens Elizabeth regarding taking better care of his wife. Elizabeth admonishes Trevor about the equipment malfunction, which Trevor blames on the building's bad wiring.Dana seemingly discusses the ghost with invalid patient Ellie, who communicates with Dana from the room next door by thumping on the wall. Dana researches the hospital's history online and learns about the 1984 suicide of orderly Eric Nilsson, who was suspected of mercy killing five children at the hospital.Dana asks Trevor about Eric Nilsson, but he merely refers her to Dr. Stengel. Dana becomes hysterical when Trevor finds scratch wounds on her back, which she insists are a result of the ghost coming for her at night.Dana talks to Dr. Stengel about Eric Nilsson. Stengel reveals that Eric was a psychiatric patient in 1972. Eric's fingernails had to be kept short to prevent him from tearing out his own flesh. Seemingly cured, Eric got a job at the hospital as an adult. He was nicknamed 'Nails' for his unusual habit of clipping fingernails from child patients and collecting them in envelopes. Those clippings made him a suspect when five little girls died. Stengel further confesses that Eric killed himself in the closet in Dana's room, from which Dana insists Nails emerges at night.Over a Skype call with Gemma, Dana learns that Ashley has been spending more time at the house with Steve.Nails emerges from the closet to attack Dana. The haunting vision disappears when Trevor arrives to rescue Gemma.Dana shows footage of the closet door opening to Steve, who only worries that the cameras are reinforcing irrational fears. Dana instructs Gemma to ask Ellie about Nails to substantiate her claim, but the old woman next door suddenly dies.Trevor nails the closet shut. Dana pleads with Trevor to help her escape the hospital, but he refuses to assist her further. Trevor later confesses to Elizabeth that he did see something in Dana's room when he rescued her. Elizabeth refuses to reveal anything to Trevor about Eric Nilsson.Online research leads Dana to conclude that she can see Eric's ghost because of her near-death experience. Nails possesses Dana's computer to show her a video of Steve and Ashley having an affair. Scratches including the words "I miss you" supernaturally appear all over Dana's body.In the basement, Trevor discovers a file for Dana Breiman. Nails supernaturally emerges from the wall to murder Trevor.Steve tells Elizabeth that he suspects Trevor is responsible for tormenting Dana. Dana insists Trevor is innocent. Steve reveals that Dana's file from when she was admitted to the hospital as a child with meningitis was found in Trevor's office. Dana realizes she was a patient at Hopewell during the time when Eric Nilsson supposedly committed the child murders.Elizabeth tries calling the police. However, a supernatural voice takes over the phone call. Nails attacks her.Dana tells Steve that Nails showed her video of his affair with Ashley, sparking an argument between the couple. When the power suddenly goes out in the building, Steve goes looking for Ashley. Steve finds Ashley in their car, but she becomes paranormally possessed and attacks him.Dana warns Gemma that they need to leave the hospital or else Nails will kill everyone. Gemma helps Dana remove her tubes and get to a wheelchair. Nails attacks another patient while Dana and Gemma look for a way out.The women briefly encounter Stengel. Nails suddenly kills the doctor.Dana locks Gemma out of a room so that she can confront Nails alone. Nails levitates Dana and throws her around the room repeatedly until she dies.While recovering in an ambulance outside, Gemma tells paramedics that Nails killed her mother. A vision shows Eric Nilsson preparing to inject adult Dana with a hypodermic needle while she lies in a hospital bed, just as the children were murdered in 1984.
