When a video of his mentor's murder surfaces, an investigative journalist takes action to find those responsible.
Ajay Mehra (from previous Ghayal-1990), after finishing off his life sentence, starts a newspaper called Satyakam. Still dealing with the haunting trauma of losing his loved ones, Ajay manages to make a credible name for himself in investigative journalism. Working with a strange team of RTI activists, ex-criminals and ilk; and even stranger ways of unearthing and presenting truth, Ajay Mehra has earned quite a fan following among the youths, who finds his fearless and unforgiving approach in dealing with all kinds of sociopaths very inspiring. Among his die hard fans are these four teenagers who happened to have received bravery medals from him once. These four friends once out on photography expedition, accidentally record a murder on a camera. The footage turns out to be explosive as it clearly shows two of the city's most powerful people involved in the murder. Well what happens after this is a series of twists and turns where the four kids get entangled and have to fight it out with the most powerful men of the city, will Ajay be able to save them? Will the kids be successful in their mission to stand by the truth only time will tell.
Ajay Mehra after serving is jail term now runs a newspaper Stayakam with his fellow jail inmates who had committed crime due to circumstances he still can't get over the trauma of loosing his loved ones and is under guidance of Dr Riya,Renu a small time reporter was raped by her boss Rajguru and blamed her boyfriend for this Ajay and his team make Rajguru confess his crime and Ajay turns a hero among the youth. Joe Dsouza after retirement has now turned an RTI activist and is very close to Ajay,he soon meets with an accident but four college students Roshan,Varun ,Zoya and Anushka notice that while doing their college project .l Joe Dsouza was murdered and his murder is captured in the frame of their project which was committed by Kabir Bansal son of industrialist Raj Bansal and murder took place in presence of Raj Bansal and Home Minister the four youths want to give the evidence to Ajay Mehra but Raj Bansal gets the news and sends his men to kill them.Ajay Mehra will now do anything to save their lives and get the evidence and give justice to Joe Dsouza.

