In a near future, due to the effects of an uncompromising law on the eco-sustainability of supports, paper has become a rare item, a luxury possession, controlled by the "Big Z": Zimurgh Corporation.
In a near future, due to the effects of an uncompromising law on the eco-sustainability of supports, paper has become a rare item, a luxury possession. Printing is now a crime. Libraries have turned into inaccessible museums. Everything is floating, in a stream of data running in the ether, reaching every tablets and smartphones thanks to a fast net created and universally controlled by the "Big Z": Zimurgh Corporation. On the background of this realistic vision of the future, our sci-fiction/thriller movie is developing, in the suggestion created by a future vision of Turin, still a fascinating, esoteric and mysterious town. A series of murders followed by many clues will lead the protagonist, a British scholar of ancient Italian origins - new Adam and revived Arthur King - to walk on the path traced, so many centuries before, by Dante Alighieri and by the painter Hieronymus Bosch. The brave Arthur J. Adams will discover that the motive of the murders is the unstoppable will to preserve a secret as old as the world itself: the ancestral way capable of leading to the supreme knowledge, to the supreme light of Paradise. Before reaching his goal, our Hero will have to delve into the complex universe of symbolism and to surmount his deepest fears, trying to solve a series of ritual murders inspired to the Seven Deadly Sins. At the end of his investigations, and after passing through the deep catharsis provoked by the terrible murders, he will understand that these latter are nothing but a veil. The other side of the coin, behind which the corresponding spiritual forces are hidden: The Seven Cardinal Virtues. A symbolic and exciting journey, full of dangers and twist and turns, towards our inner knowledge. The path we have to follow in order to regain our original wisdom and our home in the sky. Know yourself and you will know your God.

