The film tells the story of Pedro Poveda (Raúl Escudero), a tenacious and innovative priest who opens paths in the field of education and in the defense of the rights of women in early twentieth century Spain. UNESCO recognized him in 1974 as "Educator and Humanist" and Pope John Paul II canonized him in 2003.
When Pedro Poveda, a young priest, full of dreams and enthusiasm, began his evangelizing action in the caves of Guadix in the early twentieth century, he could not imagine the future development of his intuitions and projects. Throughout his life, these early ideas, these first projects to articulate evangelization, education and social advancement, were maturing, acquiring different rootedness and developments. His dreams, projects, and actions, seed sown on good ground has borne much fruit. Because when the seed falls on every piece of land that welcomes it, the seed becomes one with the land and, without losing its deepest identity; as it germinates it acquires the wealth of the land where it has been planted.
This biographical drama film tells the story of Pedro Poveda (Linares, 1874 - Madrid, 1936), a tenacious and innovative priest who opened new paths in education and pioneered the rights of women in the early twentieth century. In 1974 he was awarded the title of "Educator and Humanist" by UNESCO and was canonized by Pope John Paul II in 2003.
The film tells the story of Pedro Poveda (Raúl Escudero), a tenacious and innovative priest who opens paths in the field of education and in the defense of the rights of women in early twentieth century Spain. UNESCO recognized him in 1974 as "Educator and Humanist" and Pope John Paul II canonized him in 2003.Poveda began his priestly work in the caves of Guadix (Granada) in 1901, a marginalized and forgotten reality at the time. There he sees the problem with education and responds to this situation by developing a broad social and educational movement. This arouses great appreciation and adhesion while, at the same time, it unleashes suspicion and envy in the well educated sectors of society and the clergy.After a painful separation, he ends up in Covadonga, Asturias. With time to reflect and think, surrounded by green mountain landscapes, he becomes interested in the national educational situation and in 1911 he starts a new movement, driven by young women, which would give birth to the Teresian Association, with the desire to train well qualified Christian teachers.His Work spreads out throughout Spain as they open Academies, Residences and Teaching Centers. In Jaen he meets Josefa Segovia (Elena Furiase), the first woman in the city to graduate in education and she would be the first President of the Teresian Association. Josefa will be a key pillar in the development of the Association, both in and out of Spain. Poveda moves to Madrid in 1921 where he combines various priestly duties with social and educational tasks. Pedro Poveda lives in the turbulent Spain of the thirties where social, educational and religious conflicts are exacerbated and even lead to a civil war. In this context Poveda, a man of peace and dialogue, will be a victim of violence and intolerance, leaving a trail of light and hope after his death on July 28, 1936, bearing witness to his faith.
