A francophone S.Q. officer and an anglophone O.P.P officer reunite to investigate a large car theft ring led by an Italian mobster.
Eight years have past since Martin Ward and David Bouchard met in a spectacular way on the Quebec/Ontario border. The two men have remained friends, but time takes its toll and they have not spoken in almost a year. In this chapter Ward and Bouchard must face an important car theft ring that turns out to be a lot more than they bargained for.
Several years after they reluctantly but successfully worked together on a joint Ontario-Quebec case, straight-laced Martin Ward, formerly with the OPP and now with the RCMP, and rough around the edges David Bouchard of the SQ, they who now consider the other a friend from afar, unexpectedly run into each other while both work on the same case for their respective agency in a bubble, David who has been undercover now for three months: busting a stolen car ring in Montreal, led by mid-level gangster Sylvio DiPietro and his 2IC, nightclub owner Mike Dubois. In the process, Martin has to ensure that David's cover isn't blown while the two again reluctantly work together, that reluctance more on David's part as the subordinate partner with the RCMP the senior agency over the SQ. As they work through the case, the one thing that bothers Martin is why Sylvio and Mike would get into the stolen car racket with its lower margins when they have dealt in much more lucrative trade, such as drugs, even as David learns in his inside position that the clients for the cars are willing to pay more than top dollar. Even upon spotting the three clients for the first time, David and Martin wonder what three seemingly nobodies are up to. Things get more complex when another jurisdiction is involved, Martin and David who find that informing the law enforcement agency who would oversee such matters in that jurisdiction is arguably one of the more difficult aspects of the case. Through it all, Martin is working through some personal issues, including dealing with his son Jonathan who ran away and refuses to have anything to do with him. Martin has learned that Jonathan is somewhere in Montreal, Martin who has something important to say if he can find Jonathan and have him listen.

