From their first encounter as teenagers in high school, Scott and Sid seem unlikely friends. Scott is a shambolic dreamer, intent on carving out his own path in life and holding up a metaphorical middle finger to anyone who tries to stop him. He is a quintessential troubled teen: on his fifth high school by the age of fifteen, alienated from his peers, crippled by recurring nightmares and disliked by his own foster parents. Sid, on the other hand, wants nothing more than to be liked. An unconfident, awkward recluse through circumstance, Sid's impoverished and dysfunctional background leave him no time for friends and no money for hobbies. And then Scott arrives in town, and Sid's whole world is turned upside down, as the pair embark on a journey of Dreamchasing, the personal code that they agree to live by. Through persistence and trust, sharing secrets and testing their faith in each other, Scott and Sid become embroiled in an adventure that leads them through doubts, deprivation and demon-black days, from the desolate back alleys of their hometown to the billboards of Hollywood. Fighting against the limits of their own upbringings, outsmarting the local gangsters, always staying one step ahead and just the right side of the law and almost always smiling, their friendship is tested again and again, but they will stop at nothing to achieve their ultimate aim.
School boys Scott (Richard Mason) and Sid (Tom Blyth) are isolated, under achieving and a little lost when Scott transfers to Sid's school as a teen. Sid is the withdrawn, awkward son of an alcoholic mother and absent father, who just wants to work hard, get through his exams and escape into his own life. Scott, meanwhile, is an unloved foster child who's been expelled from multiple schools, rootless and uncontainable. Neither receives much encouragement from their parents or teachers, but as their friendship takes root they find something in each other that enables them to glimpse a bigger goal. Despairing of the compromise and limited ambitions around them, and in defiance of the low expectations that everyone has for them, Scott and Sid write a list of goals and begin pursuing each one in turn to create a better life. The withdrawn, overly serious Sid is inspired by Scott's wild and untamed spirit, while Scott draws strength from Sid's boundless work ethic and determination to get ahead. They become 'Dreamchasers', building their whole lifestyle and ideology around pushing themselves farther and faster than anyone expects. Fuelled by ambition and entrepreneurial spirit they launch two successful businesses while still at school, and by their late teens they're reaching for the stars - even if it means putting themselves in real danger from gangsters and loan sharks. But item number one on their list still remains: 'make a film'. And so they chase their biggest dream yet, in an inspirational underdog tale that's based on the filmmakers' true story.
