An anxious bride-to-be throws in with a broken-hearted guy and a happily married couple for an emergency ride to NYC, learning about each other and themselves along the way.
Two New York City-bound travelers find themselves inextricably linked when a snowstorm reroutes them to an airport hotel in Buffalo. The pair are joined on this misadventure by an older couple named Frank and Maxine trying to get to Connecticut. As their madcap journey ensues, our foursome will find plenty of surprises in store.
Paige Summerlind, a writer for Radiant Bride magazine, is flying from Los Angeles to New York City to spend Christmas with her fiancé, Jack Collins, and to meet his upper crust parents, Susan and Neil Collins, for the first time. In Paige's mind, Jack is living proof of the validity of her latest "checklist" article, "100 Ways to Find Your Perfect Mate", Jack who, checking off *almost* all the boxes, she believes is her soulmate. Her trip takes a slight detour when inclement weather forces the plane down at Buffalo-Niagara Airport. With no end to the bad weather, Paige making it to New York City by Christmas is in jeopardy, which is a problem if only in that Jack's parents are heading off on vacation the day after Christmas, meaning that Paige would meet her in-laws for the first time at the June wedding. Paige ends up spending her time trying to get from Buffalo to New York City with three fellow passengers. Maxine and Frank Harper, a couple married for twenty years, are spending Christmas with their married daughter and her family. Max and Frank may give Paige a different perspective of married life as they are only going through the motions of what it means to be in a happy, functional relationship. And single Dylan Smith, who doesn't seem anxious to head "home" for the holidays, continually butts heads with Paige as he seems to balk at her checklists and pre-planned happy future, he, in the process, seeming to hide some heartbreak from his own past. In spending time together as they try to do the proverbial "planes, trains and automobiles" to New York City, Paige, Dylan, Maxine and Frank may all come to a new understanding of love and how to go about having a truly Merry Christmas.
Rich gentleman Jack Collins is a perfect catch, except perhaps for his stuffed-up parents Neil and especially Susan, who insist to meet his reporter fiance Paige Summerlind before the nuptials at their traditional New England estate Christmas dinner. Alas, her plane is stuck in a storm, so she must share a rental car with charming, resourceful charmer Dylan Smith, single since his heart was broken, and Frank and Maxine Harper, a bickering couple wondering what keeps their listless marriage together. As the car breaks down, they must spend the night in the last two rooms (boys/ girls) of Rudy's motel in a rural small town where Christmas is the general obsession. It provides the couple opportunity to grow together again and Dylan to make Susan doubt her obsession to 'marry well' as if preordained, yet she stubbornly runs off alone after a misunderstanding.

