After a day at work with a male chauvinistic boss, Honey joins a feminist pussy seminar and makes 2 friends. They support each other in their relationships with men etc.
Explores themes of female empowerment through sex, work, and friendship. These women are able to come together through their frustration over male dominance and in fact use their newly formed sisterhood to lean on each other and understand that they must first learn to love themselves before doing anything else.
Meeting at a female sexual empowerment workshop, Honey, Eva and Candy quickly bond over their common issue of lousy sexual relationships with the opposite sex, Honey's which is steeped in her strict "fire and brimstone" Catholic upbringing. Working as a clerk in a candle emporium, Candy believes in the power of the candle to transform them into modern day witches to make their sexual desires come to fruition. Using the power of the candle, Honey just wants hot sex with a man who treats her well, unlike the sexual relationship she, a production assistant, has with her misogynistic boss, action movie star Peter Brock. Beyond the sex which for Peter is all about his needs, Honey stays at the job in her want to become a screenwriter - a feminist voice - the "in" in the business which is offset by Peter denigrating any of her women-centric ideas as non-marketable. Eva, a successful fashion designer whose business started as a home-based hobby, wants to reunite with her artist ex-husband Darren, who flaunts the fact of now dating nineteen year old Chandra. And Candy not only just wants to have sex with her casual boyfriend Daniel, a TED talk enthusiast, but wants their relationship to be a monogamous one, Daniel who has constantly stated not wanting to have a relationship, period. After meeting a free spirited Australian artist named Freedom who she believes may be the one, Honey narrows down their candle powered spell - more of a pact - only to date and have sex with nice guys. What they may not realize is that they have to work on one fundamental aspect of their own selves, that of self-esteem and each truly liking herself, before they can harness their modern-day witchly powers.

