Harsha, a multi-millionaire who has everything, still feels that there is something missing in his life. In an attempt to fill the void, he adopts a village to bring change in the people.
The simple yet, inspiring tale of Srimanthudu is about the scion of a wealthy business family, who is disinterested in merely making money. His thoughts and later circumstances move him to adopt a nondescript village and develop it against various odds. A wealthy entrepreneur (Jagapathi Babu) is a worried lot owing to his son's (Mahesh Babu) indifferent and aloof attitude. He wishes his son to acquire and continue the monumental business empire that he built over his lifetime. But, the latter does not agree to it, stating that he wishes to acquire respect first. His thoughts lie elsewhere. He meets a girl (Shruthi Haasan) and they soon fall in love owing to the similarity in their thoughts. However, when she gets to know his identity, she simply ignores him. When confronted, she chides him that he is too rich and does not even know the place of his birth. She is later revealed to be the daughter of a benevolent village head (Dr Rajendra Prasad). Incidentally that is the same village. Later, the hero visits and adopts the village, financing and taking active part in construction of a school, roads etc. This brings him an inevitable clash with a selfish union minister and his brother, who grip the village in a reign of terror and fear. How the hero convinces his father and embarks on a difficult path forms thus, the crux of the story.
Ravikanth leaves his village at a young age and becomes a rich businessman in the city. Harsha, the son of Ravikanth, has no interest in the money and always feels a void in his life. He falls in love with a like-minded girl, Charuseela, and she reciprocates his love. She distances herself from him after knowing that he hails from the same village but has done nothing to develop the village. Harsha leaves for the village without informing his parents and starts to develop the village. The local leaders find him as a threat to their exploits and decide to get rid of him. Ravikanth learns about Harsha's whereabouts and tells him the reason why he had to leave the village. Harsha is left with an option to choose between the family and the village.

