A personal shopper in Paris refuses to leave the city until she makes contact with her twin brother who previously died there. Her life becomes more complicated when a mysterious person contacts her via text message.
It's been already three months since the sudden death of her 27-year-old twin brother Lewis from a congenital malformation of the heart, and Maureen, a young fashionista, assistant to a celebrity woman and a capable medium, still hasn't made any contact with him. Spending her time between high profile fashion establishments and the abandoned Lewis' house in Paris, Maureen is silently battling with the gut-wrenching grief and sorrow, while at the same time, looking for a sign from her deceased brother after an oath taken between the twins. Aloof, disoriented and still mourning, wraithlike Maureen attuned to the ethereal realm, is inevitably caught between this world and the spiritual, always looking for portals and a sign that would prove her brother right, however, in vain. Unexpectedly, as the days pass by swiftly and the random apparitions become more frequent, Maureen will start to receive strange text messages from an unknown sender who seems to know a lot about her, but in the end, if there is still no sign of the beloved Lewis, is there any point in waiting?
Maureen Cartwright works as a personal fashion shopper for an egotistical celebrity named Kyra. It is a job she dislikes for a boss she dislikes, Kyra who she rarely sees, but it is a job which allows Maureen to stay in Paris, where she feels she needs to be at least in the short term. Maureen's twin brother, Lewis, recently died from a heart attack. Maureen suffers from the same genetic heart defect that led to Lewis' death, it a condition which is manageable in that it need not be a death sentence. Maureen and Lewis are/were also mediums, they not only having a spiritual connection to each other, but to the spirit world, although Maureen admits that she more often followed Lewis who was more attuned to his abilities. They made a pact that whoever died first would send a sign to the other about the afterlife. Lewis' partner, Lara, wants to sell her and Lewis' Paris house to couple friends of theirs, they who want some indication before they buy that Lewis is all right with them moving in and/or that he is not haunting the house. In doing Lewis and Lara's friends and Lara the favor of spending a night in the house for this purpose, Maureen hopes that Lewis may send her that sign. As Maureen continues on with her life, she begins to experience things that she is uncertain are real which could/would mean that someone sinister is toying with her, coded signs from Lewis, something else and/or a combination of the above, the actual source of what she is experiencing which would dictate how she should react.
Maureen is a personal shopper in Paris for Kyra, a celebrity. She travels to European capitals to shop for her, buying clothes, accessories and jewels. Her twin brother Lewis recently died from a heart attack; they shared the same genetic heart problem. They were both interested in spiritualism and believed they had connections to the spirit world..

