An African-German Author loses his memory and is used by a modern National Socialist Party as promotion-figure for more political power over Germany.
The African-German writer Sebastian Klein is one of the most famous Author of Germany. To promote his latest book, he is on reading-tour through Germany and also visits the little city of Prittwitz. But there, the local Neo-Nazis give him a hit on his head and Sebastian looses his memories. Instead he is parroting everything other people tell him. Sven, the political leader of a modern National Socialist Party, recognizing the opportunity and uses Sebastian as a promotion speaker against integration. When Sebastians highly pregnant girlfriend Nina is seeing him on TV, she is shocked and starts to chase him with the policeman Sascha in order to safe him from the Neo Nazis.
The mayor of Prittwitz in between Thüringen, Brandenburg and Sachsen refuses to acknowledge the Neonazi-problem, so dutiful constable Sascha Heinze is ordered to sweep their systematical misbehavior problems under the carpet for PR purposes, but ends up resigning and joining the alas uncoordinated liberal opposition. Invited for a lecture to town, Afro-German mulatto author Sebastian Klein is met at the station, knocked-down and abducted by Johnny and Kalle, idiotic henchmen of local NPD-chairman Sven Stanislawski, who dreams of becoming the next German Führer. Sebastian's concussion makes him ape every word he hears, so Sven plays his 'ventriloquist' to spread his racist theories in the startled media. Nina, Sebastian's jealous pregnant girl, and ex Stella team up with Sascha, to liberate Sebastian, each monitored by another federal member state's intelligence service branch. Sven plan to start and somehow triumphantly command a war against Slavic neighbor Poland by staging an attack from there on a German garrison. Despite needles brutality, Johnny and Kalle get the necessary military hardware, but Sven's Nazi competitors also rush to the thus too realistic battlefield.

