Four friends studying in an engineering college unintentionally end up becoming a part of caste politics led by corrupt politicians.
4 youngsters are on the verge of completing their engineering studies in a village where harmony between members of two castes is in a strained state. When their carefree and bold attitude embroils them in a web of nasty politics from local caste leaders, they are left to fend for themselves among head hunters looking to eliminate them - the means and outcomes of which is detailed by the rest of the story.
The story revolves around three sets of characters: 1) Four carefree and adventurous friends who are college students in their final year of study, including Lenin Vijay, Suresh, Akil, and Karthi; 2) a politician named Kumar who is eager to begin his own caste-based political party; and 3) Ramanathan, a part-time engineering student. The movie opens by showcasing the daily lives of the four student friends. The students soon meet the politician, Kumar, who also runs a roadside dhaba frequently visited by the students.In many subsequent scenes, the students get into trouble with the local residents. In one such instance in the dhaba, the politician comes to their rescue and hence they get in touch with each other. Later that night, however, one of the students is attacked by some of the local residents. The other students become furious, chase the locals, and a fight ensues. Meanwhile, Vijay's ex-girlfriend is harassed by Ramanathan. This is witnessed by Karthi, who confronts and physically assaults Ramanathan and then narrates these events to Vijay. Later, to their surprise, Ramanathan's friends wait in the dhaba to ambush Karthi. Ramanathan, who has little luck with love, yearns for one college student who seems to be the ex-girlfriend of Lenin Vijay. One night, the four friends get very drunk and accidentally annoy some of the caste fanatics. Kumar, along with his uncle, happens to see this and contemplates how to take advantage of this tense situation. While all this is happening, the politician drafts plans to initiate a caste-based political party about which he has been dreaming. The plot reaches a climax when all three sets of characters meet and each of them discovers their mutual interconnections.
