A multimillionaire businessman seems to have it all: money, style and love ... until his rivals look to his past to destroy him.
The couple, Aditya and Siya Singh who control the family business after the sad demise of Aditya's elder brother Vikram. Suddenly, an unknown businessman named Saurav Singhania enters their lives. Saurav, who shows interest in Aditya's company, makes them an unbelievable offer; a deal of spending a night with Siya in return of giving Aditya's company a very big profit. Aditya angrily rejects the offer. What follows is Aditya and Siya's struggle to to uncover Saurav's real intentions. The erotic revenge thriller takes the audience through relationships, love, hatred and vengeance.
The movie begins with rich businessman Aditya Dewan (Sharman Joshi) and his wife Siya (Zarine Khan), inaugurating a hospital in memory of his brother, Vikram. He shares a touching story of Vikram donating half of his liver to Karan (Vikram's best friend) who had a liver issue during childhood.Out of the blue, a stranger Saurav Singhania (Karan Singh Grover), gifts Aditya an expensive car and invites him and his wife for lunch. At lunch, Saurav makes an absurd deal of having sex with Siya in return of giving Aditya's company a very big profit. Aditya angrily rejects the offer.Saurav starts plotting to destroy Aditya's business. At first, he bribes one of Aditya's factory workers to mix pesticides in his cola factory, forcing Aditya to shut down and leading him to put all the blame on one of his trusted employees Kaya (Daisy Shah).Kaya flies to Malaysia, at Saurav's place, where Saurav makes Kaya a deal of giving her anything if she helps him, but she rejects the offer. Next morning, Saurav tells her a fake story of his sister committing suicide because of Aditya. Kaya seduces him and they both end up having sex.Aditya asks Kaya to deliver funds to a politician, in telecommunications. But this is revealed to be a trap, when Aditya learns that Saurav has lied to Kaya, the whole time. On TV, the chief minister says that he had no connections with the person who delivered the money. Saurav calls Kaya to his house and tells her he can help her. He has her phone Aditya and tell him that she doesn't what to be a pawn anymore, and wants to be off of the accusations on her. When Kaya is upset, Saurav comforts her and kills her by twisting her neck and puts the blame on Aditya. Seeing all the evidences go against Aditya, Siya have sex with Saurav. She learns that Vikram was killed, in a plane crash, by Aditya &amp; her in a bid for Aditya to become chairman. Siya poisons Saurav and gets Aditya's evidence of Innocence. Aditya gets bailed.Aditya gets ready to set arrangements for a new project. Saurav enters the building and kills all of his security. After that, Saurav and Aditya engage in a physical fight with both of them getting injured, right at the end, Saurav kills Siya and Aditya and collapses.It is revealed that, Vikram survives the plane crash, handicapped.It is also revealed that Saurav is actually Karan (Vikram's best friend) who enraged over what was done to his friend swore to avenge him. As a gift Vikram offered Siya as a sex toy to Karan. The movie ends with Saurav recovering and a dialogue "Relationships are made of the heart not blood."
