A grandfather, a priest, and a police officer investigate the case of a kidnapped child.
John Biswas is a broken man. His life was destroyed when his precious granddaughter was kidnapped and murdered. Likewise, Martin Das, the investigating police officer, was so shaken by the case that he quit the force and turned to the priesthood. Now, eight years later, a young boy is kidnapped and police detective Sarita Sarkar sees similarities in the two cases. As a trail of clues leads John into the past, Fr. Martin and Sarita race to save the young boy.
John Biswas's granddaughter Angela was kidnapped and murdered by a unknown person 8 years ago.He regularly visits the police station in order to get some information.Sarita Sarkar who is the investigation officer is clueless about the case and feels pity for John at this age.Martin Das who was the investigation officer of the case 8 years ago is now a Priest he had to leave his job as he got the guilt of not solving the case which caused Angela her life.After years the kidnapper strikes again Sarita and Martin team up to solve the case where John to continues investigation on his part.
John Biswas (Amitabh Bachchan) is a 70-year-old grandfather who visits the police station regularly. He is desperate to find the kidnapper and murderer of his granddaughter Angela, who died eight years ago. Police inspector Sarita Sarkar (Vidya Balan) has no clues about the case. But he continues to search for the person who caused it, despite being discouraged by people all around him, and collects evidence one by one at a slow pace.John's wife Nancy (Padmavathi Rao) is sick and uses a wheelchair. Despite personal problems, John is determined not to give up. John also regularly meets Father Martin Das (Nawazuddin Siddiqui), who was a police inspector and was handling the Angela kidnapping case. Father Martin Das tries his best in solving the case, but the guilt of being unsuccessful compelled him to leave his job and become a priest.One day, eight years after that tragic incident, there is another kidnapping, that of a boy named Rony. Everything about it echoes the kidnapping of Angela. Further investigation reveals that the modus operandi for kidnapping Rony is the same as that of Angela. Inspector Sarita requests Father Martin for assistance in cracking the case. Martin supports partially by providing clues and Sarita, with John, start investigating the case.Since the modus operandi was the same, Angela's case file is re-opened. Manohar is then nabbed when, on the instructions of the unknown kidnapper of Rony (John), he tries to flee with the ransom at the railway station. He is arrested by Sarita who interrogates him in the lock-up but he refuses to confess that he had kidnapped his own grandson Rony.In the meantime, John doggedly pieces together the identity of Angela's kidnapper from little bits of information that he collects through his own investigations. After confirming the identity of the Angela's kidnapper, he creates a plan to kidnap Rony. John wanted to seek revenge and justice since Rony's grandfather Manohar (Sabyasachi Chakraborty) was the one who had kidnapped Angela.Father Martin finds out that John kidnapped Rony and confronts him. John requests Martin to arrange a meeting with Manohar. During the meeting, John makes Manohar confess about the crime committed by him in front of the police. Manohar confesses and is found guilty of his past activities. Manohar confesses that he kidnapped Angela since he needed money for his daughter's open heart surgery.It is revealed that Angela was not murdered - while being held captive, she escaped and accidentally fell from a height on to a moving car and died. The car was driven by Father Martin Das, who was injured in the accident.
