A successful businesswoman, Mackenzie, inherits her beloved aunt's inn, and chooses to restore the hotel to its original grandeur only to sell it right before Christmas. Unbeknownst to Mackenzie, she receives some unexpected help from a team of elves headed by the cheerful Clementine, who helps Mackenzie rediscover the true meaning of Christmas.
Because Clementine, one of Santa's elves, helped save Christmas last year and has come up with unique solutions to other problems, Santa decides to issue another mission for her. Santa has several power stations around the world which he is required to use to power his sleigh on Christmas Eve. One of those, the Northern Lights Mountain Inn in Vermont, has recently changed hands with the now deceased longtime owner Grace deeding it to her niece, Mackenzie Warren. The Inn had slowly been declining as a viable beacon if only because of modern resorts becoming more of a public draw, with only Grace's Christmas Eve parties a seasonal staple in the town as the Inn slowly became more and more run down. Mackenzie spent every Christmas with her Aunt Grace at the Inn until she was seven, but had not seen her since, Mackenzie losing the Christmas spirit in the process. As Mackenzie is an estate appraiser, Santa is worried that Mackenzie will only see in the Inn what she can sell, including the property. Clementine's mission is not only to ensure that Mackenzie not only renovates and keep the Inn open, but that she regain her true spirit of life and Christmas in the process, the first step being to hold the Christmas Eve party. As an adult, Mackenzie has solely focused on work, treating it without sentiment as she climbs her way to the top. Clementine has some local known help in the process, including the Inn's two longtime staff, Wilson and Betty. But she gets some unwitting help in the form of Ian Hanover, a single father who is the unofficial handyman for the Inn and who views it as a special landmark for the town not to be destroyed, and Ian's adolescent daughter Jenny Hanover, who has as much the Christmas spirit as Mackenzie did when she was a child.

