When Shiva, the son of Bahubali, learns about his heritage, he begins to look for answers. His story is juxtaposed with past events that unfolded in the Mahishmati Kingdom.
Kattappa narrates the story of Amarendra Baahubali to Shivudu, who learns his lineage as the prince of Mahishmati and the son of Amarendra Baahubali. Shivudu, now Mahendra Baahubali, decides to dethrone and punish Bhallaladeva for all wrongdoings of his past with the help of Kattappa.
Upon listening to a narrative of his parents' love story and the treachery that led to his father's death, Shiva, the son of Bahubali, must claim his place as the rightful heir to the throne of the Mahishmati Kingdom, but first, he must avenge the injustice committed against his parents and people.
The film opens with a brief prologue from the previous movie for those who have not seen it:A severely injured woman who seems to be on the run from assailants, prays to God to save the small child she is carrying. That is when Sanga (Rohini) and her husband, part of a tribe living in the province of the kingdom, save a drowning infant, not knowing the background of the infant, or what the future holds for him.He grows up as Shivudu, a free-spirit wanting to explore the mountains and in the process learns of his roots from the kingdom, and his parents and then realizes the whole purpose of his life and ends up confronting the mighty Bhallaladeva for his rightful place.The PastAt the conclusion of the big battle from the last movie, Amarendra Bahubali (Prabhas) having defeated Kalakeyas, is declared King by the Mother Queen Sivagami (Ramya Krishnan) over Bhallaladeva (Rana Daggubatti), who instead is given charge of the armies as a commander.There is a tradition in the kingdom that the daughter-in-law of the royal family is required to perform a sacrifice every so often by carrying hot coals in a container above her head and walk around the temple to ward off evil spirits. Sivagami carries this out as she is the only daughter-in-law of the family. Amarendra Baahubali proves his might again as he stops a disgruntled elephants that escaped its harness and was charging in the direction of Sivagami. The ceremony was carried out because Amarendra Baahubali was to ascend the throne as King.Declaring Amarendra Baahubali King does not ease the tension between the two step-brothers and rivals as Bhallaladeva considers himself the rightful King, being the biological son of the Mother Queen. As we found out in the previous movie, Amarendra Bahubali is the son of the old King, and his mother died giving birth to him. The Kings brother was seen as too weak and cowardly to take over the throne, so his wife Sivagami, sister-in-law of the King had the conspirators to the throne killed and assumed the throne herself. She was to hold power until one of the two princes proved he was capable enough of taking over the responsibility of the throne.Since Amarendra Baahubali was to take over the throne, Sivagami orders him to travel throughout the kingdom and surrounding areas and become familiar with the people and various smaller kingdoms that existed within the land so that he understood the land and the state of the people he would be ruling over. She also sends Katappa (Sathyaraj) along with him as a companion and bodyguard. In the meanwhile, the Sivagami would prepare for his coronation and search for a suitable bride.During their travels, Amarendra Baahubali and Katappa come across a village that is being attacked by bandits. There they see Princess Devasena (The woman enslaved in the royal court yard, collecting small pieces of wood from trees in a fire pit in the first movie) (Anushka Shetty), take on group a group of bandits and defeat them without much effort, while other, other men from the village fight rest of the bandits. The villagers are being led by Devasenas cowardly cousin Kumara Varma (Subbaraju). Amarendra Baahubali and Katappa also assist the villagers by quietly taking on a group of bandits hiding in the forest nearby. Amarendra Baahubali becomes infatuated with Devasena when he sees her fighting. Devasena is a princess of the Kuntala Kingdom and the sister of the ruling King. After the fight is over, the two manage to convince the princess and her cousin that Amarendra Baahubali and Katappa are uncle and nephew and that Amarendra Baahubali is an uneducated fool who was kicked out by his family for being an idiot. Kattappa manages to convince Devasena that they are simple travelers and asks her to take them in. During their stay within the palace, Devasena manages to figures out AB is not a fool but rather just putting on an act. He flirts with her during their stay falls in love with her and because she enjoys his flirtation does not call him out and just plays along.Back at the palace, Bhallaladeva learns from his spies that Amarendra Baahubali is pretending to act like a fool in order to woo Princess Devasena. He becomes infatuated with Devasena when he sees the picture he received of her. Before Amarendra Baahubali can act on his desire to marry Devasena and inform Sivagami, Bhallaladeva convinces her of his desire to marry Devasena. Not knowing about the burgeoning romance between Amarendra Baahubali and Devasena and feeling guilty for passing over her biological son in her choice for king, she promises him that Devasena would marry her son.Subsequently, Sivagami sends a messenger to Devasenas kingdom for her hand in marriage to Bhallaladeva; however, the messenger belittles the Kuntala kingdom and insults Devasena saying she should be grateful for having been offered a proposal from such a prominent kingdom. The princess in return insults the messenger and turns him away refusing the marriage proposal. Kattappa and Amarendra Baahubali who do not know that marriage proposal was on behalf of Bhallaladeva take the proposal from the messenger as meaning that Sivagami on her own decided to marry Amarendra Baahubali to Devasena. Since Devasena does not know yet that Amarendra Baahubali is the future King, he does not step forward to reveal his actual identity.A little while after Devasenas kingdom is attacked by an organized band of robbers. Amarendra Baahubali is forced to reveal himself as a warrior in order to fight alongside Devasena and defeat the enemy. Following the battle, he declares his love for Devasena and asks her to come back with him to his kingdom as his bride. Devasenas family is supportive and approves of the match.Although Amarendra Baahubali had received an order from Sivagami to take Devasena as a prisoner for insulting her offer, he tells Devasena that he will protect her, and she can come with him back to his kingdom. Once they explain the situation to Sivagami, she will accept their relationship, and it would all turn out fine.Things do not go as planned. Devasena and Sivagami almost instantly dislike each other. Devasena also declares that she will not marry Bhallaladeva because she does not love him and refuses to be forced to marry someone she does not love. Sivagami takes Devasena's refusal as an insult against her, partially because she still feels a little guilty for making Amarendra Baahubali King instead of Bhallalldeva and orders the guards to arrest her. Because Amarendra Baahubali had promised Devasena that he would not allow her to be harmed, he comes to her defense. He goes against the orders of Sivagami and refuses any harm to come to her. The actions of Amarendra Baahubali infuriate Sivagami. By choosing another woman over the Queen Mother, Amarendra Baahubali dishonored not only the Queen Mother but also the laws of the kingdom. Thus Sivagami gives Amarendra Baahubali an ultimatum. He will have to choose between being King or Devasena. Amarendra Baahubali having fallen in love with Devasena, naturally, chooses her over being King.As a result of Amarendra Baahubali's choice, Bhallaladeva is crowned the new King. Amarendra Baahubali is given Bhallaladevas old job as commander of the army. At the coronation ceremony, the people and guards at the palace cheer louder for Amarendra Baahubali when he is crowned the commander, shaking the throne by stamping the ground with their spears. Clearly, they still see him as their King. This only serves to infuriate Bhallaladeva even more. He decides that Amarendra Baahubali must not hold any power or he will continue to be a threat to his rule and de-legitimize him.The tension between the two step-brothers persists as Bhallaladeva uses every opportunity he can to drive a wedge between Amarendra Baahubali and Sivagami. He particularly uses Sivagamis dislike of Amarendra Baahubalis wife Devesana as a factor in driving the wedge even deeper. Bhallaladeva even goes as far as creating situations where Devasena appears to be in the wrong, and Amarendra Baahubali is forced defend her. When Devasena becomes pregnant, he relieves Amarendra Baahubali of his command over the army so he can spend more time with his wife. However, it was a ploy to strip Amarendra Baahubali of any power he held in the Kingdom; this becomes another fight between Devasena and Sivagami because Devasena accuses Sivagami of sitting idly by while her son takes all control. Slowly all forms of power are stripped from Amarendra Baahubali, and the Queen Mother Sivagami has been turned against him by Bhallaladeva. Once the tensions reach a boiling point at the order of Sivagami, Amarendra Baahubali and Devasena are exiled from the kingdom forced to go and live among the peasants.The couple now living at a workers village are still happy with their life having each other is enough for them. Amarendra Baahubali helps the villagers by creating tools for them so that they do not have to work as hard, while Devasena, having gotten further along in her pregnancy is preparing for the birth of her child.Back at the palace, Bhallaladeva still paranoid about the influence Amarendra Baahubali has and comes to the conclusion that as long as Amarendra Baahubali is alive, he poses a threat to his crown. Thus he comes up with a plan that would have the Queen Mother Sivagami herself order the death of Amarendra Baahubali. Bhallaladeva has Devasenas cousin Kumara Varma overhear a conversation between himself and his co-conspirator father, Sivagamis conniving but cowardly husband Bijjaladeva (Nassar). Bhallaladeva and his father pretend to have an argument where he wants to have Amarendra Baahubali killed, but his father pretends to be against the plan. This fools Devasenas cousin Kumara Varma into believing that Bhallaladevas father could be trusted and asks him for help so that Amarendra Baahubali is not harmed. Bhallaladevas father for his part of the plan convinces him that the only way to protect Amarendra Baahubali is to kill Bhallaladeva. When the plan is carried out, and Kumara Varma attacks Bhallaladeva, it turns out to be a trap, and Kumara Varma is killed. Bhallaladeva injures himself and then goes to the Queen Mother, Sivagami. Since it was Devasenas cousin that attacked him, he convinces her that Amarendra Baahubali is the one that sent Kumara Varma as an assassin to kill him out of jealousy of losing the throne and his command of the army.Sivagami, still angered at Amarendra Baahubali's betrayal of having chosen Devasena over her, is now convinced that Amarendra Baahubali would be capable of doing such a thing as having Bhallaladeva assassinated. Because Amarendra Baahubali is still popular among the people, he cannot be killed outright as it would cause lots of internal fighting. Therefore Sivagami, orders Kattappa to assassinate him quietly. Since Kattappa is bound to serve the royal ruler, he cannot refuse the order. The plan is to have a group of rogue warriors chase after Kattappa into the village that Amarendra Baahubali is living in with his wife. While this plan is unfolding, Amarendra Baahubali's wife is giving birth, but Amarendra Baahubali is forced to leaves his wife to go and help Kattappa. Although the warriors are able to injure him, none of them are able to kill him. Amarendra Baahubali kills them all, and it is up to Kattappa to finish the job. When Amarendra Baahubali's back is turned towards Kattappa, he plunges his sword into his back. After Amarendra Baahubali has died, Bhallaladeva comes to gloat over the dead body of at his victory and expresses his level of depravity by hacking away at the dead body with an ax. Bhallaladeva also believes that Kattappa is his loyal dog and in his zeal at having won reveals his entire devious plan to have Amarendra Baahubali assassinated by the order of the Mother Queen. Kattappa immediately rushes off to tell the Mother Queen of what Bhallaladeva had done and that Amarendra Baahubali had never done anything wrong. This leaves the Mother Queen Sivagami in shock having finally realized what she has done.Devasena in the meanwhile had given birth to her son (young Mahendra Baahubali) and while she is still struggling, makes her way to the palace with her new baby and is shocked to learn of the death of her husband. When Bhallaladeva returns, he asks his mother to go to the palace balcony and address the people, informing them of Amarendra Baahubali's death. Instead, she takes the baby out on the balcony to declare that the baby is the new ruler of the kingdom and Kattappa takes a vow to protect and serve him. Bhallaladeva enraged at Sivagami's declaration has the guards attack her, but she manages to escape with Kattappa's help on a boat through the water canals running through the massive palace. While she is escaping Bhallaladeva shoots an arrow into her back (the arrow we saw at the start of the last movie), and she drops into the canal/river, possibly drowned and dead along with the baby. Devasena who is still struggling after having given birth is captured by Bhallaladeva and imprisoned in the palace court yard.Present Day (25 years later)In the present day, Mahendra Baahubali (Also played by Prahbas), son of AB and Devasena is enraged after hearing the story of what happened to his parents. He orders Kattappas elite troops, the rebels he was helping to rescue Devasena (from the first movie) not realizing she was his mother and all of the people from his village to prepare for battle against Bhallaladeva and his army to take back the kingdom.When Bhallaladeva learns of the threat he orders his troops to attack, and he comes out of the palace on his massive chariot, recaptures Devasena and returns to the palace closing the massive draw bridge leading into the palace once he is safely inside.Mahendra Baahubali and his men manage to get into the city by bending long trees and using them as catapults to launch themselves over the palace walls while using their shields to make a protective shell around them. Once the groups make it inside the palace walls, the draw bridge is opened for rest of the troops to breach the palace and take the battle to the courtyard of the palace. Mahendra Baahubali goes directly to fight Bhallaladeva. The fight is evenly matched with both warriors showing their might. While everyone else is fighting Devasena, starts the sacrificial ceremony that Sivagami had completed a long time ago. Obstacles are thrown in her path, and a bridge that she needed to cross is lit on fire, but a pathway magically seems to clear for her to continue her journey around the temple to complete the ceremony. Mahendra Baahubali who finally gains the upper hand in his fight against Bhallaladeva, wraps his fists in metal chains and punches Bhallaladeva into submission. Bhallaladeva is beaten into the area Devasena was held captive for twenty-five years. The wood that Devasena had been collecting was covered in oil when the palace guards lit the bridge on fire from before. When Bhallaladeva is beaten onto the pile of sticks by Mahendra Baahubali, Devasena completes her journey exactly where he lies beaten. She dumps the coals on him setting him on fire.We are taken forward in time to Mahendra Baahubali's coronation. He is blessed by his adoptive mother Sanga (Rohini), and then the Kings crown is placed on his head by his biological mother. The movie ends with Mahendra Baahubali declaring peace.
