Three generations come together in the week leading up to Mother's Day.
Follows the lives of different mothers on Mother's Day. Sandy (Aniston) is happily divorced until she learns that her ex-husband eloped with a much younger woman. Now she must learn to deal with big changes in her life as her two boys now have a stepmom. Sisters Jesse (Hudson) and Gabi (Chalke) get an unexpected surprise from their mother, who is not happy to find out Gabi is a lesbian and Jesse is married to a man of color. Miranda (Roberts) has no kids and is focusing on her career. Kristin (Robertson) is enjoying life as a new mother but feels pressure from her boyfriend to get married. Bradley (Sudeikis) is trying hard to be the best parent for his two girls since their mom passed away last year, but he wants to pretend that Mother's Day doesn't exist.
This movie follows certain people just before Mother's Day. Divorcee Sandy co-parents two sons with her ex, but when he remarries, she freaks out because a woman half her age is spending time with her sons, doing things with them that she usually does. Her friend Jesse's parents show up unannounced and discover who her husband is, as he discovers that she never told them about him--which prompts him to leave. Meanwhile, they also learn about their other daughter's spouse. Kristin has a child whose father has proposed marriage, but she has unresolved issues and he isn't sure how long he can wait for her. Bradley, a widower with two daughters, can't accept the teenager's new interests (such as boys), and he also misses his wife.
As Mother's Day nears, a group of seemingly-unconnected people in Atlanta come to terms with their relationships with their mothers. Sandy (Jennifer Aniston) is a divorced mother of two boys whose ex-husband has recently remarried a younger woman, Tina (Shay Mitchell). Sandy is still getting used to this when she meets Bradley (Jason Sudeikis), a former marine, in the supermarket. Bradley's wife, a Marine Lieutenant, has recently passed away, leaving him with their two daughters and missing her terribly..

