In 1850s Oregon, the infamous duo of assassins, Eli and Charlie Sisters, chase a gold prospector and his unexpected ally.
Based on Patrick DeWitt's novel, The Sisters Brothers revolves around the colorfully named gold prospector Hermann Kermit Warm, who's being pursued across 1000 miles of 1850s Oregon desert to San Francisco by the notorious assassins Eli and Charlie Sisters. Except Eli is having a personal crisis and beginning to doubt the longevity of his chosen career. And Hermann might have a better offer.
The story follows Eli and Charlie Sisters, two hit-men brothers in the pay of a wealthy man known only as the Commodore, who tasks them with killing a man named Hermann Warm. The Commodore claims that Warm stole from him and left town. Eli comments that he finds it suspicious how many people seem to steal from a dangerous man like the Commodore, but Charlie defends their employer. Warm is being tracked by John Morris, a scout also in the Commodore's employ. Morris finds Warm traveling by wagon train south to California with the Gold Rush and befriends him. Warm complains of the difficulties involved in his trip, and Morris helps him by buying him a horse and traveling with him to Jacksonville where, unbeknownst to Warm, Morris has arranged to rendezvous with the Sisters brothers. When they arrive, Warm finds handcuffs in Morris's bags, realizes what Morris's true intentions are, and threatens Morris with a gun. However, Morris overpowers him and restrains him. While he is tied up, Warm reveals that he is en route to California to find gold using a chemical substance of his own devising. The Sisters brothers have been sent to retrieve the formula from him, which he expects they will do by means of torture before killing him. Unable to stand the thought of allowing an innocent man to be murdered for the Commodore's profit, Morris frees Warm and leaves Jacksonville with him. On the road toward San Francisco, Warm reveals that his ultimate plan is to create a Utopian society, free from greed and other social ills, in Texas..

