After a young woman is kidnapped, her captors soon come to realize that in fact they may be the ones in danger and this young woman has a dark secret inside her.
For desperate petty crooks Hazel and her boyfriend Ade, kidnapping is their last chance to finally get a normal life. Their well-chosen target: a filthy rich diamond distributor's young and innocent daughter. For this reason, after six weeks of careful and meticulous planning, nothing seems to cloud the success of this obviously fast and easy job, after all, a hefty ransom of 300 carats of diamonds is a risk worth taking. Nevertheless, as right from the start, the ominous feeling that something is quite off is threatening to send Hazel's fail-proof plan down the drain, the unaware and helpless gang is bound to discover that the ancient evil of this world always lurks in the darkest of places.
Hazel, her boyfriend Ade, Ade's cousin James, and Mark plot to kidnap diamond heiress Katherine within the next six weeks. The expedited time frame worries Mark, who believes it may cause them to make mistakes. Hazel and Ade are adamant about the time frame, as Ade will soon go on trial for the accidental death of his brother George. They stress the importance of both the timing and the need for a flawless execution. Left with no other option, Mark agrees. Six weeks later, the four break into Katherine's house, encountering no resistance and finding the alarm already deactivated. After grabbing Katherine, they return to their headquarters in an abandoned warehouse and chain up Katherine. They are surprised by her dirty and sickly appearance but continue with their plan regardless.Katherine warns them to let her go free and initially refuses to play along in making a ransom video. Hazel convinces her by promising the ordeal will end faster if she cooperates. However, the kidnappers can not contact her parents to make their demands. Hazel sends Ade and James back to Katherine's house to investigate. Less distracted, they realize the house is full of decaying food and smells horrible. James finds two dead, mutilated priests in cellar, and Mark realizes that Katherine's parents have been gruesomely murdered. Both are haunted by apparitions from their past. Worried they will be blamed for the murders, they flee the house after grabbing videotapes from the cellar. On the way back, Ade swerves to miss an apparition of George, and James is assaulted by his dead mother.Back at the warehouse, Hazel and Mark are also haunted. Hazel sees her own dead mother, and Mark sees his dead daughter Sarah. James' condition steadily deteriorates, and the others leave him in a room to rest while they watch the videotapes. The first videotape is by Katherine and details the history of her house and its many unexplained deaths, including that of Hazel's mother. The others are annoyed that Hazel kept this detail quiet, but they continue watching. On the next videotape, a priest says a demon that feeds on grief is responsible for the deaths and has subsequently possessed Katherine. The demon has chosen this house because it is the furthest point in the world from a holy relic kept in the Vatican. Panicked by the demon's growing power, the priests attempt to immolate Katherine, but she kills everyone in the house.Disturbed by the videotapes, Hazel, Ade, and Mark confront Katherine, who, as the demon, reveals that she only needs to possess two more people to be set free from hell. James, infected by his mother's apparition, attempts to infect the others. Katherine appeals to Mark, telling him that if he betrays Hazel and Ade, she will spare his soul and allow him to be with Sarah again. Mark frees Katherine from her chains and delivers the others to her. After hearing their anguished cries, he sacrifices himself to give them time to escape and becomes infected. Haunted by guilt, Ade attempts to reason with George's apparition, to no avail. He helps Katherine escape the warehouse and, to prevent himself from becoming the final possession the demon needs, Ade kills himself.The apparition of Hazel's mom helps guide her to freedom. The possessed Katherine, Mark, and James chase Hazel, who retreats to Ade's crashed van. There, they nearly infect her, but she fights them off. Hazel recovers a lighter from the van and traps Katherine in chains they used for the kidnapping. As Katherine works to free herself, Hazel's mom appears and destroys Mark and James. Remembering the priests wanted to immolate Katherine to stop the demon, Hazel incapacitates Katherine, douses her in gasoline, and sets the van afire. Hazel flees the scene as sirens approach.
