CITIZEN SOLDIER is a dramatic feature film, told from the point of view of a group of Soldiers in the Oklahoma Army National Guard's 45th Infantry Brigade Combat Team, known since World War II as the "Thunderbirds." Set in one of the most dangerous parts of Afghanistan at the height of the surge, it is a heart-pounding, heartfelt grunts' eye-view of the war. A modern day Band of Brothers, Citizen Soldier tells the true story of a group of Soldiers and their life-changing tour of duty in Afghanistan, offering an excruciatingly personal look into modern warfare, brotherhood, and patriotism. Using real footage from multiple cameras, including helmet cams, these Citizen Soldiers give the audience an intimate view into the chaos and horrors of combat and, in the process, display their bravery and valor under the most hellish of conditions.
CITIZEN SOLDIER is a dramatic feature film told from the point of view of a group of soldiers in a United States Army Infantry Company, part of the Oklahoma National Guards 45th Thunderbirds Brigade. A modern day Band of Brothers, Citizen Soldier set in one of the most dangerous parts of Afghanistan at the height of the surge is a heart-pounding, heartfelt grunts eye-view of the war.The film tells the true story of a group of young men and their life-changing tour of duty in Afghanistan. It gives the audience an intimate view into the chaos and horrors of combat as well as the bravery and valor these Citizen Soldiers display under the most hellish of conditions. The film further highlights the extraordinary and unprecedented role that the National Guard has played in post 9/11 wars since September 2001.These Citizen Soldiers are patriotic men and women, one day working 9-to-5 jobs, the next day deploying to the front lines of war. One of them is Sgt. Eran Harrill a born leader, devoted single father, and head of his local Chamber of Commerce. Eran is also a college student. However, when his unit is called up, he defers his education and instead deploys and fights for his country. Using multiple cameras, Eran and his fellow soldiers capture the daily life of their unit, a unit that encountered some of the most violent fighting of the war. Citizen Soldier offers an excruciatingly personal look into combat, brotherhood, and patriotism.This is the true story of the National Guard fighting Americas war when called upon, building global partnerships when asked, and protecting the homeland at all costs.
