Colton West must defeat the lavalantulas once again.
When an unprecedented amount of sinkholes erupt all over Florida, a new nest of fire spitting LAVALANTULAS is awakened... wreaking their fiery havoc all over the sunshine state. Adding to the mayhem, the arachnids have hit the beach where Colton West's (Steve Guttenberg) step-daughter, Raya (Michele Weaver), is taking a break from school. Now an A-list movie star, Colton walks off the set of his latest hundred million dollar blockbuster to save her. Armed with specialized weapons, Colton, his personal assistant, Kyle (James Bellinger), and his best friend, Marty (Michael Winslow), race to save the residents of Florida from these hellish prehistoric beasts and taking on the biggest, baddest one of them all!
On the set for his latest adventure movie, Colton West, now a busy and demanding protagonist, is unaware that his stepdaughter, Raya, is spending a sunny weekend off with friends on the other side of Florida, in Fort Lauderdale. It's been already one year since the last sighting of the dreadful Lavalantulas when, unexpectedly, familiar explosions and massive sinkholes will give birth to the ugly arachnids--only this time--a new wave of a faster, meaner, and more evolved breed of mutated tarantulas can't wait to obliterate the city. Under those circumstances, Colton will set out to protect his family once again; however, with an uncooperative colonel who keeps standing in his way, and his crew stuck in the Everglades, will he be able to do what he is best at before everything is lost?
When an unprecedented amount of sinkholes begin opening up around Southern Florida, a new nest of the fire breathing LAVALANTULAS are awakened - allowing them to wreak their fiery havoc on the Sunshine State. COLTON WEST and his team of misfit film crew members set out to stop them. Now armed with special weapons that were made to literally freeze these hellish creatures in their tracks, only one question remains - can this on-and-off-screen hero come to America's rescue once again?

