An art student taps into a rich source of creative inspiration after the accidental slaughter of her rapist. An unlikely vigilante emerges, set out to avenge college girls whose attackers walked free.
When Noelle, a timid California fine arts graduate student, is invited to a party by a handsome classmate she has a crush on, a vicious sexual assault and a blood-stained reaction will give birth to a totally different woman. But, much to Noelle's surprise, as an unexpected surge of inspiration gradually fuels her stagnant artistic expression, an insatiable thirst for revenge on all those who destroyed the lives of innocent women will begin to devour her. Who shall stand in the way of this seductive, yet pitiless vigilante? In the end, is seduction really a dying art?
Luke Owen, an MFA grad student in Balboa University's visual arts program, invites introverted classmate Noelle to a party at his place. While alone in Luke's bedroom, the couple begins kissing until Luke suddenly turns aggressive and rapes Noelle.Noelle's roommate Skye tries taking Noelle out of telling anyone by saying she knew someone who spoke up about being raped, but the university silenced and humiliated her. Noelle still tells campus psychotherapist Melinda Sanders, but becomes discouraged when Melinda asks accusatory questions about how much Noelle had to drink and whether she specifically said, "no."Luke texts Noelle asking her to come over. Noelle does, but confronts Luke about the rape and demands an apology. Luke refuses, leading to a physical confrontation where Noelle inadvertently pushes Luke over a railing and kills him.Detective Kennedy investigates Luke's death. Discovering that Noelle was the last person Luke texted, Kennedy briefly questions Noelle before ultimately letting her go.While reading an online article about Luke's death, Noelle finds another story concerning Kappa Phi fraternity brothers and football players Mason Fischer, Jeremiah Marx, and Conor McGingley being acquitted of sexual assault charges. Noelle finds online video of the assault in question and sees three men gang raping a drunken girl at a party.Noelle tracks down the trio's victim, Lindsey Shaw. Lindsey initially dismisses Noelle until Noelle explains her intention to focus her new thesis project on the men who raped them. Noelle also meets with a rape prevention peer group on campus, but becomes discouraged that their focus is on defensive measures and online activism instead of directly addressing the issue at its source.Noelle sneaks into a Kappa Phi party, seduces Mason, drugs his drink, and then chokes him to death. Detective Kennedy also investigates this death and connects Mason to the highly publicized rape case acquittal.Noelle's previously restrained paintings become bolder and more provocative. Professor Rudd and classmates including her friend Shane praise Noelle for being less inhibited about her artwork.Noelle returns to the frat house and murders Jeremiah in the bathroom by strangling him with his belt. Kennedy comes to question the other two football players about Mason's death and discovers Jeremiah's body. Meanwhile, Noelle finds Conor showering in the stadium locker room and beats him to death with a hammer following a struggle.While enjoying pizza together, Noelle and Shane begin kissing. Noelle gives Shane permission to go further, but when he makes a move similar to Luke, Noelle recoils and demands that he leave.Noelle comes home to find Skye cutting herself and crying in the bathroom. Noelle does research and discovers that the story Skye told earlier was actually about her. Skye previously went by the name Daisy Aston and was raped by basketball player Calvin Reeves. However, Skye dropped the charges because of the pressure and anxiety that the case put her through.Noelle gets statistics from campus police claiming that zero forcible rapes have been reported. She then steals Skye's case file and discovers psychotherapist Melinda Sanders also handled Skye's report. Noelle confronts Melinda about doctoring statistics to protect the school and its athletic programs, and threatens to harm her if she does not voluntarily quit.Noelle tracks down Calvin Reeves, uses a stun gun to kidnap him, and holds him captive in the center of the basketball court. Calvin begins screaming when police enter the arena, compelling Noelle to stab Calvin in the throat with scissors and flee.Detective Kennedy puts together that Noelle is the link between Skye's rapist and the fraternity trio. Kennedy mentions that Calvin survived and is in ICU while trying to question Skye, but Skye refuses to speak with the detective.Suspicious of her roommate's actions the night before, Skye finds evidence proving that Noelle attacked Calvin. Skye angrily confronts Noelle and blames her for forcing Skye to relive the trauma she was trying to bury. Noelle promises to surrender to police in the morning.Noelle wakes to find a suicide note from Skye in which she confesses to being the campus killer to get Noelle off the hook. Noelle is devastated to find Skye dead in the bathroom.Detective Kennedy interviews Noelle, who is cryptic about the murder victims deserving their deaths. Noelle reconciles with Shane and also burns Skye's confessional note.At graduation, Noelle delivers a moving commencement speech. After the ceremony, Detective Kennedy and the police take Noelle into custody.
