An unsuccessful journalist becomes a star in the media after he wrote an article about the memo of an unknown serial killer. As he learns that the memo was just part of a novel, he decides to cover up everything.
Moo-hyuk is journalist... but actually is not doing very well in his job. Thats why he probably get fired soon and his wife is threatening him with divorce. But just in that situation he stumbles upon a memo of a serial killer. Moo-hyuk takes the chances and writes a passionate article about it which makes him a star in the media. Of course, the police immediately starts to investigate the case, but finds no body. Also Moo-hyuk has no idea until he finds out that this memo was just part of Chinese novel called "Liang Chen Murder Record". In other words: Moo-hyuk has done quite some shit! He could loose his job, his respect and even has to go to jail. So Moo-hyuk has only the choice of clearing his "mistake" or giving the police and the public what they want: many many corpses.
An journalist work as a journalist in a developing TV channel.One day he mistakenly reported a wrong name in the news so he got fired from the office.Then he trying to get a new job but he has blackmarked .One he thinks that he get a call from a girl who has seen the serial killer so he get the scene and there is a note,knife and blood over there.So he got scared and get out from the place.Then he takes the lead to the channel.The channel became the first in the TRP rating then he became a star in the channel .But the police were investigating the case then there are thinking how did he get the story.One day he realised that all the evidence were a drama property.So he trying to cover the mistakes he did by writing a letter like the serial killer written to him so he build up the story the police were believed him at certain points.But the real serial killer were trying to escape from the police so he was trying to make a deal with the journalist that he would kill someone then tell the police to he is the serial killer.Then what happened next ?How he covered his mistakes !Did the serial killer killed someone?This is all turned into the climax

