Susan gets a chance at her first real article, writing about the family angel, which were handcrafted by her great-grandfather. It is said to have a history of bringing people together. Working hard to get the article done on time, she is torn between the handsome, successful Derek and the free-spirited artist Brady.
Susan Nicholas, a copy editor at the New York Courier, aspires to write her own stories for the newspaper, its editor, Yvette Collins, turning down all her pitches stating that none of them seem to have any of Susan's own personal passion behind them. With an open spot, Yvette gives Susan one last chance to provide a pitch in two days for a holiday story to appear in the Christmas Day edition in three weeks. The problem for Susan is that she may not have the passion to write a Christmas story in that she is no longer a Christmas person, she having turned her back on the holiday and on love in general following her last boyfriend, Steve, unexpectedly breaking up with her on Christmas Day two years ago. Susan is encouraged by her parents, Heather and David Nicholas, to write a story about a family memento passed down through the generations, it a wooden angel tree topper carved by Susan's long passed great-grandfather, Owen Thomas. Although it is usually passed to the next generation after someone gets married, Heather and David give it to Susan now to provide some inspiration both professionally and personally. The only thing they know about the angel is that Great-Grandfather Owen carved it specifically for an actress in her likeness, she with who he fell in love, that actress not being Susan's great-grandmother, Maggie. Further, it is family folklore that the angel possesses powers of love. With the pitch accepted by Yvette, Susan now has the task to discover the story behind the angel, the "conclusion" which is a condition of the story being printed. In the process, Susan may be able to test the power of the angel itself. Her head may tell her that the angel is pointing her in the direction of Derek Hamilton, an advertising executive at the newspaper who too is not a Christmas person, but her heart may truly be for Brady Howe, an artist who she constantly runs into and initially tried to avoid as considering him annoyingly "Christmas", but who has vowed to help her get her Christmas spirit back in light of needing it to put her heart into the story.

