An intelligent son of a former entrepreneur takes revenge on a powerful and rich businessman who is as smart as he is.
Abhi (Jr NTR) takes up a mission to bring down multi-billionaire Krishna Murthy (Jagapathi Babu) to ground zero as he cheated his father Prasad (Rajendra Prasad). Abhi's father wants to take revenge on Krishna Murthy before he dies, so he plans a mind game to fulfill his father's final wish. Rest is about the mind games between Abhi and Krishna Murthy.
Abhiram(Jr.Ntr) son of a cheated business man Ramesh Chandra Prasad (Rajendra Prasad) takes revenge on Krishna Murthy (Jagapathi Babu) an intelligent cheater and a business man by trapping her daughter Divyanka(Rakul Preet Singh) by loving her when Abhiram gets to know that his father is going to die in 30 days.
Abhiram (Jr. NTR), the youngest son of London-based Subramanyam (Rajendra Prasad), quits his job and starts his own company, KMC Pipes and Canals. He comes to know that his father is suffering from pancreatic cancer and has roughly a month or more to live. Subramanyam reveals his name as Ramesh Chandra Prasad, one of London's richest entrepreneurs, who lost all his wealth because of a cunning man, Krishnamurthy Kautilya (Jagapthi Babu), who made his empire cheating Ramesh Chandra. He was then forced to change his name to Subramanyam and got rich again after years of work. Subramanyam requests his 3 sons to take revenge on his behalf. His son, lies to him that he has filed a lawsuit against Krishnamurthy in order to pacify him. But Abhiram ends up taking matters into his own hands. He sets a time period of 30 days to bring Krishnamurthy to zero and hires three youngsters who are shown to love their fathers dearly. He targets Krishnamurthy's daughter Divyanka (Rakul Preet Singh) in order to reach him. He uses all methods necessary to woo her, including saving her from a kidnapping and spending every last penny of their family bank balance to buy her a 25 crore worth painting. He finally meets Krishnamurthy at Divya's birthday party. But Krishnamurthy turns out to be aware of Abhiram's intentions.Subramanyam gets admitted at the hospital as his condition turns critical. Abhiram's brothers break up with him after they come to know that Abhiram wasted their property on the painting. Krishnamurthy plants a bug in Abhiram's lair because of which he comes to know of their plans and Divya too comes to know of Abhiram's intentions. She breaks up with him. Krishnamurthy had grabbed a gas project from businessman Kapil Sinha (Ashish Vidyarthi) in Spain, to where he goes with Divya. Abhiram follows them with his group but gets kidnapped by Divya. She does so as she wants to find his plans of ruining her father. During this period, Abhiram regains Divya's love and also gets her to meet her mother in jail whom she had not met since she was of four years and reveal her mysterious dream. Her father had put drugs in their bag during one of their travels, but the airport officials find the bag with Divya's mother when Krishnamurthy and Divya were in the washroom. Krishnamurthy leaves his wife to save himself and his daughter. Divya begins to loathe her father.Meanwhile, it turns out that the painting gifted to Krishnamurthy had a camera in it and that Abhiram too was aware of Krishnamurthy's plans. He finds out Krishnamurthy's bank number and accesses the account, transferring the 35,000 crores to his family account. It is also revealed that the gas land Krishnamurthy grabbed was no real gas land and the gas there was given by tunnels planted by Abhiram's KMC company i.e. Krishnamurthyni Mosam Chese company ('Cheating Krishnamurthy company'). Kapil Sinha is revealed to be Satpal Singh, Subramanyam's friend. Krishnamurthy becomes of the same condition as Ramesh Chandra Prasad and absconds and changes his identity to Subramanyam. Divya and her mother moves in with Abhiram's family but sadly Ramesh Chandra succumbs to his disease. Abhiram still does not cry as he thinks his father will go the day he cries.
