A psychologist engages a dangerous, young genius in a battle of wits -- unaware of the supernatural power the girl possesses, or that her life hangs in the balance.
Dr. Fonda, an unconventional psychologist, is consulted on the case of a troubled young genius, Ellie. Upon meeting the girl in a high-security facility, under the watchful eyes of a roomful of experts, Fonda is surprised to discover the advanced nature of Ellie's intelligence. However, as their session progresses he uncovers just how desperate and dangerous this situation really is...
Prodigy is a rousing Science Fiction story that seamlessly combines the intimacy of a personal drama with the excitement and mystery of a psychological thriller. The tension rises in every scene, before boiling over into a thrilling, action-packed finale. The film centers around Dr. James Fonda, an established psychologist, who has agreed to assist with a mysterious assignment. Upon arrival at a military compound, Fonda is searched by security and issued ominous warnings about interacting with his new patient. Ushered into an interrogation cell, Fonda is taken aback by what he finds - Ellie, a young girl in a straitjacket, firmly strapped to a chair. Fonda is caught off guard as Ellie immediately turns the session into a dissection of his character. Her mastery of language and analysis reveal her genius-level intellect. Undeterred, Fonda plays Ellie's game and proves himself a worthy adversary. However, the true danger of the situation only becomes clear when Ellie claims to have killed her own mother, in cold blood. Fonda confronts the room full of experts who are observing the interaction. they confirm Ellie's confession, and suggest Ellie is more dangerous than Fonda knows. They won't go into specifics, but reveal that the girl possesses certain unnatural "gifts" that can only be analyzed at the molecular level, which will kill her. Fonda is appalled to learn the execution and autopsy are set for the following day. His presence here was nothing more than a last-ditch effort, no one believed his insight would alter the decision. The circumstances are dire, but Fonda won't give up. Fonda changes his strategy. He challenges Ellie in increasingly intense battles of wit and will, in an attempt expose the sociopathic shell she is hiding behind. His tactics yield unexpected results, as Fonda gets closer to the heart of Ellie's struggle, her "gifts" begin manifesting themselves. Objects hover in midair, furniture topples with a flick of her wrist, the foundation of the building quakes at her fury. Despite fear and astonishment at these telekinetic abilities, Fonda continues chipping away at Ellie's tough facade. Fonda's methods begin to win over some of the experts, but he will need drastic results if he is going to prove that the dangerous monster they see -- is actually a scared child worth saving.
The psychologist Dr. Fonda is invited by his colleague and friend Dr. Olivia to analyze the girl Ellie in a military facility directed by Mr. Birch. Dr. Fonda is monitored by experts and must decide the fate of Ellie, who is the result of a failed military experiment. Soon Dr. Fonda discovers that Ellie is an intelligent girl and also a menace since she has powerful abilities and the military intend to destroy her. But Dr. Fonda foresees a chance to control her. What will be Ellie's fate?
Prodigy is a rousing Science Fiction story that seamlessly combines the intimacy of a personal drama with the excitement and mystery of a psychological thriller. The tension rises in every scene, before boiling over into a thrilling, action-packed finale. The film centers around Dr. James Fonda, an established psychologist, who has agreed to assist with a mysterious assignment. Upon arrival at a military compound, Fonda is searched by security and issued ominous warnings about interacting with his new patient. Ushered into an interrogation cell, Fonda is taken aback by what he finds - Ellie, a young girl in a straitjacket, firmly strapped to a chair. Fonda is caught off guard as Ellie immediately turns the session into a dissection of his character. Her mastery of language and analysis reveal her genius-level intellect. Undeterred, Fonda plays Ellie's game and proves himself a worthy adversary. However, the true danger of the situation only becomes clear when Ellie claims to have killed her own mother, in cold blood. Fonda confronts the room full of experts who are observing the interaction. they confirm Ellie's confession, and suggest Ellie is more dangerous than Fonda knows. They won't go into specifics, but reveal that the girl possesses certain unnatural "gifts" that can only be analyzed at the molecular level, which will kill her. Fonda is appalled to learn the execution and autopsy are set for the following day. His presence here was nothing more than a last-ditch effort, no one believed his insight would alter the decision. The circumstances are dire, but Fonda won't give up. Fonda changes his strategy. He challenges Ellie in increasingly intense battles of wit and will, in an attempt expose the sociopathic shell she is hiding behind. His tactics yield unexpected results, as Fonda gets closer to the heart of Ellie's struggle, her "gifts" begin manifesting themselves. Objects hover in midair, furniture topples with a flick of her wrist, the foundation of the building quakes at her fury. Despite fear and astonishment at these telekinetic abilities, Fonda continues chipping away at Ellie's tough facade. Fonda's methods begin to win over some of the experts, but he will need drastic results if he is going to prove that the dangerous monster they see -- is actually a scared child worth saving.
