Stranded at an airport at Christmastime, Ashley Harrison accepts a ride from Dash Sutherland, who has just rented the last car in town. As the pair heads north, their adventures include car trouble, adopting a puppy and being secretly tailed by federal agents, who believe Ashley is up to no good. With a hint of romance gradually filling the air will these two fall in love or will their journey bring about an unexpected road bump to romance?
Based on a novel by Debbie Macomber, this yuletide movie tells the story of Ashley Harrison (Meghan Ory) and Dash Sutherland (Andrew Walker). She is a crafter based in San Francisco who is desperate to spend the holidays with her family in Seattle and Dash is also in a rush to get there. When Ashley inexplicably encounters a problem with her reservation at the airport ticket counter, she turns to Plan B and attempts to rent a car. But there's just one vehicle left and Dash beats her to it. Reluctantly, Ashley takes him up on his offer to join him on the road trip. As the pair heads north, their adventures include car trouble, adopting a puppy and being secretly tailed by federal agents, who believe Ashley is up to no good. With a hint of romance gradually filling the air will these two fall in love or will their journey bring about an unexpected road bump to romance?
It's just before Christmas. Ashley Harrison, who earns a living as a crafter currently in Sacramento but who sells her wares at craft fairs and markets around the country, is heading back to her small hometown outside of Seattle to be with her recently widowed mother, Sallie Harrison, for Christmas. She will be making the trip alone as she is still reeling from the break-up about one year ago of her last relationship, she not having dated since and who is still not ready to. However, something goes awry with her December 23rd Sacramento to Seattle plane reservation. Rather than deal with the airline bureaucracy, she reluctantly accepts the offer of someone else to share what is the last rental car at Sacramento Airport as he too needs to get to Seattle by tomorrow. He is house painter Dash Sutherland. They quickly find that they are like oil and water as they embark on their two day driving trip. And while Ashley is like an open book about her life to Dash, Dash offers little about himself to her in return. As they go on their trip, Ashley is unaware that the problem with her airline ticket was due to she being placed on the no fly list as FBI Agent Sam Munroe, who is the lead on her file, is certain she is a home grown radicalized terrorist. Novice Agent Phelps out of the Redding office is a last minute assignment to follow Ashley and Dash to watch her movements. Bumbling Phelps' actions, in addition to a lovestruck teenaged coffee shop employee named Travis, add to complications in Ashley and Dash's trip. Through it all, Ashley and Dash may discover that the other will change the nature of their Christmas holidays, Dash specifically with regard to the real reason he needs to go to Seattle.

