Explore the history and philosophies of one of the most loved football strongholds in the world: FC Barcelona.
BARÇA DREAMS is the most complete documentary ever to be made about the story of FC Barcelona, one of the top soccer clubs in the world, highly praised for its legendary figures like Leo Messi, the best footballer of all time, the prestigious coach Pep Guardiola, or the man who revolutionized this sport (soccer and football are used interchangeably throughout the entire text) with his innovative vision: Johan Cruyff. The film narrates the soccer club's long road to fame and acknowledgement, culminating in the generation of players of the stature of Leo Messi, Xavi Hernández and Andrés Iniesta, all of them trained in the famous school of La Masía. It also reveals the secrets of a powerful soccer club that causes admiration worldwide and is closely linked to the Catalan identity, making the motto "Barça: more than a club" a reality. It is a genuine emotional voyage to the heart and soul of the club which Joan Gamper, an undisputable sportsman, founded over a hundred years ago. It rekindles the dreams and ambitions of a long list of footballers who sought glory in one of the most admired soccer clubs in recent times.
Here we have a very good documentary movie about Barça, the FC Barcelona, one of the most important teams around the world. It narrates the history of the Club from its foundation, thanks to Joan Gamper, going through a lot of legends of football played for the Blaugranas, arriving to our days. We are in front of a good product, with a lot of interesting anecdotes, old charming vintage images from first years of 1900 and interviews to great players and important staff members who contributed to make of Barça a great team and a great Club. The movie fails in some topics not developed as they deserved. 1) When the movie starts introducing the rivalry between Barça and Real Madrid, there is no mention for the episode most important in this old and long challenge: the "Verguenza of Chamartin", a game played during the Franco era in Madrid where because of several pressure, one says of guns showed to the Barça's players in the looker room from Franco's soldiers, the game finished 11-1 for the Blancos. That was the real moment where the Clasico rivalry bore. 2) There is no mention about the social action that Barça made during the Spanish Civil War, when the team continued to play football under the bombs to try to give to the people an idea of normality, and to fundraises in favor to the Catalan hospitals. 3) The chapter dedicated to the Triplete won by Luis Enrique team is too short, and we have the sensation there is no more time available to go on with the movie.

