Continuing the story of Max and his pet friends, following their secret lives after their owners leave them for work or school each day.
Max faces some major changes after his owner Katie gets married and now has a child. On a family trip to the countryside, Max meets a farm dog named Rooster, and both attempt to overcome his fears. Meanwhile, Gidget tries to rescue Max's favorite toy from a cat-packed apartment, and Snowball sets on a mission to free a white tiger named Hu from a circus.
After adopting the oversized and dishevelled stray dog, Duke, in The Secret Life of Pets (2016), pampered Max's beloved owner, Katie, brings home yet another perfect stranger: the dangerous little creature humans call a baby. However, as an unexpected bond between boy and dog timidly forms, Max finds himself consumed with worry about the defenceless child's safety. Now, the insecure and overprotective dog-dad needs to learn how to be less controlling with the aid of the tough shepherd dog, Rooster, as Snowball, the heroic bunny, and Daisy, the feisty Shih Tzu, join forces to rescue a white tiger cub from the clutches of a ruthless circus owner. Of course, Gidget, the fuzzy Pomeranian, too, has her work cut out for her to retrieve a precious object. Will things work out for the best?
Sometime after the events of the first film, Jack Russell Terrier Max's owner, Katie, meets and marries a man named Chuck. They later have a son, Liam, who Max disapproves of at first due to his rough play. Later, after Liam showed affection and adoration to Max and Newfoundland mix Duke (Max's roommate), Max's feelings soften up to when he becomes overprotective for Liam, even over him leaving for preschool. This prompts Katie to get Max a dog cone from the veterinarian in an effort to lower Max's symptoms due to his fears. Max's luck changes when Duke reveals that the family is taking a road trip outside of the city.When Max's family reaches a farm (it belongs to their uncle Jeff; the family is having a reunion), Max grows unaccustomed to the farm's ways, including Welsh Sheepdog Rooster. After an incident with the farm's sheep, Rooster, who apparently is the farm dog, takes Max out to find one of the missing sheep that ran away. Rooster's teaching and encouragement to Max about acting unafraid prompts Max to successfully retrieve the sheep. Rooster allows Max to stay with him overnight as a result. Before departure, Rooster also gives Max one of his bandannas as a souvenir.Before Max had left, he had entrusted his favorite toy, Busy Bee, to Pomeranian Gidget. Unfortunately, Gidget loses Busy Bee in a cat-infested apartment with one elderly lady known as the Crazy Cat Lady. She receives cat lessons from tabby cat Chloe so she can sneak in the cat apartment easier. With the help of guinea pig Norman, she successfully retrieves Busy Bee, but because she caught a laser dot in the process (as part of her and Norman's plan), she is revered by the cats as the "queen of cats."Meanwhile, Chloe and rabbit Snowball meet Shih Tzu Daisy, who is standing in their apartment. She explains that she needs "Captain Snowball" (Snowball's daring persona) to assist her with rescuing a White tiger named Hu (a normal white tiger who don't speak anything). While on flight to the city, Daisy encountered him being held captive by the abusive circus owner, Sergei. Daisy and Captain Snowball sneak in and find the circus Hu is in. With much difficulty from Sergei's black wolves, they free Hu from the circus. In the heat of the chase, Daisy accidentally drops her flower clip, which the wolves use to track her down.She and Captain Snowball take him to Basset Hound Pops' apartment. Pops reluctantly lets Hu live there at first, but due to his destruction of the apartment afterwards, Hu is kicked out and he, Daisy, and Captain Snowball hide in Max's apartment. Around then, Max's family returns from the trip; all but Max falls asleep. He finds the trio, but not after Sergei and his wolves track Daisy down. Sergei captures Hu and Daisy and goes off escaping in his train moving for the circus. Captain Snowball, Max, and Norman pursue the train while contacting Gidget for assistance in the chase. Gidget and the cats take the Crazy Cat Lady off in her car, in pursuit of the train.Captain Snowball, Max, and Norman defeat the wolves and Sergei's pet monkey, while freeing Daisy and Hu. Max, using his newfound bravery Rooster gave him, successfully infiltrates the train locomotive Sergei is in. The rest of the animals go and kick Sergei out of the train. Gidget, having taken him out with the Crazy Cat Lady's car, offers the animals a ride back home. Life resumes normally, with Liam's family saying goodbye to Liam as he enters preschool.In a mid-credits scene, Captain Snowball creates a rap troupe, which only lasts a few moments before his owner, Molly, enters the room and hugs Captain Snowball.
