While both participating in a production of "Death of a Salesman," a teacher's wife is assaulted in her new home, which leaves him determined to find the perpetrator over his wife's traumatized objections.
Forced to leave their collapsing house, Ranaa and Emad, an Iranian couple who happen to be performers rehearsing for Arthur Miller's "Death of a Salesman" rent a new apartment from one of their fellow performers. Unaware of the fact that the previous tenant had been a woman of ill repute having many clients, they settle down. By a nasty turn of events one of the clients pays a visit to the apartment one night while Ranaa is alone at home taking a bath and the aftermath turns the peaceful life of the couple upside down.
After a forced evacuation in a condemned building in Tehran, the couple of Emad and Rana relocate to a small flat recommended by Babak, a fellow actor in their theatrical adaptation of Arthur Miller's, "Death of a Salesman", unbeknownst to them that Ahu, the previous tenant, was a rather promiscuous woman whose belongings were left behind. And then one day, when Emad decides to stay late for a rehearsal leaving Rana at home all alone, the unspeakable happens. During the following two weeks, in the aftermath of that horrible night's devastating event, the couple not only will it test its faith and endurance, but also the very bond that keeps it together: its love. On one hand, there is Rana, whose life turned violently into a living hell, a life of fear, angst and rapid alienation, and on the other, there is Emad with the unbearable burden of feeling unable to protect his wife, while at the same time, his theatrical play must go on at any cost. However, as the couple seeks peace and a closure, fate will unexpectedly bring the culprit in front of a shocked Emad, who unwillingly, will have to be both judge and jury. In the end, what does a monster look like, and above all, when revenge is only human, what will it take to look into the face of the monster?
In Tehran, married Emad and Rana Etesami are both theater actors, they who have the leads in their theater company's latest offering, "Death of a Salesman". Emad also teaches literature in a boys' school as a day job, he who is well liked by his students who know about his night job. Emad and Rana are not only forced immediately to evacuate their apartment building but move on the spur of the moment when the building in which they live shows signs of major structural damage. One of their acquaintances offers them a small apartment that he owns, the most recent tenant who has just moved out, but many of whose personal possessions still remain probably to be forever unclaimed. When Rana is alone at the new apartment, an incident occurs which is related to the old tenant: Rana buzzes into the building who she believes is Emad, only to find it is someone who was coming to see the previous tenant. What happens traumatizes Rana, who is injured in the process. She also never does see the person in question, but only knows that he too probably injured himself, most specifically cut his foot. Rana and Emad decide not to file a report with the police. However, the incident affects Rana's psyche which in turn affects how she relates to Emad as a man and husband. In turn, Emad becomes consumed with finding the man, whose flight from the scene includes he leaving his car keys in the apartment with his vehicle parked in the building's parking lot. Emad's focus on this matter leads to him not being able to sleep and affects his work life. The incident threatens to tear Rana and Emad's marriage apart, which may be further exacerbated if they have differing views on how best to handle the situation.
After their flat becomes damaged, and Rana, a young couple living in Tehran, Iran, must move into another apartment. Once relocated, a sudden eruption of violence linked to the previous tenant of their new home dramatically changes their lives, creating a simmering tension between husband and wife.

