A young man from the suburbs with no mountaineering experience decides to climb Mt Everest to show a woman he'd do anything for her.
Samy Dhiakate, a jobless young man living in the rundown La Courneuve commune of Paris, is in love with his childhood friend Nadia. She refuses to date him because she doesn't believe he will commit to more than a fling with her. When Samy asks what he can do to prove himself, Nadia sarcastically suggests he should try and climb Mt Everest to earn her love. Such begins Samy's journey.With the local radio station Radio Nomad, along with family, friends and sponsors supporting him, Samy departs for the Himalayas, with no mountaineering experience whatsoever. Although the tour leader, Jeff, is sceptical of Samy's supposed experience (hiking Mt Blanc and Kilimanjaro), he is deemed healthy enought to begin the trek, much to the dismay of the other summiters who have trained extensively for this.Samy befriends his sherpa, Johnny, who helps Samy train for the upcoming gruelling expedition to the summit, in exchange for Samy reading Johnny a romance novel. Every few days Samy calls Radio Nomad to update on his progress and soon he develops a large following within France, of eager fans wanting to support Samy's grand love gesture.After departing base camp, Samy is unable to contact the radio station for a few days due to lack of reception, leading everyone at home to believe he has disappeared. His friends and family are in grief and Nadia realises she always loved Samy. Samy's mum angrily blames Nadia as the reason her son has disappeared.Samy gets back in contact and is surprised to hear about his large following. He reaffirms his goal of reaching the summit and slowly makes progress towards Camp 4, the last base before the summit. By this time, Samy has endured many physical difficulties and many summiters in his group have given up. At base 4, only he and Jeff and their sherpas remain.The next day, Samy slowly starts his attempt to the summit from Base 4 with a new sherpa, Dorge. Back in his hometown, the radio station are holding a live event in anticipation of Samy reaching the summit that day and everyone waits anxiously for the news. Partway up the hill, Samy finds Jeff sitting in the snow, seemingly hallucinating. He realises that Jeff can no longer help him and he must forge his own path ahead.Later, Dorge realises that Samy's oxygen is running out and advises Samy that it is unsafe to keep going and that they should turn back. Samy is dismayed as the summit is so close and pleads with Dorge to let him continue up. Dorge agrees and they continue upwards until the bundle of flags, the mark of the summit, comes within view. Samy runs to it and collapses in joy as he touches the marker, becoming the first Franco-Senegalese man to climb Mt Everest. He tearfully ties a French flag at the marker and poses for a photo. This photo is sent back to La Courneuve, where the whole town erupts in joy when they hear of Samy's achievement.A month since Samy left for Nepal, he returns home to a welcoming crowd of family and friends, where he finally reunites with Nadia.
