A teachers' world is turned upside down when her husband, a successful headmaster, is caught embezzling from their own school. Did he do this of his own free will - or has his personality been altered by the tumor lurking in his brain? As the teacher is assisting an attorney in providing a legal defense, recent neuroscience forces her to rethink who her husband really is.
Mia is married to the successful headmaster Frederik, who is caught embezzling from his own school. But did he do this of his own free will - or has his personality been altered by the tumour lurking in his brain? Mia is desperate to uncover what kind of man she is actually married to. If the happiest three years of Mia's life with Frederik were while he had a tumour in his brain, who was she married to before? YOU DISAPPEAR is a movie about the challenges we face as neuroscience forces us to rethink what we are as human beings.
A teachers' life is turned upside down as her husband, a successful headmaster, is caught embezzling from his own school. Did he do this of his own free will - or has his personality been altered by the tumor lurking in his brain? As the teacher is assisting an attorney in providing a legal defense, she is forced by her neuroscience studies to rethink who her husband really is.
A teachers' world is turned upside down when her husband, a successful headmaster, is caught embezzling from their own school. Did he do this of his own free will - or has his personality been altered by the tumor lurking in his brain? As the teacher is assisting an attorney in providing a legal defense, recent neuroscience forces her to rethink who her husband really is.
You Disappear begins as a courtroom drama about mental health, focusing on free will and responsibility, but it ends as a very different kind of drama, posing compelling questions about perspective, identity, and even narrative. The film is a precise, risky and consistently rewarding balancing act, forcing us to consider our own prejudices and assumptions, and how they drive what we can see and what we cannot.

