Twelve years after the tragic death of their little girl, a doll-maker and his wife welcome a nun and several girls from a shuttered orphanage into their home, where they become the target of the doll-maker's possessed creation, Annabelle.
The manufacturer of dolls Samuel Mullins is a happy family man with his wife Esther and their daughter Bee, who dies after being hit by a car. Twelve years later, Samuel and his wife, Esther, welcomes a nun and six orphaned girls to his home. He tells that only a locked room (that belonged to Bee) and Esther's room would be off limits for the girls. The crippled girl, Janice, manages to sneak in Bee's room during the night and finds a doll locked inside a closet. After she plays in the room, she is haunted by an evil force. What has Janice unleashed in Bee's room?
Mr Samuel Mullins (Anthony LaPaglia) handcrafted wooden toys and dolls. He seems very happy with his wife Esther (Miranda Otto) and their daughter, Bee (Samara Lee). That is, until Bee is quickly taken from them in a road accident. Some time later, the Mullins' open their old home to Sister Charlotte (Stephanie Sigman) and a handful of young girls from an orphanage, in particular a wheelchair/crutch-bound girl named Janice (Talitha Bateman). By this time, Mrs. Mullins has been bed-ridden with a "condition" and Mr. Mullins appears quiet and withdrawn. Janice doesn't do as she's told - which is to stay away from one locked bedroom - but something draws her to enter this room and look around. It's the Mullins' daughter's room. She is led by what appears to be Bee's ghost, and she finds the doll: Annabelle. Strange things start happening in the home. The young girls start experiencing things first. Janice's closest friend Linda (Lulu Wilson) is the first one to figure out what's starting to go on, speaking to Mr Mullins about it briefly. It doesn't take long for things to escalate. Linda manages to get Sister Charlotte to understand the root of the problems so far - the doll - and she confronts Mrs. Mullins. The Mullins' appear to know and understand what's going on, hinting it's been dealt with before; but it's not enough to save them all this time.
In 1943, doll-maker Samuel Mullins and his wife Esther grieve for the loss of their seven-year-old daughter Annabelle "Bee", who was killed when she stepped in front of a car accidentally. Twelve years later, in 1955, the Mullins open their home to provide shelter for Sister Charlotte and six girls left homeless by the closing of their orphanage. Despite having been told not to enter Bee's locked bedroom, Janice, a young orphan crippled by polio, is awakened by a noise, discovers a note saying "find me", and sneaks into the room, which has mysteriously become unlocked. She finds a key for Bee's closet and unlocks it, where she sees an eerie porcelain doll. This unwittingly releases a powerful demon, who begins to terrorize the girls, displaying a special interest in Janice..
Twelve painful years after the untimely demise of their cherished seven-year-old daughter, Annabelle, the grieving doll-maker, Samuel Mullins, and his wife, Esther, open their gloomy home to Sister Charlotte and six of her orphaned girls. However--as polio-stricken Janice becomes infatuated with the silent farmhouse and an intriguing off-limits upstairs bedroom--a strange invitation will lead to the inadvertent release of a powerful dark demon who takes a fierce interest in the unprotected young girl. Now, intense paranormal occurrences defy reason, as Janice and the rest of the home's inhabitants are in harm's way. Has the Mullins' remote haven transformed into an infernal trap?

