When a young businesswoman plays Mrs Claus at her family's department store over Christmas, her life begins to take some unexpected turns.
Meredith Rossman is the uptight heiress of Rossman's Department store. She has made the business her entire life, not leaving any time for Christmas or romance, much to the chagrin of her parents. But when she is roped into donning the store's antique Mrs. Claus outfit to play Mrs. Claus at Rossman's famous Santaville, her life takes some unexpected turns. Through the help of the suit and the charming store Santa, Nick, Meredith rekindles her love of Christmas, the store, their employees and possibly even begins a new love with Nick. He is mysterious, great with children and always there when you need him. Just like the real Santa....wait...could he be? One thing is certain: from the moment Meredith put on the magical Mrs. Claus dress, her life would never be the same!
It's the Christmas season. Harold and Cheryl Rossman have owned and operated Rossman's, a Portland, Oregon department store, for forty years, they treating their employees like family. Christmas has always been a special event at Rossman's. Their daughter, MBA Meredith Rossman, is slowly taking over the store on the want to be a business success while providing her parents more than a comfortable retirement. Meredith's every move has the ulterior motive of profit, even at this time of Christmas. To achieve her goals, Meredith wants to franchise the store with the help of a business partner, Daniel Botchwick, and his associates. Her parents, who don't want the store to lose that family feel, say they will consider the franchise option on the condition that she play Mrs. Claus in the store's Santaville display this year, something that Cheryl used to do. Meredith agrees despite interacting with children not being something that comes naturally to her, and despite Christmas just being a busier time of year to make money rather than a special personal occasion. It becomes a more difficult task after meeting who Cheryl has hired to play Santa, a man named Nick who apparently has worked his Christmas magic for other stores in the Pacific Northwest. Nick and Meredith are constantly butting heads in her want to promote "retail" and his want to promote "Christmas". Nick tries to work his Christmas magic on everyone in the store, including some who look to be having a less than Merry Christmas, such as the display designer Jessie, a single mom who wants her absent ex-husband T.J. in their young adolescent son Tyler's life, and Olivia, the admin assistant, an ex-Broadway dancer who is trying to nurse an injury so that she can get back to the New York stage. However, Meredith may be Nick's biggest challenge, he who may have the special background truly to know how to make her life a little more merry and less corporate.

