After having suffered a heart-attack, a 59-year-old carpenter must fight the bureaucratic forces of the system in order to receive Employment and Support Allowance.
A 59 year old carpenter recovering from a heart attack befriends a single mother and her two kids as they navigate their way through the impersonal, Kafkaesque benefits system. With equal amounts of humor, warmth and despair, the journey is heartfelt and emotional until the end.
Having recently suffered a major heart attack at work, Newcastle's 59-year-old widowed carpenter Daniel Blake has been ordered by his doctors to stay out of any vigorous action and rest, however, after a negative employment support assessment, he is deemed ineligible for compensation, not scoring enough points to obtain benefits. Without any income or a pension, desperate and frustrated from the endless, dead-end conversations over the phone with the impersonal government health-care agents, Daniel will visit the welfare office to make an appeal, only to face in person the draconian civil servants and to be consumed by a faceless system and its bureaucratic jargon. Against all odds, with perseverance and courage, Daniel Blake, as an original, modern working-class hero, he will boldly stand up for himself and for those in need, withstanding nobly the humiliation while reminding that, above all, we are human by default.
Newcastle upon Tyne, England. On the very far side of middle age, widowed Daniel Blake, a construction worker specializing in fine carpentry work, is recuperating from a heart attack. Despite his GP and cardiologist's assessment that he is not yet fit enough to return to work, he is denied employment and support allowance based on the standardized criteria assessment by the government agency. With no savings and no personal support, he is relying on some sort of government financial assistance to help him through this time when he should not be working. As he tries to set in motion the appeals process for the employment and support allowance and as he tries to find any other government program for which he may even be remotely eligible to tie him through the short term until he is deemed healthy enough to return to work, he runs into one bureaucratic quagmire after another, each process seemingly designed to make people like him fail and give up. Through this time, he is enmeshed within the lives of two sets of people. The first is his young neighbor, China, and China's friend, Piper, who are trying to start a new business in today's global economy. The second is Katie Morgan, a single mother to adolescents Daisy and Dylan Morgan. The Morgans have just moved to Newcastle from London solely as that is where there was social housing available. Katie too has fallen into the bureaucratic runaround at social services. Regardless, Katie is determined to make a home for her two children despite her financial problems. Regardless of his own health and financial issues, the former which he doesn't tell Katie, Daniel is equally determined that Katie will not end up in the same situation as him, he doing whatever he can to help her.

