A gay, linguistic professor living in a small orthodox city must deal with the aftermath of a sting operation that puts his sexual orientation in front of the entire nation.
Set in the state of Uttar Pradesh and based on true events, the plot revolves around Dr Shrinivas Ramchandra Siras who taught Marathi at Aligarh Muslim University. He was sacked from his position of Reader and Chair of Modern Indian Languages, on charges of homosexuality. A sting operation was conducted by a TV channel which showed him in an embrace with a rickshaw puller, at his house inside the campus.
This movie is based on the true story of Ramchandra Siras, the chairman of the Department of Modern Indian Languages at Aligarh Muslim University. Ramchandra Siras is a simple man who enjoys music and whisky, and occasionally remembers his wife who left him years ago. He is only six months away from his retirement when a sting operation conducted by people wanting to throw him from his position exposes his sexual orientation to the entire country. It results in his public shaming across the country in the newspapers and on the television channels.A young reporter is moved by professor's struggle and travels from New Delhi to Aligarh to help him. He is able to develop a good friendship with the professor and is able to get him to reveal important details about the incident and the overall ploy against the professor.The gay activists become active across the country. Processions are held in various parts of the country asking for justice to professor Siras. A petition is signed across the country in his favor and the case is fought in the Allahabad high court. His lawyer fights on the grounds that the section 377 of Indian law that held homosexuality as a criminal offense was recently decriminalized by the New Delhi court. Professor Siras wins the case, but his struggle is not over. Ultimately, he loses his life in suspicious circumstances a day before the University receives the letter to reinstate his job and his position as the chairman. It was inconclusive if the poison found in his body was a sign of murder or a suicide.
