A clash of two musical families, where in the end, music is the winner. When greed takes the front seat, manipulations shift gears. A race starts, a race that kills whatever comes across the way, a race that ultimately ends on the losing side. When it happens to a music maestro, it is only the music that suffers. Katyar Kaljat Ghusali depicts the story of the art of music suffering, which is uncannily narrated by a Dagger (Katyar).
Khansaheb has been continuously defeated by Shastri for 14 years in classical singing is often humiliated by his wife Nabila and villagers.Khansaheb also survive's a suicide attempt and has hatred towards Shastri.In one of the annual compensation Khansaheb emerges as the winner as Shastri leaves without singing.Sadashiv a student of Shastri arrives and is surprised to see his disappearance from Mansion where he resided.Khansaheb throws him out from the mansion where he resides now when finds his singing similar to Shastri.Sadashiv then with the help of Khansaheb's daughter Zareena locate Uma daughter of Shastri and finds the reason why he is away from music.
Contest is held each year in the court of an ancient kingdom - of which "panditji" the court singer is the successive winner and as a result is provided a mansion, wealth and a dagger for self protection (and may use it once for self protection).
One day he meets traveling singer "khan saheb" and invites him to participate in the contest. Khan saheb contests and looses each year and is mocked by the public, but this only increases endeavor to win and a hatred for panditji.
in the meantime "sadashiv" a young boy learns singing from "panditji"
Khans wife gives poison to "panditji" and he looses his voice - that year khan performs well and there is no contest. khan gets the post of court singer. Sadashiv unable to learn from "panditji" is told to become the student of khan, but instead he begins secretly listening to khan singing so as to defeat him and is caught and in the proceeding contest sadashiv looses and becomes the slave of khan. as a result gets to hear his singing daily and once he is found practicing khans style and is removed from the house.
In the next yearly contest sadashiv contests against khan in panditjis style but cannot win and therefore switches to khans style. khan prevents the contest from continuing, saying that sadashiv is a thief and demands his right of using the dagger "in self defense as sangit is his life and is in danger". he is permitted but the minister says that sadashiv should get a last wish and sadashiv asks to sing before both his teachers what they have taught him. sadashiv sings a new style combination of both panditji and khans - gharanas. khan is moved, sees his own ungratefulness to panditji and hatred and throws away the dagger.
