Mal, Evie, Carlos and Jay try to adjust to life in Auradon, but Mal becomes overwhelmed with pressure and returns to her roots.
When the pressure to be royally perfect becomes too much for Mal, she returns to her rotten roots on the Isle of the Lost where her archenemy Uma, the daughter of Ursula from The Little Mermaid, has taken her spot as self-proclaimed queen of the run-down town. Uma, still resentful over not being selected by Ben to go to Auradon Prep with the other Villain Kids, stirs her pirate gang including Captain Hook's son Harry and Gaston's son Gil, to break the barrier between the Isle of the Lost and Auradon, and unleash all the villains imprisoned on the Isle once and for all.
Mal is under too much pressure of being royal with Prince Ben and returns to the Isle of the Lost where she comes across her enemy Uma (daughter of Ursula). Uma is angry at Prince Ben for not inviting her to Auradon Prep and creates a pirate gang including Harry (son of Captain Hook) and Gil (son of Gaston) to break down the magic barrier and unleash evil into Auradon. Can Evie, Carlos, Jay and Ben stop Mal turning to her wicked ways?
Under lots of pressure from royalty, Mal returns to the isle of the lost to find her enemy Uma, the daughter of Ursula, has taken over. Uma has a team of pirates including Harry, the son of Captain Hook, and Gil, the son of Gaston, to break the barrier between the Isle of the Lost and Auradon so villain kids can live there. Now it is up to Evie, Jay, Carlos, and Ben to stop Mal from becoming evil again and to stop Uma, Gil, and Harry from breaking the barrier.
Mal struggles with her new celebrity life as the girlfriend of King Ben, putting a spell on her hair making it blonde, and maintaining a princess-like personality that she is uncomfortable with. She admits her issues to her friends Evie, Carlos, and Jay, but they are content with their new lives in Auradon and do not wish to return to the Isle of the Lost. Evie scolds Mal for relying on her mother's spell book to solve her issues. Carlos, wishing to ask Jane to the upcoming Cotillion dance, turns to Mal for help to be honest with her. Mal gives him a sweet that will make him speak the truth, but his dog Dude eats it, magically speaking the truth in English and very frankly as a result..

