A paraplegic computer engineer in a wheelchair starts hearing noises and voices of bank robbers in his basement.
Joaquín is a computer engineer in wheelchair trapped by the imminent foreclose of his house due to the debt with his bank. Trying save it, he rents one room to Berta, an exotic dancer, and Betty, her six-years-old daughter. Meanwhile Joaquín is blocked emotionally by the remembers of his wife and daughter, dead after an accident time ago, Berta lives with the drama of Betty, who two years ago stopped to talk mysteriously. Their at the beginning uneasy coexistence gradually softens, turning in a friendship and a love interest between them, when Joaquín accidentally discovers that a little gang wants to steal a bank it causes that Joaquín decides to watch them in secret. But Joaquín's plan crashes against a couple of secrets that will threaten all the plan provided.
Paralysed from the waist down and unable to come to terms with the deaths of his wife and his little daughter, Joaquín, a self-imposed recluse and tech wizard, whittles down his melancholy by fiddling with electronic equipment in the shabby basement of his dilapidated house. Under those circumstances, however, when Joaquín reluctantly agrees to rent out an empty living space to the exotic dancer, Berta, and her silent daughter, it is not before long that the strange sounds and the muffled conversations coming through the wall will unearth a criminal gang's plan for a bank heist. But as Joaquín summons up his courage to ruin their plot, sudden and unforeseen revelations will drag everyone into a violent cat-and-mouse game where the light at the end of the tunnel is not always guaranteed.
Wheelchair-bound and distraught by the accidental deaths of his wife and his little daughter, reclusive tech wizard Joaquín spends his days fiddling with computers in the basement of his large, dilapidated house with only an aging, sickly dog for company. After reluctantly renting out a room to exotic dancer Berta and her silent daughter Betty, Joaquín hears muffled voices coming through the wall and discovers that a criminal gang is digging a tunnel right under his basement to commit a bank heist. Joaquín crafts a plan to ruin their plot, but sudden revelations will drag everyone into a deadly cat-and-mouse game with an uncertain outcome.

