Personal shopper Gwen's newest client, Charlie, is a high-rolling, workaholic, single father. When Gwen meets his 8-year-old son, Owen, during a package drop, she is saddened to see just how little time Charlie spends with him. Determined to get Charlie to appreciate his family, Gwen makes it her Christmas mission to get him into festive spirit. As she gets closer to Charlie and Owen, she also discovers what she wants for the holidays.
Workaholic single dad Charlie finds shortly before Christmas his regular personal shopper is unavailable. His personal shopping service unexpectedly sends Gwen in her place to Charlie's office where he considers her too scatterbrained and she considers him too much of a stuffed shirt. Charlie's employees reveal they are not personally recognized by him. Charlies's son, Owen, feels alone as his single dad seems hardly around. Gwen's temporary housing falls apart because the married sister she has been living with is pregnant and wants to raise her new family of three as actually a family of three. Charlie and Gwen are both strong personalities at first trying to compete with each other. As they agree to work together he helps her see the light and she helps him see the light. Charlie is currently scheduled to commit to another corporate professional named Victoria. The employees of Charlie's firm alert Gwen she seeks a partnership for corporate profit arrangement with him, not a romantic life together. Victoria invites Charlie and his son to a fad restaurant for dinner but does not notice the son starves and therefore acts out. Gwen takes care of the son and they bond. When Victoria refuses to spend Christmas with Charlie and his son as her future stepson prefers then notes once they commit her future stepson is off to boarding school Charlie finally dumps Victoria. Once Charlie's son would like Gwen as his new stepmother the romantic ending expected takes place.
Gwen Burke works for Giftwrapped, which provides personal shopping services, with Christmas, this current season, their busiest time of year. Just like she does in her personal life for others, she tries to ensure that whatever purchases she makes for her clients are as personalized as possible - whether it be directly for the client or as a gift for someone else - which often means doing extensive research. With her colleague Anna off on maternity leave earlier than expected, Gwen takes over handling the company's most lucrative client, Charlie Baker, a "corner office" executive at Vistasun Equities. Charlie is a proverbial stuffed shirt, putting as little effort into the thought behind a purchase as someone like Gwen puts into it, including anything for himself, his closet-full of plain black and gray suits representative of how unadventurous he is. In trying to get over their antagonistic initial encounters seeing to his importance as a client, Gwen tries to discover why Charlie is as self-absorbed as he seems. What she discovers is that he is widowed for a few years, he having placed his energies into work probably due to the loss, with his now eight year old son, Owen, often collateral damage in not getting much of Charlie's time anymore. As Gwen tries to break through his veneer among things to bring him and Owen back together as a family unit, Charlie, in ultimately seeing the benefit of Gwen's personal touches, begins to see her in a different, more personal light. Their path to a personal relationship has an obstacle in the form of Victoria Dane, an emotionally cold business associate who sees her and Charlie's imminent path a walk down the aisle, arguably more to present themselves as a power business couple than loving husband and wife.

