On the coastline of Windholm one morning 15 years ago the ocean just disappeared. Since then the emptiness has been raising questions and anxiety. The cause of the phenomenon remains unclear. With a new theory at hand the physicist Micha (28) is one of many young scientists who is trying to get his hands on to one of his university's rare scholarships to explore the phenomena. After the many years of work he has put into the project he must once again see how a bold idea ends at the doors of the antiquated establishment - he receives a rejection. At the same time Jana (31), daughter of the institute's boss and Micha's former colleague on the project, resurfaces at the university. This doesn't make the situation any easier for Micha. A year ago she left him and the project and ran off to Portugal. Jana has now returned to put a definite end to her scientific career - but there is something else: Jana has to clarify something with Micha. When Micha decides to take the trip to Windholm to prove his hypothesis despite the rejection and without official permission she joins him. In Windholm the young scientists are confronted with the remains of a village community that has never been able to overcome their trauma. On the day the ocean disappeared - so did all the children from the viallge. But have the kids really drowned that day? Their bodies were never found. Micha clings to rational thinking and only the scientific phenomenon is of his concern. But as his measurements take longer than planned the village pulls him deeper and deeper into its spell. Micha meets Hanna (19) the only remaining child. She tries to rebuild the neglected public pool, guides tourists through the village and is convinced that the kids are still out there somewhere. Jana strikes the thought that it is no coincidence that Micha and her have been lead to this place. Abandoned houses and playgrounds, a small footprint on the empty ground of the ocean, the room of a boy who dreamt of becoming an Astronaut - this is where Micha and Jana have to come to terms with their own past and a loss.

