A filmmaker with a mid-life crisis meets a mysterious young girl who reminds of every woman in his past.
K is a film maker, may be around 45 years of age, who is in a party. It is made clear that he is a womanizer. He meets a beautiful young girl whose mothers name is Sherene who was his first girlfriend. He remembers Sherene as flash back where he refuses her sexual advance on his birthday and leaves her.He meets this beautiful young girl again near washroom where she is changing her top. He again goes to flash back where he had seen a women change many times. He remembers how he successfully talks her into convincing her husband to finance his movie.He goes to have a drink with this beautiful young girl. She being a dancer reminds him of his dancer wife who left him due to his affair with his heroine.The young girl then asks her about how he came up with the story of his first successful movie 8 to 8. He again goes to flashback where he shared a room with a girl whom he never met as he lived in the room from morning 8 to evening 8 as he was working at night shift. This arrangement worked as the girl with whom he shared room had day shift. They communicated with each other through writings. But one day suddenly he had to leave due to his fathers death resulting into no financial support for him. He chose to not meet the girl to keep his memory as pleasant colorful one as meeting her will spoil that feeling. Otherwise he would not have made the movie 8 to 8 so successfully. He compromises real life opportunity to come up with a good movie.He again goes to flash back where he drugs his maid and take help to write his version of movie Devdas.Later he remembers the time when he is in US for film festival due to his successful movie and how he spent time with a girl there. He succeeds to go to her house in spite of her earlier anger due to his blunt approach.When this beautiful young girl approaches him sexually, he remembers how one of his girlfriend who was also his earlier movies heroine wanted to become pregnant but he refused. He thought that she was too young to become pregnant but too old to act in his new movie.He later remembers how he refused to marry a girlfriend and how his carelessness caused an accident costing her life.The dressing of the young beautiful girl in his room reminds him of one of his girlfriend who deflowered him and discouraged him to do something on his own. She takes an aggressive interview which was enough to break him.He then tells this young beautiful girl that he thinks that she is not real as he doesnt even know her name. He only knew that her mothers name is Sherene. She says that he should ask who is he instead of asking who is she.He then remembers how he got attracted to a woman much older than him when he was very young and was in Tamil Nadu as his dad who was in military got transferred there. Actually that woman used him to get a prey for her husband to get anal sex on K.K finds out this beautiful young girls name which was Aastha. He stills misses Sherene and talks to her in his imagination. Aastha gives her a watch as gift which she claims is a time travel machine.K uses it and to his surprise it really worked. He reaches that women in Tamil Nadu where he apologizes her for running away. Actually she had killed her husband for protecting K. When he asks how she took care of the dead body, she reveals that she made biryani out of the dead body.
