Leah's (Holly Marie Combs) surprise enrollment in a conflict management class pushes her to develop friendship, love and inner strength.
Leah Townsend has always been a people pleaser. From her childhood as a senator's daughter to her career as a successful author, Leah goes out of her way to avoid conflict. So strong is her desire to keep the people around her happy that Leah is also too afraid to let her longtime boyfriend Edward Crouse know that their relationship is in a rut-the same date night, at the same restaurant, with the same food, week in and week out. And to top it all off, her second novel is proving much more difficult to write than the first. When Leah and Edward have a minor disagreement at Edward's faculty party (it barely qualifies as a spat) Edward enrolls her in a group conflict resolution class. There, she meets Cinco Dublin, a shock-jock radio host attending the class by court order. His family has a prickly past with the Townsends: Cinco Sr., a renowned journalist, went toe-to-toe with Senator Townsend when he was in office and the bad blood still remains. Leah bristles at Cinco's brashness and can't see past the scathing review he gave her debut novel. As they meet for conflict resolution class each week, Leah sees some cracks in Cinco's façade, but can't get past their differences. She finds herself torn between two men: dependable Edward, loving even if he is predictable; and Cinco with all his bluster, who makes Leah feel alive. As Leah learns how to be comfortable with conflict in her daily life, can she resolve the one deep within her heart?
Lea Townshend avoids conflict at all cost in wanting everyone to be happy, not realizing that in being a doormat she isn't happy herself. She will often lie rather that tell the truth to avoid that conflict. Having dated her college professor boyfriend Edward Krause now for two years, she will always defer to his wishes, despite often wanting something totally different than what his staid and predictable self wants. An author whose successful first book was based on herself and her senator father Douglas Townshend who has always had to tread a fine line between the political left and political right, she is told by her publisher JR Thompson that the problem with her second book, for which she's submitted her first complete manuscript, is that the lead character, while interesting, has no conflict in her life. Sensing something isn't quite right in their relationship, Edward signs Lea up for a conflict management class. Among the class of six is radio shock jock Cinco Dublin, court-ordered to take the class, he who panned Lea's first book as saccharin, and who, in the very nature of his business, is the antithesis of Lea in being purposefully provocative. While Lea doesn't fall far off her father's tree, Cinco also doesn't fall far off his father's tree, he a successful and respected journalist, their relationship characterized by fights for the sake of fights. Although resistant at first, Lea may find that the class will truly show her who she truly wants to be in relation to her father, to Edward, to JR, and most importantly to Cinco.

