Two strangers who both happen to be in marketing, share a room at a bed-and-breakfast when a snowstorm strands their flight in Montana on Christmas Eve.
After getting dumped by her boyfriend right before Christmas, a woman decides to fly home to Connecticut for the holidays. But due to bad weather, her flight is diverted to Montana and she ends up sharing the last available hotel room with a man she met on the plane.
Two travelers form an antagonistic relationship while on a plane which gets diverted to Bozeman. He is in a long distance relationship (LDR), and she has just been dumped. In Montana, hotel accommodations are sparse and the female gets the last opening and is encourage to be friendly to the male, whom she invites to share her room. That room turns out to be the hotel's honeymoon suite. They get through an awkward night and morning, and then spend the day having breakfast and discussing their lives while enjoying the town's fair. They discover they are both in the ad and marketing industry in Los Angeles, and have similar interests and likes. They are forced to spend another night there due to bad weather and attend the town's Christmas Eve's dance contest. After mixed and bad feelings emerge, the two eventually get back to the airport and fly to their destinations, with the male now having romantic thoughts but of opportunity lost. After their holidays (in CT and Boston), they separately arrive back to Los Angeles, he calling her business phone several times hoping she'll pick up. Then on New Year's eve, with each being urged to attend a random New Years Eve party, they run into each other, and their love and relationship can now freely blossom since he had ended the LDR when he was in Boston.
Los Angeles a few days before Christmas. Instead of moving in with Brian, her boyfriend of one year as was the plan rather than go home to Connecticut for the holidays, Stephanie Hunt is dumped, Brian believing the decision to move in together being a band-aid solution to their relationship problems. This last minute proclamation not only ruins Stephanie's Christmas, but leaves her homeless as her roommate Kate has already rented out her room. So she makes a last minute decision to head home for the holidays so as not to wallow in her anger alone. For two years, Michael Nolan has had a long distance relationship with his girlfriend of five years, Courtney Carson, he flying back to Boston once a month to be with her. If he can find the perfect ring, he is planning on asking her to marry him, more as what seems to be the next logical step in their relationship and as a measure to convince her to move to Los Angeles. Stephanie and Michael's initial meeting at LAX is an antagonistic one, which continues as seat-mates on the same flight to Boston. Overhearing the other's telephone conversations, Stephanie and Michael learn of the other's personal situation, about which each seems to have a clearer understanding than what is happening in his/her own life. Their time together is extended as their flight is rerouted to Bozeman, Montana due to weather issues, which threatens them making it back to New England in time for Christmas. While they try to steer clear of each other, others can see what they initially can't, that the other may truly be who they are looking for in life. Beyond some help by a guardian angel named Noel, Stephanie and Michael may have to look deep into their hearts to come to that same understanding.
Gentleman marketeer boards an LAX flight for the Christmas edition of his monthly visit to his fiancee since childhood back in New England. Having graciously offered his first class seat to an elderly passenger, he lands in coach next to rude, loudly bitching PR employee Stephanie Michelle Hunt, whose latest fiance finally dumped her too after two unsatisfactory years, and who assumes him another male chauvinist liar. As terrible weather forces all flights east to be stopped, they must spend the night in Montana. Sharing a room in a quaint small town's only hotel, they get acquainted and take stock of deficient love lives.

