A high-powered executive lies about her career on her dating profile, while her match also hides his true identity.
Real estate mogul Kate has a stuffy proper boyfriend but no social life. Jack, a pediatric R.N., can't compete with doctors in the dating scene. Kate's assistant Debbie builds Kate an online dating profile, using her own name. Jack starts his own profile but his buddy changes his occupation to physician, not realizing that there is a genuine Dr. Jack Cooper. The couple is matched, and start getting to know each other...but just who is it they are getting to know?
Workaholic thirty-something Katherine Benson is managing partner of the Chicago-based real estate investment firm Benson Alliance, which she co-founded with her father, Edward Benson, who has guided her her entire life. Although having been in a casual relationship for six months with Charles Hodges, she is wary of commitment with anyone. Men are either intimidated by her success and thus don't even see her as potential date material, or as she fears with men like Charles are looking at her personally in some professional motive, in Charles' case in wanting a corporate merger. That view of men and dating is unlike her executive assistant, Debbie Kelvin, who has several men on the go in her easy-going manner. Meanwhile, thirty-something Jack Cooper is an RN at Chicago West Medical Center, being an RN his choice of career rather than being a failed doctor which most people assume. He and his orderly best friend, Reggie Le Duca, lament that women chase after doctors regardless of who the doctor is as a person, although Reggie is more apt to embellish (i.e. lie) about his life to get dates. Debbie convinces Katherine to try online dating, being "Debbie" in name and occupation to get a foot in the door with anyone in who she may be interested. Jack, too, decides to create a profile on the same dating site, unknown to him Reggie submitting the profile with the occupation "medical doctor" instead of RN. Through the site, Katherine and Jack meet. In the process of getting to know each other, Jack discovers what Reggie did to his profile, which Jack fails to correct on Katherine's first mention of him being a doctor. As Katherine and Jack start to fall for each other, each has every intention of telling the other the truth about him/herself, which gets more difficult as time goes one in not wanting to ruin their connection. But their relationship could nonetheless be threatened if they find out the truth by other means, with people like Charles having an ulterior motive when he learns Katherine is dating someone else, and Edward wanting his daughter to marry someone like Charles.

