A female bodyguard is hired to protect an heiress on the run from assassins.
Hired to protect a pampered mining heiress Zoe (Sophie Nélisse), bodyguard Sam (Noomi Rapace) finds herself tangled in a deadly conspiracy. When attackers target the heiress she's protecting, battle-hardened bodyguard Sam scrambles to save her client - and teach her how to fight back.
"Crew" begins when a group of bad guys tries to kill several members of the press while traveling in the Moroccan desert. Luckily the journalists are being protected by Sam, a bodyguard. Noomi Rapace plays Sam and she creatively kills all the bad guys. This opening sequence tells us who Sam is while showing her ability to adapt to violent situations. Following this 5-minute tease, the title is shown.The film then cuts to a funeral service attended by Zoe Hassine (played by Canadian actress Sophie Nélisse). The funeral is her father's and afterward his lawyer reads the will bequeathing all his shares in Hassine Mines to Zoe. Hassine Mines is in negotiations with Sikong Industries to purchase Zambia's phosphate reserves. If the negotiations are successful it would make a lot of money for the company. It would also make Zoe a target for kidnapping and ransom (K&amp;R).Zoe's mother Rima (Indira Varma) recognizes this and hires Sam for one day to protect and take Zoe home to be safe. Except home doesn't turn out to be safe. After dark, a small group breaks in and attempts to kidnap Zoe. Sam fights them off but realizes that Zoe is vulnerable decides to stay beyond her contract to protect her.The Moroccan police come to the rescue. Things aren't what they appear to be and the corrupt police also attempt to kidnap Zoe. Sam eliminates them also and the two hide in Casablanca while deciding where to go. The safest thing to do is to leave Morocco. The last half of "Close" follows Sam and Zoe as they try to leave.Complicating the escape is the ever-changing cast of bad guys. It isn't revealed until the final 10 minutes who the real bad guys are. Again, corporate greed (Sikong Industries) proves to be the evil doer and all ends well. Bloody but well.
