A blind man seeks revenge against a corrupt politician and his brother after his wife is raped and killed.
This is the story of a man who lived, laughed and loved just like everyone in this world. Until one day, a terrible tragedy struck. Driven by the fire of vengeance, nothing will stop him. Not even the fact that he has been blind since birth.
Rohan Bhatnagar and Supriya are visually impaired couple.Rohan is a dubbing artiste and Supriya is a homemaker life is going well for them until Supriya is raped by Amit and Wasim.Amit is the younger brother of powerful politician Shellar following which he is set free for his crime.Supriya commits suicide after the incident.Rohan is shattered by her death. The police system being in hands of Shellar cant give him justice so Rohan plans his own revenge.
Rohan is a kind, happy young man who has been blind since birth and works as a voice-over artist for a living. Through friends, he meets Supriya, a working woman who is also blind, but proudly independent. The two start liking each other and get married.One night, on their way back home after dining out, they are harassed by Amit Shellar, a local goon and younger brother of Madhavrao Shellar, a well-known politician. He and his friend Wasim, drunkenly misbehave with the couple, enraging Rohan, and they have a heated exchange.The next morning while Rohan is at work, Amit and Wasim sneak into the house and brutally rape Supriya. A horrified Rohan immediately calls the police; Officer Chaubey advises him to get his wife medically examined in 24 hours to prove the assault. While Rohan and Supriya are on their way to the clinic, they are kidnapped by Shellar's men and held captive for 36 hours. After being set free, Rohan and Supriya are chastised by police for the delay in getting Supriya clinically examined, and both are accused of being liars. Feeling dejected, betrayed by the police and helpless, they return home. Supriya valiantly tries to keep things normal for Rohan and her but much to her dismay, Rohan slips into silence. He blames himself and his disability for the injustice that Supriya is being subjected to. Supriya tries to talk him out of his self loathe but he remains silent.The next day, Rohan returns early from work to apologise to Supriya for not being as supportive as he should have, only to find her corpse, hanging from the ceiling fan. Post her cremation, Madhavrao visits Rohan and reveals that his brother Amit raped Supriya not once but twice. Rohan finds Supriya's braille note, which ascertains that Amit had raped her a second time; this second assault led her to commit suicide. Shattered by this new information, Rohan vows to seek injustice for Supriya. He implies to Officer Chaubey that he will avenge his wife's death, challenging that Chaubey will know who did it but will not be able to do anything about it, just like he did nothing about Supriya's rape.Rohan uses his voice modulating skills to lure the culprits to places that Rohan knows well. First, he tricks Wasim and hangs him, leaving Amit's handkerchief behind to frame Amit. He then lures Amit to the warehouse where he and Supriya were held captive for 36 hours. He finds Amit by his bad body odour, tying him down to be burned alive in an explosion.Officer Chaubey suspects Rohan for Amit and Wasim's murders after remembering his challenge, and puts him under house arrest. It is revealed that Chaubey knew Amit raped Supriya but did nothing after Madhavrao bribed him. Rohan gets past police with the help of his friend, and calls Madhavrao to a building under construction that was to be Rohan and Supriya's new home. There, Rohan kills him and makes it look like a suicide. Rohan later relates the story to Chaubey: he made it look like Amit killed Wasim, then Madhavrao committed suicide due to the pain of Amit's death. With no evidence against Rohan, a blind man, Chaubey stands helpless. Rohan, his revenge complete, scatters Supriya's ashes at sea.
