Krishnan embarks on a journey to find his childhood friend Ganga, whose life he suspects to be in danger.
Krishna, Ganga and Balan have the world at their feet; after all, they are the blood and sand of Kammatti Paadam. But the world they know begins to slip from them when shady forces have other intentions at heart. Slowly, they realize what they have lost and found over three decades of their lives.
Krishnan, who works in a security firm in Mumbai, receives a call from his childhood friend Ganga. The call indicates that Ganga is in danger and need Krishnan's help. Later, Krishnan travels to Kerala to find Ganga. During his journey Krishnan recalls all the problems that he had to face in his hometown Kammatti Padam.In the early 1980s, Krishnan who is a primary school student befriends with Gangadharan/Ganga, a kid who belongs to a Dalit family. Ganga's brother Balan/Balettan is a thug and is involved in smuggling spirit. Both Krishnan and Ganga are introduced to violence at a very young age. Krishnan is in love with Anitha, a relative of Ganga.Later, Krishnan, Ganga, Balettan, Venu and others form a gang working for a local businessman, Ashaan. After the gang is involved in a fight, Krishnan kills a police officer while trying to save Ganga. He then goes to jail and returns to Kammatti Padam only to discover that the gang is now more advanced and are smuggling spirit under the leadership of Surendran/Ashaan. The gang creates a lot of enemies which includes Johnny. Krishnan discovers that Ganga is also in love with Anitha and is planning to get married soon.The gang destroying the homes of the locals leaves Ganga's grandfather devastated. He dies of shock when he discovers that his grandchildren have no love for him.Balettan who is now a changed man after his grandfather's death wants to stop everything. One night Balan's wife demands to go to medical shop to get some supplies.They are accompanied by both Ganga and Krishnan. Balettan says that he wants to stop his criminal activity and simply wants to live happily with his family in Kammatti Padam by starting a travel agency.During their conversation about Anitha, Balan mentions his wish to see Krishnan get married to her and this causes Ganga and Balan to end up in a fight. Ganga gets out of the car. Later, Balan, Krishnan and Balan's wife Rosamma reach the nearby medical shop. Rosamma and Krishnan get out of the car and walk towards the medical shop. Balettan, too intoxicated stays in the car which moments later gets hit by a truck, explodes and leaves Balettan dead. Ganga blames Krishnan for his brother's death and both their friendship is torn apart.Later, Krishnan starts a travel agency and Ganga still remains a thug.The gang later learns from a friend Sumesh that Johnny was the one who planned Balan's murder.An enraged Krishnan and Ganga stab Johnny landing them in trouble, chased by the police. Krishnan gets arrested saving Ganga. Meanwhile, Ganga marries Anitha and then Krishnan relocates to Mumbai.In the present, Krishnan learns about the mishaps created by Ganga and tries to find him with the help of Rosamma. Rosamma reveals that it could be Johnny who is behind Ganga's problems and Krishnan sets on a journey to find Johnny. Johnny who is paralyzed after Ganga stabbing him says that he is not aware of Ganga's whereabouts. Krishnan beats down all of Johnny's gang members but the fight ends with Krishnan getting stabbed by Johnny's brother.Later, Krishnan is left heart broken when he hears that Ganga's dead body has been found. He later seeks the help of Ashaan who is now a big business entrepreneur to find the real killer only to discover that he is the one who murdered Ganga. Ashaan reveals that he killed Ganga due to his constant disturbance and demands for money. Ashaan is killed by Krishnan kicking him out the window of his high story apartment. In the aftermath, Krishnan says that it is people like Ashaan who corrupt the city spilling blood for more lands and profit and that he acted for the sake of his hometown, Kammatti Padam
