A teenage girl and her little brother must survive a wild 24 hours during which a mass hysteria of unknown origins causes parents to turn violently on their own kids.
Definitely something terrible is happening on in the peaceful suburban community as, one day to another, former loving and caring parents mysteriously turn into ravenous carriers of an unfathomable pandemic that targets their offspring. Suddenly, every son and daughter (not only in the neighborhood but also in the entire nation) must to run for their lives, as the rage-filled murderous intent is simply as unstoppable as it is inexplicable. Of course, Brent and Kendall's teenage children are no exception, and before long, the simmering but usual familial tensions will take a completely different meaning. Kids, stop hiding. Mum and Dad love you so much.
The Ryans are the typical and dysfunctional family from any undetermined suburb. It's composed by Carly, a troubled teen who lives all the time thinking on herself, her troubles and her relation with her new boyfriend Damon; Kendall, full-time mom who is desperate seeing as her dreams of youth are gone as well as her relation with Carly are breaking; Brent, a CEO who lives in an eternal disappointment about himself because the bored and predictable life of middle age man he has; and finally Josh, Carly's elder brother, a boy with who she has bad relation. But this neverending routine ends abruptly when one day and without apparent reason along the suburb (and eventually along the country) loving parents turns homicidal of their own offspring. Run away from the school, Carly and her best friend Riley escape from a hysterical mass of killer parents, arriving at Riley's home. When Carly realizes Riley's mom was in home and she has killed her daughter, Carly is helped by Damon to escape from Riley's home, and both go Carly's home trying to save Josh from mom and dad. But they learn that Kendall and Brent arrived at home earlier than the usual.
The film opens with a mother putting on soothing music for her child as she sets her car on railroad tracks and leaves the child in the car to die.Then, we are introduced to the Ryans. They are a family of four with a strained relationship. Brent (Nicolas Cage), the father, does not approve of his teenage daughter Carly's (Annie Winters) new boyfriend; Carly is angry with him, as well as her mother, Kendall (Selma Blair), whom she considers out of touch. Carly also fights with her much younger brother, Josh (Zackary Arthur), who annoys her. Carly is forced to cancel plans with her boyfriend, Damon (Robert T. Cunningham), for dinner with her visiting grandparents.As Carly is at school, an unexplained static starts transmitting through all TV screens and radios. The effect is seen as the Ryans' housekeeper murders her own daughter with a meat tenderizer in front of a terrified Josh. Suddenly, a mob of parents rushes Carly's school in an effort to kill their children by any means they can. Carly escapes the school with her best friend Riley (Olivia Crocicchia) and hides out at her house, where Riley's mom attacks and strangles Riley to death. Carly runs home in terror, running into Damon - who has killed his own father in self-defense. Damon tells Carly that the parents appear intent on only wanting want to kill their own kids but not other people, and accompanies her home to get Josh somewhere safe.After an exercise class, Kendall goes to the hospital to be present for her younger sister Jenna's (Samantha Lemole) baby, but the static transmits just after Jenna gives birth, causing her to attempt to kill her baby. Kendall escapes from the hospital, seeing reports of the mass hysteria on television - the static gives parents a natural instinct to slaughter their children. In an effort to protect her own children, Kendall heads home. Brent heads home as well, as he is bored at work.Upon seeing Carly with Damon at home, the hysteria fully overtakes Brent, and he knocks Damon out and attacks Carly. Kendall joins him upon getting home; having been infected by the signal through her car radio. Carly and Josh escape them and lock themselves in the basement. Kendall and Brent bond over their shared desire to kill their children, and run a hose from their oven's gas pump to the basement in an effort to poison the kids. When Carly sees the gas, she rigs up a trap with matches at the basement door and hides with Josh in the house ventilation system. Brent cuts the door's lock off and opens the door, igniting the gas and triggering an explosion that knocks Kendall and Brent out and wakes Damon up.Damon helps Carly and Josh evade their parents, but Kendall wakes up, stabs him in the cheek with a wire hanger, and pushes him over a stair railing, knocking him out again. The parents close in on the kids, but are interrupted by the doorbell; Brent's parents have arrived for dinner. When Brent opens the door, his mother pepper sprays him and his father stabs him... revealing that the unknown hysteria affects grandparents as well. Everyone chases each other through the house. Josh evades Brent, who attempts to hide from his father in his car in the garage. Kendall chases Carly outside and hits her in the head, but Brent's mother attacks her before she can finish Carly off.Brent starts the car, drives it out of the garage, and crashes it, killing both his parents and knocking himself out again. Kendall prepares to finish Carly off, but Damon knocks her out with a shovel to the head.Kendall and Brent wake up to find themselves restrained in the basement with Carly, Josh, and Damon watching them. They continue to exhibit symptoms of the hysteria, and the kids refuse to let them go. Kendall tearfully tells the children she loves them and asks to let them go. Brent continues, "But sometimes, we just want to--". The film ends before he can finish his sentence... leaving everything unanswered.
