A team of scientists aboard the International Space Station discover a rapidly evolving life form that caused extinction on Mars and now threatens all life on Earth.
Six astronauts aboard the space station study a sample collected from Mars that could provide evidence for extraterrestrial life on the Red Planet. The crew determines that the sample contains a large, single-celled organism - the first example of life beyond Earth. But..things aren't always what they seem. As the crew begins to conduct research, and their methods end up having unintended consequences, the life form proves more intelligent than anyone ever expected.
Life tells the story of the six-member crew of the International Space Station that is on the cutting edge of one of the most important discoveries in human history: the first evidence of extraterrestrial life on Mars. As the crew begins to conduct research, their methods end up having unintended consequences and the life form proves more intelligent than anyone ever expected.
A crew aboard the International Space Station (ISS) performs a successful capture of a space probe returning from Mars with a sample inside. The crew is tasked with studying the sample, which may be the first proof of extraterrestrial life. However, the study eventually backfires as the organism gains intelligence. Trapped aboard the ISS with the rapidly-growing organism, the crew must find out how to kill it before it manages to escape and decimate Earth.
In near future, a group of international scientists was sent from Earth to explore unknown Mars at International Space Station (ISS). They got a soil sample from Mars which contained a sleeping cell. After a series of attempts they woke up such cell and it was growing bigger day by day. During an experiment the living thing attacked scientists and escaped from the highly sealed laboratory through an internal air vent. Those horrified scientists, on the one side they needed to protect themselves from being killed by this deadliest creature, on the other side they needed to terminate it before it was too late. However, this smart alien would do anything to survive.
In the near future, the unmanned Pilgrim 7 space probe returns from Mars to Earth orbit with soil samples potentially containing evidence of extraterrestrial life. The probe is captured and its samples retrieved by the International Space Station and its six-member crew. Exobiologist Hugh Derry, who is paralyzed from the waist down, revives a dormant cell from the sample, which quickly grows into a multi-celled organism that American school children name "Calvin". Hugh realizes that Calvin's cells can change their specialization, acting as muscle, sensor, and neuron cells all at once..

