When a Thai girl with mythical powers goes missing, Axe and his old team unite in attempts to bring her back.
After years of combat, Special Ops leader AXE, struggles to cope with the endless death he has both caused and witnessed during his time as a killing machine. AXE removes himself from conventional society and finds himself deep within the heart of the remote jungle in Asia where he tries to come to terms with the life he has lived. Haunted by visions of his past and the horrors of war, AXE falls into a deep despair. Finding strength and spiritualism from the teachings of Kung Fu and Buddhist traditions, AXE endeavors to change his way of life.Flash forward. AXE lives in a small, tranquil village and spends his days healing the sick at the clinic he has created. Along with his assistant SAN, AXE performs various therapies for a loving and receptive community. AXE, by all appearances, is a reformed man, living a peaceful life with the dogs of war far behind him. But darkest persists in the hearts of men and local girls have started to go missing.Ruthless Crime Lord QMOM suffers from a curse that prevents him from walking in the sun. To pass his solitary time, he deals in kidnapping, human trafficking and extortion. BLACK CLAW MA, QMOM's right hand man threatens a local gambling addict who reveals to MA that he knows of a mysterious girl, TARA, who holds special magical powers. The gambler convinces MA that the girl can lift QMOM's sun curse. The gambler is spared and debts cancelled in exchange for giving up the location of the girl. MA and his men kidnap TARA and bring her to QMOM where he forces TARA to work her magic on him or be faced with him killing everyone she loves.TARA's tearful father appeals to AXE, relating to AXE that he may be the only one capable of rescuing his daughter. TARA visits AXE is a dream telling him to to come for her. AXE assembles his old combat team HOLLYWOOD, INFIDEL, SCARECROW and YINGYING to go after QMOM and take down his organization. With help of his former team and CHEN MAN, long time friend and fellow student of the same great IP master, AXE reverts back to his Special Ops leadership to destroy QMOM's organization and remind his community of the importance of the teachings and lessons to be learned from Kung Fu.
