An intense battle breaks out between an evil son of a politician and an ex army man who can't tolerate injustice.
Vairam Danish a cruel person, anyone who comes against his way would be brutally killed. In such a process Ghana (All Arjun) an ex military offices earns the wrath of Vairam Dhanush. The rest of the story is how Ghana is going to finish off his atrocities
Gana (Allu Arjun) is a youth who beats crooked people that escape punishment due to faults in the legal system. He is raised by his paternal uncle Sripati (Srikanth), and berated by his father Umapati (Jayaprakash) for leaving the military and not having an aim in life. One day Gana is sent to a neighbouring village to meet his prospective bride, Mahalakshmi (Rakul Preet Singh). She is the daughter of his father's friend, Jaya Prakash (Sai Kumar), who is a sincere Ex Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer and politician. However, Gana meets Hansitha Reddy (Catherine Tresa), who is revealed to be the local Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA), and falls in love with her. He tells his father that Mahalakshmi rejected him because he gets into fights.Dhanush (Aadhi Pinisetty) is the son of a chief minister; he kills a farmer for refusing to give up his lands. Later, a prominent businessman comes to Dhanush to escape punishment for raping and murdering a college girl. The victim's parents seek the help of Hansitha to get justice. At the trial, a new defence lawyer (Rajiv Kanakala) twists the case, making it seem like the girl provoked her beating by blackmailing the accused (Aadarsh Balakrishna), and the judge decides in favour of the lawyer's argument. The parents of the girl commit suicide and Gana learns about the lawyer and beats him up, cuts off the legs of the rapist. Dhanush takes this as a challenge to his influence and becomes incensed.Hansitha falls for Gana and promises to marry him if he swears in the presence of God that he will stand behind her and never get into fights. He is about to do so at the temple when a badly injured Mahalakshmi arrives, running from people who try to kill her. Gana holds her up, beats everyone who tried to kill her, and ultimately gives Mahalakshmi courage.Narrating a flashback, it is revealed that Mahalakshmi didn't reject Gana. Gana had went to Mahalakshmi's house and had saved Mahalksmi from rowdies working for Dhanush. Then, Gana had said no for the marriage. Mahalakshmi explains how Dhanush tried to blackmail her father. Her father had been protecting farmers so they wouldn't have to sell their lands. This infuriated Dhanush who killed the farmers. When Mahalakshmi intervened, slapping and insulting Dhanush (she had also called him a zero, which angered him more), he killed her father and tried to kill her. She narrowly escaped and had run for four days to find Gana, whom she had fallen in love with.Gana decides to solve her problems. He goes to Dhanush's home, beats his men, and tries to burn Dhanush alive but Dhanush escapes. Gana is questioned for the attack but claims that other people beat Dhanush. One of Dhanush's men tells the truth about the atrocities he committed in the village, and the media is thrown into an uproar.Dhanush arrives at the Director General of Police (DGP) office to surrender but shoots at DGP Mallikarjun (Suman). He tries to kill Umapati but Sripati takes the bullets. The chief minister stops Dhanush from shooting anyone else and tells Umapati to call Gana and make him surrender to Dhanush. Told that Sripati will only be taken to hospital if he surrenders, Gana does so and is beaten and stabbed by Dhanush and his men. The chief minister then tells Dhanush to kill Sripati, which enrages Gana into killing the thugs and the chief minister. Gana then fights Dhanush and decapitates him with an axe when he tries to run over his father and uncle.A cover story is told, that the chief minister and Dhanush were killed while trying to protect the DGP from unknown terrorists. Hansitha is made a candidate to become the new chief minister.
