JEWEL'S CATCH ONE directed by filmmaker C. Fitz celebrates the legacy of a legendary Los Angeles nightclub, Catch One, and the life-changing impact its owner, Jewel Thais-Williams, had on her community breaking down racial and cultural barriers and building the oldest black-owned disco in America. Jewel's story celebrates music, fashion, celebrities and activism that helped changed the course of our country.
JEWEL'S CATCH ONE directed by filmmaker C. Fitz celebrates the legacy of a legendary Los Angeles nightclub, Catch One, and the life-changing impact its owner, Jewel Thais-Williams, had on her community breaking down racial and cultural barriers and building the oldest black-owned disco in America. Jewel's story celebrates music, fashion, celebrities and activism that helped changed the course of our country. One of the original safe spaces for disenfranchised communities, The Catch also served as a refuge for many during the AIDS crisis. As her club grew to become known as the unofficial "Studio 54 of the West Coast," Jewel became a national model for how to fight discrimination and serve the less fortunate as she fought tirelessly against racism, homophobia, and hate for over 4 decades. Jewel built organizations such as The MINORITY AIDS PROJECT and RUE's HOUSE (1st shelter for women with AIDS and their children) and later in life started her own non-profit health clinic next door to the club called, The Village Health Foundation, that she still works at today. #legacy This documentary is packed with 40 years of music, untold history and exclusive interviews with celebrities, politicians, and people who were touched by Jewel's community activism and vision to make Los Angeles and our world a better place for everyone.
JEWEL'S CATCH ONE directed by filmmaker C. Fitz celebrates the legacy of a legendary Los Angeles nightclub, Catch One, and the life-changing impact its owner, Jewel Thais-Williams, had on her community breaking down racial and cultural barriers and building the oldest black-owned disco and safe-spaces in America.
JEWEL'S CATCH ONE directed by filmmaker C. Fitz celebrates the legacy of a legendary Los Angeles nightclub, Catch One, and the life-changing impact its owner, Jewel Thais-Williams, had on her community breaking down racial and cultural barriers and building the oldest black-owned disco in America. Jewel's story celebrates music, fashion, celebrities and activism that helped changed the course of our country.One of the original safe spaces for disenfranchised communities, The Catch also served as a refuge for many during the AIDS crisis. As the club grew to become known as the unofficial "Studio 54 of the West Coast." This space was a refuge for thousands of people from all walks of life.
As the Club's fame grew so did its opposition during the late 1970's and 1980's. In 1985 in the midst of many of its patrons facing the AIDS Crisis Jewel's Catch One was a victim of arson. However with the roof burned off and a cash offer turned down, Jewel vowed to re-build. She faced much opposition again, this time by the very City she called home. Jewel became a national model for how to fight discrimination and serve the less fortunate as she fought tirelessly against racism, homophobia, and hate for over 4 decades and kept Catch One's doors open to everyone.Over the years Jewel built organizations such as The MINORITY AIDS PROJECT and RUE's HOUSE (1st shelter for women with AIDS and their children - co-created with Rue Thais-Williams) and later in life started her own non-profit health clinic next door to the club called, The Village Health Foundation. In 2015 Jewel sold both buildings and moved her acupuncture clinic, The Village Health Foundation, down the street. #legacyThis documentary is packed with 40 years of music, Black and LGBTQ History, and exclusive interviews with celebrities, politicians, and people who were supported, changed and helped by the activism that took place on the corner of Pico Boulevard and Norton Street. This is the story of how one woman made a difference and also the story of thousands of people that had their lives changed forever by calling Catch One home.Music by: BONNIE POINTER, THELMA HOUSTON, ANDRA DAY, KC AND THE SUNSHINE BAND, SYLVESTER, JENNIFER
HOLIDAY, EVELYN "CHAMPAGNE" KING, THEA AUSTIN (SNAP!) AND PEACHES &amp; HERB.
