Claire's mother is Claire's secret matchmaker.
Claire, an ambitious pastry chef, is busy running her new restaurant, but her meddling mom is preoccupied with her lack of love life. Without her knowledge, Claire's mother finds her the perfect man, but when Claire finds out it wasn't fate that brought them together, it could ruin the relationship.
Early thirty-something Claire Michaels, co-owner/co-manager of a bakery with her business partner Marco, believes in fate lending life a hand. She believes it's fate that she and Marco met to open this bakery together, neither who could have afforded to do it on their own. She believes it's fate how her parents, Helen and Sam Michaels, met in college, got to know each other and ultimately fall in love, a single copy of "A Room with a View" in a bookstore which led to them needing to share that book for a required course. Having no time to look for love in she and Marco focusing on taking the bakery to the next level, Claire hopes that whenever she meets whoever will become the man of her dreams, that fate will play a romantic hand in having their meeting and courtship be like her parents'. Helen, Claire's best friend who will soon be retiring from the real estate business so that she and Sam can take their dream vacation to Italy like the romantic lead characters in "View", has other thoughts, especially for Claire, in being their matchmaker, she having the ability to know when relationships will last as seen largely through her clients. Without telling anyone, what Helen has done is create a profile for Claire on an online dating site. But she finds this approach is not ideal as whenever she meets prospective dates for Claire, they eventually go running for the hills when they learn she was the one who has organized everything without Claire's knowledge. It is during one of those meetings at an upscale bar that Helen meets pediatrician Eric Carlton, who is waiting for his own date. In seeing Eric together with said date, fellow physician Dana Becker, this which will be their second date, Helen can see that Eric and Dana are not right for each other, but that he seems perfect for Claire. Helen is able to convince Eric at least to meet Claire "by chance" at an art gallery function that Claire and Marco are catering, convincing Eric to do so despite he knowing everything in having overheard the entire conversation with who Helen had come to the bar to meet for Claire. Eric and Claire do meet at that function "by chance", start dating and begin to fall for each other. Eric knows Claire has to learn the truth if there is any future for them, Helen who believes she needs to be the one to tell Claire. The longer it takes for the truth to get back to Claire, especially if she learns through other means besides directly from her mother or Eric, the more her relationship not only with Eric but with her mother are placed into jeopardy.

