High school loner Bird Fitcher has no idea what dark secrets are tied to the Polaroid camera she finds. It doesn't take long to discover that those who've their picture taken with it, soon die.
Polaroid is styled in the vein of The Ring and Final Destination and centers on a high school loner, Bird Fitcher, who stumbles upon a vintage Polaroid camera. Bird soon learns that the camera houses a terrible secret: whoever has their picture taken by it meets a tragic and violent end. The girl and her friends must survive one more night as they race to solve the mystery of the haunted Polaroid before it kills them all.
Shy high school student Bird (Kathryn Prescott) is given an old Polaroid camera by her co-worker Tyler, who got it from a garage sale. The camera has the initials "RJS" carved into it. Bird snaps a picture of Tyler but later notices an odd smudge-like figure on his photo.Bird attends a costume party with her best friend Kasey (Samantha Logan) and meets her other friends Mina, Mina's boyfriend Devin, Avery, and Bird's high school crush Connor (Tyler Young). She uses her Polaroid camera to take the group's picture and Avery later snaps a selfie with it. Meanwhile, Tyler is killed by the entity, and Sheriff Pembroke informs Bird. At home, Bird sees Tyler's photo free from the shadow, which has mysteriously transferred to Avery's photo.Avery is killed when the entity snaps her neck. When Bird learns about this, she tries to destroy the camera and attempts to warn her friends. Bird and Connor research and discover that the camera was owned by a photography teacher Roland Joseph Sable (RJS) from their school years ago. He was accused of torturing four students and killing three of them while taking maniacal photographs. One of the captives escaped and Roland was killed by police. Bird is attacked by the entity, which behaves like a photograph (it is sensitive to heat). She questions why she was chased too and notices that her reflection is in the photo's background.Devin finds Mina's dead body and blames Bird for her death. He attempts to take a picture of her as a threat. In the ensuing fight, Devin is accidentally snapped by the camera and the shadow transfers to his photo, showing he is next. Kasey saves Bird by stabbing Devin's photo with a pencil, injuring him in real life. Devin is detained by Pembroke and is later killed in his cell by the entity.The remaining friends learn Roland's wife is alive and visit her. They meet an elderly lady named Lena Sable, who explains that the camera actually belonged to her daughter Rebecca James Sable (RJS). Rebecca was bullied by four classmates, who took inappropriate photos of her, and committed suicide out of shame, causing her father Roland to abduct and kill her bullies in a fit of rage. Now even in death, Roland roams, looking for the last bully who escaped to kill him. Lena shows the two a picture of the survivor and they search the yearbooks.Bird finds out that the survivor was Sheriff Pembroke. In an attempt to stop the entity from killing them, Connor takes a picture of Pembroke, who reveals that Roland was the real bully to Rebecca, having sexually assaulted her. The four students, including him, were Rebecca's friends trying to warn her of her father's actions upon finding her nude pictures in his possession. Fearing the public would find out, Roland abducted them, prompting Rebecca to kill herself in fear.The entity tears Pembroke's picture in half, killing him. Bird takes a picture of herself, prompting the entity to chase after her instead of her friends. She takes a picture of the entity, crushes it to incapacitate the entity, then burns it, and the entity vaporizes. She reunites with her friends and throws the camera into a river.
