After undergoing a procedure to erase his memories, a successful author begins having unexplained recollections relating to a series of unsolved murders.
What will happen if your brain locates a memory that doesn't belong to you? In 2025, the memory-manipulation operation has been popularized across the world. Feng, a prestigious novelist (Huang Bo), deletes the memory of his failed marriage. But when he tries to recover the lost memories, he finds himself in the mind of a serial killer. He reaches out to police officer Shen (Duan Yihong) and when they begin to solve the case together, a conspiracy surfaces.
Feng has memories of his wife erased before getting a divorce. But his wife refuses to sign the divorce papers until he regains his memories. Feng does the same but realizes that he now has memories of a killer who has killed multiple people. Feng goes to police with this information that he can see the murders being commit, but in those memories, he sees himself as murderer. At start officers Shen Hanqiang and Lei Zi refuse to believe him but after finding out similarities of his narration of crime scene and actual evidence they start believing his story. Feng realizes that killer has his memories and might try to kill his wife so he stages an escape but fails. At police station his wife Zhang Daichen meets medical officer Chen Shanshan and befriends her. While officers wait for Feng's memories to provide a clue towards killer's identity, Lei Zi deduces that killer might be a women who was best friends with the victim, pointing out that officer Chan might be the killer. Feng flees the prison to save his wife who is with Chan but instead disturbs his wife. Later it is revealed that office Shen Hanqiang is the actual killer who was using officer Chan to cover up his tracks. Shen kills Chan and as he tries to kill Feng, Daichen comes in between. Shen having memories of Feng can not shoot at Daichen. Lei Zi arrives at the scene and arrests Shen. Feng and his wife Daichen reconcile.

