A middle-aged Irish farmer, who still lives at home with his mother, sets off on a mission of revenge when the old lady is murdered.
The film takes place in present day Ireland.
A dying man in a hospital is visited by a sinister woman whom he recognizes. He protests that he will be dying soon anyways so there is nothing she can do to harm him into telling her anything. She states she will be the judge of that and then she and her henchman brutally torture the man before he dies.Donal is a middle-aged farmer who lives with his aging mother in the country. She is old and growing weak in her age. Though they are close, they are still very much distant from each other. Donal's mother learns of the death of an old friend named Tommy Rafferty (The man in the hospital) and is greatly troubled, which makes Donal suspicious. Donal buys an RV and proposes to his mother that they both traverse the country to which she refuses. In a fit of disappointment Donal drinks himself to sleep in the RV with beer which his mother supplies him with. In his sleep, he dreams that he is hunting through a dark wood and finds himself aiming his shotgun at his mother who is vacuuming the floor. He comes to his senses and his mother screams for help. Donal awakens and leaves the vehicle, running up to the house where he sees a man in a suit exit and enter a car. Donal rushes into the house and finds his mother lying dead on the living room floor, having been beaten to death.With no results nor help from the authorities, Donal believes he should do some investigation of his own. He is attacked in the barn by two masked men and forced to enter into a hangman's noose which has been set up to look like a suicide. However, he fights back and kills one of them with a sledgehammer before taking the other hostage. He finds this young man to be innocent and uncertain as to anything involving the death of Donal's mother. Donal dials the police but then hesitates and reassesses his situation. After burying the dead henchman, Donal leaves in his vehicle with the other man who he learns is named Ben Bartosz. He frees Ben so long as Ben aids him.Donal learns from Ben that he is working for a rich young woman named Frankie Pierce and her right-hand-man Trevor Ballantine (the man who Donal had seen exiting the house). They are holding Ben's sister Kaja hostage through surveillance. Donal agrees to help Ben find his sister so long as it helps him understand why his mother was killed. They meet with Gavigan, a man working for Frankie and take him hostage, questioning him by holding a burning pot of beans against his head. However, Gavigan does not know anything concerning Donal's mother but does know of Ben's sister. When Donal leaves to relieve himself, Gavigan overpowers Ben and flees. Ben catches up to him first, but Gavigan holds him down and brags about cutting off Ben's sister Kaja's hands and feet off. Donal intervenes, holding Gavigan at gunpoint and Ben seizes his opportunity and stabs Gavigan to death. Donal remains cold over Gavigan's death but Ben becomes more pitiful. They hastily bury Gavigan and leave, but not before talking to Frankie over Gavigan's phone and threatening her.Frankie upbraids Trevor for being inconspicuous and remains bitter involving a relationship which her father had with Donal's mother. Donal meets with his uncle and asks him what he knows of the whole ordeal to which he responds that Frankie was the perpetrator of the act. Donal and Ben go and rescue Ben's sit er Kaja from the brothel at which she works after overpowering the pimp there. Frankie arrives soon after they have left and beats the pimp to death in a rage. She then fires Trevor for failing to kill Donal. Meanwhile, Donal sees Frankie at a distance and prepares to shoot her from a distance but then sees that she is with her daughter and backs down at Ben's insistence. Donal's revenge consumes him and he becomes unresponsive to Ben and Kaja who he tells to leave as they are slowing him down.It is revealed that Tommy Rafferty was privy to an affair which Donal's mother was having with Frankie's father. Dinal's uncle was also privy to this. Realizing there was something of which his uncle did not tell him, Donal returns to his home only to find his uncle dying from his wounds he had received from Frankie's men. His uncle dies raving about the death of Donal's mother due to revenge. Frankie and a lackey of hers arrive having set this up to catch Donal. However, Donal knocks the lackey unconscious and abducts Frankie. He takes Frankie to n abandoned beach and forces her to dig her own grave. Meanwhile, Trevor hears from the lackey of Frankie's disappearance and springs into action. Ben grows concerned fro Donal and goes to the house of Donal's uncle but is abducted by Trevor and the lackey.Donal forces Frankie at gunpoint to tell him why his mother was killed. Frankie confesses that she grew up without a father because Donal's mother killed him in a heat of passion once he had ended his affair with her to return to his wife. The truth had angered Frankie so much into beating her to death. Donal realizes that Frankie is a mother herself and spares her. However, she beats him down and retrieves her own firearm. Donal blows Frankie away in self-defense. Seconds afterward he hears a phone call from Trevor who tells him to return Frankie so that he can spare Ben. However, Donal is left with no bargaining chip having killed Frankie and begs Trevor to take him instead. Instead, Trevor shoots Ben to death and Donal hears it on the other end. Trevor tells Donal to meet him at the house if he wants to settle the score. A broken and lost man, Donal sits on the beach and dials the police but hesitates before doing anything more.
