Sara Thomas is the type of woman who prefers to sit on the sidelines at work, but when her big idea for a Christmas initiative is stolen, she makes a wish to Santa that she'll finally have the courage to stand up for herself. Santa grants her wish, but only gives her 48 hours. As the clock ticks, Sara will discover how to channel the Christmas magic and speak her mind all on her own.
Sara Thomas, a junior web designer at a Chicago based marketing company, is a doormat of a woman. That's why she hasn't said more than five words to the company founder/CEO, Peter Williams, since she started working there two years ago. That's why she doesn't say anything when her boss Dirk Tyson unabashedly steals idea after idea of hers taking credit for them as his own. That's why she will always ultimately agree to do her best friend and coworker Molly's work when asked, which is all the time. And that's why she has agreed to buy coffee every morning for her coworkers before coming into work. It's the Christmas season - Sara's favorite time of the year - and she is given a gift by the ubiquitous Santa at the company Christmas party: granting her whatever her deepest darkest desire is for forty-eight hours. After sloughing the gift off as nothing more than pleasant but meaningless Christmas cheer, Sara discovers that her wish has indeed come true: having the courage to stand up for herself. Her first act of courage on December 23rd leads to Peter asking her in favor of Dirk to accompany him on an immediate business trip to Seattle to meet with a notoriously difficult client, Wilson Taylor, Peter confiding to her that securing this account crucial to survival of the company. Sara agrees if only she is able to make it back to Chicago in time for her to spend Christmas with her family. As Sara and Peter try to overcome one obstacle after another in actually meeting with Taylor, she begins to learn more about Peter and why he has lost the spirit of Christmas himself, he who will be working on Christmas day for the second year in a row and who has asked one specific unit within the company to do the same regardless of their Christmas plans. The questions then become whether Sara's acts of courage will work on a person like Taylor enough to land the account, and what will happen to Sara's life after the forty-eight hours are up, especially with regard to what may be a new Christmas wish involving Peter.

