An interior designer must halt her work on a big project in order to return home and assist her injured father at her family's tulip farm in rural Washington state.
Rose Newell (Fiona Gugelman), the daughter of the owners of Payden Farms, returns home to find that the farm is in financial trouble and her parents may be forced to sell. She meets Tom Novak (Lucas Bryant), the handsome local "flower broker", for whom she begins to have romantic feelings. A final effort to save the farm is engineered by Tom when he arranges for Frank (Kevin McNulty), Rose's father, to enter his prize blooms in a contest. When the flowers are sabotaged, Rose must attempt to salvage the situation and get more flowers to bloom, while facing decisions of the heart with Tom, resolving issues with her father, and choosing to return to her life in Los Angeles or stay on her family's farm.
At Payden Farms, Rose meets Tom Novak - a handsome "flower broker" who acts as a liaison between the farm and local distributors - and discovers that the farm is faltering financially and that her parents are considering selling it to a ruthless competitor. As a last-ditch effort, Tom arranges for Frank to enter his most special tulip in an upcoming flower contest with the hopes of achieving national recognition and generating business. But when Frank's flowers are mysteriously sabotaged, Rose struggles to find a way to get them to bloom in time for the competition. Along the way, she finds herself appreciating her humble beginnings, reconciling with Frank, and falling into a blossoming romance with Tom. With time running out, Rose must rediscover her green thumb to save her family's farm, and decide whether she'll find true happiness - and true love - by staying in Los Angeles or returning to her folksy hometown.
Rose Newell has worked as a junior interior decorator for Los Angeles based Caroline Designs, under the leadership of demanding Caroline Sebastian, ever since she graduated from design school three years ago. The job was as much trying to find her own path in life than it was running away from her past working on her parents Frank and Sarah Newell's Washington state tulip farm, which she was expected to take over much like Frank took over the business from his parents. That expectation was only strengthened by Rose having even more of a green thumb than Frank. Rose's decision not to carry on in the family business has placed a strain between her and Frank. During what is Rose's first lead assignment - Caroline directly stating her job being on the line if she doesn't succeed in making the clients happy - Rose, much to Caroline's consternation, rushes back to the farm for the first time in three years upon the news that her father has broken his leg at what is the start of tulip harvest time. Rose has arranged to work on the interior decorating project remotely while her coworker cum boyfriend Rob handles anything required at the site in her absence. Beyond helping with the harvest as was her expectation and trying to build bridges back with her father, Rose learns that Frank has hired two people he said he would never do: an operations manager taking over much of Frank's day-to-day responsibilities, and much worse in Rose's mind a broker, that position which she and Frank had always seen solely as a money-sucking middleman. As such, Rose butts heads with who Frank has hired in that latter position, east coast business graduate Tom Nowak, who grew up in the area around these tulip farms. Rose's view of Tom begins to soften as she finds that he has a commitment to the business in this, his first brokerage job, part of that commitment finding the opportunity to submit a new tulip for an upcoming competition, winning which would help the business struggling against the larger corporate farms. They could lose the farm or be forced to sell if they can't turn the business around. The two sides of Rose's life begin to pull harder away from each other as she is called back to Los Angeles earlier than she wanted, while she tries to figure out why Frank's new tulip isn't blooming as expected, having that one perfect specimen by judging time which could make or break the farm. What may be an extra force in what happens is the growing mutual attraction between her and Tom.

