A former boxer-turned-drug runner lands in a prison battleground after a deal gets deadly.
Bradley Thomas is a hard working man. After his wife's extramarital affair they admit the spark isn't there anymore and decide to have a baby. After being fired from his job, he turns to his friend who hires him as a drug dealer. A trade goes bad and he ends up in prison, the only problem is that a gang has kidnapped his wife and they will do an experimental operation on the baby unless Thomas kills one of the inmates in cell block 99. Bradley will not stop at anything until his wife is safe again.
A former boxer that loses his job that is fitting in society lands himself a job as drug smuggler. Series of events land him in prison and he is given ultimatum to right his wrong decisions all aspects of what he decide have their consequences only he can choose what he thinks is right or wrong and try to avenge his wrong choices. You never know what might be lurking in the next dark corner.
A former boxer named Bradley loses his job as an auto mechanic, and his troubled marriage is about to end. At this crossroads in his life, he feels that he has no better option than to work for an old buddy as a drug courier. This improves his situation until the terrible day that he finds himself in a gunfight between a group of police officers and his own ruthless allies. When the smoke clears, Bradley is badly hurt and thrown in prison, where his enemies force him to commit acts of violence that turn the place into a savage battleground.
At 6' 5" and with a prominent crucifix tattooed on the back of his well-shaven scalp, Bradley Thomas--the recovering alcoholic; laid-off tow truck driver, and a soon-to-be father desperate for cash--is a hulking beast one wouldn't want to mess with. Under those circumstances--when the bad decision of resuming his old and well-paying drug-pushing job eventually sends Bradley to prison for seven years--the heavily-indebted to the Mexican cartel inmate will have to face a wrathful ultimatum: Bradley must kill a prisoner to save his kidnapped wife. Now, as Bradley pummels and crushes his way through waves of both convicts and prison guards to get closer to his target, the resolution awaits in the ultimate confrontation inside the confined cell-block 99. However, has the condemned man what it takes to save what's left of his future?
When the tow truck driver and former boxer Bradley Thomas is fired from his job, he decides to work transporting drugs for his friend Gil to have a better life with his wife Lauren Thomas. Bradley is a family man and eighteen months later, Lauren is pregnant with a girl. Gil decides to associate with the drug dealer Eleazar against Bradley's will. When he goes to bring a shipment of drugs with two men from Eleazar's gang, they do not follow his instructions and they stumble upon the police. Bradley protects the police officers, killing one of the gangsters, and is arrested. Bradley does not rat Gil out and is sent to a medium-security prison for a seven-year sentence. Two days later, Bradley is visited by a mysterious man who tells him that Lauren has been kidnapped by Eleazar, who lost his shipment and two men in the operation. He tells Bradley that he must kill an inmate called Christopher Bridge, who is an inmate in Cell Block 99 of a maximum security prison. Otherwise, Lauren will be submitted to a surgery to remove the limbs of her baby that will be sent to him. What will Bradley do?

