A young celebrity marriage counselor discovers herself left at the altar of her own highly-publicized wedding. To save face, she accepts an offer from her contractor, who secretly has a crush on her, to step in as groom and marry her.
Dr. Kate Lawrence, a celebrity relationship expert, plans to publicly announce her engagement to Bryan, a handsome and perfectly polished businessman. As Kate prepares to share the news, Bryan shocks her by breaking up with her and calling off the wedding. Wanting to save her from humiliation and protect her public image, Lucas Wright, Kate's childhood friend steps in and pretends to be Kate's fiancé.
Living in a small town on the coast of Puget Sound, Kate Lawrence, Ph.D. - Dr. Kate to her fans - hosts a popular video blog titled "Just - No", where she provides relationship advice mostly on the theme of compatibility being the key in making relationships work. She got into the business as she saw her own now deceased parents' incompatibility leading to the downfall of their marriage, they who never reconciled before they died. She is engaged to Seattle-based medical supplies salesman Bryan Pankhurst, the two of them who she believes are totally compatible, the only item of contention being his need/want to live in Seattle. The only other minor issue is his camera-shyness, her agent, Pam, who wants to make a big splash in announcing their engagement, which is against his own wants. That splashy announcement is in part to enhance what should be a lucrative book deal which she is negotiating for Kate, it all to show that Kate practices what she preaches. Just after Kate makes the announcement on the live webcast of her engagement but before Bryan is introduced, the Internet link breaks down. It is then, off camera, that Bryan, this webcast being the last straw, breaks up with her in realizing for sure that he loves someone else instead. Knowing how devastated she is in overhearing the break-up, Lucas Wright, a fine woodwork carpenter and Kate's childhood friend who she sees often enough around town, unilaterally makes the decision, when the cameras start rolling again, to announce to her adoring public that he is her fiancé. In reality, they were once friends and almost started dating in high school until a certain incident ruined their friendship. Although they are cordial enough to each other now, their friendship never really recovered after that incident. Pam is able to convince both Kate and Lucas to continue on with the engagement sham, including pretending to go through with the actual wedding planning, at least until the book contract is signed, which should take no more than two months. Beyond Kate's inner circle, the only other people who can be in the know are Lucas' family members, his happily married mother, Susan Wright, the only person who doesn't agree with the proceedings in it making a mockery of the institution of marriage and of relationships. In spending time together, Kate and Lucas find they are as different as two people can be in their likes and interests. But in clearing the air about that high school incident, they also find that they are starting to fall for each other. While Lucas is happy enough to admit his feelings to Kate, she is a little more hesitant to acknowledge them both in such a union invalidating her life's work and in case another "Mr. Compatible" shows up in her life instead of who is really "Mr. (W)right".

