Spring. Yorkshire. Young farmer Johnny Saxby numbs his daily frustrations with binge drinking and casual sex, until the arrival of a Romanian migrant worker for lambing season ignites an intense relationship that sets Johnny on a new path.
Spring. Yorkshire. Isolated young sheep farmer Johnny Saxby numbs his daily frustrations with binge drinking and casual sex, until the arrival of a Romanian migrant worker Gheorghe, employed for the lambing season, ignites an intense relationship that sets Johnny on a new path.
Johnny Saxby has turned into a sullen young man in needing to take on the proverbial and literal heavy lifting at the family's sheep and cattle farm in Northern England following his father Martin Saxby's stroke, which has rendered him physically disabled, and he requiring a cane to walk still with difficulty. Johnny has taken on this role without much passion and thus without placing much effort into it, especially as Martin is still looking over his shoulder at every turn. Johnny relieves his boredom by drinking to excess at the pub - he getting to the point of needing to vomit every time - and, gay, having casual, indiscriminate and passionless sex with whichever bloke he meets. During the busy birthing season, Martin hires Gheorghe Ionescu, a Romanian migrant farm worker, for a one week period. There is an immediate animosity between Johnny and Gheorghe largely over dealing with the stereotype Johnny has of all Romanians being shifty Romanis aka gypsies. In reality, Gheorghe, who grew up on such a farm back home, knows his farming well and places much care in it unlike Johnny. While Johnny and Gheorghe are away on a several day trip to work on a remote part of the farm, their animosity leads to some physicality between them which further leads to some sexual tension and ultimately a sexual relationship. In their solitude, their relationship turns more intimate, something that has never happened before for Johnny. Gheorghe, who is more experienced in true matters of the heart than Johnny, knows the current status of their relationship is unsustainable, something that Johnny may never get a point to in never having been there. Their relationship however does give Johnny a better understanding of how to live in his path on the farm with his parents especially in the circumstance of Martin's poor and deteriorating health.

