Tired of the religious zealotry and anti-gay bigotry in their Texas town, sisters Latrell, LaVonda, and Aunt Sissy decide to protest an "Anti-Equality Rally" which aims to forbid any same sex weddings in their county. The colorful characters from the previous "Sordid Lives" decide a wedding is exactly what this small-minded town needs.
Set in Winters, Texas, the name of the real-life rural town where Shores ("Daddy's Dyin': Who's Got the Will?") was raised, "A Very Sordid Wedding" continues to exploit the tension between this conservative, Southern Baptist locale and the gay subculture that insistently challenges its assumptions. In the first "Sordid Lives," a closeted young man sees coming out to his mother as such a terrifying prospect that he consults 27 different therapists in Hollywood before heading back home to do it. In the sequel, that same man, Ty Williamson (Kirk Geiger), has been touring the country with his husband, holding marriages in 49 states to celebrate the Supreme Court's decision to legalize same-sex marriage. And his mother, Latrelle (Bonnie Bedelia), has changed with the times, too, fighting the bigots at her local church, which is holding an "Anti-Equality Revival" to gin up support for forbidding gay marriage in the county. (The county clerk, in a non-speaking role, bears an uncanny resemblance to Kim Davis, who got her 15 minutes of fame for refusing to authorize marriage licenses in Rowan County, Ky.)Though Ty's wedding and the local fight over "religious freedom" gives the film a natural endpoint, the Sordid Lives-iverse is an expansive one, and Shores writes subplots across the ensemble. After surviving an attempt at conversation therapy in a mental institution, Brother Boy (Leslie Jordan) tries to work on his drag queen act in nearby Longview, but an escaped serial killer, dubbed "the Hitchhiker Murderer," takes him on an exciting (if harrowing) road trip to the big city. Latrelle's aunt Sissy (Dale Dickey), who went to incredible lengths to quit smoking in the first film, is permanently off the wagon here, but she's been reading the Bible cover-to-cover in an effort to reconcile God's word with the Supreme Court's. Latrelle's sister LaVonda (Ann Walker) and her best friend Noleta (Caroline Rhea) are both looking for love and find it - one in the arms of an old flame (Newell Alexander), the other in an hospital bed across the hall from where her awful mother is recovering from a stomach ailment. (from Variety)
