1st day of high school 2 friends split and 3.5 years later he's still the least popular and she's the most popular girl but brutally loses the throne and allies with her old friend and get Machiavellian at the popular girls and their prom.
Maddy and Cole were inseparable friends until high school started and Maddy became the most popular girl on campus. When she starts feeling lonely and heartbroken, she reconnects with Cole and the duo conspire to destroy the ultimate teen popularity contest - the Prom.
Maddie and her best friend Cole attend their first day of high school at Charles Adams High. Cole is subjected to a prank by a fellow student, revealing that he wears white underwear, and earning him the nickname "Tighty". Rather than stand up for him, Maddie decides to cut off their friendship.Three years later, during senior year, Maddie is now a popular cheerleader, with a hot boyfriend named Kane, and is known as "M&amp;M" for her friendship with her fellow cheerleader, Marissa, while Cole, still shunned by most of his peers, has decided to apply to a prestigious art college.Maddie catches Marissa making out with Kane. Revealing her disgust with Maddie's self-centered behavior, Marissa explains that she intends to be crowned Queen at the upcoming senior prom, an honor that was supposed to be for Maddie. Furious, she asks Cole and his friend Alexa for help getting revenge on Marissa by ruining prom. Alexa refuses to help at first, but when Maddie stands up for Cole against Kane, she agrees to help.Alexa introduces Maddie and Cole to a group of other kids willing to help them: Ephraim, nicknamed "Strings" for his clothes, Emile, who has vowed to remain mute because of his high-pitched voice, Tig, who was slut-shamed by her popular boyfriend, Sweats, a overweight boy who sweats uncontrollably due to a gland problem, and Nick, a former basketball player shunned by his teammates for being gay. They refuse to help, suspecting Maddie intends to prank them, but she persuades them to stay by admitting that she envies how little they care for being popular.Maddie's decision to take Cole to the prom increases his popularity, and Marissa tries to get him to be her date instead of Kane. Cole refuses, and when Kane tries to get Maddie to take him back, Alexa inadvertently reveals that they once dated back when she was a cheerleader, until Marissa manipulated Kane into dumping her for Maddie.As the date for prom approaches, Maddie decides to go with Kane instead of Cole. Hurt, Cole nearly calls the plan off, but his father intervenes. A former prom king himself, he admits that his greatest regret was humiliating Maddie's parents in front of the whole school, which in turn caused them to push their daughter into becoming popular. Believing that his lack of humility was the reason why he and Cole's mother ultimately separated, he urges Cole to humble the popular kids so they don't turn out like him.The night of the prom, the kids rig the polling system, put a drug in Marissa's punch that causes her to sweat uncontrollably, put up (doctored) pornographic images of Kane, and turn their tormentors against each other using social media. When Maddie is crowned Prom Queen, Emile, mistaking her for Marissa, dumps tar on her head before Sweats pulls the fire alarm. Marissa takes revenge on Cole for dumping her by pulling down his pants in front of the entire student body. Having had enough, Cole delivers a lengthy speech in which he criticizes how the students have hurt each other in order to be popular, which he realizes is ultimately for nothing. Afterwards, Emile, full of confidence, yells out "F the prom!!"Cole and Maddie resume their friendship, while the other kids enjoy their graduation and look forward to the future rather than ruminate on their past.
