Katja's life collapses after the death of her husband and son in a bomb attack. After a time of mourning and injustice, Katja seeks revenge.
Katja's (Diane Kruger) had met Turkish-born Kurdish Nuri Sekerci (Numan Acar) when she bought hashish from him during her student days. They got married when he was still in prison, although their parents were against the marriage. Since her son Rocco (Rafael Santana) is born, Nuri is no longer working as a drug dealer, because he studied business administration in prison and now runs a translation and tax office in Hamburg. One day Rocco and Nuri are killed by a nail bomb, which was deposited in front of the office. This has shredded everything. Because her husband was in prison for drug possession, the police investigated in the red light district. The investigators do not see that the tracks point in a completely different direction. Then they happen to be the real killers on the net. The main suspects are the neo-Nazi spouses André (Ulrich Brandhoff) and Edda Möller (Hanna Hilsdorf). But the trial is developing differently than Katja had hoped. Although her lawyer Danilo (Denis Moschitto) speaks of a watertight evidence, defender Haberbeck (Johannes Krisch) manages to settle the case in favor of the defendants. Humiliated and destroyed by the trial, Katja sees no reason to continue living. If she wants to give meaning to her life again, she has to take the law into her own hands.
After four years in prison on drug charges, the reformed drug-dealer and Turkish immigrant, Nuri, and his young German wife, Katja, finally settle into a happy daily routine in Hamburg, in high hopes of making a fresh start for themselves and their six-year-old son, Rocco. But then, a high-power nail bomb and a racially motivated attack will crush friends and relatives under the unbearable burden of tragedy, robbing Katja of everything she loved: Nuri and Rocco. Has Nuri's dark past finally caught up with the family to haunt them forever? Little by little, the devastated mother will succumb first to drugs to dull her pain, and then, to utter despair, as the search for truth can sometimes be an impossible task for a complex legal system that has its hands tied. And when the justice of men isn't enough, the thirst for retribution is insatiable.

