Very rich father wants to build on a local park. His only son fall in love with cute protester, but she doesn't know who his father is .
Sean Peyton is the heir to the fortune amassed by his father, William Peyton Jr., through his real estate development company, Peyton Enterprises. Unfocused Sean has moved from one uncompleted pursuit after another in trying to find a passion in life, all he knowing is that real estate development is not it. Currently unemployed Sean has been pressured by William, with who he has a strained relationship, both to join the business and to foster a romantic relationship with Candice, the daughter of a competitor, to build a development conglomerate for the future, neither in which Sean has an interest. So William gives him an ultimatum: find a job within a week and stick with it, or else he has to join the company or risk being cut off entirely, the cushy privileged life which Sean has enjoyed. Concurrently, Sean meets Allison Johnson, a law student by day, and food truck assistant and community volunteer/activist by "night". One of Allison's passions in that latter category is to stop the demolition of the largely natural Fountain Green Park, one of her favorite places, the edge of the park where the food truck, called C'est Si Bon, is often located, to be replaced by a shopping development. She is protesting largely against the developer: Peyton Enterprises. In his attraction to her, Sean does not tell her who he really is, he letting her assume he being a working class stiff like her. In Sean's pursuit of Allison, he may find some passions in life, but they may be threatened, including a relationship with Allison, when he has to come clean to her about who he is, she who is already suspicious of men in general having been hurt in a previous serious relationship. Meanwhile, Allison's best friend, Beth, who is also working to stop the park development, is torn between two men: Caden, who she has just started dating despite they seemingly having no common interests; and Pascal, who has just joined in the fight against the park development and with who she seems to have everything in common.
Sean Peyton (Steve Lund), the only son of William Peyton (Michael Kopsa), CEO of Peyton Enterprises, has been running away from his responsibilities at the family company. Allison Johnson (Siobhan Williams), working on a food truck - C'est Si Bon - during the day, and attending law classes at night, is determined to save Fountain Green Park from Peyton Enterprises' latest development plan. While she is displaying fliers on cars at the country club with her protesting cohorts Beth (Allie Bertram), Caden (Adam DiMarco), and Pascal (Ben Sullivan), Mr. Peyton gives Sean an ultimatum: He has one week to find a job, or work for the company, and if he refuses, he will be cut off from the family money. As Allison and her friends run from the valets, she meets Sean, mistakenly believing him to be a valet as well, and he aides in her escape. After hearing her distaste for the Peyton family, he decides to get to know her, while keeping his identity a secret, introducing himself as Sean Pine. Allison shows Sean a plaque in the middle of the park dedicated to the commissioning of it. He learns his grandfather, William Peyton Sr., was one of the benefactors of the park. Meanwhile, Beth likes both Pascal and Caden, so she decides to go on a date with both men. Although it seems she has more in common with Pascal then with Caden, she learns Pascal never got any signatures on the petition to save Fountain Green Park, so she dumps him. Meanwhile Caden manages to get 700 signatures just in time for the Town Council Meeting. Afterwards, Caden kisses Beth and asks her to be his girlfriend, which she agrees to.
Sean is hired to work as the head chef of C'est Si Bon by Antonia (Karen Holness), Allison's boss and owner of the food truck, so he won't be forced to work for his father. He keeps his best friend Jared (Jamie Callica) informed on his developing romance with Allison, and plans to tell her he's actually a Peyton, but can never find the right time. At the same time that Sean takes Candice (Elise Gotien) to lunch to discuss the prospect of using her land for the company's needs, Beth informs Allison that William Peyton had the petition to save the park pulled from the Town Councils' agenda. At the country club, Allison finds Sean with Candice and finally learns the truth about him, only to storm off angry, believing he used her. Sean requests his father go with him to the park, agreeing to come to work for him if he does, and shows him the plaque, proving that the family's legacy is in the park. Jared goes to Allison to plead Sean's case, convincing her Sean was sincere with his feelings for her, and tells her about Sean's deal with his father. She runs to the park to stop him, only to discover he was able to convince William to partner with Candice, and leave the park the way it is. After William and Candice walk away to hash out the deal with their lawyers, Sean and Allison share their first kiss. The first of many to come.
Sherri Fisher
