With her husband away at work, and her son at school, Laura dreams of a home-renovation project to supplant her restless days. Elliott, her irresistibly hot private contractor, soon fulfills her more forbidden dreams.
Married for close to ten years, Laura and Greg Halpern still love each other but don't seem to be in sync on many levels, from parenting their seven year old son Jamie, to the priorities on discretionary spending - Laura who wants a new kitchen, while Greg focuses on what Laura considers the money pit of their sailboat - to Laura believing that Greg spends too much time at work - to their sex life. Greg gives into Laura on the issue of the kitchen when they meet Elliot Graverston, a contractor and sailor who offers to do the project at a reduced rate. Mira, Laura's married friend, opened up to her about the fact that she would willingly cheat with Elliot but, while finding him attractive, Laura remains committed to her wedding vows to Greg despite their problems. When Laura discovers circumstantial evidence that Greg is having an affair, she believing with his work assistant Hanna, Laura turns to Elliot for emotional support, who in turn offers himself sexually to her. In the process of Laura trying to figure out what to do about Greg and about Elliot, she is unaware that Elliot has a troubled past, stemming from his childhood when his father was never there and his mother was moving from one open fling to another. As such, all the Halperns and anyone who is close to them may be in danger at Elliot's hands if Laura ends up turning more to him.
Workaholic Greg Halpern tries to compensate for 'neglecting' spoiled wife Laura and doting son Jamie (7) when he presents his sailing buddy Elliot Graverston, an independent contractor, to agree to his suggestion to realize her dream kitchen at mates rate. Hunky, often shirtless Elliot is around far more often then Greg, even proves a natural substitute father-playmate for Jamie, and a great revenge lover when she chooses to commit adultery based just on non-conclusive evidence -lingerie in the yacht- suggesting Greg cheated with his inseparable office PA Hanna Jonkins. Finding the underwear was left by trespassing youngsters, Laura wants to call the affair off while Greg recommits to their marriage, but even after she cancels the contract, Elliot, who refuses the easy affair offered by Laura's neighbor confident Mira, proves obsessed with her and becoming Jamie's stepfather. Only now she checks up on him, finding a dark past since his adored mother's death, boding violent trouble which is already happening.

