A courageous teenager is determined to resume competitive rodeo months after her paralyzing spinal cord injury.
Walk. Ride. Rodeo. The incredible true story of nationally ranked barrel racer Amberley Snyder, who at 19 barely survives an automobile accident. Now paralyzed from the waist down, Amberley, with the support of her family, physical therapy and her own inspiring determination, fights to earn back her place in the sport she loves.
Barrel racer Amberley Snyder leans down to her horse, Power. They got this. Her blonde hair pours out from underneath a black cowboy hat as Power shifts his feet in the alley - restless. Easy boy. Amberley watches the clock countdown. Her ritual begins. The time in the alley can feel like a lifetime. She thinks through her run. What she needs it to look like - feel like. Make sure she and Power are in tune. She doesn't block out the noise of the crowd and the announcer - it fuels her. The clock buzzes. Amberley shoots out of the gate, down the course, racing towards the first barrel.At 18, Amberley, a nationally ranked amateur barrel racer about to go pro, is paralyzed by a horrific car accident. Doctors tell her she will never walk again. Amberley chooses not to give up. Walk. Ride. Rodeo. chronicles Amberley's emotional ride to overcome enormous obstacles. The horrific accident puts her on the path to a new, very different life. How do you go from racing down a field to figuring out a wheelchair? Asked by her physical therapist what her goals are, Amberley doesn't hesitate: Walk. Ride. Rodeo.Amberley is too smart and determined to let life ride on without her. Rehab isn't easy for her. Yet within four months, with help from her mom, Tina, who is with her for every triumph and failure - she is back on Power. But the moment she sits in the saddle, she knows that nothing will ever be the same. She will never ride like she did. Amberley has to find the strength within to find her way back. She can't push forward without the love and tenacity of Tina and her entire family. But they know that one bad fall off Power could end Amberley's dreams... again. Then Amberley has an idea. To stay on her horse, she uses a seat belt sewn to her saddle. She straps her legs down with velcro. Normal communication between horse and rider is all via leg controls so Amberley re-trains Power to listen to her voice rather than her legs. She trains at night, weekends, whenever she can get to the barn.Within two weeks, Amberley competes in a local rodeo. Riders want to treat her differently but she shows them that everyone must think of her as competition. Within a year, after many more rodeos and several debilitating setbacks, Amberley fights her way to win a chance to compete in the national championships - RFD-TV's The American.In the alley at The American, Amberley leans down to her horse, Power. They got this. She is not here to win - she is here to ride. Everything is different - but this - this feels the same. As she rides Power into the stadium, 70,000 leap to their feet, giving her a standing ovation. They all know about her struggle to get there. And just the fact that she is here is the real triumph.
