PR crisis manager Deidre and her assistant Mandy fly in when rebellious royal Prince Colin is arrested in small-town Idaho. But when Deidre faces her own fiasco, Mandy finds herself with unexpected career (and romantic) opportunities.
Mandy Cooper is a young executive assistant aspiring to become a PR executive. She gets an opportunity to develop her skills in Greenbriar, Idaho. In that small town, Prince Colin of Edgemere, a handsome British monarch with a history of scandalous behavior, is arrested for defacing a landmark while making a public appearance. Things get complicated after Mandy sets out to repair Colin's image, and the young publicist wonders if she can save her own reputation and still have a chance at summer love.
Mandy Cooper is the assistant to Deidre Kelley, the cutthroat and demanding founder/CEO of her own New York based PR firm. While Mandy believes working harder than anyone else in the company makes her ripe for a junior executive position, Deidre tells her otherwise, that she is a follower and not a leader as she expects her junior executives to be. Mandy is forced to forgo her family vacation to accompany Deidre to Greenbriar, Idaho, when the firm gets arguably its biggest ever client on an immediate job. On reputation alone, Queen Rosalind of Edgemere hires Deidre to do damage control for her son, the Crown Prince Colin, who is in Greenbriar on a state visit, he who got into a bit of trouble, as he always seems to do, in some disorderly conduct which could see him do some jail time if Sheriff Wrigley has his way. But when Deidre becomes unwell enough to do work upon their arrival in Greenbriar, she sends Mandy to the initial meeting with the Crown Prince and the royal family's Communications Director, Penelope Sheridan. Mandy ends up taking the meeting one step further than perhaps she should in when Penelope and by association the Crown Prince assume she's Deidre, she doesn't correct them. In making that spur of the moment lie, Mandy ultimately comes to believe that if she can do a good job with the Crown Prince's assignment and explain later to Deidre, she can prove that she is qualified to be a junior executive. She has to keep up the lie only for as long as the Crown Prince is in Greenbriar. Beyond Deidre, Mandy's biggest obstacle may be Penelope, who, by what she sees as her job description, has to know everyone and everything with association to the Crown Prince. The biggest obstacle ends up being Mandy and Colin beginning truly to know each other as people - his bad boy behavior a manifestation of living in a bubble - and in turn falling for each other. Beyond Colin ultimately finding out about Mandy's lie, the one issue that may kibosh a happy ending for the two is a lie by omission by Colin: that he is already in an arranged engagement to Lady Isabella Vandervere, the engagement which is set to be announced as soon as Colin arrives back home.

