Set in riot-torn, near-future Los Angeles, 'Hotel Artemis' follows the Nurse, who runs a secret, members-only emergency room for criminals.
On June 21, 2028, a riot breaks out in Los Angeles over the affordability and availability of water after it is privatized. Taking advantage of the distraction, a four-man crew of brothers Sherman and Lev and miscreants Buke and P-22 rob a bank. Unable to break into the vault, they steal from hostages at the bank, realizing that they were mainly staff of the wealthy sent to deposit valuables into the vault. Lev takes a male hostage's fancy pen despite being warned by the man not to. During their escape, an encounter with the police leaves P-22 dead and Buke and Lev critically wounded. They make their way to the nearby Hotel Artemis, a hotel/hospital that only treats criminals, run by Jean "the Nurse" Thomas. The Hotel only treats members who are paid-up in advance, so Sherman and Lev are allowed in while Buke as a non-member is kicked out by Everest, the Nurse's assistant. At the Hotel are two other guests. Code names for all guests are assigned based on the suite they are occupying. Sherman is code-named Waikiki, and Lev is code-named Honolulu. The other guests are code-named Acapulco, and Nice. The Nurse gets word from criminal Crosby Franklin that his father Orian "The Wolf King" Franklin, is en route and in need of immediate medical attention. Meanwhile, Waikiki catches up with Nice, who has moved on to work internationally while Waikiki has remained Stateside. When he reveals the pen his brother stole during the robbery, Nice explains that the pen is a mobile safe, and unlocks it to show it contains precious diamonds, saying they belong to the Wolf King, and reminding Waikiki that the Wolf King kills anybody who steals from him. To make matters worse, a wounded police officer named Morgan arrives outside begging for medical attention from Thomas..
Los Angeles, June 21, 2028A deadly riot has broken out over the city. Four thieves, led by Sherman (Sterling K. Brown), take advantage of the chaos by robbing a bank. They have to flee before they can open the vault, but Sherman's brother Lev (Brian Tyree Henry) steals what appears to be an ordinary pen from a teller. After blowing a hole through the wall to escape, they are found by four armed officers who exchange fire with the crooks. One of them is killed, Buke (Kenneth Choi) gets shot in the neck, and Sherman's brother is shot multiple times before they kill the guards. Sherman grabs his brother and heads to get help.The thieves go to Hotel Artemis, a secret hospital for criminals run by Nurse Jean Thomas (Jodie Foster). Sherman and his brother scan their wrists with their membership chips implanted, but Buke is denied because his won't scan. After cursing out Jean for this, she brings in her large assistant Everest (Dave Bautista) to take Buke outside. Buke tries to fight Everest, but he overpowers him and forces him to stay outside as the riots are getting closer.Nurse Jean tends to Sherman and his brother, giving them the respective code names of Waikiki and Honolulu. She treats their wounds and also tries to replace Honolulu's liver after it has sustained severe damage. He is put on life support.In other parts of the hotel are Acapulco (Charlie Day), an arms dealer who is there because someone tried to rip his face off, and Nice (Sofia Boutella), a French assassin who purposely hurt herself to get close to a target. He tries to intimidate her until Waikiki/Sherman, who has something of a history with Nice, intervenes. Acapulco tries to be a tough guy and threaten Waikiki, but neither of them are buying it from him.Nurse Jean receives a call from a man named Crosby Franklin (Zachary Quinto), who demands that she treat his father, the owner of the hotel. He and his goons are on their way with the man in order for him to get medical assistance. Meanwhile, the power grid continues to go out as a result of the authorities handling the riots, so Everest has to keep switching the power back on.As the riots are growing more intense and violent, a cop named Morgan (Jenny Slate) is outside the hotel calling for Jean and begging for help, addressing her as Mrs. Thomas. Everest tries to talk Jean against letting her in, but she feels she might know Morgan. Jean grabs a framed photo of a little boy and brings it outside to show to Morgan, who identifies the child as Beau. As they try to pull Morgan inside, a couple of punks try to steal Jean's bag, but she tries to give them a few valuables. The punks are then shot by armed police officers who attempt to go after Jean until Everest shows up and beats them all to death.Back inside the hotel, Jean treats Morgan's wounds, and we learn that Beau was Jean's son who supposedly died from an overdose as a young man. After she gets better, Morgan leaves the hotel.Waikiki chats with Nice, and she reveals to him that the pen that Honolulu took is actually a portable vault containing yellow diamonds valued at $18 million that belong to a notorious criminal called The Wolf King (Jeff Goldblum). Waikiki takes the pen to his brother and shows him what's inside. He wants both of them to leave, but Honolulu is still on life support, so he says he is okay if Waikiki leaves without him. Waikiki then uses a 3D printer to make himself a gun, despite the rules against having a weapon in the building.The Wolf King and his goons arrive with Crosby and his own gang. Wolf King has an injury that needs treatment, so Jean reluctantly treats him. After fixing his wound, Wolf King reveals that he had Beau killed after he stole a car from him. Jean considers killing him in retribution, but killing patients is against the rules of the Artemis.Knowing that Wolf King is in the hotel and since he is a target for her employer, Nice kills the power at the hotel just as Acapulco is trying to catch a helicopter ride out of there. This causes Honolulu's life support to go out, and Jean cannot save him, so he dies. Acapulco's ride then flies away due to potentially being compromised. Nice finds Wolf King's room and slits his throat with a broken piece of glass. She confirms the kill to her employer using a recorder implanted in her eye. Moments later, she runs into Waikiki, who knows what she did, although she expresses remorse for Honolulu's death. Acapulco then shoots Waikiki and nearly goes for Nice until Waikiki fights him and sticks Acapulco's head in the 3D printer, which impales his head and kills him.Nice goes to fend off Wolf King's guys, as does Everest. Waikiki and Jean attempt to escape the hotel until they are found by Crosby, who has found out his father has died. Crosby attacks Waikiki, until Jean throws him medical sealant that he uses to blind Crosby, and then Jean kills him by injecting him with baby elephant tranquilizer.Waikiki and Jean make their way out, but Jean decides she has to stay to help others now that Wolf King and Crosby are dead. Waikiki parts with her on good terms before he heads off to Vegas to a different hotel called The Apache. Everest, having survived his encounter with Wolf King's mob, turns the lights back on at the Artemis, and Jean heads back inside.The mid-credits scene show that Nice has also apparently survived as she runs through the shadows.
