Based on the bestselling book by Richard Paul Evans. Two strangers who don't enjoy Christmas meet at work and to avoid being lonely during the holidays make a pact to deal with holiday events together. But as they get to know each other they are able to begin enjoying Christmas. They soon realize that their contract may lead them down a road that neither expected resulting in questionable feelings.
A chance meeting between two strangers who share a disdain for Christmas results in The Mistletoe Promise, a pact to help them navigate their holiday complications - together. But as they spend more time with each other and experience the magic of Christmas the phony couple discovers there may be more to their contract than business.
This 2016 Hallmark Countdown to Christmas movie deals with two unlucky people who both have negative views of Christmas. Elise Donner (Jaime King) is the creator, founder, and co-owner of a travel agency known as World Bright Travel Agency. He co-owner is none other than her ex-husband, Dan (Lochlyn Munro), who switched up the Christmas presents one year and accidentally gave her a gift meant for his car show model mistress, Drew (Ashley Ross). Then there is Nick Derr (Luke Macfarlane), a divorce lawyer who, like A Christmas Carol's Scrooge, has three Christmas ghosts, or three Christmases that have defined his life. He is up for partner at his law firm and needs a longtime girlfriend by the end of the week in order to prove that he is a serious family man like all the other partners before him. The two meet at a food court over their mutual hate for those treacherous Christmas carolers and create a mistletoe promise guaranteed to make him partner at his firm and give her an opportunity to get rid of the burden of her ex and his girlfriend. The promise is intended to be solely business but the spirit of the holidays and the amount of time spent pretending to be in love might just be enough to actually feel something for each other.
Workaholic, Christmas-hating family lawyer Nick Derr's delight finally to be up for promotion to senior partner is shaken when reminded his boss, whom he made believe to heavy a steady girl, always favors house fathers. So when he accidentally meets moralistic Elise, also grumpy on Christmas since her divorce from hedonistic Dan Donner, who promotes his new girl Drew, an airhead model, constantly out-staging Elise and counting on her to clean up his messes, Nick proposes a contract to help out each-other business-like. They match well enough to impress Nick's boss and her office girl buddies, even grow together and get over their Chistmas-allergy, but sense romantic complications.
Elise meets Nick, a single and handsome attorney, they quickly bond over their mutual dislike of the holidays. Nick shares that his law firm is considering making him a partner, but has a history of choosing only those who are married with a family. Realizing they're each about to face a lonely holiday season - and that having a girlfriend would increase his chances of being made a partner - Nick suggests the "mistletoe promise" that he and Elise pretend to be a couple until Christmas Eve.
Elise Donner and Nick Derr both have a disdain for Christmas, and while their reasons are different, that disdain stems from bad things that have happened to them during Christmases past. Elise, for who Christmas was once her favorite time of year, and her husband Dan Dunning broke up at Christmastime, she catching him cheating on her with who is now his girlfriend, not too bright former car show model Drew Richards. Although he had no interest in the business while they were married, Dan, in the divorce settlement, gained half interest in Bright World, the travel agency which Elise created and founded before their marriage. Their visions for the business differ, with Elise having some philanthropic goals, while Dan is all about the direct bottom line to further his own personal spending on big boy toys while doing whatever he can through the business to advance Drew's public exposure. Never married and single Nick, a family lawyer specializing in divorce cases, is a workaholic who wants to make life happier for his clients under the bad circumstances. The firm for which he works is all about promoting family, which includes the place that Christmas plays in that happy family life, which is why he is surprised that he is one of two people being considered for this year's sole partner position, only married people with families who have made partner. Elise and Nick meet in both trying to avoid the onslaught of Christmas cheer in November at their local shopping center. With Elise ultimately agreeing, Nick suggests they enter into a contractual arrangement, which they eventually call the Mistletoe Promise, to navigate this Christmas season together by pretending to be boyfriend/girlfriend to achieve their respective goals: for Nick to make partner, and for Elise to combat Dan always flaunting Drew in her face while trying to regain controlling interest of the business away from Dan. As they work toward their respective goals with the other's help, their missions could be in jeopardy if anyone finds out about their contract - the only person who is purposely told being Nick's loyal paralegal, Ashley - and if emotions start to enter into their business arrangement.

