An internet-dating playboy's life spirals out of control after meeting a woman online.
Harris just wants to hook up and have one night stands. All in good fun though, he finds his hook ups on a dating app. He spends his days working, playing video games, and swiping left and right for his next victim. All is well in the world of Harris until he swiped and matched with Riley. Unlike his other conquest riley won't go away so quietly like all the other girls. Slowly everything in Harris's life begins to fall apart.
Harris is at this bar to meet Rachel, a girl he met on an online site. He shows off by guessing the girl's drink, which he often does with every girl he hooks up with. Soon Harris sneaks out from the girl's apartment after having sex using the excuse that he has to work the next day. He wakes up in his apartment, gets ready, arrives at work. When he's not on the dating site where he rates girls and gets matches, he's playing violent video games online with a teenager. He makes fun of this teenager calling him names while they're playing. At work we meet his co-worker who's upset about his ex-girlfriend's recent posts of her engagement on social media. Harris advises Robbie, the co-worker, to delete her. Then we meet their boss, Terri, who informs both that corporate chose Harris' idea over Robbie's. Terri asks Harris to be there on Wednesday and asks if he would be able to handle that? He says yes and looks confident. Back at the bar he is with his best friend Chuck, and brags about how he chooses his matches on the dating site, and uses them for sex. Chuck asks him what happened the week before with Rachel. He says openly that he didn't get the "girlfriend-vibe" from her. Then he goes away to meet Lauren, another girl. He does the same routine: guesses her drinks, goes to her apartment, sneaks out after sex and wakes up at his apartment. Then he gets messages from this hot girl he saw on the dating site the night before. He meets with her hoping to do his thing again. But this girl reacts differently than the other girls. Her name is Riley Miller. When he tries to sneak out she asks him why, he uses the same excuse of 'I-have-to-work-tomorrow', and she tells him to go to work from there the next morning, he tells her he needs to shower, she says 'you can shower here' then he says he has to change clothes too, and takes off. The next day she keeps texting him and calling him while he's trying to work. He gets annoyed but responds when she sends him a semi-naked picture of herself. She comes over with wine. They have sex. The next morning we hear a phone on vibrate and Harris wakes up next to this girl only to realize it's Wednesday and he's not at work to meet with corporate. He rushes to get ready and tells this girl that she needs to leave, after she confesses she 'accidentally' shut off his alarm . She calls an Uber and says it's gonna' take 6 minutes, he says he can't wait that long. So she asks if she can leave after him. He agrees and says only to lock the door on her way out. He gets to work and explains to Terri that he did not hear his alarm. She informs him that he still has a job, barely! Riley keeps calling him. He doesn't answer. When he arrives home he finds her there cooking apology-dinner for him. He finds out she never left. And she is holding a kitchen knife, so he tells her 'nobody needs to get hurt' and she explains she's not gonna hurt him but that she's cooking stir-fry. He says he would have the food for lunch the next day and says he likes her just to get rid of her. He tosses the food. Next day he's playing video games with the same teen, whom he mocks again. Riley keeps calling him over and over again. He doesn't answer. While he is at work, he receives an emergency call from his mom. It's not his mom, he's being pranked by Riley. She tries to make plans to meet with him later but he is mad she's calling him at his job. He says he doesn't feel well and will just stay home. Instead he goes to hang out at the bar with his friend Chuck and Chuck's girlfriend Lydia. Harris complains to them about Riley calling her a lunatic with whom he slept twice against his better judgment. Then Riley shows up suddenly and crying she confronts him about a girl that checked him in on Facebook named Lydia. And he explains Lydia is his best friend's girlfriend and introduces them. But Riley is devastated to know he's not sick and storms out. He goes to his apartment scared so he has a nightmare about Riley trying to kill him. He wakes up. He seems confused and hesitates to get more matches on the website. He goes hiking with Chuck, but when they come down from the mountain, he receives messages from Riley telling him she will commit suicide. Chuck convinces him to go to the rescue and care for her as a human being. Harris isn't so thrilled about it but calls her. She said not to call an ambulance but to go himself. He goes to her house to find her on the floor pretending to be dead. When he gets scared she starts laughing because she faked the whole suicide thing. He gets so angry that he hits his fist against a mirror and cuts himself badly. The next day Terri calls Harris into her office immediately. There were tweets from his Tweeter account calling his boss and his co-workers retards. He gets fired and starts calling Riley to tell her that enough is enough. The next day police detectives show up at his house telling him that he is in possession of 5 GB's of child pornography in his laptop. He gets arrested. His lawyer informs him that his best choice is to plead guilty because he has no evidence against Riley, but says he has a couple of days before court and that he will do his best to find enough evidence to support his defense. He gets bailed out by Chuck. They go to this bar where he complains about what his life has become because of a girl that felt spurned! Chuck tries to comfort him telling him that maybe Riley will have a change of heart. He leaves quickly telling him he has an idea. He goes to look for Riley looking for a confession. He turns on the voice recorder on his phone, and knocks on Riley's door. It's 2:30 a.m. but after he insists to talk to her she lets him in. He pretends to be sorry about hurting her and begs for forgiveness. She says she needs to apologize too but she only admits faking the suicide. He gets upset and attacks her to force her to get a confession. She screams and a neighbor comes to the rescue. Riley tells her to call the police so Harris leaves telling her to confess. The next day his lawyer calls him telling him that he made everything worse because now Riley was trying to get a restraining order against him for attacking her. He tries to defend himself explaining he was trying to get a confession but the lawyer says not to try that again. Harris now tries to figure out how to solve this on his own. He makes a fake Facebook profile from a library. Finds out where she is at. He follows her and also creates a fake profile on the dating site. He makes plans to meet her at a bar to celebrate the fact that she aced on her behavioral science test in college. When she arrives at the bar, Harris is observing at a distance. He sees she orders a cranberry vodka drink so he orders the same thing. He puts pills in the drink and switches Riley's drink for his when she gets up to dance. Then Harris messages her with the fake profile asking her to meet him in another place of the bar. By the time she walks towards him she knocks out because of the pills. He kidnaps her and she wakes up at a place tied up to a chair and Harris sitting down in front of her with a knife. He tells her that she will confess in front of his camera to everything she has done to set him up or else he will have to hurt her. She says she will do that after being threatened with the knife, but objects that it looks like she's forced to do it and that police won't believe him. She says that he can untie her and take her to the bathroom to wash her face and clean up and then she will post an Instagram video bragging about how she screwed his life. He thinks this is a good idea but warns her not to try to escape cause they're in a locked location and he won't let her go. She agrees. She asks him for paper towels to dry her face, then fills up the sink with hot water, asks him for more paper towels. When he turns his back she hits him with a vase that was by the sink and tries to drown his face in the hot water. She manages to escape but Harris hunt her down. She hits him real hard with a metal object. When she thinks he's dead she stops beating him and gets the keys from his pocket. Runs out but comes to a garage that is locked and screams for help. When nobody hears her she turns back but Harris is behind her and stabs her. She asks: 'you stabbed me?' and tries to walk off but she dies crawling. Harris asks: 'why didn't you just confess Riley?'. Immediately after killing her he gets a call from the lawyer, who informs him he's off the hook and that he was indeed hacked but not by Riley but by the kid he mocked on the video game. The teenage boy confessed and he's a free man. The film ends when a security guard notices Harris by the side of Riley's corpse and calls for backup because a crazy guy killed a poor girl.
