Aimie Roarke is always up for a cause, whether it's helping a local animal shelter or hosting a bake sale for the Fire Department. When the town's beloved oak tree is set to be cut down, she takes it upon herself try and save it.
When Mayor Tom Parker (Jefferson Brown) hires handsome landscaper Kyle Sorenson (Trevor Donovan) to cut down the small town's beloved oak tree, Aimie Roarke (Ashley Williams) takes it upon herself to try and save it - by chaining herself to it. As landscaper Kyle attempts to wait her out, the two find that the tree brings them more than they could've imagined in life and love.
Aimie Roarke is the Community Organizer in the Parks and Recreation Department at Amble Hills City Hall. Beyond her work, she is a community activist, she happily putting her full weight behind causes, and expecting the citizens of Amble Hills to do their small part in supporting those causes, such as signing petitions. She has gone even more full bore on these causes ever since her father Samuel Roarke died unexpectedly of a heart attack two years ago. Aimie's retired mother, Zee Roarke, believes Aimie is using these causes in place of having a real personal life and as a means of not having to think about Samuel's death. Aimie's latest cause, in what she feels is a betrayal by her longtime friend and now boss, Mayor Tom Parker, is to save what all the residents call the "big old tree" in the center of town just outside City Hall. Without consulting Aimie, Tom unilaterally decided the tree should come down as its massive root system has long been causing havoc with the water pipes which require constant expensive maintenance because of them. Aimie is further dismayed to learn that the mayor has hired Kyle Sorenson to do the massive job, he the nice young man she recently met as he was admiring the tree in "passing through town". Beyond her usual tactics in trying to rally the citizens to the cause, Aimie, at a risk to her job and at risk of being arrested by her friend, Sheriff Larry Garibaldi, believes she has no other option but to conduct a sit-in of sorts by chaining herself to and living in the tree, in turn preventing Kyle from cutting it down. Although Kyle is still determined to do the job for which he was hired, he cannot help but admire and respect Aimie for her convictions, and eventually fall for her as they, out of this situation, spend more and more time together. Beyond still wanting to save the tree, Aimie may eventually see in this fight that she truly does need to find some balance in her life and deal with Samuel's death, especially if she learns that Zee may lose the family home being behind in mortgage payments, help for which she did not want to ask Aimie in her already busy life. Can Aimie find that balance, which may include that man in her life in the form of Kyle, while helping her mother, saving the tree and addressing Tom's concerns about the tree in his role as civic leader?
Aimie Roarke is always up for a cause, whether it's helping a local animal shelter or hosting a bake sale for the Fire Department. When the town's beloved oak tree is set to be cut down, she takes it upon herself try and save it. When the Mayor hires Kyle Sorenson, a handsome new landscaper to cut it down, she decides the only way to save the tree is to chain herself to it. As Kyle attempts to out wait her, the two start to spend more time together, they find the old tree brings them both more than they could have imagined in life and love.

