Luc Bondy's final feature film as director draws talent from both stage and screen to bring Pierre de Marivaux's 1737 play into 21st century Paris. Isabelle Huppert commands the screen as Araminte, the wealthy widow who unwittingly hires the smitten Dorante (Louis Garrel) as her accountant. Secrets and lies accumulate as Dorante and his accomplice, Araminte's manservant Dubois (Yves Jacques), manipulate not only the good-hearted Araminte, but also her friend and confidante, Marton (Manon Combes). Dorante, by turns pitiable and proficient, but always deferential to his social better, walks a fine line in his quest to arouse an equal desire in the object of his affections. Bulle Ogier delivers a memorable turn as Araminte's mother, who suspects the young man's intentions, but wants to push her daughter into the arms of an aged, hard-up Count (Jean-Pierre Malo). Filmed in part on-site at the Théâtre de l'Odéon-and shot during the daytime, while the same cast performed the play there at night-the film blurs the distinction between stage and screen, offering a new turn on this classic take on the psychology of love.
Luc Bondys final feature film as director draws talent from both stage and screen to bring Marivauxs play into 21st century Paris. Isabelle Huppert commands the screen as Araminte, the wealthy widow who unwittingly hires the smitten Dorante (Garrel) as her accountant. Secrets and lies accumulate as Dorante and his accomplice, Aramintes manservant Dubois (Yves Jacques), manipulate not only the good-hearted Araminte, but also her friend and confidante, Marton (Manon Combes). Dorante, by turns pitiable and proficient, but always deferential to his social better, walks a fine line in his quest to arouse an equal desire in the object of his affections. Bulle Ogier delivers a memorable turn as Aramintes mother, who suspects the young mans intentions, but wants to push her daughter into the arms of an aged, hard-up Count (Jean-Pierre Malo). Filmed in part on-site at the Théâtre de lOdéon, the film blurs the distinction between stage and screen, offering a new turn on this classic take on the psychology of love.
