When Frankie Baldwin and Nate Deluca both have a claim to ownership of Sorrento Farm, they are forced to divide the vineyard right down the middle and work the fields alongside each other to bring in the harvest leading up to the Best Wine competition at the annual Autumn Harvest Festival - only this rivalry won't be settled in the fields, because in spite of their contentious bickering, the simplest way to settle this particular legal dispute is with a romance.
The town of St. Madeleine, California is in the heart of the state's wine country, the Baldwin and Deluca vineyards arguably the best and factually the most competitive grape producers in the region. The respective family patriarch and matriarch, Charles Baldwin and Carla Deluca, although courteous enough to each other in public, would like to destroy the other. Among the next generation, Frankie Baldwin has stayed on the vineyard to hone her craft, most specifically in the wine making side of things, although she doesn't feel her father respects her as a professional, while Nate Deluca went away to get his Ph.D. in science in order to know how to grow the perfect wine making grape using the latest technology. Frankie and Nate once bridged the Baldwin/Deluca feud when they were high school sweethearts, that relationship which ended badly before Nate went away to school. Nate has just returned to St. Madeleine, that animosity between Frankie and Nate which on the surface has not gone away. Both wanting to strike out on their own, Frankie and Nate both believe they have purchased Sorrento vineyard. The mix-up in the sale of the vineyard cannot be legally cleared up for months. As such, Frankie and Nate reluctantly take the friendly advice of Judge Pricket to split the vineyard in half for this season until a ruling can be made as to who is the legal owner, with both deciding live in the house on the property which may make for some tense moments between the two. Ultimately, they decide to enter a competition with each other on a winner take all basis.

