Life and facts of Roald Amundsen, first man to arrive South Pole.
Norway, 1926. After read a newspaper about Roald Amundsen's missing in the North Pole, his brother Leon leaves his house to walk to the next door Roald's house, to await news. Taking him wrongly as a thief, Leon is hit by Bess Brigads, Roald's younger love interest. Introducing each other, Bess learns by Leon about a child Roald Amundsen, who rose with a happy family with his parents and other three brothers fascinated by North and South Pole, after the unknown and uncharted lands due to the extreme conditions of survival by the so much below zero temperatures. When their father died during one of his usual sea voyages and their mother died by disease a little time later, Roald and Leon strengthened his bonds caring each other in their wish to be the first men to arrive North Pole, where Roald would be the explorer and Leon the financier to get a team and the enough money for the travel. But in 1908 Frederick Cook's claiming to have arrived North Pole force them to change the plans: Roald proposes to arrive South Pole, starting an unwitting race against English explorer Robert Falcon Scott, who wants the same achievement for the British Empire. When in 1912 Roald wins the race and Scott dies during the travelling by freeze, Roald is turned a hero for Norway but object of an open despise by Geographical Society of London during a dinner celebrated in his honor. Forced by a previous promise to make a travel by the Bering Strait to study Arctic ocean streams, Roald's five years travel turns in a seven years travel aboard the ship Maud, changing his character by the long-time of isolation and the unexpected meeting with a tribe of Inuits, whose arrive Maud asking help to heal one girl child ill. With the night passing while Bess and Leon talk, she learns more about the man behind the fame, a person so great as adventurer and explorer but so hard and despicable as human being, determined to fulfill his child dreams to arrive North Pole at any cost, at the same time that Bess and Leon hope to receive a phone call to know if really Roald is than dead as the newspaper published.

