This third and final film of the Falls trilogy revisits former Mormon missionaries Chris and RJ, six years after they first fell in love and were disciplined for it, as they formulate a plan to be together at long last.
RJ and Chris have been growing closer. Chris, now divorced but still an active member of the LDS church, still lives in Salt Lake City with his young daughter Kaylee. RJ has moved to Portland, and is a successful writer. Chris takes a weekend trip to visit RJ in Portland, but their burgeoning relationship is thrown for a loop when the LDS church announces a ban against baptisms for children of same sex couples. They are divided about how to handle the announcement, and what it means for their relationship and their faith. Even though he still has faith, RJ would rather just be done with the Church, but Chris is not ready to let it go. Chris goes home with the issue of their relationship still unresolved. But when Chris' mother unexpectedly dies, RJ drops everything to fly to Salt Lake City and be there for him. During the visit, Chris' father Noah Merrill, who is a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and strongly disapproves of same-sex relationships, has a change of heart when he sees the love between Chris and RJ. After RJ returns home to Portland he struggles with his feelings about the Church and Chris. With the help of his friends, Adina, Sheris, and Curtis, he begins to gain some clarity about his priorities. Noah petitions the Quorum to change their stance on same-sex partnerships, but his plea is denied. Chris and RJ are forced to make some hard choices.
A year after they have last seen each other, former Mormon mission companions RJ and Chris still have not worked out their relationship. RJ has moved to Portland, and Chris is still in Salt Lake City. He has obtained a divorce, has custody of his daughter, and is applying to law school. Chris flies up to Portland to see RJ, and at first their interaction is awkward and restrained. Back at RJ's house, they reconnect sexually and emotionally. Chris meets RJ's friends from Affirmation, a support group for gay Mormons. Chris indulges in alcohol, forbidden by their religion, and the two discuss their relationship in hypothetical terms without resolving anything. Although Chris flaunts the Mormon rules, he would like RJ to attend church with him, but RJ refuses.The next morning, Chris has a hangover. As RJ prepares breakfast, a news flash about the Mormon church comes over the Internet. The church announces a new policy that children of same sex marriages cannot be baptized. RJ becomes distraught over the news, as he has held out hopes for marrying Chris, which is now legal in every state. RJ angrily says he is done with the church. Chris, on the other hand, still considers himself a faithful Mormon. His father, Noah Merrill, is an important member of the church leadership, casting a long shadow on his son.Later that day, out on a hike, they attempt to discuss the issue again, and they begin arguing. RJ has a panic attack, and Chris comforts and supports him through it.Chris soon returns home with nothing resolved between the two. A few days later, RJ receives an email from his father, Tom, informing him that Chris's mother has died. RJ contacts Chris, who asks him to come to the funeral. RJ flies to Salt lake, joining his father at the service. RJ feels very uncomfortable, knowing that Chris's family does not accept him, even hates him, because of his sexuality. Upon seeing Chris's father, RJ has another panic attack, and Chris once again lovingly supports him through it, while Noah Merrill looks on.Noah Merrill requests a meeting that evening with RJ and his father, Tom. They have a dinner where Noah announces his disdain for same sex relationships. Chris's brother is also there, and quite hostile. Although Tom Smith has had a difficult time himself accepting RJ's sexuality, he defends his son.After the funeral, RJ returns to Portland. His relationship with Chris is still on hold due to the policies of the Mormon church. Meanwhile, Noah Merrill is doing some serious thinking. He has just lost his wife, and he has a new perspective of priorities. He saw his son comfort RJ through a panic attack, and he understands now that the love between the two men is the same love he and his wife shared. Reports on the news about hate crimes against gays deeply affect him. He decides to approach church leadership with his new perspective.RJ is back in Portland, not knowing what will happen with Chris. A night of dancing with his friend Ryan from Affirmation almost turns into sex, until RJ tells him no, they shouldn't ruin their friendship. Ryan is very tearful, telling RJ that he too hopes to find love, and that he wants a temple wedding. RJ encourages him to call his former missionary companion, Elder Peterson, with whom he had fallen in love and not spoken to since they were sent home in disgrace. Ryan calls Elder Peterson, and the two reconnect, expressing their love for each other.In Salt Lake, Chris is struggling to cope with the death of his mother. One day, he is teaching his 5 year old daughter, Kaylee, about heaven, where they will someday be reunited with grandma, and all the rest of the family. Kaylee asks if RJ will be there also, and he reassures her, yes, RJ will be there. Chris suddenly realizes that a little child comprehends and accepts the love he has been struggling with for so long. The realization sparks a self-acceptance.Noah Merrill confronts church authorities, advocating for the many faithful gay people in the church. They tell him they will not change their stance. In spite of this, Noah calls Chris to let him know that he has his blessing for a relationship with RJ.Chris returns to Portland where he has a joyous reunion with RJ. The two make passionate love. Chris has been admitted into law school in Utah, his father has accepted his sexuality, and there is much to celebrate. As Chris is preparing to return home, RJ tearfully asks him how things will be different now. The lovers are in 2 cities, hundreds of miles apart. Chris reassures him there will be vacations from school where they will see each other from time to time. RJ tells him that he is no longer interested in a halfway long distance relationship, it is too painful.Chris replies that he recently called RJ's father for permission to marry him. On one knee, he proposes, and RJ tearfully says yes.RJ Smith and Chris Merrill married for time and eternity in December 2016. Their families were there, and celebrated the joyous occasion with them. Soon thereafter, RJ moved to Salt lake City, where he found a job as an adjunct professor. As the film closes, Chris tells him that everything they went through was worth it, and he was right.
