Ito (Joe Taslim), a gangland enforcer, caught amidst a treacherous and violent insurrection within his Triad crime family upon his return home from a stint abroad.
At the height of its power, the South East Asian Triad controls 80% of Asia's smuggling activities. Utilizing the notorious Golden Triangle as the main hub, the Triad profits heavily from illegal drugs, weapons and human trafficking. To keep the channels free from chaos and outside disturbance, the Triad leaders created a small formation of elite delegates called the Six Seas, which allowed them free reign to perform extreme measures all in the name of order and obedience. The Six Seas are six men and women, all their identities anonymous.After massacring a village in response to stolen Triad money, Ito discovers the last survivor, a young girl named Reina. When the Triad soldiers are about to kill her, Ito instead kills them all, and is wounded himself. He hides Reina in an apartment, and his girlfriend Sinta finds her. While tending to his wounds, she berates him for saving the girl. It's revealed that if a Six Seas disobeys orders, they will be killed. Shinta calls Ito's friend Fatih for help, and Ito reveals that he plans to attain new identities for Reina and himself, and will leave Indonesia for a better life. Fatih calls on Wisnu, Fatih's cousin, and Bobby, a cocaine addict. Fatih warns Ito that he has a long list of enemies.While looking a picture of his old crew, Ito wonders where Arian has been. Arian is in Macau, where he is entertaining someone higher up in the Triad. When that person insults Arian and beats a waitress, he attacks and kills everyone in that room, except the waitress. While escorting the waitress out, his gets a call from his boss, Chien Wu.Chien Wu informs Arian that his friend Ito has gone rogue, and Arian must kill him. Meanwhile, Ito is planning to get some money, and goes to a man named Yohan, one of the Triad's elite, at a butcher shop. Yohan is under orders to report Ito, Ito catches on and is forced into a brutal fight with Yohan and his butchers, killing them all, but not before Yohan calls someone. Ito is captured and placed in a van with corrupt cops who gunned down Yohan while attempting to capture Ito. Bobby is escorting Shinta out of the apartment when Bobby discovers there are more Triad henchmen entering the building. Bobby pushes Shinta out of an elevator, and returns to the apartment to team up with Fatih and Wisnu against the Triad henchmen. After killing them all, they are confronted by Chien Wu's female assassins, Alma and Elena. Elena kills Bobby while Alma kills Wisnu.Before Alma kills Fatih, Arian arrives and saves him, before beating Alma effortlessly. Fatih reveals that Arian is the one who revealed the location of Ito, due to he and Arian being close, and Arian being the only person outside of Ito's group of Triad to know the location. Arian admits this, but says that he changed his mind, and wants to help Fatih, but Fatih gives him a warning shot, before leaving with Reina. While in the car, Fatih tells Reina to get out when he sees a group of Triad there. The Triad mortally wound Fatih, but before they can kill Reina, they are all slain by a mysterious woman.Ito wakes up in the police van, and battles and kills all the corrupt cops, escapes back to the apartment, but is too late to save his friends. He calls Shinta to tell her that he's alright. He then finds Reina, and they locate to another apartment while they bond. The mysterious woman, known as The Operator, arrives and fights Ito. Before killing Ito, Reina reveals herself and tells The Operator not to kill him. The Operator reveals that she is hired to kill Ito, making her either an ally of the Triad or an ally to the village that Ito massacred. Ito explains that he feels remorse for killing innocent people, and tells her to kill him, but she disappears. Chien Wu meets with Arian, and gives him one last chance to kill Ito and not betray the Triad. Chien Wu also explains that if Arian kills Ito, then Arian will take Ito's place as the Six Seas.While at a warehouse, Arian remembers that he was the one that influenced Ito to become a Six Seas. It is also shown that he feels betrayed that Ito became a member of the Six Seas without him, which is why Arian initially betrays Ito at first. He then phones Ito to meet him at the warehouse. Ito knows that if he meets Arian, Reina will be vulnerable. The Operator returns to the apartment, and decides to protect the girl, but tells Ito that she will kill him. She also reveals that Arian is supported by another Six Seas member, Chien Wu. While at the warehouse, Ito has to fight off all the henchmen, killing them all. Meanwhile, Chien Wu sends Alma and Elena to kill Reina, but the Operator confronts them. After a brutal fight, The Operator kills Elma and Alma.A sniper is about to kill Ito, but Arian takes her out, wanting the kill for himself. Arian and Ito finally meet, Ito tries to explain his actions, but Arian does not listen. Arian and Ito fight, and after a brutal sequence, Ito manages to beat Arian due to his strength and endurance, despite Arian's superior skill and speed. Ito refuses to deal the killing blow, revealing that he still cares about him, even though they drifted apart. While Ito is limping away, Arian pulls a gun, but can not bring himself to kill Ito, allowing him to escape. Chien Wu arrives, and knowing that Arian disobeyed him, the Triad shoots Arian.The Operator guides Reina to Ito and departs. Ito gives Reina her new passport, and puts her on a departing ship. They wave goodbye, and Ito sits in a car, as Chien Wu and his Triad henchmen show up with guns. Ito grins and drives his car toward them as they open fire
