A mother of two who inherits a house is confronted with murderous intruders on the first night in their new home and fights for her daughters' lives. Sixteen years later when the daughters reunite at the house, things get really strange.
Following her aunt's death, Colleen and her daughters inherit her house. However, during their first night in their new home, murderers enter the home, putting Colleen in a situation where she must fight to save her daughters' lives. When the girls suffer a terrible trauma during the night, their disparate personalities diverge even further. The younger daughter, Beth, is said to become a famous horror author with a perfect family and life in Los Angeles, while her sister, Vera, can't cope, and loses her mind faced to an unshakable sense of paranoia. Sixteen years later the daughters and mother reunite at the house where Colleen and Vera continue to reside, it is then that strange events begin to take place.
When the aunt of Pauline dies, she inherits the lonely house in the countryside and travels with her two teenage daughters to the place. While driving to the house, her daughter and aspirant writer of horror genre Beth reads her last novel to her mother and the rebel Vera criticizes her sister, and a candy truck driver overtakes their car. When they stop at a convenience store in a gas station, Beth learns that the police is hunting down criminals that kill the parents and abuse their daughters. They arrive at the house that looks like an old bazaar with many dolls. Vera does not close the front door and soon they are assaulted by driver and a fat man that were in the candy truck. Years later, Beth is a famous writer married with a baby boy and has just released a novel about their attack. Out of the blue, she receives a phone call from Vera asking for help and she leaves her husband and son to visit her mother and her sister. Soon she learns that weird and mysterious things are happening in the old house. What could it be?
Colleen and her two daughters, Beth and Vera, inherit the house of their recently deceased aunt. However, during the first night in their new home, some psychopaths enter the house causing the mother to go to the extreme to save the lives of her daughters. Sixteen years later, Beth has become a famous horror author who has a perfect life. For her part, Vera is now a woman who does not know how to cope alone and has a continuous sense of paranoia. Mother and daughters will meet again in the family home and a series of strange events will begin to take place.
Sixteen years after that soul-scathing incident at their late aunt's dilapidated mansion in the middle of nowhere, traumatised sisters, Beth and Vera, and their single mother, Pauline, have somewhat managed to put the past behind them. However, one delirious call from the frail and mentally unstable Vera will drag the now flourishing horror novelist Beth back to the old place of torment, as recurring visions of the past's unfathomable horrors still haunt the family. But, are the butchers in the siblings' nightmares real in the first place, or is this frenzied plunge into the uncharted waters of the human psyche what pure paranoia looks like?

