A man struggles to survive after he unintentionally locks himself up in a high rise devoid of food, water and electricity.
'Shaurya' (Rajkummar Rao) must pluck up the courage to stay alive after he accidentally locks himself up in his new rented apartment in a desolate Mumbai high-rise, for almost a week. To make things worse, his phone battery dies and since the building is devoid of residents, electricity and water or food supply, Shaurya must take extreme measures to survive this unexpected nightmare.
Shaurya, a call centre employee plans to elope and get married to his girlfriend Noorie, a day before Noorie's arranged marriage with someone else. Shaurya lives in a bachelor pad, so he makes plans to move to a new flat that will accommodate himself and his new bride. In a rush to find affordable housing, he ends up moving into a new high rise apartment complex, which is empty due to construction and legal issues. The lone security guard stationed at the building is unaware that Shaurya has moved in, and Noorie does not yet know Shaurya's new address.The next morning Shaurya accidentally locks himself inside the apartment. He makes some initial attempts to break open the lock but fails. The apartment has faulty wiring which leads to the circuit getting tripped, leaving him without electricity. His phone runs out of battery power before he can call for help. Shaurya, now totally disconnected from the outside world, struggles to survive without food, water and electricity. As the days pass by, he becomes progressively more claustrophobic, and his attempts to escape become more desperate. At one point, he uses his own blood to trace the word "help" with details of his address on a cardboard paper, which falls on the terrace of a house nearby. The house's resident, Swati, questions the clueless watchman about it, who claims that the building is empty. She hesitantly starts to go up to investigate but soon gives up.Desperate for food, Shaurya resorts to eating cockroaches, ants and pigeons and also starts talking to a rat for company. To his relief, it rains heavily after some days, and Shaurya collects as much water as possible in empty containers. He manages to survive for almost a week, but his health deteriorates due to starvation, dehydration and isolation. In a final, desperate attempt to escape, Shaurya begins sawing through the balcony gate with a metal sheet, and ultimately succeeds. He climbs down five floors, almost falling off many times due to exhaustion, before managing to reach a floor which has no balcony gates and finally escapes the building. Fainting due to weakness and fatigue, he is rushed to the hospital. A week later, he is visited by Noorie, who reveals that she is now married since she thought that he had abandoned her. Heartbroken and traumatized by the incident, Shaurya tries to return to his normal life, but he is shattered to see that his friends and colleagues had not even noticed his absence, as they are all too busy with their own lives.
