A confused religious girl tries to deny her feelings for a female friend who's in love with her. This causes her suppressed subconsciously-controlled psychokinetic powers to reemerge with devastating results.
Having just enrolled at a university in Oslo against her stern parents' will, the sheltered Biology freshman and devout Christian, Thelma, leaves for the first time the isolated Norwegian countryside, to start a new life away from home. Tangibly lonely, a casual conversation and one unexpected friendship with the beautiful fellow student, Anja, will broaden Thelma's hazy horizons; however, as the glacially alluring misfit wrestles with an onslaught of novel feelings, little by little, an unprecedented psychosomatic manifestation of repressed emotions start to take over. Indeed, a mystery cloaks soft-spoken Thelma's past, and the more she struggles to renounce her nebulous desire, the more violent becomes her quivering awakening. Can Thelma unearth a denied truth behind the stinging temptation?
Thelma lives a normal student life away from her conservative parents. But she begins to realise that something is strange about her. Soon she discovers that she has supernatural powers which are not completely under her control and faces its consequences.
The lonely religious Thelma is a repressed teenager that has just left her overprotective father Trond and her disabled mother Unni in the countryside of Norway to join the university in Oslo. She has no friends and one day she has an epileptic seizure in the library. Then she befriends the student Anja and tastes wine and cigarette for the first time. Soon they fall in love with each other and Thelma feels uncomfortable with the situation that is against her religious values. Thelma is submitted to a series of exams to find the cause of her seizures and she thinks of Anja during the tests. When Anja disappears, Thelma learns that she has telekinetic powers. Thelma decides to return home where she recalls what she did with her family when she was young.

