Twenty years after she was last in Paris, a woman returns to the City of Light, where she reconnects with her college boyfriend and first love.
Lindsey Wilson, who owns/operates a successful local New York art magazine, is offered a few propositions by Trent Greer, an international publisher: he would like to buy her magazine to take it to a larger market, she who would retain the role as consultant and who would be allowed to retain her key staff; and he would like to date her. Lindsey's assistant Maggie believes she would be crazy not to accept the date as she considers Trent the most handsome man on the face of the Earth. Lindsey will have time to mull both proposals over as she is taking a week long trip to Paris with her eighteen year old daughter Alexa Wilson, who is following in her mother's footsteps in taking a semester in the art program at the Sorbonne under who was Lindsey's mentor when she was a student there, Hugo Blanchet. Lindsey, who has not been to Paris in twenty years since she was a student, hopes that Alexa will not follow in another of her Paris footsteps, namely falling in love while she's there. Lindsey fell in love with an American named Jack Burrow, the son of a businessman whose primary holdings were in Europe, Jack who broke her heart by not following her back to the States following her art studies. A symbolic aspect of that heartbreak was that the lock they were going to affix to one of the bridges over the Seine to signify their love accidentally fell into the river instead. Soon after Lindsey and Alexa's arrival in Paris, Lindsey runs into Jack. Although their meeting is a surprise to both of them, it is not as accidental as it first appears. Although he is dating a woman named Nicole who is a bit more advanced in the relationship than him, Jack quickly falls in love with Lindsey all over again, he hesitant to tell her so because of what happened twenty years ago and the fact that they currently live in two different established worlds. Alexa meeting and falling in love with Jean-Paul, a bellboy at their hotel who is also a student at the Sorbonne, and their encounters with a recently widowed British tourist named Kathryn Daltry, who is in Paris for the first time without who was her long time husband, may factor into what happens between Lindsey and Jack. But the biggest factor may be the arrival in Paris of Trent, who, beyond the issue of work and the magazine, takes measures to sweep Lindsey off her feet.
Lindsey Wilson first found love in the romantic city of Paris when she was a university student studying art there. Now, twenty years later, she is returning to the City of Light to take her daughter on an adventure there. With a little inspiration from the city's famed "love locks" on its scenic bridges, the adventure proves to be a journey of romance and rediscovery for the divorced Lindsey when she reconnects with her college flame in Paris and finds that her first love just might be the lasting love of her life after all.

