A true story of survival, as a young couple's chance encounter leads them first to love, and then on the adventure of a lifetime as they face one of the most catastrophic hurricanes in recorded history.
Starring Shailene Woodley and Sam Claflin, Adrift is based on the inspiring true story of two free spirits whose chance encounter leads them first to love, and then to the adventure of a lifetime. As the two avid sailors set out on a journey across the ocean, Tami Oldham (Woodley) and Richard Sharp (Claflin) couldn't anticipate they would be sailing directly into one of the most catastrophic hurricanes in recorded history. In the aftermath of the storm, Tami awakens to find Richard badly injured and their boat in ruins. With no hope for rescue, Tami must find the strength and determination to save herself and the only man she has ever loved. Adrift is the unforgettable story about the resilience of the human spirit and the transcendent power of love.
October 1983. Following the harrowing and heartbreaking story of Tami Ashcraft, and her kindred spirit, Richard Sharp, "Adrift" portrays the couple's 4,000-mile sailing trip from sunny Tahiti to San Diego. Assigned to deliver the 44-foot yacht, Hazana, to California, Richard and Tami will soon find themselves ambushed by a devastating category-four hurricane--fighting for survival against towering waves, and 140-mile-per-hour winds. In the end--with Richard badly injured, and their vessel severely damaged, and adrift--Tami must find the courage, and the strength, to keep themselves alive even if all hope seems lost.
The film begins with Tami awakening on the sailing yacht Hazaña after being unconscious for some time. After regaining her memory that Richard did not come below with her, she searches the crippled yacht in hopes of finding her fiance Richard and soon realizes he has been swept overboard after his safety harness broke during the hurricane. Tami screams in anguish and it is revealed that Tami is all alone, with no ships or land in sight. Back to 1983 (five months before the catastrophic hurricane), Tami arrives in Tahiti on board the schooner Sofia and meets Richard Sharp, a British sailor. Richard then invites Tami for dinner on board his boat, named Mayaluga. During a conversation, while having dinner together, Richard reveals that he experiences hallucinations while at sea. Back in real-time, Tami is stranded on board a crippled Hazaña and finds out that all the electronic devices are ruined by water damage, preventing her from making distress calls. Tami spots the lost dinghy with Richard clinging onto it and tries to sail the ship towards Richard but to no avail. After falling off the yacht and almost drowning, Tami has no choice but to make repairs to the ship in order to get it moving. She makes a makeshift sail using a broken pole and a storm jib (a triangular sail). She also uses a pump to prevent the cabin from flooding and then makes her way towards Richard. After successfully saving Richard, Tami realizes that Richard has broken ribs and a shattered right shin. While searching for food supplies, Tami realizes that she has a severe head injury and stitches the wound with a sail needle and thread..
The film begins with Tami (Shailene Woodley) awakening on the sailing yacht Hazaña after being unconscious for some time. After regaining her memory that Richard (Sam Clafin) did not come below with her, she searches the crippled yacht in hopes of finding her fiancé Richard and soon realizes he has been swept overboard after his safety harness broke during the hurricane. Tami screams in anguish and it is revealed that Tami is all alone, with no ships or land in sight.Back to 1983 (five months before the catastrophic hurricane), Tami Oldham arrives in Tahiti on board the schooner Sofia and meets Richard Sharp, a British sailor. Richard then invites Tami for dinner on-board his boat, named Mayaluga. During a conversation, while having dinner together, Richard reveals that he experiences hallucinations while at sea.Back in real-time, Tami is stranded on board a crippled Hazaña and finds out that all the electronic devices are ruined by water damage, preventing her from making distress calls. Tami spots the lost dinghy with Richard clinging onto it and tries to sail the ship towards Richard but to no avail. After falling off the yacht and almost drowning, Tami has no choice but to make repairs to the ship in order to get it moving. She makes a makeshift sail using a broken pole and a storm jib (a triangular sail). She also uses a pump to prevent the cabin from flooding and then makes her way towards Richard. After successfully saving Richard, Tami realizes that Richard has broken ribs and a shattered right shin. While searching for food supplies, Tami realizes that she has a severe head injury and stitches the wound with a sail needle and thread.Back in 1983 (shortly before embarking on the ill-fated trip), Tami and Richard bump into Peter and Christine Crompton (Jeffery Thomas and Elizabeth Hawthorne), owners of the Hazaña, a luxury Trintella 44-foot yacht. The Cromptons offer Richard $10,000 and a return first class ticket back to Tahiti to help them sail Hazaña to San Diego, California after a family emergency in London. Richard accepts the offer, with a condition that Tami comes along. Tami later explains to Richard that she isn't ready to return home yet but changes her mind. Richard proposes to Tami with a handmade ring, which Tami accepts.Back in real-time, Tami finds out they are off-course and decides to change course to Hawaii. Tami awakens and sees a tanker heading straight for the Hazaña. She fires multiple flares but the ship sails right past them and disappears after. Tami realizes she has been hallucinating. Richard begins to suffer from high fever but reminds Tami that the sky was red in the morning, which signifies a storm approaching. Tami prepares Richard and herself for the storm by creating a makeshift shelter.Cutting back to shortly before the hurricane struck, Tami and Richard receive news of the impending Hurricane Raymond but decide to continue to San Diego, with a slight diversion northward to attempt to avoid the central area of the hurricane, which has the highest winds and the roughest seas. Tami tries to radio for help but to no avail. The storm alters course unexpectectedly and the yacht then enters the eye of the storm. The ship struggles to stay afloat, the mainsail tears and the after boom breaks. Richard and Tami have no choice but to lower the sails to prevent the yacht from tipping over due to strong winds. While returning to the cockpit, Tami almost falls off the yacht after the ship hit turbulent waves. Richard professes his love for Tami and demands that she go below where she would be safer. Hazaña is flipped multiple times after encountering a rogue wave. Tami is thrown about in the cabin, thus suffering her severe head injury, and Richard is thrown overboard after he is knocked unconscious by the mast and his safety harness breaks. Richard slowly sinks into the depths of the ocean, while the Hazaña continues to flip multiple times and floats back to the surface thereafter.Back in real-time, Tami realizes that her perception of the injured Richard is nothing but a hallucination and surrenders to the reality that Richard has been lost at sea. Tami then sees islands in a distance and uses her binoculars to see better. She sees a Japanese research vessel in a distance and fires two flares in its direction. The research vessel then alters its course and heads towards Tami, rescuing her. Tami returns to Tahiti after recovering from her head injury and visits Richard's boat (the Mayaluga) and bursts into tears after seeing the wall of photos of Richard and her. Tami then goes to the beach with a frangipani flower and places her engagement ring from Richard around the flower and lets it go in the water.It is then revealed in the credits that Richard Sharp was swept overboard and was never found, Tami Oldham was all alone aboard the Hazaña for 41 days and that she continues to sail to date.
