Rebeca and Marc make a travel to discover their mutual family pasts in Rebeca's grandparents house.
Rebeca and Marc are a troubled couple who make a deal to solve their differences: during a full weekend, they travel to the Rebeca's grandparents family house in Basque Country (north to Spain) to write the story about their respective parents: it moves the history 25 years ago when Macarena, Rebeca's mother, was a famous rock singer who retired from singing after her pregnant, and Nuria, Marc's mother, was a teen who was forced to exit from her summer house after the mysterious Olmo arrives to warm her that a Russian mob wants her house as headquarter in Spain. Time later Macarena meets Victor, a fan who falls in love with her and assumes child Rebeca as her own daughter to acceptance and joy of Macarena's parents, Pío and Candela, while Nuria works as editor literary and meeting Amaia, an aspiring writer which first novel turns in big hit, who in addition she's married with the own Olmo, Victor's elder brother. According the history evolves moving to the present, happiness turns in tragedy when Macarena's state mind starts to fall down in insanity and schizophrenia, Victor starts to suffer troubles with drugs, and at the same time Amaia and Olmo's relation are breaking due to Olmo's past and the relation of his parents Jacinto and Julieta with the Russian mob. This causes that Amaia starts a write a novel about the Russian mob to disclose the truth about Olmo and Victor, and that Nuria and Amaia relive a former passion between them after a casual encounter many years ago. Overpassed by the ghosts of the past, Rebeca and Marc's love threatens to end by the amount of forbidden passions, betrayals, love affairs, murder and infidelities, specially when the history affects the own Rebeca and the surgery she was in her childhood to save her life. Can will Rebeca and Marc's love survive to the weight of their past?
Marc Bellmunt and Rebeca Lopez arrive in a distinctive red car at a picturesque farmhouse in a beautiful mountainous region of Basque country in Spain. They are a very attractive couple, each about 25. He has medium long blond hair and a mustache. She has dark brown short hair. After encircling their arms around a huge tree in front of the farmhouse, they enter and begin removing drop cloths covering the furniture. Rebeca sits down at a lap top and prompts Marc to start telling their story.Marc begins dictating that in the summer of 1991, his mother Nuria Bellmont, was at the family house when her parents were killed in a car accident. In flashback, a beautiful young blond woman meets tall burly Dimitri, who is a Georgian. The two have sex twice, with growing reluctance from Nuria. Before there can be a third time, dark and very handsome Olmo Mendoza drives up in the same distinctive red BMW. He tells Nuria he was her father's driver and bodyguard and that her parents were killed by the Georgian mafia. Nuria must leave her family house at Costra Grande and not return for 10 years. Olmo drives her away from the home and stops at a small beach for a swim. First he, then she, strip and enter the ocean, where they make love. While Nuria is underwater, Olmo departs, leaving her and the red BMW.Rebeca tells her story. In 1991, her mother, Macarena Lopez, was a punk singer known as "La Maca" and her biological father is unknown. In flashback, Macarena is on stage at a punk club, very pregnant. Baby Rebeca almost died and doctors had to cut into her chest twice. Macarena is walking baby Rebeca in a pram meets a stranger, Victor Mendoza. Victor immediately becomes an integral part of the family and is welcomed by Rebeca's grandparents, the Lopezes. Macarena soon begins hearing voices and is voluntarily committed and Victor becomes Rebeca's primary parent.The storytelling jumps to 1939, introducing Jacinto Mendoza and Julieta, two evacuee children sent away from Bilbao Spain to Russia during the war. The two marry and become KGB agents and have two sons, Victor and Olmo who are raised in Russia. After the fall of the Berlin wall, the two brothers move to Lloret, Spain, the hometown of Marc's mother, where Olmo begins working for Marc's deceased grandfather. Little is known about Olmo after being a driver, though the story is he became a gigolo and was worth it. The parents, Jacinto and Julieta Mendoza, buy an expensive villa on the beach at Denia.Marc's mother Nuria becomes an editor and he remembers her excited by a manuscript from a new novelist, Amaia Zugaza. Nuria and Amaia are shown meeting, being topless at the beach, and then making love in the ocean. At time later, Olmo, ready to change his life, runs in to Amaia in Madrid. The two are shown immediately having sex and the next day driving up to the exact same spot at the Basque farmhouse in the same red BMW car that Marc and Rebeca arrived in.Rebeca as an 8 year old begins to visit with her mother, who tell Rebeca the she only hears one voice, the voice of a boy complaining she is not her mother.Victor and Olmo get married, six years apart, Victor to Macarena and later Olmo to Amaia. At Olmo's wedding at the farmhouse, Marc first wishes to kiss Rebecca; they are 14. Olmo realizes for the first time that Nuria, is the girl he rescued years. He had made love in the ocean to both of them. Olmo walks to Marc and puts Rebeca's hand in hers for a dance. Later, as the two youths are kissing on the ground at the tree, Olmo's pushing them away from a cow falling out of the tree. Marc sends Rebeca an overwrought love letter, to which Rebeca on the advice of her mother and Victor, does not respond.During their marriage, Amaia is frustrated that she knows little of Olmo's life since he left Russia but their sex life is so hot that other conflicts recede. Marc recalls that Olmo at times acted as a Mafioso and that when Olmo met his mother, Olmo actually killed Dimitri. Rebeca describes her mother going somewhat mad during a full moon, stating that the boy voice she hears repeats "They forced me to be your child. Kill me again."Three couples are then shown making love, in flashback, Olmo and a Russian Mafia associate, Amaia and Nuria, Marc and Rebeca, and Marc and Rebeca in the present. In the present, Marc is shirtless in bed revealing a long surgical scar down the middle of his chest. Rebeca recalls that after Olmo spent the night with the Russian women, Amaia told him to pack his things and leave. He leaves the farmhouse in the red BMW and drives to his brother Victor's to live, where Rebeca, then in her late teens, gives up her room to Olmo.In the flashback, Marc is at home where Amaia and his mother Nuria have become a couple and set up house. Amaia decides to write about the Russian mafia in Spain and after much research, Amaia tells Marc and his mother that Victor and Olmo were soldiers in the Russian Mafia and were sent to Costa Grande by their father. The Georgian mafia killed Nuria's parents to get their home and money. Responding to Marc's questions, Amaia insists she did not know Olmo was involved in a criminal organization.Later, Nuria and Amaia are getting married. During the car ride to the wedding, an 18 year old Rebeca confesses she has been in love with Olmo him since she was 14. At the wedding, Marc and Rebeca reconnect. Amaia confronts Olmo about his Russian Mafia ties and he responds with silence. Later, Baca attempts suicide by slitting her wrists. After rushing her to the hospital, Olmo and Rebeca wash her blood from their bodies and Rebeca deliberately seduces Olmo and the two spend the night together.In the present, Rebeca confesses that her and Olmo's sexual relationship continued well after Rebeca and Marc begin dating very seriously during university. This greatly upsets Marc and amidst tears and recrimination, he breaks off with Rebeca. Rebeca protests that she stayed by Marc for a year after his operation, which has not yet been mentioned. Marc says the rest of their story is too devastating and he wants no part of it. Marc drives away from the farmhouse in the red BMW and arrives at the apartment of Amaia and his young Asian sister, Xian. His mother is very noticeably absent. Rebeca is at home with Beca and Viktor. Olmo is noticeably absent.Rebeca, her mother and Viktor travel to stay at the Mendozas' villa. The Mendozas are noticeably absent. Rebeca challenges Viktor about his father's businesses and suggests it included trafficking in drugs, trafficking in organs, contract killings. Viktor is silent. Marc learns from Amaia that when Rebeca was a baby, her grandfather's paid for someone to find a boy from the slums of Madrid and kill him to use his organs for a multiple transplant needed to keep baby Rebeca alive.Marc and Rebeca communicate via computer and agree to continue their story. Rebeca relates that 3 years earlier, when she broke travel plans with Marc to the Pyrenees, she instead visited Olmo in Madrid. She arrived as Olmo and her stepfather Victor were having a terrible fight. Rebeca and Olmo drove off in the red BMW and she learns they are driving to the Pyrenees. Marc and his mother and Amaia are also driving to the Pyrenees. Rebeca mother was supposed to be driving with her parents in the same direction, but Macarena stayed home to care for Victor's injuries resulting from the fight with his brother. All of the principals are shown in this flashback, Viktor and Macarena at home and then the hospital, the elder Mendozas at their villa, and the three different groups driving.Marc calls Rebeca from his mothers' car, not knowing that she is also driving to the Pyrenees. From Marc's description, Rebeca realizes that cars are very close and each sees a very large field next to their car, with a group of bulls and a group of cows mysteriously running towards one another. In an overhead shot, we see Olmo's red BMW on a road on one side of the field and Marc's mother blue car on a different road on the other side of the field. Beca's parents green car is visible one the road some distance ahead of the red BMW. A car aggressively passes Marc's mother's car, and she loses control and, and the rolls over several times into the field. The cows in the field are startled and run into the opposite road where one collides with Macarena's parents car.Rebeca and Olmo stop. Rebecca and the ambulance workers get to Marc's car at the same time. Olmo walks forward towards Macarena's parents' car and sees that Macarena's mother has been impaled by a bull's horn. As Nuria is carried on a stretcher, she tells Rebeca that Olmo is Marc's father.Rebeca and Olmo drive to the hospital. Marc is being prepped for surgery. The doctor tells Rebeca that Marc needs multiple organ transplants, which are not available, and that he therefore has only hours to live. Rebeca reveals to Olmo that he is Marc's father. Olmo confirms with Rebeca the he and Marc's have matching blood type's, and then tells Macarena's father "I did it once for her, now I will do it for him." Olmo makes a strong run down a hospital corridor and deliberately breaks his neck against the hospital wall. At the Mendoza villa, Sr. Mendoza receives a phone call. He puts down the receiver, picks up a handgun and kills his unaware wife from the back, then himself.In the present, Marc is teary. He apparently did not know Olmo's part of this story. He speaks with Amaia to confirm that Victor and Olmo together killed the boy whose organs Rebeca received, and that it was the last job they did for their father. Amaia tells Marc the address of the Mendoza Villa and Marc begins the drive in the red BMW.At the beach near the Villa, Rebeca confronts Viktor and surmises that he met her mother deliberately Rebeca's grandfather had paid Victor's father to find her organ donor. Victor confesses that it was he who killed the boy. Rebeca kisses him and enters the ocean as Marc walks up. Marc gets undressed and also enters the ocean. The two kiss. The end.
