A deliveryman has to run for his life when he is he falsely accused of killing a presidential candidate in a car explosion.
Gun-woo (GANG Dong-won) is an honest and hardworking courier who even won a Model Citizen Award for saving a singer from a robbery incident. Out of the blue, his old friend Moo-yeol comes to visit him at work. With just a short moment to enjoy the pleasant surprise, Gun-woo witnesses a bombing incident that kills a presidential candidate right before his eyes. Moo-yeol tells Gun-woo that he is responsible for the bombing and that everyone will come after him as it is the agency's plan to make him the prime suspect. Gun-woo manages to flee from the scene but all evidences, including security camera footages, witness testimonies and fingerprints point toward him as the suspect. He meets former secret agent Mr. Min (KIM Eui-sung), who is an old friend of Moo-yeol and he helps out clear his name. Gun-woo must fight with all his strength to stay alive. However, as he tries to run away, everyone around him is put into dangerous situations, including old friends Dong-kyu (KIM Dae-myeung), Geum-chul (KIM Sung-kyun) and Sun-young (HAN Hyo-joo).
"An ordinary man is chased by the world after being framed for the assassination of a politician."A warm-hearted and hard-working delivery man, Geon-woo, gets his 15-minutes of fame when he is named the Model Citizen. His old high school bandmate, Mu-yeol, gets in touch with him, and during their long overdue reunion, a presidential candidate gets assassinated in front of them in a horrific terrorism bombing. Amidst the chaos, Mu-yeol tells an unbelievable story: this is a set-up, and Geon-woo is supposed to take the fall as the assassin and blow himself up. Mu-yeol gives a name card to Geon-woo, tells him to trust no one, then kills himself.In an utter shock and confusion, Geon-woo scrambles from the scene but becomes a wanted fugitive as the killer of a presidential candidate. From surveillance camera to fingerprints and eyewitnesses, fabricated evidence points to him as the terrorist. Geon-woo seeks the man on the name card, a former operative, and gets his help to escape, but as the invisible forces close in on him, his friends and family are exposed to danger, in this South Korean action thriller based on a famous Japanese novel of the same title, which has been also made into a film in Japan under the same title, in the year 2010.This new version stars GANG Dong-won, KIM Eui-sung, HAN Hyo-joo, KIM Dae-myeung, KIM Sung-kyun in the lead roles, and is directed by NOH Dong-seok."Suspicious eyes everywhere, the world is chasing after him". - (Korean with English subtitles)
