After Fiona gets dumped, she escapes to her family's Vermont Inn for a few days to evaluate her life. When her ex Nate shows up with a new girlfriend, Fiona devises a plan to win him back: pretend head chef Derek is her new boyfriend.
After fast-paced New York City high-end real estate broker Fiona (Lacey Chabert) gets dumped by her boyfriend Nate (Jesse Moss), she escapes to her family's quaint Vermont inn for a few days to slow down and re-evaluate her life. When her ex-boyfriend Nate shows up at the inn with a brand new girlfriend Haley (Elise Gatien), she quickly devises a plan to win him back: pretend the handsome and very laid-back head chef Derek (Carlo Marks) is her new boyfriend.
Fiona Grangely is one of the most successful young independent real estate agents in Manhattan. She got into the business as she has always felt that a sense of place is her touchstone in life, the reason she and her father, Harris Grangely, a former Wall Street broker, have a slight strain in their relationship in he having sold their "home" - an upper west side apartment - following the death of his wife/Fiona's mother, to purchase an inn in rural Vermont with his new wife Delia, New York City where Fiona's mother loved. While Fiona's professional life is on the upswing with a lucrative offer by Harris' old friend Irwin to manage the real estate division of his bank, her personal life takes a hit when her serious boyfriend, Nate, unexpectedly breaks up with her in feeling like he plays second fiddle to her career. In seeing that Fiona needs some down time away from New York and the thought of Nate, and to mull over Irwin's offer, her childhood best friend Angela, a therapist, convinces her that they should go to Vermont to visit Harris and Delia for a few days. Upon their arrival at the inn, Fiona immediately butts heads with Harris and Delia's new executive chef, Derek, a French trained native Vermonter who wants to highlight locally sourced foods in his cooking. Similar to Fiona, Derek has a touchstone in life, his being food and remembering his family through the recipes handed down to him from his mother and grandmother. Derek is preparing a special meal in conjunction with the Maple Faire in hopes of giving the inn greater exposure, that meal to which food critics and bloggers have been invited. What is supposed to be Fiona's relaxing vacation takes a turn when Nate unexpectedly shows up at the inn with his new girlfriend, Haley, he who had no idea the inn was owned by Harris and Delia. On the spur of the moment, Fiona, not wanting to be shown up and in order to make Nate jealous, tells him that she too is in a new relationship, with Derek. She is able to convince Derek to go along with the ruse, in return to help convince Harris and Delia's grizzled old farming neighbor, Chauncey, to sell a chunk of his land to Derek, who wants to be able to source more of his own produce, Chauncey who has refused ever to sell that parcel to Derek in Chauncey's belief that the inn and Derek's cooking is attracting yuppies to the area. As Fiona and Derek go through the ruse with its ups and downs, Fiona may come to a new realization about her life with some help from Derek and in having that much needed talk with Harris about the New York City apartment.

