Alia decides to leave Bangkok and return to Jakarta after her parents die. She and Abel, her teenage sister, move into their childhood home away from the city. But Abel, who is often strange and frightened, dislikes the house. She says there is something else besides them. Alia and Davin, Alia's boyfriend who accompanied Alia, ignores everything Abel says. But Abel's attitude gets worse. Feeling she must help Abel, Alia takes Abel to a psychiatrist. But Abel refuses and she says that she can see those who are already dead because her third eye has been open since childhood. Abel invites Alia to see Mrs. Windu, a psychic who helps Abel. Wanting to prove the things that make no sense in this, Alia asks Mrs. Windu to open her third eye. And slowly, Alia begins to experience unusual events. She sees things no one else can, and the presence of ghosts ask her help. But those who appear at Alia's house hurt her. Their energy is so negative that it can harm Alia and Abel. Without any other place for them to stay, they are forced to remain and ask for Mrs. Windu's help. Can Mrs. Windu assist?
Alia decides to leave Bangkok and return to Jakarta after her parents die. She and Abel, her teenage sister, move into their childhood home away from the city. But Abel, who is often strange and frightened, dislikes the house. She says there is something else there besides them. Abel's attitude gets worse. Feeling she must help Abel, Alia takes Abel to a psychiatrist. But Abel refuses and she says she can see those who are already dead because her third eye has been open since childhood. Abel invites Alia to see Mrs. Windu, a psychic who helps Abel. Wanting to prove the things that make no sense in all this, Alia asks Mrs. Windu to open her third eye. And slowly, Alia begins to experience unusual events, seeing things no one else can. But those who appear at Alia's house hurt her. Their energy is so negative, it can harm Alia and Abel. Without any other place for them to stay, they are forced to remain and ask for Mrs. Windu's help. Can Mrs. Windu assist?

