Jean Grey begins to develop incredible powers that corrupt and turn her into a Dark Phoenix, causing the X-Men to decide if her life is worth more than all of humanity.
The X-Men. Protectors of peace. Jean Grey is one of the most beloved X-Men. But when a mission goes wrong, Jean is exposed to a dark and ancient power. This power has destroyed everything it comes in contact with, until her. Now that this power is becoming unstable, she releases it with destruction and anger. Now that this foreign power is consuming her, and the world is threatened, the X-Men have to face an important truth: they must save either the world, or their friend who threatens it.
After a car accident with her parents caused by her powers, the girl Jean Grey is raised by Professor Charles Xavier at his school. Years later, the X-Men are assigned to rescue a team of astronauts and Jean Grey is exposed to a dark and evil force. Soon her behavior changes affecting her friends and the future of the world.
Almost one long and peaceful decade after the nearly disastrous events in X-Men: Apocalypse (2016), Professor Charles Xavier's X-Men enjoy a mutually beneficial pact with the humans, undertaking increasingly dangerous missions as the Earth's valiant protectors. However, during a risky NASA crisis in 1992, Jean Grey is imbued with an unfathomable cosmic force--and even though she should be dead--this inexhaustible but uncontrollable energy enhances her already formidable abilities, transforming her into an all-powerful being. More and more, Jean's otherworldly powers become unpredictable and destructive, posing a direct threat not only to herself and her companions but also to the entire world. Is humankind prepared for the rise of the Dark Phoenix?
In 1975, eight-year-old Jean Grey inadvertently uses her telekinesis to cause a car accident that kills her parents. Shortly afterwards, Professor Charles Xavier takes her to Xavier's School for Gifted Youngsters, where he mentally blocks the accident from her memories and helps her hone her psychic abilities.In 1992, the X-Men respond to a distress signal from the space shuttle Endeavour, which is critically damaged by a solar flare-like energy. While the X-Men save all of the astronauts, Jean is stranded and is struck by the energy, but she absorbs all of it into her body to save the X-Men's aircraft from destruction. Jean survives the event, and her psychic powers are greatly amplified as a result. At the same time, the mental block placed by Xavier is destroyed, and she accidentally attacks the mutants celebrating at Xavier's school after a mental breakdown, passing out afterward. She later travels to her childhood hometown of Red Hook, New York, after discovering that her father is still alive. The X-Men attempt to take Jean home, but she injures Peter Maximoff and accidentally kills Raven Darkhölme and several local police officers before flying away.Jean travels to the mutant refugee island of Genosha to seek assistance from Erik Lehnsherr in controlling her powers, but is turned away by Erik after she engages in combat with U.S. military forces tasked with her arrest. Jean meets Vuk, the leader of a shape-shifting alien race known as the D'Bari, who explains to her that she has been possessed by a force of cosmic power which wiped out the D'Baris' home planet years ago. The power had consumed all those it came across, until it encountered Jean. Meanwhile, Hank McCoy, who feels betrayed by Xavier's manipulation of Jean's memories, allies with Erik and the mutant refugees in an attempt to put down Jean in New York City.Upon learning of Erik's plan to kill Jean, the X-Men confront him and his faction in New York. As they battle, Erik manages to infiltrate the building and confront Jean but is overpowered by her new abilities. Xavier then enters the building with Scott Summers. Jean attacks them until Xavier convinces her to read his memories - allowing her personality to resurface. Feeling remorseful, Jean asks Vuk to take the force from her; however, it quickly turns out that doing so would kill her. Xavier and Scott are able to prevent Vuk from fully absorbing the force from Jean, before both mutant factions, including Jean, are captured by troops sent by the U.S. government and placed on a train headed towards a mutant containment facility.A remorseful Xavier admits to a very resentful Hank that the latter was right in his earlier accusations of violating Jean's mind and lying to her. The train is attacked by Vuk and her D'Bari forces. When the soldiers are overpowered by the shape-shifters, the mutants are freed from their restraints to combat the threat. After the mutants take out most of the D'Bari attackers, Vuk arrives and heads for Jean, defeating each mutant that attempts to stop her. Meanwhile, Xavier confers with Jean within his mind, allowing Jean's personality to gain control of the force within her. Jean saves the mutants from Vuk's attacks and the ensuing train wreck, before proceeding to easily vaporize the remaining D'Bari aliens when they attack her. Vuk once again attempts to drain Jean of the force, but Jean takes Vuk into outer space and retakes the power that the D'Bari had stolen earlier, before unleashing her power, killing Vuk. Jean then disappears as her full potential is unleashed, releasing a burst of energy in the form of a phoenix.In the aftermath of the incident, the school is renamed the Jean Grey School for Gifted Youngsters and Hank becomes their new dean; with Xavier having retired after decades of fighting for mutant rights. While settling himself in Paris, Xavier is reunited with Erik and reluctantly agrees to play a game of chess with him. As they start playing, a flaming phoenix appears in the sky.
