Speedboat racing champion and multimillionaire, Ben Aronoff, leads a double life that lands him in trouble with the law and drug lords.
Let's look at the history of the man for the plot summary. Don Aronow was born the youngest son of Russian Jewish immigrants in 1927 in Brooklyn New York, Sheepshead Bay neighborhood of Brooklyn, then leaving New Jersey in 1961 after a successful career in the construction industry from 1953. In 1959 he was to move to South Miami and start as a hobby racing boats in design.He soon became the king of power boats. Of the World's most recognized racing boat companies, Don Aronow established Magnum Marine, Cary, Cigarette, Donzi, and Formula speedboats. In 1964 he started Donzi Marine made the Donzi brand an international success and quickly sold the company to Teleflex Inc. in mid 1965. In 1966, he founded Magnum Marine and in 1967 proceeded to win his first World Championship driving two 27' Magnums, a single engine inboard and a triple engine Mercury powered outboard.He himself became the US and World Powerboat Champion many times which helped establish his racing prowess and his boats. His boats won over 350 offshore races and he was a two time world champion and three time U.S. champion. He had been elected to all power-boating Hall of Fame in existence with him and Gar Wood were the only two Americans to have ever received the UIM Gold Medal of Honor.He got the attention of Presidents, Princes and the privileged. As businessman, Aronow applied a no questions asked policy. If the money was there, a boat would be supplied. His fast life led to a speedy death, that hint to indiscretions, from his early days, to his tragic murder in 1987 in the middle of his reign.Plot Summary is close to the history of the man, Aronow. Starts with him leaving New Jersey with implications that he must move due to the relationship with Meyer Lansky in the construction business.Arronow had become a millionaire by this time and moving to South Miami was a good move as to avoid any prosecutions that may have come his way. He moved with his wife and three children. The movie outlines he has many affairs and paints a poor husband / father type. During this movie he divorces his wife after the catalyst where his oldest son loses his ability to walk in an accident. As far as his romantic life he sees a lovely woman with New Jersey history and was a model who was dating a very substantial Latin mobster and worked his way to meet her. He does end up marrying this woman and having one son with her.During the duration of the movie there is are clashes between him and Meyer Lansky's nephew. Also, throughout the movie there are several incidents where the events of him and ties to the mob are shown.Overall, this movie has weaknesses in establishment of characters. Al characters are shown as lack luster and their build up as well as boring with no excitement of truly interesting people. The director of this film could have made the movie so much more worthy with not only character build up but actual representation of the boats. Where ever the boats are shown have no excitement of what these boats really are. The race in choppy waters where Aronow not only comes in late due to poor weather but wins looks like special effects of the the late 1950's.This is an interesting story although just another mobster, greed and death representation. However, with that said with strong direction and improvement of the poor special effects and an actual representation of boat Racing and these awesome boats could have made this now mediocre movie in to a moderate movie. Jodi Scurfield with absolutely no industry history of any kind, should not have been selected for this project. To have made this a good/great movie would have been a monumental task that I do not feel could have been accomplished. The story is lack luster and my thoughts could not capture any reasonable size of audience. - Martin Snytsheuvel.
