In the early 90s, a mysterious muscular disease with symptoms that included severe muscle and joint pain began to surface among multiple patients in France. A team of doctors in Paris discovered that these patients had developed a new disease called Macrophagic Myofascitis, or MMF, which occurs when the aluminum hydroxide adjuvant from a vaccine remains embedded in the muscle tissue. What the pharmaceutical companies don't make public is that the aluminum adjuvant was never rigorously tested* before going on the market and there are alternative, much less toxic, adjuvants available. Featuring interviews with patients, doctors, scientists, and influential politicians, Injecting Aluminum examines aluminum's devastating effects on the human body and calls into question the public health policies around aluminum in vaccines. Featuring: Dr. Romain Gherardi, Dr. Jerome Authier, Professor Christopher Exley, Michèle Rivasi (Member of European Parliament), journalist Stephane Foucart (Le Monde), Didier Lambert (President, E3M)
In the early 90s, a mysterious muscular disease with symptoms that included severe muscle and joint pain began to surface among multiple patients in France. In 1993, a team of doctors in Paris discovered that these patients had developed a new disease called Macrophagic Myofascitis, or MMF, which occurs when the aluminum hydroxide adjuvant from a vaccine remains embedded in the muscle tissue and causes an immune reaction. Featuring interviews with patients, doctors, scientists, and influential politicians, Injecting Aluminum calls in to question the public health policies around aluminum in vaccines and examines aluminum's devastating effects on the human body.
In the early 90s, a mysterious muscular disease with symptoms that included severe muscle and joint pain, muscle weakness, fatigue, and fever began to surface among multiple patients in France. A team of doctors and researchers relentlessly studied the patients, searching for anything that could be causing this troubling new condition. In 1993, doctors in Paris then discovered that these patients had developed a new disease called Macrophagic Myofascitis, or MMF, which occurs when the aluminum hydroxide adjuvant from a vaccine remains embedded in the muscle tissue and causes an immune reaction. Since the 1920s, aluminum, the most common adjuvant used in most vaccines, has been used to optimize the body's immune response to the injected disease. Aluminum is now known to be neurotoxic and the root cause of many serious illnesses. What the pharmaceutical companies don't make public is that the use of aluminum as a vaccine adjuvant was never rigorously tested before going on the market. The Aluminum adjuvant was only tested for 28 days, on two rabbits, the remains of which have "mysteriously disappeared." Featuring interviews with patients, doctors, scientists, and influential politicians, Injecting Aluminum examines aluminum's devastating effects on the human body and calls into question the public health policies around aluminum in vaccines and the failure of health agencies globally to respond to the known neurotoxic effects of this powerful vaccine ingredient on the human body.

