Jessica, a single parent, owner of a struggling diner, finds the inspiration she needed when her high school boyfriend, Chase, a professional baseball player returns to town.
In small town Parker Falls, Ohio, Jessica is the third generational owner/operator within her family of Wesley's Hometown Diner, she who has tried to remain true to her grandfather, the original owner, in keeping the same menu, restaurant policies, and décor. The once beloved diner is struggling to stay afloat, which is not helped by Charlie just having opened a new restaurant in town as competition. Divorced now for two years, she acts as a single Mom to eight year old Wesley, to who she tirelessly spends time on whatever he needs, baseball coach for his less than developed baseball skills which is not of much help if any. With Wesley's father just the latest person to abandon her, she is now dating insurance salesman Brett Thompson, who she has known since they were in high school and who is arguably the "safest" man to date in all of town. Meanwhile, Parker Falls' most famous son, Chase Taynor, is a major league pitcher in Boston, he and Jessica who were high school sweethearts. Chase left town fifteen years ago to pursue his long held goal of fame, which broke Jessica's heart in he never having gotten in touch at all over those fifteen years. That fame includes now dating a supermodel. However, in this off season, Chase has an uncertain future as he realizes he is getting older and his pitching arm is not what it used to be. What may be the worst issue is that in last season's championship series, he threw a grand slam home run in the ninth inning of the seventh game, losing the series for Boston. He is now teamless as his manager searches for any team wanting to sign him. Chase has decided to return to Parker Falls to hide out in the interim. Chase ends up staying with his parents, his mechanic father, Mason Taynor, and he who have had somewhat of a strained relationship in Mason believing Chase coasting on his fame without willing literally or figuratively to get grease under his fingernails. Chase also reunites with Jessica, the two who are able to bury the hatchet. As Jessica and Chase start to fall for each other again, as Wesley sees in Chase the first man in his life since his father as a male role model and as Chase helps Jessica chase her own dreams in saving the diner, Jessica and Chase have to decide how far to take things as they both realize, unspoken to each other, that Chase will be off like a light when that next pro baseball offer eventually comes through.

