After finding out about an illegal arms deal, a military intelligence officer goes rogue with highly sensitive data related to his organization, causing his mentor: a colonel, to hunt him down.
General Gurinder Singh comes with a proposal to General Pratap Malik with the intention of bribing him.Pratap Malik declines in proposal following which Gurinder Singh threatens him that he will expose his secret unit DSD (Data System Diagnostics) which conduct secret operations.DND is lead by Colonel Abhay Singh who finds from his team that one of his honest officer Major Jai Bakshi has been absconding with confidential data of the secret unit.
One day while conducting Telephone surveillance in South Block, New Delhi, Major Jai Bakshi (Sidharth Malhotra), an officer in the classified special operations unit DSD (Data Systems Diagnostics), overhears a representative of Indian Arms lobby Lt.Gen Gurinder Singh (Retd) (Kumud Mishra), an ex Army officer, attempting to bribe the Army chief Pratap Malik (Vikram Gokhale), on behalf of a Czech firm, with a USD $2.5 Mn offer. Pratap flatly refuses and rebuffs the offer. This angers Gurinder, who in turn threatens to expose the DSD's existence to the general public. This makes Jai suspect a major scam involving the Indian Army. After 2 months of continuous surveillance, he goes rogue along with his girlfriend Sonia, a cyber-expert (Rakul Preet Singh), and escapes to London. Capt. Maya (Pooja Chopra) informs Colonel Abhay Singh (Manoj Bajpayee), their team leader and Jai's mentor, about Jai's going rogue and his stealing of highly sensitive data from the DSD Office. Abhay activates his intelligence network and launches a manhunt for Jai, eventually learning about Jai's escape along with Sonia. He raids Jai's house but finds nothing. All this while, a corrupt Army Officer Brig. K Srinivas, spies on Abhay's movements and keeps reporting them to Gurinder. Abhay however outsmarts Srinivas and successfully manages to escape, and the DSD shift their office to an undisclosed location. Seeing his plan of capturing Abhay fail, Gurinder contacts an influential journalist and provides her with sensitive information, exposing Army's secrets.While all this is going on, Gen. Malik personally meets Abhay and informs about the termination of DSD, Foreign involvement in Indian Defence Deals and Lt.Gen Gurinder Singh's involvement with a powerful London based Arms dealer Mukesh Kapoor (Adil Hussain), who's the major culprit behind all this fiasco. Abhay promises to expose the perpetrators to protect the integrity of Indian Army. After the meeting, with Srinivas still tracking him, Abhay heads to the DSD office, where he informs his team that they have been disavowed, with Government denying their existence. Abhay and Maya alert all their sources and order them to keep a low profile, so as to avoid detection. Abhay flies off to London, in pursuit of Jai, while DSD members stay back in India.In London, Jai calls and threatens Gurinder in renegotiating a deal, revealing that he has bugged Gurinder's house. A frightened Gurinder reluctantly agrees and transfers the money to Jai's account. Abhay arrives in London and with the help of Tariq Bhai (Anupam Kher), a London-based immigrant and a middle-man for Intelligence agents, attempts to locate Jai and Sonia, but fails and instead alerts Jai. A desperate Abhay meets Mukesh Kapoor and informs him about Jai possessing sensitive incriminating data harmful for his business and thus asks him to eliminate Jai, apart from revealing the capture of Gurinder by DSD. However, Abhay informs Sonia about the threat to Jai's life and orders her to lure him to an undisclosed location. Jai's fixed meeting with a few MI-6 officers ends up in a shootout killing two agents. A wounded Jai makes it to the place where Abhay and Sonia are waiting for him. Abhay severely beats Jai and derides him as a traitor. Jai however justifies his actions and calls the older generation responsible for the massive corruption in India. He further questions the legacy that the older generation plans to leave for the youth, thus forcing Abhay to agree with him.Feeling cheated, Mukesh takes Tariq Bhai hostage and plans to execute him, but stops when Jai informs him that he will surrender all the sensitive information regarding Mukesh Kapoor's deals and requests for a personal meeting. Mukesh, realizing that Abhay still has Gurinder Singh, reluctantly agrees. Jai informs Abhay about a major Army housing scam in Mumbai, involving Gurinder Singh and the Defence Minister. He further tells that the only eyewitness to the entire scam, a watchman named Baburao Shastri (Naseeruddin Shah) is being hidden by Jai in a small hotel in Paharganj, Delhi. Abhay meets Baburao, records his confessions and gives them to the same influential journalist who earlier had met Gurinder Singh. She decides to run Abhay's story, thus deciding to expose the Army's housing scam.Meanwhile, Brig. Srinivas finally captures all the DSD members and frees Gurinder, but in turn the DSD is absolved of all the crimes and Army's Housing scam gets exposed. Gurinder Singh, overcome with shame and guilt, shoots himself dead.
