Students from Zombietown are transferred to a high school in a suburban town preoccupied with uniformity, traditions and pep rallies.
Disney's "ZOMBIES" is a music and dance filled story set in the fictitious world of Seabrook, a cookie-cutter community brimming with perky conformity, 50 years after a zombie apocalypse. Today, the zombies pose no threat, but are required to live in Zombietown, an isolated, rundown community infused with their unique creative spirit. When zombies are finally allowed to enroll in Seabrook High School, the charming, charismatic zombie Zed, who is determined to play football, meets freshman Addison, who dreams of being a cheerleader - the ultimate form of status in Seabrook. Addison takes a lot of flak for befriending Zed and his zombie friends, but comes to learn that zombies and cheerleaders aren't so different after all. Zed and Addison work together to show Seabrook what they can achieve when they embrace their differences and celebrate what makes them a community.
Zombies is an American musical and dance Disney Channel Original Movie that premiered on Disney Channel on February 16, 2018. The film stars Milo Manheim and Meg Donnelly, playing zombie football player Zed and human cheerleader Addison who meet and fall in love, and who must lead their respective groups to coexist with each other. in the present day, zombie students from Zombietown transfer to the human high school, Seabrook High, where suburban life is filled with uniformity, traditions, and pep rallies. Addison and Zed meet in a Zombie Safe Room and they start talking. When Addison realizes that Zed is a zombie, she punches him in the face but later regrets it, and the two become friends and soon fall in love. The star-crossed lovers, who are not supposed to be together, keep their love a secret, but Zed's friends, Eliza and Bonzo, come to know of it soon. To win football games, Zed makes Eliza hack into his Z-Band to make him 'a little more zombie'. This leads to severe pain in his wrist and rashes in that area. Addison's self-centered cousin Bucky becomes jealous that Zed is getting more attention than him. On the big football match day, Addison tells Zed about her parents wanting to meet him. Bucky finds out about Zed's Z-Band hack, and has his followers Stacey, Tracey and Lacey steal Eliza's laptop and hack Zed's band. When Addison and Bree start showing their sympathy to the zombies during a cheer, Bucky has them kicked off the cheer squad. Stacey, Tracey, and Lacey succeed in their plot turning Zed, Eliza, and Bonzo into complete zombies. The Zombie Patrol captures them and has them detained. Later, Addison shouts at the crowd, telling them it was their fault Zed transformed into a full zombie. She then rips off the wig she used to cover up her naturally white hair.On the day of the cheerleader competition, Addison and Bree find Zed and Bonzo trying to stop Eliza from sabotaging the competition, and after Eliza talks with her friends, she realizes that doing so is not the right thing to do. Bucky's team is failing because they do not have enough members, so Zoey tries to get in and help him. At first, Zoey is booed by the crowd, but with help from Addison and Zed, the zombies and cheerleaders come together to make a cheer routine during the Cheer competition. Zed and Addison tell each other they love each other.
