A battle-hardened army officer squares off against drug lords and Russian henchmen to save his ex-lover's kidnapped daughter in the underbelly of Goa, India.
Ronnie is serving in the Indian army.He gets a call from his former lover Neha as she is clueless about her missing daughter.Upon reaching Goa Ronnie sees that Neha is very disturbed by the event and cops are not taking the missing case seriously. Ronnie then starts his own investigation and finds that there is no truth in Neha's story as such thing never happened. But Neha is adamant that her daughter has been kidnapped.
A battle-hardened officer goes in search of his ex-lover's child who is mysteriously kidnapped.Neha reaches out to the only person who can help her with her plight, Ronnie. He has molded himself into a man of morality and high-mindedness. His stubbornness forces him to take leave and honor his promise to her "I'll always be there if you need me". He remembers the good old days, the first time he met her, all the time they spent together and how he fell in love with her but due to unforeseen circumstances Neha and Ronnie were forced apart.He arrives in Goa to begin his hunt for Neha's daughter. He rummages for clues in every nook and cranny of Goa, but all his efforts are futile and they all turn to be dead ends. And the local police are of no help either.Ronnie later learns that Rhea might not be Neha's daughter after all when another man claims to be her father, or worse, a figment of Neha's imagination. Neha's husband, police &amp; neighbors even endorse this possibility, suggesting Rhea doesn't exist at all. All of which raises doubt and confusion in Ronnie's mind and causes Neha to lose all hope in ever finding her daughter.But Ronnie's love for Neha gives him the strength to stay the course. He goes deep into the underbelly of Goa, facing off against drug lords, menacing Russian henchmen, and blood thirsty animals. Daring stunts, chase sequences, air strikes, bomb blasts and other large-scale action sequences will be done with a bona-fide, larger than life approach, truly making it a spectacle.
