The story of Ted Slauson, a contestant who gamed the rules of The New Price Is Right (1972) through extensive analysis and became a sensation on the game show.
Winner of "Best Documentary" at the Orlando FIlm Festival, "Perfect Bid" explores how Slauson became adept at recording and memorizing prices of products featured on the show since its inception in 1972, culminating in him helping a contestant place a perfect bid during a 2008 Showcase, and ending in one of the biggest controversies in game show history as covered by TIME Magazine, Esquire, TMZ and more. Upon seeing a rough cut, Roger Dobkowitz, 5 time Emmy winner and 36-year producer of the show, along with television legend, Bob Barker, both commended Wallis' workmanship, and gave of their time in support of the project by participating in interview sessions and providing invaluable context for the film. "I think this wonderful documentary has a big chance of breaking away from all the other documentaries that come out each year. I am happy someone is recognizing the dedication of our fans," said Dobkowitz. "Ted Slauson is a loyal friend and true. People like that are the reason I didn't have to work for a living....its the least I could do" - Bob Barker.
The association of middle school math teacher Theodore Slauson to The New Price Is Right (1972) is presented in that he systematically memorized the prices of most of the items presented on the show, which led to an up and down relationship he had with the show over the course of the thirty-seven show tapings he has attended in over twenty years. An aficionado of the show since he was a child, he quickly realized that the items up for bid and their prices didn't change much over time. By the time he was eligible to be a contestant in the mid-1980s, he was hoping to use his knowledge of the prices to become a big winner on the show, which also has some luck associated with the games, that luck which also requires being chosen as a contestant. Having not been chosen as a contestant yet after seven attended tapings (he trying to play on his attraction to show model Holly Hallstrom to be chosen), he and his knowledge of the prices came to the attention of then host Bob Barker and producer Roger Dobkowitz when at the Sunday, July 1, 1990 taping, he, yelling out prices as the audience members are apt and allowed to do and those prices largely being exact, helped several contestants, his knowledge which was played up by Barker throughout that taping largely to plug watching the show. Barker continued to play up Slauson's knowledge whenever seeing him in the audience until finally on his twenty-fourth attended taping in July, 1992, Slauson was chosen as a contestant. The luck side of the equation of his appearance as a contestant didn't always go his way. Under the then rules of only being allowed to be a contestant once, this should have been the end of the story. But with the advent of the Internet and being able to research manufacturer retail prices along with the show rules being changed allowing future contestant appearances if the last was over ten years ago, he began to attend tapings again after a ten year hiatus. Then at a 2008 taping he attended, following Barker's retirement and Dobkowitz's reported firing after being with the show since its inception in 1972 (the last twenty-four of those years as producer), an incident with a contestant, which had rumored ties to Dobkowitz but which Slauson tries to clear up in this documentary as being he as an audience member doing what he had always done, had the potential to shut the show down in scandal if what was alleged by some was true.

