A pair of high-frequency traders go up against their old boss in an effort to make millions in a fiber-optic cable deal.
In this modern epic, Kim Nguyen exposes the ruthless edge of our increasingly digital world. Cousins from New York, Vincent (Eisenberg) and Anton (Skarsgård) are players in the high-stakes game of High Frequency Trading, where winning is measured in milliseconds. Their dream? To build a fiber-optic cable straight between Kansas and New Jersey, making them millions. But nothing is straightforward for this flawed pair. Anton is the brains, Vincent is the hustler, and together they push each other and everyone around them to breaking point on their quixotic adventure. Constantly breathing down their necks is their old boss Eva Torres (Hayek) a powerful, intoxicating and manipulative trader who will stop at nothing to come between them and beat them at their own game. No matter what the cost, Vincent and Anton are determined to cut through America, only to find redemption at the end of their line, not through money, but through family and reconnecting to the land.
In this modern epic, Kim Nguyen exposes the ruthless edge of our increasingly digital world. Cousins from New York, Vincent (Jesse Eisenberg) and Anton (Alexander Skarsgård) are players in the high-stakes game of High-Frequency Trading, where winning is measured in milliseconds. Their dream? To build a straight fiber-optic cable line between Kansas and New Jersey, making them millions. But nothing is straightforward for this flawed pair. Anton is the brains, Vincent is the hustler, and together they push each other and everyone around them to the breaking point with their quixotic adventure. Constantly breathing down their necks is their old boss Eva Torres (Salma Hayek), a powerful, intoxicating and manipulative trader who will stop at nothing to come between them and beat them at their own game.
It's late 2011. After securing financing from venture capitalist Bryan Taylor, cousins Vincent Zaleski and Anton Zaleski quietly hand in their resignations at New York City based Torres and Thatcher Corp. - where Vincent worked as a high frequency trader and Anton being one on the coding team - to embark on the top secret project of laying a 4" diameter fiber optic cable in as straight a line underground from the Kansas Electronic Exchange Data Center to the New York Stock Exchange servers in New Jersey to increase the electronic trading speed down to at least 16 milliseconds, 1 millisecond faster than that currently exists, which would allow them proverbially, as Vincent puts it, to win the lottery even before the numbers are drawn. In the partnership, Vincent is the wheeler-dealer who requires anyone associated with the project to sign a legal non-disclosure agreement, while milquetoast Anton, who had to be be convinced to give up a steady job especially in light of needing to support a family, is the coding genius. Beyond their now former boss, cutthroat Eva Torres, becoming their competitor, one other reason for not telling her about the project is that she would probably consider much of the existing coding that Anton would be using as proprietary to the company, while Vincent would argue that it is Anton's intellectual property as the person who wrote it in the first place. Beyond some of the more obvious hurdles they potentially facing coming to fruition, one of the biggest arguably is Eva finding out, she who will do anything to ruin the cousins for abandoning her. Within this scenario, the project takes on a different meaning for each of Vincent and Anton as it progresses, Vincent who receives some personal news which taints the need for expediency, and Anton who is made aware of other aspects of the consequences of what they are doing.

