An Interpol agent betrayed by his friends sets out to take revenge against the friends who work for a secret agency.
A celebrated covert operation specialist Ajay Kumar is assigned a high risk mission to retrieve the detonation codes for deadly plutonium weapons stolen by terrorists to upset the world order. After putting his unparalleled skills to use he finds himself on the verge of successfully completing the mission, only to be shocked by treasonous acts which he wouldn't have even dreamt of. He is then left to deal with overwhelming odds stacked against him in order to survive.
The film opens with an arms exchange deal between the General Secretary of Europol police and the head of the Russian mafia gang in a dense Serbian forest, secured with multiple layers of military personnel. AK, a former counter-terrorist agent, successfully intercepts the deal and secures the weapons drive. Meanwhile, the international counter-terrorist group is on the lookout for him. Aryan, a chief strategist, and his team volunteer to find AK.AK lives happily with his wife Yazhini, who owns and manages an Indian restaurant. Their life is interrupted by a mission to trace a hacker, Natasha from Bulgaria, who is responsible for cracking the security codes of the plutonium weapons. There have already been three man-made seismic activities caused by the explosion of plutonium bombs. She is wanted by the Interpol, CIA, and terrorist groups around the world for her hacking skills. AK's mission is to secure Natasha, thereby preventing the two future seismic quakes targeted in India.AK goes back to Serbia in search of Natasha, where he is guided by APS (Arumai Prakasm), a local translator. He interrogates the hospital doctors in the city and finds that Natasha has undergone plastic facial alteration surgery. Meanwhile, an Albanian gang has hijacked Natasha's boyfriend and tortured him to death. With the help of the pacemaker found in her boyfriend's body, AK traces Natasha and moves her to a safe house.Natasha is unaware the code she decrepit was that of a nuclear weapon. She feels guilty and proposes to diffuse the remaining weapons from a neutrino site. On their way to the site, Natasha is killed by a group of terrorists. Aryan and his team ambush AK and open fire at him. AK survives the ambush and kills two of his ex-teammates. Aryan hires an assassin to kill Yazhini. AK neutralizes the assassins and saves his wife. Later, AK comes to know that Aryan and his teammates belong to the shadow government which controls the economy of the world by war manipulation. Aryan, as a counter-terrorist officer and shadow government agent, forces AK and his pregnant wife into hiding by blaming AK as the most wanted terrorist. AK releases a video challenging Aryan and his group to save Aryan from being assassinated. AK tries to stop the nuclear weapon from blasting by turning off all the satellites by power-hub. To stop AK from continuing his job, Aryan kidnaps AK's wife and keeps her in a secret place. He asks AK whether he will save his wife or stop the bomb. AK beats up Aryan and prevents the plutonium weapon from blasting.The movie ends with AK, Yazhini, and their child going for a long drive, when suddenly, a mission comes for AK.
