After finding out her boyfriend is cheating on her with a famous TV reporter, a woman goes back to her family home to find herself.
Bea is a successful architect who lives in Barcelona (Catalonia, northeast to Spain) with her boyfriend and boss, Víctor, a CEO of an important company. During a night celebration of an important contract signed to make a skyscraper designed by Bea, in the bar appears the famous TV reporter and anchorwoman Rebecca Ramos, Victor's personal erotic fantasy. Not measuring the consequences of her actions due to the alcohol she drank, Bea makes a meeting between Víctor and Rebecca. When to the next day she wakes up, Víctor proposes to wed Bea and she accepts, but after she arrives to the job, Bea learns about a videotape where Víctor and Rebecca make the love in a car that it's in all TV channels. In front of all CEOs during a full meeting, Bea slaps Víctor and destroys her design, being fired from the job. Looking for a break, she travels her natal coastal town, Santa Clara, just to discover that her rest isn't so easy as it seems: her eccentric, free-spirited and eternal smiling mother Ángela has called all the family to pass a few days together taking advantage of Bea's visit. So, Bea reunites with Irene, eldest sister and mayor of the town, full of troubles with an ecological power plant she tries to create and a depressive son, Fin; elder sister Débora, a first-time mother in full distress with her newborn baby Lucas; and León, youngest and openly gay brother who dates with Manel, a cop of the town. But when Bea thinks that things can't worsen after knowing that Víctor and Rebecca are officially couple, life surprises her much more: Débora confesses them that Lucas has been diagnosed with dwarfism, revealing that he his son not of her husband Juan but result of an one-night affair with Teodoro, a dwarf hired for her stag-party; Bea's project to make a tree-house with the family ends when Diego, owner of the town's sawmill, claims that her family lands were sold to him by her long-time dead father; and finally Ángela reveals in a family lunch that she has a terminal disease and will die in one year, shocking everybody specially Irene. Frustrated and desperate, Bea finds a second chance when Diego asks to create another tree-house for his little daughter Diana, muted after the death of her mother, Diego's wife, in a car crash two years ago. Reluctant by the previous mismatches with Diego a few time ago, Bea finally accepts the job just to find herself feeling attracted by him, but then Víctor and Rebecca Ramos appear in Santa Clara at the same time to solve some problems and create another news.

