From the rough streets and back alleys of Central Mumbai comes the sensational true story of Arun Gawli, a man who scripted his own destiny, eventually going on to become one of India's most feared gangsters. Today he remains an enigmatic figure; at once a volatile, power-hungry criminal for some and the respected "Daddy" or a modern day Robin Hood for the working-class neighborhood he belongs to. Daddy follows the intertwined fates of the world-weary Gawli as he attempts to enter politics and a frustrated Police inspector with a secret history of his own. An unfolding jigsaw puzzle, told from different points-of-view and spanning over four decades, Daddy is an unforgettable excursion into the Mumbai underworld.
Daddy is an upcoming Indian political crime drama film co-written and directed by Ashim Ahluwalia. The film stars Arjun Rampal, who also co-wrote the film, portraying gangster-turned-politician Arun Gawli. The official teaser of the film was released on December 1, 2016.
From the rough streets and back alleys of Central Mumbai comes the sensational true story of Arun Gawli, a man who scripted his own destiny, eventually going on to become one of India's most feared gangsters. Today he remains an enigmatic figure; at once a volatile, power-hungry criminal for some and the respected "Daddy" or a modern day Robin Hood for the working-class neighborhood he belongs to.Daddy follows the intertwined fates of the world-weary Gawli as he attempts to enter politics and a frustrated Police inspector with a secret history of his own. The film unfolds like a jigsaw puzzle, told from different points-of-view, and runs back and forth in time over
four decades, With a radical style that is unlike any Indian gangster film ever made, Daddy is an unforgettable journey into the depths of the Mumbai underworld.Out of the seedy underbelly of Mumbai's illustrious landscape comes a story of extreme grit, of a man who scripted his own destiny and consequently became one of the city's most feared mobsters. Today he remains an enigmatic and controversial figure; at once a power hungry gangster for some and the venerated "Daddy" or modern day Robin Hood for the poor and oppressed people of the working-class neighborhood he belongs to.Arun Gulab Gawli was born the eldest of six children to an immigrant family struggling to make ends meet. Fuelled by an insatiable thirst for power and recognition and a drive to escape the drudgery of a life of poverty and discrimination; he is inducted into the world of crime at a tender age.With the help and unspoken support of his childhood friends, Babu and Rama, they form the dreaded B.R.A Gang (Babu, Rama and Arun), laughing about the ridiculous acronym. Within a short span the trio wreaks havoc on rival gangs and swiftly make a name for themselves as a vicious, brutal and ruthless outfit who stand in defiance of fear and subjugation.However, Gawli still fuelled by the recklessness that comes with unforeseen power is drawn into a web of deceit spun by the brilliant, treacherous Maqsood Ibrahim, leader of the most powerful and savage Muslim and Pathan gang ruling Mumbai. The charismatic don manages to win Gawli's trust by offering his young gang a share of his business and brokers a false peace. However, Gawli is given a rude awakening after the death of his two best friends Babu and Rama at the hands of the police in orchestrated encounters. Seething with a vengeance, Gawli boldly takes on Maqsood Ibrahim and his cartel indulging in the only warfare he knows: subterfuge and guerrilla tactics. What follows is an unprecedented bloodbath that spills onto the streets of Mumbai. Gawli leaves no stone unturned as he swiftly and methodically wipes out several of Maqsood's agents, including prominent cops, corrupt businessmen and politicians in some daring and flamboyant shootouts.However, Gawli soon realizes he is up against an unscrupulous and ruthless enemy when he is dealt a crushing blow with the killing of his innocent younger brother right outside the gang's stronghold.With this, Maqsood manages to contain the relentless aggression administered by Gawli. Ravaged by anguish and consumed by paranoia, Gawli now has no choice but to retreat deep into his lair cutting off all ties with the outside world.During this period of hibernation, Gawli is framed and sent to prison for arms trafficking. For the next eight years, he languishes behind bars, severely tortured by the police, while outside the country is ravaged by communal riots and civil unrest. The once-feared
gangster is now a rag doll in the hands of a totally corrupt police force. Meanwhile, Maqsood Ibrahim has to flee India, under fire for his pivotal role in a series of politically motivated terrorist bombings that rock the city.Amar Naik, a rival gangster who grew up in the same neighbourhood as Arun, gains the favour of the ruling fundamentalist party and with that quickly fills the void left by these two indomitable dons. Gawli soon realizes that to relinquish his now crumbling empire, he would need to enter the equally grimy world of politics. However, he must complete one last land deal that promises a massive pay off for him and his gang.
Learning of this deal, Amar Naik, desperate to establish himself as the new kingpin, arranges a contract hit on Gawli's financier - a crooked businessman from an old South Mumbai family - and shoots him dead outside the Mumbai racecourse before the land deal can go through. It dawns on Gawli that his old rival, Maqsood is now waging war from overseas through all the means and influences at his disposal. With great tenacity and fighting spirit, Gawli floats his own political party days after securing release from prison. He soon learns that he is a sitting duck without police protection.Despite approaching the State and Judiciary, he is denied the protection that is typically granted to all members of parliament, losing several key members of his political party to gangland killings in the process. With his back to the wall and well past his adolescent days, an older and desperate Gawli makes one final bid to rid himself of that perpetual thorn in his life: Maqsood. He finally teams up with Maqsood's nemesis, Chotta Rajan, to undertake one last hit to make his presence felt and exact his revenge.Knowing that this could well be his last throw of the dice will Gawli finally attain redemption or will he live to regret this desperate measure?
