Five years after the events of Mamma Mia! (2008), Sophie prepares for the grand reopening of the Hotel Bella Donna as she learns more about her mother's past.
Discover Donna's (Meryl Streep, Lily James) young life, experiencing the fun she had with the three possible dads of Sophie (Amanda Seyfriend). As she reflects on her mom's journey, Sophie finds herself to be more like her mother than she ever even realized.
In this musical romantic comedy, a woman grapples with running her mother's villa while also expecting her first child, and worries that she won't be able to handle everything on her own, so she enlists two of her mother's friends for assurance, help, and guidance. Along the way, she learns more about her mother's past and now faces a surprise visit from someone she's never met: her own grandmother. Starring Amanda Seyfried, Meryl Streep, Pierce Brosnan, Colin Firth, Stellan Skarsgärd, and Christine Baranski, and written and directed by Ol Parker.
Sophie Sheridan (Amanda Seyfried) is preparing for the grand reopening of her mother Donna's (Meryl Streep's) hotel, following Donna's death a year earlier. She is upset because two of her fathers, Harry (Colin Firth) and Bill (Stellan Skarsgård), are unable to make it to the reopening and she is having trouble in her relationship with Sky (Dominic Cooper), who is in New York City, over her memorializing her mother's life. In 1979, a young Donna (Lily James) graduated from Oxford's New College with Rosie (Alexa Davies) and Tanya (Jessica Keenan Wynn), and prepares to travel the world. In Paris, she meets and parties with Harry (Hugh Skinner). They spend the night together, but Donna leaves soon afterwards. She later misses her boat to Kalokairi, but is offered a ride by Bill (Josh Dylan), and along the way, they are able to help a stranded fisherman, Alexio (Gerard Monaco), make it in time to stop the love of his life from marrying another. Unbeknownst to Donna, Harry has followed her to Greece; but he arrived too late, and sadly watches the boat sailing off in the distance.

