After a cyber-attack reveals the identity of all of the active undercover agents in Britain, Johnny English is forced to come out of retirement to find the mastermind hacker.
A cyber-attack reveals the identity of all active undercover agents in Britain, leaving Johnny English as the Secret Service's last hope. Called out of retirement, English dives head first into action with the mission to find the mastermind hacker. As a man with few skills and analogue methods, Johnny English must overcome the challenges of modern technology to make this mission a success.
MI7 is the target of a massive cyber attack from an unknown entity which exposes the identities of all its current field agents. As a result, MI7 is forced to reinstate Johnny English who officially works as a geography teacher while secretly training his young students in espionage. English insists on being given the services of his old sidekick, Bough, who is still a clerk in MI7. English and Bough travel to the south of France to begin their investigation, from where the cyber attack roughly originated. There, they decide to stalk Ophelia Bhuletova. Meanwhile, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom is considering a meeting with a Silicon Valley billionaire, Jason Volta, to form an agreement.
After confronting head-on the nefarious Vortex organisation in Johnny English Reborn (2011), the retired and now-grizzled man of mystery who knows no fear, Johnny English, finds himself teaching geography and showing the ropes to his young pupils at a boarding school. However, with the annual G12 International Conference being just around the corner, the British Prime Minister will have no other choice but to call Johnny out of retirement when an all-out cyber-attack exposes the identities of every spy in the United Kingdom. Now, England's old-school counter-espionage tactics are up against the elaborate and well-orchestrated digital warfare unleashed by a sinister megalomaniac who craves world domination. Can Johnny English and his tech-savvy sidekick, Bough, save the queen and Great Britain?

