Theeran, a police officer, tries to decode a series of cold blood events based on same pattern.
Theeran, a police officer, tries to decode a series of cold blood events based on same pattern. Who's behind those ruthless events? How Theeran and team traces them? Did they succeed? forms the story of this crime action thriller. The story is based on true incidents handled by Police department in 2000s.
An edge of the seat action thriller that tells story of Theeran Thirumaran- Deputy Commissioner of Police who investigated a series of events including dacoity, robbery and cold- blooded murders that occurred in National Highway roads across six states of India between 1995 - 2005. Based on "Operation Bawaria" of Tamilnadu Police Department.
In this film based on true incidents, Theeran, a police officer is entrusted with the task to solve the mystery behind a series of murders and burglaries. The only clues left behind are the fingerprints of the culprits. How he solves the case, forms the crux.
The film begins with a scene from a police station where the police officer Sasi in charge orders that the documented criminal cases in the form of manuscripts be converted into digital format. During this process he comes across a really spine chilling dacoity murder case from several years ago. After reading the case history he calls up the police officer who had taken charge of the case, Theeran Thirumaran (Karthi). The story shifts to the year of 1999, where Theeran is in his police training college undergoing training to be posted as DSP from TNPSC (Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission) exams. He tops the training period. Simultaneously in a house along the highway of Tamil Nadu a group of dacoits wreck the house by barging in killing all the people inside gruesomely and taking the belongings.Meanwhile Theeran returns to his hometown of Tanjavur falls in love with his new neighbour Priya (Rakul Preet Singh) and marries her. Later Theeran becomes known in the police department for his ways of handling various cases and he is later moved to Ponneri after a dacoital attack. Police Inspector Satya (Bose Venkat) and Theeran both handle the case but lead nowhere with the case. Therefore in 2003 Theeran and Sathya and a group of other police officers go around India to see if they are able to identify the fingerprints of the dacoits. During this process Theeran learns that these dacoits are actually tribe members of the left over cultural groups after the Indian Independence. They are eventually stopped by the carelessness of their superior officers and the case is put on hold.Later in 2003 the dacoits raid the house of the ruling party's MLA and kill him. The government is under heavy pressure from the public and the Home Minister gives Theeran all powers and a full team to nab the dacoits. A year later they find one fingerprint match in Uttar Pradesh prison and go to a lorry station to capture the dacoit. Learning that the lorry has left and it is heading to Ponneri Theeran and the other officers rush to stop them. This time the dacoits raid Sathya's house killing his wife and eventually injuring Priya putting her in a coma.Angered by this incident Theeran with the help of higher officials puts together a team to capture the gang of dacoits lead by Oma (Abhimanyu Singh). They camp in Rajasthan with the help of a local police officer. They come to know that the gang members except Oma are in their village so they visit the village only to be sent out by the villagers. While the case is going on Theeran learns that Priya has gone into a critical state and an operation is required. This fuels Theeran's anger which makes him even more motivated to find Oma. The team learns that there is a way to bring Oma out from his village. So he captures the organizer of the gang and captures one of the gang members and puts them in police custody. Infuriated Oma vows to kill Theeran and his team. Theeran gets information that Oma will be on a train which is infiltrated by the team but Oma escapes to a nearby village. Theeran and his team walk to the village and reside there for the night. Oma's gang infiltrate the village destroying it and killing Theeran's teammates. Finally Theeran captures Oma brings him to Tamil Nadu and gets him a death sentence.Now in 2017 it is revealed that Theeran has a boring useless post in the Traffic Vigilance Department because he is straightforward and lives alone after the death of Priya. Theeran is visited by Sathya, Sathya's daughter and Sasi. Sasi salutes him and the movie ends with a note conveying "The film is dedicated to all the people in the police department who fought and arrested those dacoits and we thank them for their bravery and courage". The note also states that "The officers involved in this case were not recognized by the government by providing any honorary awards neither were they promoted to higher posts".
