A brilliant billionaire named Carl Durant is experimenting on bull sharks, which soon rebel to cause havoc for a group of scientists.
Shark conservationist Misty Calhoun is invited to visit the sea-based facility Akhelios by pharmaceutical billionaire Carl Durant. She and biology students Leslie and Daniel Kim are taken to the facility by Durant's associate Craig Burns on a motorboat. When they arrive, they meet Durant, as well as the facility's crew, which include shark trainers Trent Slater, Mike Shutello, and Josh Hooper, and computer technician Aaron Ellroy. As a demonstration, Durant throws Aaron into the water, letting the sharks chase him: at the last possible second, he uses a key to drive them away in formation. Durant explains that he has been genetically altering the brains of five bull sharks to make them smarter, which enrages Misty.The group subsequently convenes in the wet lab, where Durant explains to Misty that the reason he invited her is because the alpha shark, Bella, has been acting strangely, to which Misty concludes is because she is pregnant. Durant is puzzled by this for her pregnancy did not come up on any tests they ran on her, and Misty theorizes that their genetic alterations hid this. Durant then brings Bella into the wet lab, and has Josh take samples of her saliva, although Bella attempts to bite his arm off; he narrowly avoids this. Meanwhile, on the surface, a second shark pushes the motorboat into an electric control box, causing it to explode, and creating significant damage on the surface. The sharks then begin flooding the facility and Craig is eaten while the others remain in the wet lab. Misty then realizes that Bella went into labor after being dropped back into the pool, and has given birth to a series of shark pups, which attacked Craig.Mike attempts to swim to the surface, but one of the sharks knocks him unconscious; Trent rescues him and Misty manages to revive him. As he leans over the pool to taunt the sharks, one of them decapitates him. As a result of a lack of pressure stabilization in the room, the water from the pool pours in, and the group becomes separated; Leslie is knocked unconscious in the flooding; Durant and Daniel both end up alone. Misty and Trent become stranded together, as do Aaron and Josh. Trent reveals to Misty that Durant has been doing the same experiments on himself using a genetics-altering liquid in order to make himself more intelligent, due to his phobia that technology will one day rule the world. Durant reunites with Misty and Trent soon after, and they make their way to an air ventilation shaft that will lead to the surface.Aaron and Josh arrive in one of the sleeping quarters, but the shark pups find them, and eat Josh while Aaron escapes on an air mattress. Misty, Trent, and Durant arrive at the shaft; Durant locks her out of the room after she attempts to find other survivors, which enrages Trent. The two manage to reach the surface. Meanwhile, Daniel finds Leslie behind a door, and the shark pups eat her in front of him. He is soon found by Aaron, who was attacked by the pups and lost the mattress, and they attempt to find a way to the surface. Misty, meanwhile, uses a blow torch to get inside the room with the ventilation shaft, and is met by Aaron and Daniel. The shark pups then find them, and Misty distracts them while Aaron and Daniel begin climbing to the surface. The water rises as they climb to the surface, which allows the pups to reach Daniel and bisect him while Aaron reaches the surface. Meanwhile, Misty, using scuba gear she found in Trent's quarters, manages to swim to the surface and reunite with the others.Realizing that the facility is sinking, and they cannot stay any longer, the group makes a break for the motorboat. Aaron is dragged underwater by one of the sharks while Durant is confronted by Bella, and seemingly scares her away. However, moments later, Bella jumps up and eats him, while Misty and Trent reach the motorboat and use two flare guns to kill one of the sharks. Aaron then jumps onto the boat, explaining that he escaped one of the sharks. Misty tells Trent that they cannot let the sharks roam in the open ocean, and Trent blows up the facility with a self-destruct button. Misty, Trent, and Aaron then escape on the motorboat. However, it is soon revealed that Bella and her pups survived the explosion and are now free in the open ocean.
