An impoverished preacher who brings hope to the Miami projects is offered cash to save his family from eviction. He has no idea his sponsor works for the FBI who plan to turn him into a criminal by fueling his madcap revolutionary dreams.
In this absurdist dark political satire, a somewhat nutty and naive impoverished African American preacher, who along with his worried family and a small group of followers wishes to bring hope to the Miami projects by preaching about his own version of God based on the liberation theology and African nationalism, is forced by a nefarious character to agree to an arms deal in order to save his family from eviction and possibly start his revolution for real. What the preacher doesn't realize is that he has become a target of a complex false flag operation by the FBI to first turn him into a terrorist and then arrest him and score points in the U.S.'s war on terror. However, what the FBI does not realize is that, although a vocal revolutionary, the preacher is also a firm believer in pacifism, a loyal citizen and a very unpredictable character.
The Day Shall Come is a satirical comedy about an impoverished African American preacher who is targeted by the FBI. Moses Shabaz runs a mission in the Miami projects with his wife Venus. He bans guns and enlightens the local youth through education martial arts and the dreams of overthrowing the injustice of history. When a stranger offers him cash for his "revolution" Moses tries to hustle him - calling his congregation an "army" and despite his misgivings, agrees to take guns. He has no idea the sponsor is an FBI informant sent in by local Station chief Andy Mudd and his most ambitious agent Kendra Glack who is ready to ride Moses' case to a promotion. In an escalating game of cat and mouse where the mouse has no idea the cat exists, Kendra tries to pin the guns on Moses, Moses reports the FBI's own informant as a threat, then falls for Kendra's next set up to supply him with fake nukes. The local police have no idea the nukes are fake or come from the FBI and trigger a national emergency. In a whirlwind of escalation, the authorities chase their own nightmares and Moses and his family find themselves besieged by an inland army. Based on a hundred true stories, the film's jokes and humor reveal how power, ineptitude and paranoia fuel American injustice.

