China's deadliest special forces operative settles into a quiet life on the sea. When sadistic mercenaries begin targeting nearby civilians, he must leave his newfound peace behind and return to his duties as a soldier and protector.
Leng Feng (acted by Jing Wu), a former soldier being discharged from the Chinese Army for his fierce action - having killed a real estate company boss in town, was wandering for his life in Africa, serving as a mercenary providing security to passengers abroad. No matter how badly off Feng was, someone was still in his mind: Long Xiaoyun, Feng's fiancee, who had been kidnapped and lost contact with him for three years. Feng was wearing a bullet as a clue to represent her. One night in a pub, Feng and his local friends were attacked by some rebel forces who aimed to overthrow the African government. The Rebels and mercenaries troops arrived. Bullets, fire and bombs were hitting the place with blood everywhere. The Chinese nationals were in great danger. The Chinese fleet arrived to evacuate the Chinese nationals, but later Feng learned that some Chinese workers were still stuck in a factory whereas a doctor, who knew the deadly virus Lamanla, was stuck in a hospital. Feng headed to save the doctor but he was shot almost dead. With his last few dying breaths, Dr Chen told Feng to take care of Pasha, his African daughter. Feng strove to save the Chinese workers but he caught the deadly virus accidentally. Soon when Feng, Pasha and an American doctor Rachel Smith (acted by Celina Jade) arrived at the factory, they encountered a hard battle with Big Daddy (acted by Frank Grillo), head of European mercenaries, starting their blood shedding slaughter plan. The war never ended until the moment when the Chinese Army learned the casualties in Africa, so they fired missiles and sent out tanks to help. Feng finally killed Big Daddy in the hard battle to end the civil war. Feng succeeded and he sent all the crew members back to China. He was allowed by his commander of the Chinese Army to return to his military squadron.

