A three-part story of Norway's worst terrorist attack in which over seventy people were killed. 22 July looks at the disaster itself, the survivors, Norway's political system and the lawyers who worked on this horrific case.
In Norway on 22 July 2011, right-wing terrorist Anders Behring Breivik murdered 77 young people attending a Labour Party Youth Camp on Utøya Island outside of Oslo. A three-part story. About the survivors of the attacks, the political leadership of Norway, and the lawyers involved.
The true story of the aftermath of Norway's deadliest terrorist attack. On 22 July 2011, 77 people were killed when a far-right extremist detonated a car bomb in Oslo before carrying out a mass shooting at a leadership camp for teens. 22 July uses the lens of one survivor's physical and emotional journey to portray the country's path to healing and reconciliation.
Based on the real life tragedy in Norway 2011, where 77 people were killed in a terrorist attack by a far right extremist. We follow one of the survivors' physical and emotional struggle after the attack, as well as the trial of the terrorist. A trial that shows how Norway's legal system tries to preserve the human rights of a single perpetrator that executed the worst massacre in Norway.
The movie begins on July 21, 2011, a day before the attacks. The following day, Anders Behring Breivik (Anders Danielsen Lie) dresses in a police uniform, loads a van with home-made explosives, and drives to Regjeringskvartalet, the executive government quarter in Oslo, Norway. He leaves the van outside the office of Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. Moments later, it explodes, causing several casualties.On the island of Utøya in Tyrifjorden, Buskerud, teenagers have arrived for Workers' Youth League (AUF) summer camp, organized by the ruling Labour Party. When they learn of the bombing, all the activities of the camp are suspended and one student, Viljar Hanssen (Jonas Strand Gravli), calls his parents to make sure they are unhurt.Breivik arrives at the ferry landing and tells staff he is a police officer sent to secure the island following the attack. The camp director transports him to the island by boat. Breivik instructs the staff to gather the children in one location. When the head of security asks for ID, Breivik fatally shoots him and the director. The children flee as Breivik opens fire, murdering dozens.Viljar and his brother Torje (Isak Bakli Aglen) hide on a rocky embankment on the beach with other students. Viljar calls his mother to tell her a shooting is in progress. Breivik finds the group and starts shooting. Viljar is shot multiple times, but Torje escapes unharmed. Breivik surrenders to a police tactical team and is brought inland for interrogation.Viljar survives and is taken to the hospital where he receives emergency surgery to remove the bullet fragments in his brain and save his life. Viljar's parents arrive at the camp and find Torje. When the mother, Christin realizes that Viljar is not in the camp, she tries to call to the hospital but she didn't obtain information, until a hospital calls her and tells her that Viljar was in emergency surgery. The father, Sveinn realizes that Viljar's best friends Simon and Anders were killed during the massacre.During his interrogation, Breivik claims he is the pro-Nazi leader of a white nationalist group called the Knight's Templar and that more attacks will happen on his signal. He requests the aid of lawyer Geir Lippestad (Jon Øigarden), who defended a Neo-Nazi and wants a trial for himself. Lippestad is morally conscientious of his client and professionally bonded by his ethics as a lawyer. Lippestad tries to argue an insanity defense for Breivik, which draws criticism as it means he will be institutionalized instead of imprisoned. With the help of various psychiatrists and psychologists, Breivik is possibly diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia. Breivik tells Lippestad he wants to be declared competent to legitimize his attacks and stand trial as well as be convicted and sentenced. During his trial, it's revealed that Breivik killed 77 people (8 in the Oslo bombing and 69 in Utøya)Viljar wakes from a coma with life-changing injuries. He realizes that they couldn't take all the bullet fragments out of his brain, because some of them are closer to the brain stem, and removing them is hard and dangerous. The fragments are slowly approaching his brain stem, and that could kill him in the future at any moment. He also becomes blind in one eye and returns home with his family. He learns to walk again, but is haunted by memories of the attack.With the support of his mother, and another survivor of the attack on Utøya, Lara, Viljar appears in court as a witness and delivers an account of the massacre in which he reveals that his best friends Simon and Anders were killed during the attack.Breivik is convicted of murder and terrorism and given a life sentence in solitary confinement at Skien Prison... with parole in 21 years (under the circumstances he might remain in prison for the rest of his life). Breivek, despite his sentence, is jubilant.Viljar becomes a student of law, because he intends to pursue a career in politics.Lippestad continues practicing Law in Oslo.Jens Stoltenberg remained Prime Minister until 2013 and now he is a Secretary General of NATO.
