Sophie's 18th birthday becomes a bloodbath when monsters descend upon her house and start to devour the party guests. Sophie and her friends must rally together to send their party crashers back to hell.
In a nightmare, Sophie relives her mother reading to her from a supernatural storybook called 'The Book of Monsters' when Sophie was eight years old. A shapeshifting creature manifests under the bed and kills Sophie's mum.Sophie's father Jonas gifts Sophie with the ancient book for her eighteenth birthday. Jonas then leaves his daughter alone in the house to host a party with her friends Mona and Beth.Sophie's rival Arya disrupts the party by inviting numerous people Sophie doesn't know. Other party guests include classmate Gary, German exchange student Helga, virgin Dave, Arya's bully boyfriend Brice, and Sophie's crush Jess.Pandora, a mysterious woman in a red dress, seduces Dave into coming with her to Sophie's bedroom. Sophie has a private conversation with Jess to question why she is friends with Arya.Arya humiliates Sophie by having a stripper named Carl give her a lap dance in front of everyone. Arya further embarrasses Sophie by revealing she stayed in a mental institution after claiming a monster murdered her mother. Sophie punches Arya.Pandora bites Dave's neck and draws a bloody pentagram on his chest while morphing into the shapeshifter that killed Sophie's mum. Dave's virgin blood splashes onto the Book of Monsters.A supernatural wind suddenly blows through the house. A creature called Grota appears and begins violently tearing apart party goers including Brice. Sophie hides with Beth. Arya calls the police after barricading herself in the kitchen with Carl. Gary flees outside with two party goers. Mona and Jess escape to Sophie's bedroom.Impersonating Dave, Pandora knocks Jess unconscious. Pandora does the same to Mona and then reforms in Mona's image.A monster wearing a plague doctor mask kills the two people with Gary. Gary sees the plague doctor unleash sentient slugs.Sophie tells Beth she knows Grota from her mother's book. Remembering that the creature has a weak spot on its back, Sophie stabs Grota with a cake knife and kills it.The slugs possess garden gnomes that infiltrate the kitchen. Gary returns to the house in time to rescue Carl from the gnomes. Gary, Arya, and Carl then regroup with Sophie and Beth.Impersonating Mona, Pandora helps Jess recover. Pandora brings the book to Sophie.Officers Graham and Keith arrive outside. The plague doctor slaughters Keith and blows up the patrol car with Graham in it.With notes written by Sophie's mother, the Book of Monsters reveals that a sacrifice of virgin blood summoned five monsters. Sophie connects that Pandora killed her mum.A jinn emerges from a painting and begins possessing people one at a time. Sophie manages to trap the jinn inside the painting again, but Carl dies in the commotion.Having been thrown through a window by Pandora, the real Mona recovers outside. Mona flees from the plague doctor and runs into Helga. The plague doctor kills Helga.Inside the book, Sophie finds a map leading to a hidden vault. Pandora reveals herself as a monster by beheading Arya. Pandora captures Jess. Sophie, Beth, and Gary escape into vents leading to the hidden room.Gary points out that Sophie's mum used the vault to store weapons. Additional information as well as an audio recording reveals that Sophie's mum was a monster hunter and Sophie was born to be one too. Sophie uncovers that the creatures did not kill her because they need her blood when she turns eighteen at midnight to complete a ritual that will unleash hundreds of monsters from the book.Sophie, Beth, and Gary arm themselves and exit outside. The plague doctor attacks. Mona joins the others in defeating the plague doctor.Gary stops to use the bathroom upon returning to the house with the three girls. An amalgamated abomination of sentient victim heads attacks Gary from the shower. Beth and Mona rescue Gary while Sophie goes on ahead to look for Jess.Sophie confronts Pandora in her monster form. Pandora tries to distract Sophie with a vision of her mum, but Sophie kills Pandora with a chainsaw. Sophie frees Jess from a cocoon. Sophie and Jess kiss.Sophie, Jess, Mona, Beth, and Gary regroup. Sophie vows to study the book and become a monster hunter. The others agree to help her. Jonas comes home to find his house covered in blood.Six Months Later - Sophie, Mona, and Beth prepare to faceoff with another creature.
