Upon realizing the extent to which women are affected by their menses, a man sets out to create a sanitary pad machine and to provide inexpensive sanitary pads to the women of rural India.
Biography on Tamil Nadu activist Arunachalam Muruganantham, whose mission was to provide sanitary napkin's to poor women of rural areas. Who would use rag cloths or leaves during periods where use of sanitary napkins was rare. After he did not get fruitful results from his family and a medical college he approached, he decided to try it himself by making a uterus out of football bladder and filling goat's blood in it. He would roam around the whole day with the bladder, the aim was to check the absorption rate of the sanitary napkins made by him.
Laxmikanth Chauhan is a partner cum tool operator in a workshop.He is against how woman are treated in his society during the five day menstrual.When he gets married he decides to make things better for his wife Gayatri and purchases sanitary napkin for her as she uses dirty cloth during the cycle which is unhygienic.Gayatri asks him to return the napkin packet as its to expensive.Laxmi then decides to make sanitary napkin's himself at lower cost.He convinces his wife to use it but they are of no use he tries to make it much better but fails.Laxmi is then criticized in his village for taking up such initiative following which his family disowns him and he is forced to leave his village.But his hopes don't die he starts to research on how to make low cost sanitary napkins for betterment of women.
The story starts with the marriage of Lakshmikant Chauhan (Akshay Kumar) and Gayatri (Radhika Apte), a happy go lucky couple. Lakshmikant is deeply in love with his wife and will do anything for her comfort and happiness. When Gayatri is temporarily banished from the household during her menstrual periods, Laxmi is caught unaware due to his lack of knowledge about the subject which is otherwise referred to as 'five day test match for women' by the village youth. Laxmi makes his peace with it but gets worried on seeing Gayatri using a dirty rag during her periods. When asked about it, Gayatri tells him it's none of his business and he, being a 'pure' human should not interfere in this feminine topic. Undeterred, Laxmi goes to a medical store and buys sanitary pads for his wife which cost Rs.55. When he reaches home and hands it over to Gayatri, she reprimands him and tells him to return it as using such costly napkins meant cutting off milk expenses of a month. Unable to return it, Laxmi, crestfallen, goes to work where a worker gets injured. He immediately applies a pad to the injury despite the others referring to it as 'impure'. In the hospital, the doctor lauds Laxmi's quick thinking and says that it is the cleanest choice to stop bleeding. Excited, Laxmi then buys some cotton, cloth and glue and makes a temporary pad which he thinks is a better replacement for the costly one.Gayatri uses it but the pad fails in its function and she tells Laxmi to not interfere in women's matters again. Laxmi disregards her, again tries to make a pad, and attempts to give it to a neighbor girl which again creates a mess. He then gives it to a medical student who decides to help him out but is deterred by her friends. To add to his woes, the meeting of Laxmi and the medical student is spotted by his close relative which makes his wife think that Laxmi has an extramarital affair. Laxmi visits his sister and tries to give her pads which leads to embarrassment in front of her in-laws. Gayatri then makes Laxmi promise to not involve anyone in this mess anymore. Adhering to her words and yet unwilling to let go of the issue, Laxmi then tries it on himself by attaching a balloon filled with goat blood borrowed from a friend, which leads to Laxmi getting blood stains on trousers in public resulting in humiliation. This act causes him to be branded a 'pervert' and a 'man with loose morals' by the entire village. Gayatri's brothers take her away and Laxmi decides to leave the village, pledging to fight the taboo surrounding menstruation.After learning that sanitary pads use the more absorbent cellulose fibre rather than cotton, Laxmi then goes to a college to gain knowledge about the materials used in sanitary napkins. In need of money and shelter, he ends up working as a manservant in a professor's house. The professor's son introduces him to the internet and helps him get every piece of information. He places an order for cellulose fibre for sanitary pad with an international company. The professor is baffled by Laxmi's actions and shows him videos of pad making machines worth crores to derail his ideas. Instead, Laxmi decides to make his own pad vending machine and leaves the house. He borrows money for his machine and then manages to make a near perfect pad but has no one to test it. By a chance of events, he meets Pari Walia (Sonam Kapoor), and supplies a pad to her. The next day, Laxmi visits her and asks her for feedback. Shocked, she says that it was just like other normal pads. His joy knows no bounds and he calls Gayatri to give her the news. Gayatri, however, gets upset at his obsession with menstruation and her brother warn Laxmi to stay away from them.Meanwhile, Pari invites him to an innovation fair in IIT-Delhi with the winner receiving Rs.2,00,000 as prize money. Laxmi's invention is recognized as the 'Life-changing Innovation of the Year' and he is honoured and felicitated. He shoots to fame but the villagers, on realizing the nature of his invention, badmouth and insult him. His machine is patented and Pari helps him reach out to and sell his pads to the rural women, who later join him, in his pad making venture under the brand name 'Pari'. Laxmi proceeds to make more low cost sanitary pad manufacturing machines for sale to rural women. He is invited to New York and gives a speech in UNICEF which makes him popular. Back home, he is awarded the Padmashri. Pari falls in love with him but then dismisses her own feelings for his happiness. Laxmi returns to a hero's welcome in his village. The film ends with Laxmi and Gayatri finally uniting and Pari leaving with happy memories of Laxmi.
