Indy/Cinderella lives with her uncle, aunt and 2 cousins/evil stepsisters. One day, her cat's run over by Bryant. She avoids him and his apologies at high school. Will they get to know each other etc.? What about her friend, Maxton?
Indy lives with her aunt and uncle and believes her life is fine until an accident brings a new guy into the picture. Bryant Bailey is not Indy's type - she's never been into guys like him. But then again, she's never really known anyone so stubborn and caring that can also help her discover who she is and what she's worth. A modern retelling of Cinderella, based on the novel by Jenni James. This unique film captures the beauty of awkward teen love, as well as poignant realities of emotional abuse. You will laugh and cry with Indy as she traverses this incredible journey to freedom and finding out what family and love really means.
The story is about a teenage girl who meets a boy who has the misfortune of killing her cat. She doesn't think much of this boy after the accident that caused her special cat to die. And she adds grief to this cause as she refuses his attempts to apologize over this unfortunate event. But his good heart will not allow him to stop making attempts at his apologies and he wins her friendship with a visit to her household. The first time he talks to her. The second time she is becoming a friend and they go out on a date. But Cinderella becomes more than an unusual folktale as the plot unfolds into a modern movie about complex emotional challenges with growing up in an emotionally abusive household. It soon becomes a dire situation that turns into a struggle to cope with fast changing relationships with boys, family and emotional abuse. The plot thickens when another boy wants to become more than a boyfriend. And the climax is about leaving home to a safe place and a new life. She confronts her Aunt and Uncle only to be abused emotionally and threatened with punishment. She then decides to run away from home but her new friend questions her about what she plans to do. His father is a doctor who deals with family problems at his school and he asks for advice. He convinces her she must go with him to see his dad and stay the night. She reluctantly agrees. It is emotionally awkward for her to revel herself and her problems to this friendship and support. In the morning she discovers the boy's father and social services at the front door with a police officer. She becomes confused about what she hears and runs crying out of the house. The boy runs after her and explains what is going on to her satisfaction. She then goes through a series of events to uncover the true abuse of the Uncle and Aunt. She hears about the insurance money that was suppose to be used for her benefit but was withheld. The court awards repayment of this money along with damages for lost and sold items. She wins the case and the money will be saved until she is of age which is eighteen. She decides to buy a car with the help of her boyfriend's father. And she gets asked to the High school prom by her new found boyfriend. Although she must take difficult emotional risks with new found friends she is able to resolve all her issues enough to go to the high school prom with her new found boyfriend.
