A shy and insecure delivery truck driver accidentally arrives on the scene of a major crime and happens to pick up two bags of cash and hide them in his truck. As if an interrogation of two tough police detectives isn't enough, the guy, who has a doctor's degree in philosophy which makes his mind mingle with remorse, must find a way to get rid of this dirty money. Only the help of a prostitute and a former biker released from jail might get him out of trouble, especially that a gang leader is very eager to get his cash back, or kill whoever is responsible for this mess. However, even the two bumbling detectives are monitoring the case as well.
With a Ph.D. in Philosophy in hand, Montréaler Pierre-Paul Daoust, from a working class background, is an intellectual who believes that being one only gets in the way of happiness, whether that be emotionally and/or financially. That's why he feels he's stuck in a dead end courier delivery job, and that's why he feels he couldn't make a go of a relationship with his last girlfriend, Linda Demers, or any woman in not knowing how to relate to them in a humanistic manner as opposed to intellectual manner. But that's also why he volunteers for a charity for the homeless. When making his usual deliveries, he stumbles onto a robbery gone wrong. Sensing an opportunity with one of the robbers and the security guard shot dead and the other robber having escaped to tend to his serious injuries before getting caught, Pierre-Paul, on impulse, decides to grab and abscond with the two large sports bags filled with what ends up being millions in cash before the police or anyone else arrives on the scene. The business robbed was acting as a front for money laundering by the Irish-Jewish West End Gang by Vladimir François, the head of his own gang. Not knowing what to do with the cash having only that mentality of an intellectual with some human needs, Pierre-Paul ends up making associations with two people who themselves fall on what would be the illegal side of the law. One is Sylvain Bigras - nicknamed the Brain - just released from prison as a money launderer for a biker gang. And two is a woman who goes by the professional name Aspasie, one of the most expensive and high end prostitutes in Montréal, she who he initially contacted in needing his sexual needs fulfilled by spending some of that cash, and who he only chose from her online profile with her professional name associated to the world of philosophy. Especially in falling for Aspasie, who leads a life of professionalism in her business, Pierre-Paul has no choice within his nature but to believe in human trust in dealing with his new new associates. But as the three of them try to figure out how best to deal with the money, they have to contend with the police - Detectives Pete La Bauve and Carla McDuff leading the investigation - who suspect what Pierre-Paul has done with La Bauve in particular needing to show his own superiority in the matter in feeling let down in his own position in life, and the West End Gang and Vladimir, who will do whatever it takes to get their money back as can be witnessed by what they do to young Jacmel Rosabert, the robber who was able to get away and who was only hired to do the job in the first place.

