An official adaptation of the award winning game "Papers, Please" by Lucas Pope.
The game Papers, please was the discovery of 2013, at least when it comes to independent titles, and its interesting, cold-war climate from behind the eastern part of the Iron Curtain has now been transferred to another medium. A group of filmmakers, in cooperation with the creator of the game, Lucas Pop, created a short film showing the hard life of a border guard in a fictional Arstotzka. Nikita and Liliya Ordynskiy worked on the film. The main character is an employee of one of the fictitious, totalitarian countries of the Eastern Bloc. His task is to check documents of people trying to cross the border and decide who will be able to receive this honor. His work is made difficult not only by paperwork, but also by his own conscience.
In 1982, a six-year war between the bordering nations of Arstotzka and Kolechia has just concluded. A border checkpoint separates the east and west halves of the city of Grestin. The immigration inspector arrives for work at the checkpoint in the morning.As the inspector is setting up his desk for the day ahead, Sergiu, a young border guard, enters the checkpoint. In hushed tones, Sergiu reminds the inspector of the importance to him of a woman named Elisa being admitted that day. He thanks the inspector in advance and leaves.The workday then begins, and the inspector is shown processing the paperwork of entrants, some being cleared for entry, others being denied.Elisa, the young woman whom Sergiu is awaiting, arrives at the checkpoint. The inspector notes that she lacks an entry permit. As Elisa is pleading with the inspector to let her unite with Sergiu in Arstotzka, her family having died, a message arrives that no further immigrants from Elisa's country are to be admitted. The inspector denies her entry. Elisa leaves the inspector a heart-shaped necklace and asks that he give it to Sergiu.The inspector places the necklace next to the family portrait on his desk and breaks down in tears. He recomposes himself and calls the next immigrant.A man, Isaac Robinsky, enters, intending to spend three days in Arstotzka visiting his sister. His papers are in order and he is cleared for entry. Directly following him is his wife, Ivana. The inspector notes a discrepancy in the spelling of her name between her entry permit and passport. Ivana insists that it is a clerical error and begs for the inspector to allow her entry, adding that her husband holds all their money and that she would have no way to return home. The inspector looks at his family portrait and the necklace. Shaken after having had to deny passage to Elisa, he decides to show lenience and allows Ivana to enter Arstotzka.As the next immigrant enters, a large explosion rocks the booth. A voice outside is heard screaming "For Kolechia!". The inspector scrambles to receive his handgun from a safe and exits. He is met by a scene of carnage, as bloodied and torn bodies litter the Arstotzkan side of the checkpoint. There is no trace of "Ivana" save for scraps of her bloodied and burned clothes, she having been a suicide bomber. "Isaac" stands over a wounded Sergiu, executing him with a pistol. He then trains his pistol on the catatonic inspector, and the movie cuts to black as another gunshot is heard.
