Earth 2019, 3/4 of it's households have a robot. The AI supercomputer, Kronos, considers humans the biggest threat to Earth. A century later, few humans are left. Calia seeks the last human stronghold as does Kronos.
In 2020, Elias van Dorne (John Cusack), CEO of VA Industries, the world's largest robotics company, introduces his most powerful invention--Kronos, a super computer designed to end all wars. When Kronos goes online, it quickly determines that mankind, itself, is the biggest threat to world peace and launches a worldwide robot attack to rid the world of the "infection" of man. Ninety-seven years later, a small band of humans remain alive but on the run from the robot army. A teenage boy, Andrew (Julian Schaffner) and a teenage girl, Calia (Jeannine Wacker), form an unlikely alliance to reach a new world, where it is rumored mankind exists without fear of robot persecution. But does this world actually exist? And will they live long enough to find out?
2020. It's been three years since VA Industries, led by genius Elias Van Dorne, revolutionized the way humans live with VA supplied robots now in three-quarters of all the world's households. In a misstep, VA got into the business of military robots in the wanted goal of world peace, with the exact opposite occurring in the robots having led to greater and more violent war. Now, Van Dorne has come up with an artificial intelligence called Kronos which he believes is the ultimate in robotics. In the mysterious worldwide broadcast launching Kronos which Van Dorne has not yet divulged what it is to do or accomplish, Van Dorne unleashes Kronos on the world, it which is to destroy the human race, which Kronos has determined is the cause of the world's problems. Van Dorne has uploaded a virtual version of himself and his colleague Damien Walsh into Kronos to oversee its progress on the mission to eliminate the human race. Fast forward to 2117. There are still pockets of humans who have been able to evade Kronos, the current survivors descendants of those who were able to survive in 2020. Purportedly, the largest pocket of resistance is in Aurora, its location which Kronos does not know. As such, Van Dorne, through Kronos, has created a robot in the form of a young human man to locate Aurora. He has created it the form and memory of a man who was in existence in 2020, Andrew Davis, the robot which truly does believe it is Andrew Davis with his memories. The robot is to befriend a young resistance fighter, Calia, who is trying to locate Aurora herself. Complications ensue as Van Dorne has created a robot arguably more human than humans themselves, that robot of Andrew which may ultimately work on his own human driven emotions.

