In a small supermarket in a blue collar town, a black man smiles at a 10-year-old white boy across the checkout aisle. This innocuous moment sends two gangs into a ruthless war that ends with a shocking backlash.
Jeffrey cuts his son Troy's hair. The family goes to a lake with friends. Their tattoos imply the group are Neo-Nazis. Jeffrey brags that his son can shoot a target with a rifle and takes bets on the challenge. Troy successfully shoots the target.The group heads to a grocery store, where Christa shops for food. In the checkout line, Troy sees an African-American man, Jaydee, holding a toy. Troy and the man smile at each other. As Jaydee is checking out, Jeffrey notices the interaction and accuses Jaydee of messing with his boy. Jaydee denies it and Jeffrey calls him a racial slur. Jaydee leaves, telling Jeffrey that he is the problem.Jeffrey tells his friends about the dispute and they follow Jaydee into the parking lot. Jeffrey and his friends beat Jaydee viciously while Jaydee's wife calls the police from her car nearby. Troy watches the incident from the store as Christa frets. As the group leaves, Jaydee's wife holds him in the parking lot. Troy looks out the car window and makes eye contact with Jaydee's son, Bronny, who is nearly the same age.The next evening, Jeffrey and Troy are driving home and find a van blocking the road. Jeffrey walks up to the van and a group of black men abduct him. Jeffrey is taken to the garage of a home, where several black men and Bronny drug and tattoo him over several days. Jaydee is there recovering.Some time later, Jeffrey is thrown naked onto the same road he was abducted from. He sees his reflection in a window and finds his skin tattooed completely black. Inside their home, Christa wakes up to the sound of someone outside. She loads a handgun and calls for help. Jeffrey attempts to wash his skin clean with water but fails. Christa orders Troy to hide under the bed and not come out.Jeffrey forcefully enters the home. Christa, seeing what appears to be a naked, black man in her home, warns him to get out or she will shoot him. Jeffrey manages to communicate to Christa who he is, and she drops her weapon. A shot rings out, and Jeffrey collapses. Troy stands in the doorway behind Jeffrey holding a rifle.
