The high school freshman kid sister of the murdered Zoë finds her diary, which sheds new light on the murder missed by the police. She investigates.
It's been a year since her older sister's murder, and Echo is still far from being completely all right. Echo has been trying her hardest to be the strong one, while her mother takes too many antidepressants and her father works too much. Now, at the start of her freshman year of high school, Echo receives an unlikely gift from Zoe's old boyfriend: her diary. Echo is hesitant to read it but can't put it down after she gets caught up in Zoe's secret life.
-Movie bounces between flashbacks and the present*The movie starts with the Echo getting ready for school with her sister Zoe. Her mom is a mess and withdrawn. The girls leave for school. At school we see a boy Parker apologizing to Echo for the death of Zoey. Zoey fades away and its revealed Echo is imagining her. At lunch Echo and her friend Abby see Marc, Zoe's boyfriend before her death, at school for the first time. It is mentioned he was institutionalized after her death and lit his beloved muscle car on fire, it seems everyone blames him for her death. He briefly talks with Zoe's best friend, Carly about how she never thought he did anything. Carly is a mess and obviously intoxicated. Echo and Abby walk home from school, spot Marcs new car and Echo sees in the window her sister's diary that they police and family couldn't find. Echo steal it.
Echo reads the diary and we flashback to Zoe's entry: Zoe lies about summer job hunting and instead spend all her time with Carly, laying by the pool, at parties, drinking, and smoking weed. She meets Marc at one of the pool parties, they hit it off. He tells her he's in recovery and doesn't drink or do anything else. They start dating.
Present: Echo and her parents are in family therapy to get heal their loss. It doesn't show positive growth.
Past: Marc and Zoey date. She explains she's not going to college and instead is going to live free and move to LA or New York. She has dreams of everyone knowing her name.
Past: Right after Zoe's death - the police interview Marc in front of Zoe's family, he states she took his car and didn't tell him why. They are informed Zoe's body was found in Marcs car. A photographer was arrested and admitted to murdering her. Later that day Marc puts a gun to head and tries to commit suicide, his mom stops him.
Present: Echo and Abby go to house party. Echo talks with Parker outside. She kisses him.
Past: Zoe gets part time job at psychologist office. She spends her time sneaking in Marc and fools around. The two become inseparable and share everything with each other. Marc and Zoe go to party where she drinks and the fight about it later, he carries her home puts her to bed.
Present: Echo attends her school dance; Carly sees her noting she looks exactly like Zoe. Carly persuades Echo to drink and take pills with her. After they are high Carly thinks she is Zoe and tells her "God, Zoe I missed you" She also tells her she's so sorry about the video and that she didn't know what they were going to do with it. Marc find Echo in her state and helps her.
Past: Carly and Zoe take bikini photos of each other for modeling shots to add to website they have. Zoe notes all the comments from guys, which bothers her and not Carly. They go to a guy Carly friend Jason's house where he and his friend live. Zoe tries to leave but they ask her to have one drink and stay, she agrees. It is implied they drugged the drink. Next scene is Zoe coming home, crying stating in her diary "something happened last night". The next morning Zoe shows Echo a picture of Jason and makes her promise "if you see this guy you turn and run the other way".Present: Echo calls Carly, Carly invites Echo to a party, Echo agrees, dresses in Zoe's clothes, and goes - there she meets Jason. They have a strange conversation between Echo, Carly and Jason. Carly is uncomfortable and tries to cut off Jason from talking to Echo, Jason says he's going to make echo a "special drink". Marc pulls Echo out of the party before he returns.
Past: Zoe goes to the club where Jason is always at and finds Jason and Carly in back party room. She states "you said we can make a deal, so deal"
Present - Echo enters the same club and sees Jason. She leaves.
Present: Echo returns to school the next day, now wearing Zoe's clothes, in everyone's shock.
Past - Zoe feeling broken and lost tries to avoid Carly. They fight about Carly making Zoe do things at Jason's and about the video. Carly angrily says she did it voluntarily.
Present: Reading Zoe's diary, Echo finds a birthday gift of a diary Zoe got her right before her death. Echo breaks down in their next therapy session.
Echo meets Marc at his and Zoe's place. They talk about her plan to steal the tape from Jason's.
The next day Jason pulls up to the school to get Carly and sees echo inviting her to her house. Against Carly's thoughts Echo agrees to go with him to his house. Jason's friend gives her a tour while Jason argues with Carly about selling her pills and her not wanting to do the same thing to Echo as Zoey. Jason gives echo a drink. Parker tells Marc that echo went to Jason's and they rush over.
Echo tries to throw up drink in bathroom meanwhile Marc arrives and hits Jason car causing all of them to go outside while echo says inside and starts looking around. Echo goes down to the basement where she finds a room and laptop with videos of drugged girls tied to bed being raped. She finds Zoe's video showing Carly helping in the act telling Zoe to just calm down and it will be okay.
Carly finds Echo in basement and tells her everything she knows. Jason has a private website that clients pay to see the videos he makes. The photographer that killed Zoey was a member who contacted Jason and worked out a price for Jason to send Zoe to him.
Flashbacks to Zoey that night at the club making a deal with Jason. The deal is revealed to be that Zoe would meet the photographer for a photo shoot and in exchange Jason would take down and delete the video of her from his site. She reluctantly agrees.
Jason and his friend find Carly and Echo in the basement, knocking out Carly and tying up Echo. They then begin to argue about killing Echo because she knows to much, they leave and lock the door. Parker breaks in and helps echo out and calls the police. The arrive and do a full investigation.
Flashback shows Zoe meeting Marc at their spot and asking to use his car. Marc begs her to let him know what wrong and to let him help. She gives him her diary as collateral for his car and he agrees promising she will tell him everything later that night when its all over and in the past. We then see Zoe drive off in the car her body is eventually found in.
Echo sees her sister one more time and says a tearful goodbye. She starts her own diary.
