Lucía and Ofelia, two sisters, finally meet after 7 years at Lucia's wedding. But when Juan, Lucia's husband, and Ofelia meet, they feel like a disruptive fantasy have enchanted their minds and bodies...
Lucia and Ophelia would never have been friends, but they were sisters. It's Lucia's wedding day. She will marry Juan, her partner for four years. Carmen, the optimistic and denying mother, decides to invite her other daughter Ophelia to the wedding of her first-born, wanting to put an end to the rivalry between the sisters who have not seen each other for seven years. Ofelia arrives at the wedding accompanied by her partner, Andrés, both live isolated in the middle of the Amazon jungle. The sisters are again pushed by the wishes of others. They return to be prey to that trap. Ofelia becomes calmer but more animal, primitive, free and dangerous. Lucia, strong and territorial, feels powerful although there is something she can not control: the desire of her husband. Ofelia and Juan desire each other from the first look. Ofelia, the stormy, the fragile, was also the freest when it came to exploring her sexuality. Lucia always enjoyed through her sister. She spied her, she was voyeur and disciple. The encounter between John and Ophelia begins as a disturbing fantasy in the minds of the three, until the bodies ask to join. The two couples live a shared honeymoon in "La Dreamed" cliff house. There, the sex between Ophelia and Andres, and, between Juan and Lucia, becomes escape and discharge only but the sisters know that they are condemned to desire the same man.
Lucía and Ofelia have never been friends. More they wish they had never been sisters.
It is the day of Lucía's wedding. She is going to marry Juan who has been her partner for four years. Carmen, the optimistic mother, denying the obvious, decides to invite her daughter Ofelia to the wedding of her firstborn. Indeed she would like to put an end to the competition between the two sisters who have not heard from each other for seven years. Ofelia arrives to the marriage ceremony with her own partner Andrés, they live together isolated in the Amazonia forest. The sisters meet, full of desire for the other and remain prisoners of this trap. Ofelia returned calmer but wilder, primitive, free and dangerous. Lucía, strong and territorial, feels powerful whereas it remains something she cannot control : her husband's desire. Ofelia and Juan have been desiring each other at first sight. In this way the sisters face what naturally separate them : Ofelia, the stormy and fragile, has also always been the freest when it comes to explore her sexuality. Lucía has always desired through her sister. She spied on her and was voyeur and disciple. When Juan and Ofelia meet, they feel like a disruptive fantasy have enchanted their minds, until their bodies feel the need to join. Both couples live a shared honeymoon in " the dreamer" house of the cliff. There, the sex between Ofelia and Andrés and between Juan y Lucía, happens to become an escape, a discharge and an exorcism but the two sisters know they are condemned to desire the same man.
