A villain's maniacal plan for world domination sidetracks five teenage superheroes who dream of Hollywood stardom.
It seems to the Teens that all the major superheroes out there are starring in their own movies-everyone but the Teen Titans, that is. But de facto leader Robin is determined to remedy the situation, and be seen as a star instead of a sidekick. If only they could get the hottest Hollywood film director to notice them. With a few madcap ideas and a song in their heart, the Teen Titans head to Tinsel Town, certain to pull off their dream. But when the group is radically misdirected by a seriously super villain and his maniacal plan to take over the Earth, things really go awry. The team finds their friendship and their fighting spirit failing, putting the very fate of the Teen Titans themselves on the line.
When Hollywood starts making blockbuster movies about all of their super-peers, the Teen Titans realize that the world doesn't consider them "real" heroes worthy of gracing the big screen. Robin (Scott Menville), Cyborg (Khary Payton), Beast Boy (Greg Cipes), Raven (Tara Strong) and Starfire (Hynden Walch) decide to prove themselves by taking on super villain Slade. Directed by Hubertus Hoffmann. Featuring the voices of Will Arnett, Kristen Bell, Stan Lee, Patton Oswalt, Wil Wheaton, Nicolas Cage, Lil Yachty and Halsey. Directed by Aaron Horvath and Peter Rida Michail.
In Jump City, the Teen Titans arrive to stop the Balloon Man. When he cannot figure out who they are, the Teen Titans jump into a rap song to introduce themselves and become distracted, forcing the Justice League to intervene. They criticize the Titans for being childish, not taking anything seriously, and bring up the fact that they do not have a movie of their own to prove their legitimacy. While at the premiere of Batman Again after Raven sent the Challengers of the Unknown to another dimension, Robin humiliates himself, after assuming that there will be a movie about him, and is laughed out by the audience. At the rest of the team's suggestion, Robin resolves that in order to get a movie made about him and the Titans, they need an arch-nemesis..

