A depressed man joins a synchronized swimming team made up of middle aged men.
It is in the corridors of their municipal swimming pool that Bertrand, Marcus, Simon, Laurent, Thierry and the others train under the relative authority of Delphine, former glory of the basins. Together, they feel free and helpful. They will put all their energy into a discipline previously owned by women: synchronized swimming. So, yes it's a weird idea, but this challenge will allow them to find meaning in their lives...
Middle aged Bertrand, suffering from debilitating depression, has not worked for two years, leaving his largely supportive but frustrated wife, Claire, to be the household breadwinner. Claire's support does not include standing up to her judgmental sister Clementine and her husband Thibault, with who they often spend time despite neither Bertrand or Claire much liking them and their superior moral attitude in their criticisms not only of Bertrand but about everything concerning their lives. On a whim, Bertrand decides to respond to a bulletin board posting at the local swimming pool to join a men's synchronized swimming team, to which he, after a short interview with the coach, former competitive synchronized swimmer Delphine, is accepted. He finds that all the men are like him - misfits - in one way or another, largely middle aged, out of shape and dealing with one issue in their life or another which most wear openly on their sleeves. Even Delphine has her issues about which she is less open, including something to do with Amanda, the angry wheelchair-bound woman who often hangs out with the water polo team that practices at the pool after them. That misfit status as a collective includes largely being ridiculed whether it be by colleagues, the water polo players, or Clem and Thibault. Despite only managing to be mediocre as a team, they will either figuratively sink or swim both as a team and as individuals in dealing with their respective issues when they discover that there is a Men's Synchronized Swimming World Championship upcoming in Norway and decide to enter representing France.

