Relationships and loyalties of a criminal family planning its next big heist are tested when some shocking revelations strike them.
Text: 25 years ago arms dealer Shamsher Singh shifted to Al Shifa island with his family .When he was accused of doing illegal business of arms by government of India.He has a business rival Rana who has attacked him many a times.But his nephew Sikander always came to his rescue who is also closest person to him and further who can take over his business.Twins Sanjana and Suraj kids of Shamsher don't go well with Sikander.Shamesher has a dream to go back to India and Sikander is his only hope.Apart from twin cousin's Sikander will have to face betrayal from trusted aide Yash and Jessica his loves who is not who she claims to be.
Shamsher Singh (Anil Kapoor) owns a private island Al-Shifa for trading arms and narcotics. Sikander Singh (Salman Khan) is Shamsher's step son, while Sanjana (Daisy Shah) and Suraj (Saqib Saleem) are his twin children. Yash (Bobby Deol) is a close associate at Shamsher's empire and Sikander's confidante. In a flashback scene, it is revealed that Rana Vijay (Freddy Daruwala) is Shamsher's business rival and he creates problems for Shamsher's family business. As both Sanjana and Suraj age to 25 years, their family lawyer explains the will of their deceased mother (Nishigandha Wad). As per the will, the twins are entitled for 25% share each, and the rest 50% for Sikander. This visible disparity causes the twins to begin hating Sikander. Shamsher tells both of them that Sikander is the son of his elder brother Ranchor Singh (Milind Gunaji).In a flashback, that portrays the Handia village of the 1970's, the history of the Singh family is depicted. Both the Singh brothers used to supply weapons to Indian army. Local politicians of Handia asked them for illegal weapons to which Ranchor refused. His refusal caused rivalry with a local politician. One day, during an ambush on Shamsher's truck, Vijendar Singh's (Manav Vij) son (Anurag Arora) was killed by Ranchor's gunshot. One day, Ranchor died when his car was exploded by a bomb. The Singh family was then sought to be as a legitimized anti-state and accused of supplying weapons to enemies. Shamsher sends Sikander to Beijing for studies and takes Suraj, Sanjana and their widowed mother to Cambodia.Back to present day Al-Shifa, one night, Yash talks about his girlfriend. Sikander reveals that in Beijing he fell in love with a girl named Jessica (Jacqueline Fernandez) who severed him. Shamsher's childhood friend Brijmohan (Rajesh Sharma) tells him that his friend's hotel was used by politicians for their lascivious motives where all the activity was captured on a spy video camera and stored on a hard disk. The hard disk was kept at a bank's locker in Cambodia. Shamsher appoints Sikander for the recovery of the hard disk, and he promises him to get back the disk. The next day, during a party it is revealed that Jessica was actually Yash's girlfriend. Sikander and Jessica meet privately in the security room. The very next day, Suraj and Sanjana, who had recorded the Sikander-Jessica meet, screen the video to Yash. A furious Yash goes to Jessica's apartment and finds Sikander present with her. Sikander later tells him that both of their past interactions with Jessica were planned by Suraj and Sanjana, as part of their plan to destroy Sikander. Yash teams up with Sikander against the twins but pretends to be with the twins as well. Sikander, the twins, Yash and Jessica execute the mission to recover the hard disk.After retrieving the hard disk, Shamsher eliminates Sikander by planting explosives in Sikander's car and heads to a conference with the politicians whose objectionable videos were stored on the disk. Shamsher tells about Sikander's death to the politicians, in the presence of the twins. He then plugs the hard disk and is shocked to find out that the disk was not the original one. Rather, it contained only one video of Sikander's mother. Sikander's mother self-filmed a video in which she reveals the truth that Ranchor was killed by Shamsher, and the twins were Ranchor's kids. Sikander arrives and tells how he escaped from the explosion, thanking to the timely intervention by Raghu Chacha (Sharat Saxena). He further reveals that he knew this secret for ten years and had been pretending to be loyal to Shamsher. Shamsher reveals that Yash is his real son. After a fight scene in the desert between Sikander and Yash, Sikander demolishes the entire army of Shamsher and makes both Yash and Shamsher surrender to Jessica who happens to be an Interpol officer. The arrested father-son duo are flown to their native village Handia.Shamsher is seen bribing a police officer during jail proceedings, while Yash is seen to toning his body inside the prison cell. Sikander, reuniting with his twin siblings in Al-Shifa reveals the plot of handing over the original hard disk to Jessica. In conversation with the twins and Jessica, Shamsher makes a metaphorical statement about the tiger of a new race.
