Spain, 1976. A country to the edge of the collapse. A girl to the edge of her own revolution.
February 26, 1976. Vitoria, Alava's capital (Basque Country; north to Spain). Crossing historical events with fictional facts, the story starts in an unstable country divided between General Franco's death happened three months before, and a newly restored but fragile democracy that's rejected by the Francoists whose don't accept the end of the dictatorship. In these early days of The Spanish Transition, Begoña is a 16 years-old girl of a mid-low class family who lives with her father José Luis, a journalist who works for a local radio station; her mother Ana, a housewife who earns money giving in her house private lessons for little children as Eduardo's son; her younger brother Aitor and finally Loli, Ana's housemaid. Wanting a better world and full of high ideals, Begoña interests about laborers protests to defend their rights against the companies and the CEOs that manage it, meeting Mikel, a young revolutionary who leads the riots with his friends Roberto, Ramón and Blanca. At the same time, Ana learns about the detention of Loli's husband Esteban accused to be organizer of the riots, and Eduardo, who works as link between his bosses (an old CEOs followers of Franco's ways) and the laborers, tries suffocate the riots before that it ruin the business. Knowing his interest on herself and trying to free Esteban, Ana meets Eduardo asking him help, causing the resentment of Jose Luis who suspects about Ana's infidelity. Eduardo accepts but secretly he forces and blackmails Jose Luis to accept a job promotion in the radio station in exchange of give fake news in an attempt to face the laborers between themselves, or Begoña will be arrested with Mikel. Keeping the secret, Jose Luis writes and spreads the fake news, having troubles with job partners as Aurora. Thinking wrongly that her father is a traitor after hearing the fake news, Begoña flees from home living with Mikel, who meets the laborers Rufino, Javier and Imanol to mobilize all the laborers outside syndicates and political parties to summon a general strike that it extends along the country. But the situation worsens after Basque Country's governor receives a call phone of the minister with a special order: to prevent the general strike at any cost. According time moves to March 3 and the danger increases, all the different stories collide between them, with not measuring consequences for everyone, and nothing will be the same.

