An unlucky salesman tries to fulfill the promise given to his son of giving him an unforgettable summer holidays, despite he hasn't money.
Curro is a smooth talker but unlucky salesman of kitchen robots who dreams to have a great job in the financial world. In the middle of a couple crisis with his wife Daniela, without money nor resources, with heavy debts and the menace to be fired if he doesn't make enough sales, Curro makes to his 9 years old son Nico (a boy who loves so very much to his father) a promise that he cannot fulfill: if Nico ends the school year with an A+ grade in all school subjects, he will takes him to an unforgettable summer holidays. Against all probabilities, Nico gets all A+ grades, forcing Curro to improvise a vacations traveling to Curro's natal town in the middle of nowhere, just to find a desolated place with old people and no children. Disappointed, Nico protests Curro the journey wanting to travel with Curro's brother-in-law and his family, but the honest intentions of Curro makes that Nico gives his father a last chance. It makes that both arrive to a spa administrated by Zoe, a posh girl who tries desperately that her daughter Laura talks, who she muted since Zoe's divorce. Amazed seeing that the child talks when Curro are close, Zoe's therapist asks her strongly that Curro keeps close of they two as much time as be possible. In an effort to retain them, Zoe travels with Laura, Curro and Nico to the house of Julieta, Zoe's mother, an absent-minded rich woman who despises openly Curro's class-worker manners. But all it changes due to Jorge and Víctor, a couple of rogue financiers who they try that Zoe firms a big contract to make a so risky invert which not only affects Julieta's millions but the same company where Daniela works (which is in the eve to move it to another country, causing the dismissal of all workers including the own Daniela). Seeing how Zoe is now influenced by Curro and his natural goodness, Jorge and Víctor want to have Curro's of their side for what the undecided Zoe firms finally. It will put Curro in a hard decision: accept the offer of Jorge and Victor that it will save his job and will pay his debts, or keeping loyal to Zoe and convince her of not firming a contract that it could to make lose family's richness.

