It is a story of a several-week-long military duty in September 2014. A group of military volunteers comes to Donetsk Airport for the first time - the Airport has been held by Ukrainians for more than four months of war.
Cyborgs tells a story of a several-week-long military duty in September 2014. A group of military volunteers comes to Donetsk Airport for the first time - the Airport has been held by Ukrainians for more than four months in war. They arrive in a new armored vehicle given to them by volunteers.
The old and the new terminals are surrounded by pro-Russian fighters. They outnumber our military men ten times. There is only one narrow corridor to Pisky that lets the people come to and leave the airport. This dangerous corridor provides with an opportunity to rotate soldiers, bring help and equipment, transport injured and killed men; medical staff journalists and looters have an opportunity to go through it.
The old terminal is safer. It has walls. The new one is like an aquarium where you become an easy target. It should be held though, so there are always military groups in it. About 100 people are always situated in the new terminal, and about 50 people are in the old one.
Three main types of military men are based in the airport, and the conditions create a certain type of triangle of relationships between them: the volunteers, Ukrainian army and mobilized soldiers. The volunteers, as a rule, are the most motivated, the army are considered to be the most professional. The biggest problem is the mobilized soldiers. Both the army and the volunteers speak of them mostly with irritation and arrogance because they usually lack for motivation and professionalism.
There are certain relationships between the army and the volunteers (especially those from Pravyi Sektor). From respect to mistrust. However, they are all bound together and depend on each other.
Outside the airport there are two more important groups on which the defense of the airport depends - those are the artillery and tank corps. Holding the airport without them would be impossible.
