A female dog travels four hundred miles in search of her owner throughout a Colorado wilderness.
As a puppy, Bella finds her way into the arms of Lucas, a young man who gives her a good home. When Bella becomes separated from Lucas, she soon finds herself on an epic 400-mile journey to reunite with her beloved owner. Along the way, the lost but spirited dog meets a series of new friends and manages to bring a little bit of comfort and joy to their lives.
Placed in Denver, Colorado, a pit bull mother and litter of puppies live in an abandoned home with stray cats. One day an animal control team comes and takes the kittens, cats, puppies, and mother pit bull away, missing the pit bull puppy and a "Mother Cat" who adopts her.Time goes on and the puppy grows; a young man named Lucas from the neighbor takes the role of feeding the strays and decides to take the cute puppy home. His veteran mother, who is traumatized by war has difficulty coping with everyday life and has difficulty keeping a job, agrees to keep the puppy. He names her Bella, and they develop a strong friendship of man and dog.Months pass and Bella grows into a beautiful dog. Then, a notice from the homeowner announcing his home visit (who disapproves of pets) prompts both the mother and Lucas to sneak Bella into his work at a veterans center. Bella doesn't like being confined into the janitor's closet and barks for attention and discovered by nearby workers and other veterans. A veteran who holds therapy meetings takes her to his group meeting where Bella comforts the aching veterans. The group ends up adopting her and Bella "volunteers" as a therapy dog, unbeknownst to the doctor who heads the VA center.One day, the owner of the abandoned home has a permit to demolish the house; Lucas intervenes. The man notices Bella and warns him that pit bulls are illegal in Denver, and he threatens them that animal control will come to pick up Bella if "she ever steps out on the street". Lucas trains Bella to "Go Home", a game devised so that Bella runs home if she ever encounters the animal control. While on a walk, the officer impounds Bella, and Lucas is forced to send her away to a friend's relative home in New Mexico while he and his mother relocate to a nearby city that has no rules against pit bulls.Bella can't adjust to her new home and misses Lucas. The day before Lucas comes to pick up Bella, the family friend asks if she's excited to "Go Home". She thinks this is a game and runs out the back yard into the New Mexico wilderness. She is lost in the forest and discovers a dead cougar. She hides when she hears hunters come to collect their "trophy", and hears whimpers by a cougar cub. Bella adopts the cub and calls her Big Kitten, as her Mother Cat raised in the abandoned home. In the wild, she raises Big Kitten until an avalanche separates them. Bella survives the avalanche and tries to save a man who was buried. A rescue team saves and transports the man to a hospital and the man's dog and Bella are fostered by some bystanders. Eventually, the two men adopt the other dog, and Bella goes back to the wilderness to find Big Kitten, but a homeless man takes Bella and feeds and clothes her. Sometime later, the man dies from the cold and Bella can't escape the chain. A couple of boys passing by releases Bella and she is reunited with Big Kitten, now a full-grown cougar.On their travels, Bella finds her way back to Denver and tries to "Go Home". Big Kitten and Bella part ways, only for Bella to find Lucas and his mother no longer lives in the same house. Two years have passed, so Bella can't "smell" them. She goes to VA center and finds the same group of veteran, talking in a field. They recognize Bella and cheers her return. Lucas hears them cheering and wanders over and find Bella. The family is reunited, but the animal control happens to show up in their reunion and tries to take her away. The captain shows up and fires the officer. Bella finally goes home.
