In 1980 New York, three young men who were all adopted meet each other and find out they're triplets who were separated at birth. But their quest to find out why turns into a bizarre and sinister mystery.
New York, 1980: three complete strangers accidentally discover that they are identical triplets, separated at birth. The 19-year-olds' joyous reunion catapults them to international fame, but it also unlocks an extraordinary and disturbing secret that goes beyond their own lives - and could transform our understanding of human nature forever.
Identical triplet brothers Robert Shafran, Eddy Galland and David Kellman didn't meet each other, let alone know about each other, until they were nineteen years old in 1980, when both Bobby and Eddy coincidentally attended Sullivan County College one year apart and students at the college who knew Eddy saw the obvious physical resemblance when Bobby arrived on campus. David was reunited with his biological brothers soon after when Bobby and Eddy's meeting hit the media which included their photographs. While Bobby, Eddy, and David, in those early years, were solely focusing on doing the media circuit and spending time with each other after all these years, with much of their beings being so similar, their respective adoptive parents - three sets who came from an upper middle class, middle class and working class backgrounds, respectively - had questions for the adoption agency, Louise Wise, the largest adoption agency specializing in Jewish families. None of the parents were told that the boys they were adopting were within a set of triplets who were going to be separated. That meeting with Louise Wise administrators yielded little "spoken" information to the parents. It wasn't until problems started to emerge with the brothers, which included a falling out over a joint business venture that yielded them millions, that the brothers themselves began to think more about the reasons behind why they were separated. Their quest for the complete truth, which to this day is not fully known and probably cannot be, led them in the direction that much of what shaped their growing up environment was not by accident where they and other twins and triplets were used as scientific guinea pigs.

