Chloe plans the 1st Christmas fair in town where she meets Evan and falls in love but he has to go to Norway for his dream job. 2nd Xmas fair a year later he brings a cute Swede. 3rd Xmas fair Chloe is dating Ted. How about 4th Xmas fair?
"When event planner Chloe (Kebbel) is hired to plan the local Christmas Festival, she is beyond thrilled to embrace the challenge. Professionally, everything is going great, but much to the dismay of her mother (Post), Chloe confesses she has given up on ever finding Mr. Right. That all changes the night of the opening of the festival when she meets Evan. The two begin a whirlwind romance, but as Christmas Day nears, Chloe learns that Evan is being transferred overseas for work. What follows is three more Christmases where Chloe and Evan cross paths at the annual festival, but each year something - or someone - stands in the way of true love. Will a touch of Santa's magic on their fourth Christmas Eve finally bring them together?"
Chloe Taylor and her mother Anna Taylor are all the family each has had ever since Anna divorced Chloe's father. Mother and daughter traditionally spend Christmas together by themselves in Anna's house in the northeastern US town of Fairmont. Chloe works for the event planning firm RSVP, she being the lead planner for Fairmont's first ever Christmas Fair, which will culminate with a Christmas ball. Chloe has also decided to stop dating in not wanting to place any pressure on herself to fall in love, dating which has so far accomplished nothing on that front. That spontaneous magic of love seems to have worked for Anna, who reconnects with her sweetheart from high school, Russ Peterson, a vendor at the fair. It also seems eventually to work for Chloe as she immediately falls for Evan Mathers, in town visiting his sister Kate and Kate's adolescent daughter Sara, and he seeming to fall for her in return. What is their first magical night topped by their dance at the ball may be all that there is as Evan announces that he is leaving the country indefinitely the day after Christmas for an overseas work assignment, an assignment he cannot turn down as he was the one who requested the transfer from their New York office. Over the subsequent three Christmas seasons and Christmas Fairs, Evan always returns to Fairmont to visit with Kate and Sara, but something seems to conspire against Chloe and Evan getting together. As such, Chloe has to decide if she will settle for who in her mind is second best in the form of her co-worker Ted, a sweet man who has long pursued her, or if she will wait for true love, with Evan or with someone else, that true love which she knows does exist as witnessed by what she sees between Anna and Russ.

