Arturo is an unscrupulous art dealer and Renzo his socially-awkward painter and longtime friend. Willing to risk it all, they develop an extreme and ludicrous plan to save themselves.
The main character is Arturo who is seen driving a car and telling the story what happened a few years before. He owns an art gallery in Buenos Aires center. He loves art, has his own manners and the look within the art world and has been a representative for Renzo. Renzo is a painter who is worn out of his painting career, unstable and is living his life in his own studio with his young girlfriend. Arturo complaints to Renzo that his art is not selling that well and needs to modernize his style, but Renzo, not ambitious at all, arrives to his gallery with a gun and shoots his own work in front a customer. Arturo is shown desperate after this and vows not to continue his representation.In the meantime, Alex, a young and naive Spaniard, arrives to Renzo's studio asking if he can be his pupil based on other peoples' recommendations. Renzo asks him to do some useless work for his to scare him off, but Alex is insistent.Arturo is asked by a Scandinavian company that resides in Argentina to make a masterpiece as part of the company's anniversary. Arturo decides to accept the request and selects Renzo to paint this work. To accelerate the painting, he already made a draft of the painting and asks Renzo to paint it after Arturo presented him to the family owner and his son.Arturo also receives a call from the previous customer in his gallery who decided to buy the work. Renzo tells him that that painting is actually with his girlfriend with whom he broke up by now, but he has her apartment keys and they decide to enter the apartment to take the sold painting. But while doing that, his ex-girlfriend Laura, arrives home with her new boyfriend. Arturo and Renzo hide themselves and afterwards, once Laura left, they take the painting away, but while doing that, they had to fool her boyfriend who was still there.Afterwards, Renzo paints the masterpiece watched closely by Arturo, and the work does end up well. Renzo tells him that he still needs to add his finishing touch to the painting, and Arturo leaves and presents it the next day at the formal company event. But once the painting is presented to the company staff and family, it has been painted over partly with a phallus (obviously painted by Renzo) that angers the family and embarrasses Arturo. As there are no more payments, Renzo has to leave his rented house as he cannot pay anymore the rent nor the outstanding bills.Renzo decides to have lunch at an expensive restaurant, gets drunk and then outside gets hit by a truck ending up in a hospital. It shows then that Arturo is actually a very good long-time friend of him and has been asked by the doctor to help with his memory by showing pictures of their past. Arturo asks Renzo to sell him all his works at bottom price and Renzo agrees to that. While he signs Alex comes in after hearing that Renzo got an accident and is suspicious about the sale, but leaves the hospital room.As the healing is a slow process, and Renzo is tired of life, Arturo asks the nurse to give him a medicine to end his friend's life and drives Renzo in his car out of the hospital. Then the movie goes back to a gallery exposition where it is shown that Renzo ended his own life and the price of his works increases. An international gallery owner, Dudu, negotiates a deal with Arturo to sell Renzo's works internationally and are able to top the prices when they are able to sell to a sheikh the whole collection. Dudu is opposed to selling all initially, but Arturo tells her that he found more works, so they can continue selling.Then, Arturo is seen in house in a mountainous area and is shown that Renzo is actually still alive and still painting new works, backdating them. Alex arrives at the house, believing that Arturo has killed his friend and cannot believe that Renzo is still alive. However, he tells them that he will denounce them once he gets back to Buenos Aires. Arturo and Renzo decided to use the pill Arturo got earlier from the nurse to kill Alex, but the attempt failed and Alex returns to the capital. Then the story tells that Arturo and Renzo were sentenced and after their sentence they continue with their lives while the prices of his works even kept rising.At the end, Arturo gives Renzo a painting for his birthday that he liked and Arturo tries to convince him to paint another work for the Belgium royals while being outside looking at an Argentinean landscape that is shown in a painting at the start of the movie.
