Individually, Sanjay and Karina don't earn enough to be able to buy a home, so they enter into a marriage of convenience.
Love Per Sq Ft, is a feature film which deals with the very common predicaments that faces today's urban youth; finding a house and finding love. Through the course of this romantic comedy we see Sanjay Chaturvedi and Karina D'souza desperately seeking a house, but realizing the difference between 'ghar' and 'makaan'.
Sanjay is a entry level software engineer working for a bank hoping he will get employee preference on home loan being a bank employee. His boss Rashi does have a timepass backup affair with him because her lover is in UK. Sanjay wants to buy house on home loan. Similarly Kareena wants to buy her house but she has an kind of arranged agreement of marriage with Samuel who does not share similar thoughts with Kareena. Meanwhile Sanjay and Kareena meet as they work in same building and fall in love with each other owing to similar thoughts and common interest of buying home/ghar in a scheme for married couples. Story takes turns and ultimately they do fall for each other and buy the perfect 550 sq feet dream house or Ghar in Mumbai.
The film begins with Sanjay Chaturvedi (Vicky Kaushal) looking far at a building where a happy couple lives in their own flat.Sanjay works in a bank as an IT software engineer and has the dream of buying his own flat. He comes across a housing scheme for married couples. Sanjay is in a fling with the Office boss Rashi Khurana (Alankrita Sahai) and asks her to be his partner in the joint scheme. Unknowingly Rashi can't leave her husband Kashin (Arunoday Singh) and rebuffs him. Rashi just uses Sanjay as a love slave, while he wants "More" from the relationship.Karina D'Souza (Angira Dhar) works in a bank living with her mother Blossom D'Souza (Ratna Pathak Shah).She too has the dream of buying her own home. While she proposes Samuel (Kunaal Roy Kapur), her going-to-be-husband about the joint scheme, he bluntly refuses as he has his own home and she can live there. Sanjay come across Karina in a reception party. They meet and dance. Next day Sanjay finds that his appeal for loan has been rejected by Karina as his salary is less. They have a argument but later apologizes and they both share their housing scheme dreams.Samuel asks 3 months duration for him to marry Karina. An angry Karina shouts at her Mother as Samuel cannot decide her work, home and life. But Blossom states that her only dream is to see Karina get married. Rashi calls Sanjay home. With desires floating high Sanjay arrives at the flat only to find Kashin over there. Kashin states the he is happy Rashi found a "Rakhi brother" in Sanjay. Sanjay gets shocked at Rashi's demeanour.Next Morning Sanjay and Karina meets. While Sanjay asks Karina whether they can apply for the Housing scheme loan together as a couple. Karina finds it illogical and disagrees. Samuel arranges a room for Karina as her small place she always wanted, while Karina desires more. Next day Karina accepts Sanjay's proposal and they together apply for a loan and arranges documents with the help of Mr. Rahmat (Gajraj Rao) , whom Sanjay has met earlier. While for making the fake documents they need 4 Lacs. Sanjay asks Rashi to give him a cheque of 4 Lacs from his Provident Fund.Karina and Sanjay come close to each other and kisses each other on a local train. The same night Karina arrives a Sanjay's place and tells him that she has broke up with Samuel because she finds she might be cheating Sanjay with Samuel. They proposes their love and kisses each other. They somehow manages to get into the property they are buying which is under construction and makes love at the place.Rashi invites Sanjay over a birthday party. Rashi persuades Sanjay to make out while he is already committed to Karina. For the sake of Cheque he succumbs to the demands of Rashi. Next morning he finds that he has slept with Rashi but doesn't remember anything and finds the cheque tucked inside his shorts.Sanjay's father (Raghubir Yadav) gets retired who was a Railway announcer. They give the cheque to Rahmat and settles everything. Karina officially calls off with Samuel. Sanjay and Karina tells their respective families about the relationship. They accept following some hilarious scenes. Sanjay tells Karina about his night with Rashi. Karina gets angry with him. Rashi calls Sanjay to tell him that she is pregnant. Rashi and Sanjay shares a argument regarding the baby while Karina overhears it. Meanwhile Kashin arrives and beats Sanjay when Rashi tells everyone that she was lying as nothing has happened between she and Sanjay, it was just a plan to teach Kashin a lesson over his affair. Sanjay grabs Rashi by the neck while Kashin by mistakenly punches Rashi. Karina walks out of the office while Sanjay runs behind her.Karina and Sanjay shares a heated argument in the road regarding the property and their love. Karina decides to sell the house while Sanjay asks not to do so. Karina challenges him that she is selling the home and if he has guts buy it from her.Both of their family arranges the wedding on the lawn of the new flat. Rahmat calls Karina to the new home where she finds Sanjay's video message that he has transferred the flat to her name. While Blossom searches for Karina down there amidst the wedding chaos. Sanjay arrives telling all the marriage can't happen. Karina asks for a talk with Sanjay. Sanjay apologies and tells Karina he understood the difference between "Ghar" and "Makaan." Karina asks there is no 50-50 now in this relationship and he have to listen to her 100%. An excited Sanjay accepts and they get married happily.While the next day Karina and Sanjay gets ready to go to office together sharing the housing chores together, Sanjay finds a guy (Ranbir Kapoor) admiringly looking at their flat the same way Sanjay looked at some other flat at the beginning of the movie.
