Children. Banished. Now witches.
In a future medieval world, after the collapse of our civilization, man has repeated all the same mistakes again, and installed a new system of law based on false science and superstitious beliefs. Worst of all their deviances now, is anyone who dares to consume or even touch the sweet-tasting 'Chisa' flower. Once caught, they are permanently banished from the village, and made to live a life of solitude and poverty. Most prone to this deviance are children - known by elders as 'vessels for evil' - since their natural curiosity makes them prey to temptation. Yet these rejected children, left to their own devices, free and as wild as the wind, are discovering the true power of this plant and its teachings. Its sap contain what most adult fear: a vision of the truth. They have learned so much that some villagers even accuse these children of witchcraft.
In a future medieval world, hundreds of years after the collapse of our society, man is once again back to his basics. And, once again, like after every new collapse of their 'advanced' civilization, they go back to the very same mistakes they committed before: creating strict hierarchy with psychopaths at the helm, dominance of extreme religious/superstitious beliefs, excessive moral/sexual control closely knit with blatant hypocrisy, whilst attempting to put everyone else in little convenient boxes.
The worst imaginable deviance in this society, and also its biggest taboo in this society is the consuming of 'Chisa': a small red flower that grows in the mountains. Its evil is understood are proven 'scientifically' - like all pseudo-morals - that it is the blood of the Devil that flows from beneath the earth surface to the ground above, to tempt humans into wickedness.The main victims of this moral panic are children: since innocence is a state of ignorance that easily invites sin and deprivation, they are seen as 'vessels for evil', and therefore acutely observed and controlled.
The fact that consuming Chisa also has a slightly hallucinating effect that unites one with the truth of the universe is largely overlooked, since truth is always feared.
Children who allow themselves to fall into deprivation by eating this sweet tasting plant, are immediately banished and made to live in a camp with other such sinners, a life of solitude and poverty.
All the village requires from them in order to leave them alone is one menstruating girl per year to populate the villager's brothels, and a teen boy to work as slave.However, over the years, these rejects have learned, through the teaching of the Chisa flower, that one becomes stronger feeding off the hate shown to them.
So much so, they are suspected by some to have becomes witches...
