It is a story of a young boy Surya who has a rare condition of Congenital Insensitivity to pain meaning he can not feel pain, and he sets out to learn martial arts and hunt down muggers.
Surya is born with a strange condition under tragic circumstances. He is diagnosed with a rare medical disorder called Congenital insensitivity to pain and is tended to by the odd-couple combination of his father and his mischievous grandfather Ajoba. School life is difficult for a boy who doesn't get hurt and is picked on by bullies and, yet, Surya finds an unlikely ally in his neighbor, Supri. At home, Surya learns to tend to his own wounds and binges on a whole host of martial arts films on VHS tapes thanks to his grandfather's unique tutelage. The one tape that mesmerizes young Surya is 100-man karate kumite fought by a mysterious one-legged man called Karate Mani. His first foray into vigilantism is to come to the aid of Supri against her abusive father, but that event leads to the family being evicted from the building they lived in, and Surya and Supri are estranged as children. They go their separate ways, each one finding purpose and mentorship in unusual circumstances. Ajoba encourages Surya to pursue his passion secretly &amp; Surya trains himself by watching VHS videos meanwhile, Supri is trained by Karate Mani whom she meets when she accidentally bumps into his scooter.As an adult, Surya remains as dorky as he was as a child because his father will never let him leave the house. When his father finally agrees to let him outside, Surya finds a poster advertising his childhood idol Karate Mani. This poster leads him to the very building where he and Supri had been separated years ago, and it is Supri who is pasting the posters. Both of them don't recognize each other, but he is bedazzled when she fights off thugs to rescue a lady. Later Surya visits the address mentioned on the poster to meet Karate Mani. He finds him knocked out by his evil twin Jimmy, and his assistant calls Supri to help him. They take him to a hospital, where only Supri and Surya are left when the rest of them leave. Later Supri is forcefully taken away from the hospital by her boyfriend Atul and Surya fails to understand why she didn't fight back. Mani recovers consciousness he escapes from the hospital, feeling that hospital will bill him a bomb for trivial treatment. Surya chases him and fights off the hospital staff who had come to capture him, and Manis is impressed with his skill and reveals his story.Mani and Jimmy were trained by his father, a Karate trainer since they were kids. Mani showed that talent for martial arts and easily won the heart of his father, which made Jimmy jealous. One fine day Mani saves Jimmy from a speeding truck, sacrificing his leg in the process. This further elevates Mani in the eyes of his father, and Jimmy is further estranged. After the 100-man kumite, his father gifts him his locket, whereas Jimmy takes up the path of crime. Once jailed for one of his crimes, Mani gets cozy with Jimmy's girlfriend, and Jimmy catches them red-handed in bed when he returns. This incident creates a permanent rift between the two, putting Mani in a guilt trap. Later Jimmy starts a security agency and bullies Mani with men and guns from his security agency, taking something from him each time he visits him, while Mani relents out of guilt.Supri later reveals that Atul won over her parents by taking care of their medical expenses, which sort of forced her to stay with him so that her mother would get adequate medical care. Atul is taking her family to Canada to treat her mother. Supri is falling into the same trap of family burden as her mother bore all her life with an abusive husband, so much so that she doesn't have time to think for herself and no clue of what she would do in life or what career she would pursue.On his previous visit, Jimmy snatches the locket that was given by their father to Mani, and Surya vows to get it back for him. His grandfather tries to dissuade him as it is too dangerous but eventually gives in when he realizes that he should not kill this very motivating factor. When Surya meets Mani, he refuses to take him to Jimmy but when Surya stops at nothing he accompanies him to Jimmy's office. Meanwhile at the airport just before boarding their flight to Canada, Supri's mother insists that she run away from Atul so that she doesn't go through the same fate of an overbearing husband. She hatches a plan wherein she covers up for the absence of Supri inside the plane and falls unconscious with a heavy dose of insulin once the plane lands in Canada, and once unconscious at the airport she has to be admitted to hospital to be treated. Supri leaves after some pushing from her mother and goes straight to Jimmy's office, knowing Surya would create some ruckus there. At Jimmy's office, a fight ensues between his staff and the two. Surya easily thrashes most of them and they are surprised to find that Surya doesn't experience the pain, which makes him more lethal. In the ensuing fight, fire is triggered and the staff lock them in a room and escape from the building. Supri enters in a nick of time and rescues them. They later take refuge at their old residential complex, where they had spent their childhood, which is deserted for reconstruction, and Ajoba gets them all the essentials like blankets and food.Early in the morning, they are all captured by Jimmy, and he arranges a cruel game, where each one of them has to fight his staff members one-on-one. The first up is Mani, followed by Supri, Surya, and Ajoba. Supri and Mani knock down a quite a few men before going down. All of them attack Surya barring one, and Surya knocks them all out. Mani then sends his last remaining fighter: his best one. Just to quickly end the contest, he changes the rules: a 10 point match where a point is scored with every hit. Surya is injured when his foot is fractured by his opponent. Mani throws his crutch for help. Surya decides that it is time to break the rule and hits his opponent close to the eye with the crutch temporarily blinding him and finishes off the match. Jimmy is enraged at this, and he shoots and stabs him. Supri intervenes, snatches the gun and shoots Jimmy dead.Later Surya wakes up at his home, turned hospital. Supri and Ajoba are next to him. Mani is revealed to be in jail, who owns up to the murder of Jimmy. Surya goes on to fulfill his father's aspiration to become an accountant. Supri's mother gets treated in Canada. Now liberated from the burden of her mother's treatment, she finally starts thinking of her own self and starts focusing on her career.
