Kelly and her father, Hank, receive news that he has inherited an estate in a different country. Upon their arrival, he's shocked to discover that not only has he inherited the estate, but also a kingdom.
Growing up, Kelly Pavlik always thought she would follow the family path and become a Montana rancher. Instead, she discovered novels, and with Masters degree in hand, she is now an Assistant Professor of English Literature at Montana State, and has been invited to be a lecturer at Oxford once she obtains her Ph.D. This has placed a slight rift between her and her now widowed father, Hank Pavlik, who feels no longer connected to her in her redirected life path. In part because of her bad choices and in part because of her somewhat unrealistic expectations, Kelly has had little luck in the romance department, she wanting to be swept off her feet by the likes of a dashing young man in her favorite Jane Austen novels. They are told by a solicitor named Grimsby that Hank is to inherit the estate of a relative he never knew from the Central European principality of Merania. It isn't until Hank and Kelly arrive in Merania for Hank to sign the necessary papers that Hank learns that part of that inheritance is a title: King. Truly wanting none of the above and solely wanting to go home to his Montana ranch, Hank is placed in a quandary when he is further told that without a male ruler (what would happen if he abdicates), Meravia would lose its independence in being annexed by neighboring Angosia as is written in their respective constitutions. In the process of trying to convince Hank to stay and be King until a solution can be arrived at for the best of all Meravians including himself, Kelly meets Nik, the King of Angosia. In there being a mutual attraction between the two, Kelly believes she may have found her "Mr. Darcy" in the form of Nik, who does ask her to marry him. What Kelly may not immediately see in having that certain type of man in mind is that she does not love Nik and that he is not all he appears to be on the surface, whereas she is truly in love with Alex - he also in love with her - the royal stable hand who too is not all he appears on the surface.
Since the passing of his wife, Hank Pavlik (James Brolin), a stubborn, tall in the saddle cowboy from Montana, who's only life is the ranch. But his life is about to get a bit more interesting. Hank's daughter, Kelly Pavlik (Cindy Busby), a career driven hopeless romantic, is approached by Grimsby (Howard Crossley), a lawyer retained to locate her father and deliver some important news.Kelly takes Grimsby to inform Hank that he has inherited a substantial estate with an attached title but in order to finalize the documents he must travel to Merania. Hank is skeptical but Kelly is able convince him that it will be good to get away from the ranch for a while.Merania, with its snow-peaked mountains, crystal clear lakes and stunning castles, is a place right out of a fairy-tale book. Soon after they arrive Hank is surprised to learn that the estate is a castle and the title attached is King. Feeling out of place, this is something Hank wants nothing to do with.The people of Merania, though, have been desperately searching for an heir to the throne because without a king their independence and way of life is threatened by the neighboring country of Angosia. Being reminded by Kelly that you don't turn your back on family, Hank decides to stick it out and do what he can to help.Meanwhile, Kelly has taken an interest in Alex (Andrew Cooper), a good-looking country boy who is the stable hand for the estate. Between their shared wit, a love of classic literature and animals, they hit it off. But once Kelly is introduced to King Nikolas of Angosia (Lachlan Nieboer), a man who always gets what he wants, she is swept off her feet and things begin to get complicated.While at the Royal Ball, King Nikolas surprises Kelly with a marriage proposal. Though she doesn't formally accept, this situation doesn't sit well with Hank, and Alex becomes suspicious.Is King Nikolas truly falling in love with Kelly? Or does he have an ulterior motive?Find out in the "Royal Hearts" movie this week.
