Dinosaurs are being used to grow human organs for transplants. But the scientists that created them have to fight back when the creatures escape.
Businessman Steven Hagen, and his assistant Bridget are given a tour of a research facility run by Dr. Marisa Martinelli, where she, and a group of scientists have cloned dinosaurs, planning to use them for disease research. However, it soon becomes apparent that one of the dinosaurs have escaped, injuring Steven. Marisa puts the facility on lock down, and she, Steven, Bridget, scientists Diana, Eva Nieves, and Charles Ovidio, and security guards Thomas Adkins, Smith, and Hyde become locked in a safe room. Marisa, Adkins, Smith, and Hyde go to recapture the dinosaur, although it kills Hyde, and injuring Smith, forcing the group to return to the safe room.Diana heads out with Adkins to kill the dinosaur, although the two are quickly forced to return to the safe room. Marisa soon reveals that after a certain period of time, the facility will fill up with deadly gas that will kill them all. A delirious Steven then threatens to kill Bridget unless all the others leave the room. The survivors do so, leaving Steven in the safe room by himself. The group is separated by the dinosaurs, and Diana soon discovers that Charles has drugged the dinosaurs with large amounts of human protein while Marisa, and Bridget attempt to find a vaccine that will help Steven. Adkins notices that Smith is getting a fever, and he, and Diana attempt to get him help. However, Smith goes delirious as well, attracting the dinosaur, which eats him. Eva is later killed by the dinosaur as well, although Charles manages to kill it with a drill. Unfortunately, this enrages its nearby mother, which promptly kills him.Diana, now separated from Adkins, meets up with Marisa, and Bridget, who have the vaccine. Marisa confesses that she, and Charles drugged the dinosaurs to have human-like abilities, and can also turn anybody into a zombie-like state if they're bitten. The three then reach the safe room, where Steven is found apparently dead. Diana, and Marisa go to save the rest of the dinosaurs, although when they begin attacking, Marisa locks Diana in the dinosaur room, telling her that she's expendable when it comes to medical science, and the possibilities it has. Diana, who has a key card, gets herself out, and locks Marisa in instead, where she's eaten. The dinosaurs soon free themselves, and rampage throughout the facility. Meanwhile, Steven awakens in a zombie-like state, although Bridget quickly kills him.Diana returns to the safe room, as does Adkins, and the group creates a plan to escape by reaching the exit, and gassing the dinosaurs while they escape. During the escape, Bridget, and Adkins are both eaten, leaving Diana to gas, and kill the dinosaurs. Diana then exits the facility, where a police team is waiting for her. In the aftermath, a police officer hands Diana a dinosaur egg, leaving her with one remaining specimen.
