Best friends Toni and Paul decide to relinquish all of their belongings for 100 days, whereby they receive one of their items back on each day. During this challenge the two realize, that the only thing they cannot be without is their friendship. A story about contemporary materialism and the quest for the truely important things in life.
In Berlin, Paul Konaske and Anton Katz - Toni in more familiar circumstances - have been best friends since childhood, Paul's parents, Renate and Wolfgang Konaske, who took Toni in when his own parents went traveling the world without him, his mother who is still traveling the world. Paul and Toni now live one floor apart in big boy toy filled loft apartments. They are also business partners in a small tech company of twelve employees, their business which has allowed them to lead more than comfortable lives, buying whatever their hearts desire. In the partnership, Paul is the creative and tech genius, Toni the business thinker. In they making an open pitch to famed temperamental American venture capitalist David Zuckerman to fund Paul's app on an artificial intelligent device voice assistant which begins to learn the individual mood of its owner, Paul learns that Toni believes he cannot go without constantly buying whatever man toy he sees. In Paul believing the same about Toni most specifically about anything to enhance his already good looks, Paul, in a drunken rant, bets Toni that he can go longer without those material possessions. With their staff invested in the bet and in the sober light of day, the ultimate bet becomes that they are both stripped of all their possessions, excluding food and shelter, the former which is rationed by their staff, and will receive one material possession back per day, the bet to last no longer than one hundred days, it which may be ended at any time if one or the other gives up. They may find that real life will throw additional wrenches into the bet. They will also find that their partnership and friendship is put to the test, especially when in the process they meet a mysterious young woman named Lucy who is facing her own life crises especially concerning her own identity.

