Rose, a mostly sweet and lonely Irish driving instructor, must use her supernatural talents to save the daughter of Martin (also mostly sweet and lonely) from a washed-up rock star who is using her in a Satanic pact to reignite his fame.
Rose, a sweet, lonely driving instructor in rural Ireland, is gifted with supernatural abilities. Rose has a love/hate relationship with her 'talents' &amp; tries to ignore the constant spirit related requests from locals - to exorcise possessed rubbish bins or haunted gravel. But! Christian Winter, a washed up, one-hit-wonder rock star, has made a pact with the devil for a return to greatness! He puts a spell on a local teenager- making her levitate. Her terrified father, Martin Martin, asks Rose to help save his daughter. Rose has to overcome the fear of her supernatural gift &amp; work with Martin to save the girl, get the guy and be home in time for a light snack...maybe a yogurt or something...
Rose, a sweet, small town driving instructor, is gifted with supernatural abilities, "The Talents", which mean she can talk to the spirit world. Rose has a love hate relationship with her abilities, after seeing what they did to her Dad, Vincent, and tries to ignore the constant small-time spiritual requests from locals - haunted rubbish bins, tractors, children's bikes, frying pans etc, etc. Yet when her help is requested by Sarah, a teenager whose father, Martin, is being haunted by his deceased nagging wife, she is very tempted...Martin seems like a very nice man! Meanwhile, in a large castle outside town, Christian Winter, a washed up rock star, has a sinister plan to sell his soul for renewed success. He needs to sacrifice a virgin and puts a spell on Sarah, leaving her in a levitating catatonic state. Martin, bewildered, asks Rose to help him save his daughter. Martin and Rose set about trying to break the spell which requires the speedy exorcism of many ghosts before the spell is complete and Sarah will be dragged into hell. Despite the weird situations they find themselves in - haunted traffic lights; possessed electric eggbeaters; - they find out they work really well together. There's also a building sense of attraction between the two of them, but neither have the confidence to act on it. Christian, aware of their plan to thwart him, finds a way to block Rose's talents. Rose and Martin must now work together to save the girl, stop a hell hole opening, thwart Christian's evil plan, deliver a baby, save a dying magpie, get rid of Martin's ex-wife so maybe they can fall in love a bit before the whole world collapses before their very eyes....
