Two desperate men turn in an uncomfortable business partners to find a secret gold looking for change their bad star.
Madrid (center to Spain and country's capital). León Lafuente is a taxi driver in a permanent state of angry and bad humor: the several debts he has with the bank threatens to lose his taxi and his house where he lives with his wife Rosario, a hairstylist which hairdressing saloon is in risk to close due to the bars and pubs opened in the neighborhood, in addition that Rosario is incoming to give birth their first child. Just when León thinks that his life cannot worsens, chance makes that his new client in the taxi be Diego Manfredi, an Argentinian lawyer and prison inmate free a few hours ago after a conviction by fraud. Without money and resources, Diego asks León going where lives Alicia, Diego's ex wife, hoping to fix the things between them. But Alicia rejects Diego's request for help after he ruined her family, her business and her money, leaving him alone. Not having money to pay León the travel, Diego asks León a crazy petition: travel to Rock of Gibraltar (Cádiz, south to Spain), under the promise to pay 2,000 EUR (2,250 $) by the race and 500 EUR more (560 $) by the race. Reluctant but accepting the offer by the big amount of money promised, León starts an infernal travel about 660 Km (410 miles) from Madrid to Gibraltar, discovering Diego as a loudmouth unable to be shut up. After an accident in the road, León requires Diego to pay in anticipation but revealing his poorness, Diego tells León about his conviction and the history told by another prisoner, an Andalusian thug nicknamed Manchester United who as child he found by chance in Rock of Gibraltar's underground caves a legendary gold supposedly hidden by Winston Churchill during World War II. Trusting in Diego and believing the history, León accepts to continue the travel, meeting in a gas station Sandra Sánchez, a crying young girl in pink wig who she has fled from her stag-party and declined marry with her lifelong boyfriend José Manuel in order to live a exciting life faraway of their natal town. With the taxi damaged, Sandra accepts tow it with her own car, starting to feel attracted by Diego. But in this moment a furious José Manuel appears with his van armed with a two-cannon shotgun claiming Sandra for going to the church to marry him and blaming Diego and León by her escape. Fearing by their lives, Diego and León manage to escape leaving Sandra and José Manuel behind to arrive Gibraltar, just to learn that Sandra didn't stay with José Manuel, but she was hidden in the taxi trunk. Pursued by the police after an illegal entrance in English territory, they three looking for the Churchill's gold, but will can Diego and León found it to be rich before they kill each other by the bad relation between them?

