A direct sequel to 2011's The Woman.
Found at a Catholic hospital filthy and ferocious, feral teenager Darlin' is whisked off to a care home run by The Bishop and his obedient nuns, where she's to be rehabilitated into a "good girl" as an example of the miraculous work of the church. But Darlin' holds a secret darker than the "sins" she is threatened with, and she is not traveling alone. The Woman who raised her, equally fierce and feral, is ever present in the shadows of Darlin's psyche and is determined to come for her no matter who tries to get in her way.
After surviving the sadist Chris Cleek's agonising torture described in The Woman (2011), the feral matriarch drops off her equally savage protégé--the now-adolescent, Darlin' Cleek--at a Catholic hospital, before vanishing into the shadows. There, once more, another arrogant male--this time, the corrupt Bishop--takes a perverse pleasure in making Darlin' his project, attempting to civilise her to attract donations. Now, little by little, a subtle transformation begins; however, the Woman is out there still looking for Darlin'. Who dares to separate a mother from her child?
Found at a Catholic hospital filthy and ferocious, feral teenager Darlin' is whisked off to a care home run by The Bishop and his obedient nuns where she is to be tamed into a "good girl." However, Darlin' holds a secret darker than the "sins" she is threatened with, and she is not travelling alone. The Woman, equally fierce and feral, who raised her is ever present and is determined to come for her no matter who tries to step in her way.
Dirty and feral 16-year-old Darlin' is admitted to St. Thaddeus Hospital after being hit by an ambulance in front of the building. Kindly nurse Tony takes a liking to the girl, which puts him at odds with the hospital's stern doctor regarding how to treat her unusual condition. Meanwhile, The Woman stalks outside looking for a clandestine way to get to Darlin.The Woman slits the throat of homeless hypochondriac Charlie. The Woman cuts a chunk of flesh from Charlie's stomach and presents it to Darlin as food from outside Darlin's hospital room window. No longer wanting anything to do with her surrogate mother, Darlin closes the blinds on The Woman.The Bishop, who oversees St. Philomena's Catholic school for orphaned girls, sees an opportunity to prevent the church from closing his institution by using Darlin for publicity. The Bishop blackmails Sister Jennifer, a recovering junkie and former orphan, into participating in his scheme to reverse Darlin's feral behavior.Darlin is enrolled at St. Philomena's. Other orphaned girls at the school include eccentric Billy, antagonistic Bug, a pair of twins, and another girl who harbors a pet mouse.The Bishop and Sister Jennifer lock Darlin in an animal pen. While The Bishop records the provoked encounter on his phone, Sister Jennifer rubs dirt on Darlin and briefly wrestles with her when Darlin becomes antagonized. While showering afterward, Darlin remembers kissing a young boy.Tony spots The Woman stalking around the hospital. The Woman sees that Darlin's hospital bed is empty.Sister Grace attempts to discipline Darlin when Darlin, who remains mostly mute, is unruly during her class. Darlin breaks Sister Grace's ruler.Billy acts out after Sister Jennifer takes over teaching. Despite Billy's frightened insistence that she will behave, Sister Jennifer sends Billy to The Bishop's private office.Darlin escapes outside through a classroom window. The Bishop conducts a search with the nuns, but they are unable to locate Darlin in the surrounding woods.Woken up while sleeping behind a dumpster, The Woman bites the throat of a police officer who mistakes her for a vagrant. The Woman takes the cop's handgun.The Woman infiltrates the hospital. Brandishing a blade, The Woman murders Darlin's doctor as well as a clown.Using a childhood bracelet bearing Darlin's name, The Woman confronts Tony. Acknowledging what The Woman wants while fearing for his own life, Tony vows to take The Woman to Darlin. Unfamiliar with cars, The Woman freaks out while Tony drives.Darlin finds Billy smoking and listening to music in the woods. Billy befriends Darlin by playing music for her. Billy escorts Darlin back to the school.The Woman forces Tony to overturn his vehicle during an unexpected police pursuit. While Tony is treated for his injuries following the crash, The Woman escapes to an encampment populated by homeless women. Misinterpreting The Woman's muttering of the word "darlin'," encampment leader Mona welcomes The Woman to her group of prostitutes.Sister Jennifer eventually breaks through to Darlin by teaching her to blow bubbles in her drink. Jennifer befriends Darlin by gifting her with a doll-shaped cookie that Darlin sleeps with.The Woman kills a john who gets violent with one of the hookers.Darlin continues acclimating to normal life and gradually begins speaking and reading. Darlin vomits from morning sickness after flashing back to The Woman forcing her to eat the flesh of the boy she was seen kissing in a previous memory.As she becomes more accepting of Christian doctrine, Darlin asks Sister Jennifer if God will save her. During a private meeting, The Bishop becomes confused when Darin asks if God will remove the devil that is inside of her.Darlin has a nightmare in which The Bishop tears up her feet with a metal scouring pad. Billy and Bug appear amusedly perplexed when Darlin later tells them she is going to be saved.Tony asks about The Woman when he comes to visit Darlin at St. Philomena's. Darlin cryptically explains that she had a "dog sister" who ran away after her "Peg sister" died giving birth to a stillborn baby. Darlin adds that The Woman wants the devil that is inside of her.Darlin dances with Billy in the woods. Darlin tells Billy she is afraid the devil inside her will kill her when it comes out.In his private office, The Bishop seduces Darlin into stripping off her clothes. The Bishop becomes repulsed when he sees that Darlin is pregnant. When the other orphans learn of her pregnancy, Darlin again expresses her fear that she will die if God does not save her.The Bishop baptizes Darlin in a ceremony that he has Sister Jennifer record.Sister Jennifer finally confronts The Bishop about his secret sexual abuse of the orphans, which includes victimizing her when she was a girl. The Bishop threatens retaliation if Jennifer tells anyone.The Woman follows a pregnant couple into a maternity store. The Woman steals a wearable baby carrier. The Woman unsuccessfully attempts to steal a child in a public park.During confession, The Bishop asks Darlin about her baby's father. Darlin talks about the kidnapped boy that The Woman also raised in captivity. The Bishop vomits when Darlin describes how sinful it felt to eat flesh from the bodies of the boy as well as her sister Peggy. Darlin expresses her belief that God guided her to St. Philomena's to save her from the same fate as her sister.The Woman finds a newspaper article about Darlin. Thinking they are helping reunite The Woman with a daughter unfairly taken away by the government, Mona rallies the other homeless women to raid St. Philomena's and take Darlin back.The other orphans gift Darlin with a new bracelet for her first communion. Thinking it may cause a miscarriage, Darlin drinks a bottle of bleach prior to the event.As a publicity stunt, The Bishop invites The Cardinal and members of the media to attend Darlin's first communion. Tony and his boyfriend Robert also attend. The Bishop presents Darlin's conversion as a remarkable achievement.Before Darlin receives the Eucharist, Sister Jennifer publicly accuses The Bishop of sexual abuse. Darlin bites a chunk of flesh from The Bishop's hand when he tries forcing the communion wafer into her mouth.The Woman storms the church with Mona's mob. The Woman slices a cameraman's throat and impales The Bishop with a flagpole. Finally recognizing that The Woman is a feral murderer, Mona and the other homeless women abruptly flee with other parishioners.Dying from her bleach ingestion, Darlin suddenly goes into labor. The Woman delivers Darlin's baby. Now disdainful of her religious brainwashing, Darlin asks The Woman to take the child far away. The Woman leaves with the baby strapped in her carrier. Sister Jennifer, Tony, Robert, and Billy comfort Darlin as sirens are heard approaching.
