While babysitting the daughter of Ed and Lorraine Warren, a teenager and her friend unknowingly awaken an evil spirit trapped in a doll.
Determined to keep Annabelle from wreaking more havoc, demonologists Ed and Lorraine Warren bring the possessed doll to the locked artifacts room in their home, placing her "safely" behind sacred glass and enlisting a priest's holy blessing. But an unholy night of horror awaits as Annabelle awakens the evil spirits in the room, who all set their sights on a new target--the Warrens' ten-year-old daughter, Judy, and her friends.
Determined to prevent Annabelle from creating even more chaos, demonologists Ed and Lorraine Warren bring the possessed doll into the artifact room that is locked in their home, isolated in a "safe" place, protected by a sacred glass and with the blessing of a priest. But what awaits them is a night of horror, as Annabelle awakens the evil spirits in the room, who turn their attention to a new target--the Warrens' 10-year-old daughter, Judy, and her friends.
In a hopeless effort to contain the ancient malevolent force of the evil-infused Victorian doll, Annabelle, the seasoned paranormal investigators, Ed Warren and Lorraine Warren, bring the cursed plaything to their house. Confined in the couple's off-limits room of haunted artefacts, Annabelle seems to pose no threat; however, evil never dies--and as a youthful mistake lets loose the contained unholy power--an endless night of terror ensues. Once, the very same doll craved the soul of an innocent in Annabelle: Creation (2017). Now, the parasitic entity that resides in the creepy porcelain doll thirsts for more souls to possess. Who can keep the forces of darkness at bay?
Ed Warren and Lorraine Warren lock the evil doll Annabelle in a sacred glass cabinet in their demoniac artifacts room. One year later, they need to travel and leave their daughter Judy with the babysitter Mary Ellen. However the local newspaper question if the Warren are heroes or hoax and the snoopy teenager Daniela Rios, who recently lost her father, lures Mary Ellen and enters in the locked room expecting to contact her father. She releases the powerful Annabelle and the girls spend the night haunted by evil spirits.
In 1971, demonologists Ed and Lorraine Warren bring the possessed Annabelle doll to their home after claims from two nurses, Debbie and Camilla, that the doll often performed violent activities in their apartment. The doll summons spirits to attack Ed as they drive to their home but he survives and Annabelle is placed in a sacred glass case in the couple's artifacts room and blessed by Father Gordon to ensure her evil is contained.One year later, in 1972, the Warrens welcome Mary Ellen, who will be in charge of babysitting the couple's daughter, Judy, to their home when they go overnight to investigate another case. At school, Judy sees the spirit of a priest that begins following her. After shopping at her friend's supermarket and talking with her crush, Bob Palmeri, Mary Ellen starts to bake a cake for Judy's birthday. Her friend Daniela arrives uninvited to the Warrens' home. Daniela, who is curious about speaking to the dead after the death of her father, gives a pair of roller skates to Judy as her birthday present and convinces her to play with Mary Ellen outside. While they are away, Daniela tries to get into the artifacts room but finds the room securely locked.Daniela finds the door's key in the Warren's home office and starts exploring and touching artifacts, ultimately trying to contact her late father with an artifact called the Mourner's Bracelet. She accidentally leaves Annabelle's glass case unlocked after hearing a knock that makes her think that her father is attempting to communicate. The terror begins shortly afterward with a knock at the front, but there's no one there. The spirit of Bee Mullins interrupts Mary Ellen. That night, Annabelle begins releasing other spirits, such as the Ferryman, the Bride, cursed samurai armor, a Feeley Meeley board game, and a hellhound. After Bob arrives and asks Mary Ellen out on a date, he is attacked by the hellhound, and hides in the chicken coop in the Warrens' backyard. Mary Ellen is attacked and dragged by the Ferryman, while Judy is confronted by Annabelle in her bedroom. When Daniela goes to return the artifacts room's key, she becomes trapped inside the room and tormented by a monkey toy and an old television that can predict the near future.A future, bloody, and screaming Daniela appears on the television screen after having answered a cursed telephone. When the real Daniela reaches to answer the telephone, Judy and Mary Ellen, who have escaped from the spirits attacking them, rush in and prevent Daniela from doing so. The trio eventually escapes from the artifacts room after Annabelle terrorizes them again. Judy explains that they must lock Annabelle in her case again so the other spirits will rest. When they attempt to retrieve the doll, Daniela is attacked and possessed by the Bride and starts attacking Mary Ellen. Eventually, Mary Ellen and Judy find the doll after the priest's spirit, acting as Judy's guardian, shows them the way. Daniela recovers when Judy plays Ed's recorded footage of the Bride's exorcism and helps Mary Ellen and Judy recover the doll. They managed to retrieve the glass case's key after they are attacked by demonic hands from the Feeley Meeley board game. After the doll's case is locked, the disturbances stop and the other spirits return to their slumber. The trio is also reunited with Bob, who has survived the hellhound's attacks.The next morning, Ed and Lorraine returns and the trio tell them about their struggles. Eventually Daniela apologizes to Lorraine, but Lorraine knows her ill-advised actions were the result of her wanting to contact her late father. Lorraine tells Daniela about a message she received from him, returning the picture of her father that Daniela had inserted in the bracelet earlier. The two then reunite with the others to join Judy's birthday party celebrations along with Judy's friends.
