Trying to survive the family Christmas, Cody makes a wish to be alone, which ends up backfiring when a shark manifests and kills his entire family.
Cody is an aspiring comic book artist who happens to be gifted a pen which changes reality, as he first draws Santa Jaws making it come to life as Cody's family and friends are picked off . First no one believes him but soon his remaining family and friends find out it's true and race to battle for survival! Who will win?!
Young comic book artist Cody creates a comic book called "Santa Jaws" around Christmas, using a supposedly magic pen given to him. However, he's grounded by his parents, Peter and Caroline when one of his more inappropriate cartoons is discovered. The next morning, on Christmas Eve morning, Cody talks with his grandfather Joe at the local marina, although Joe is soon eaten by a shark. Cody reports the incident to his parents, although they don't believe him. Cody soon enlists the help of his best friend Steve, his crush Jena, and his brother Josh to kill the shark. Cody's Uncle Mike and wife Georgia are soon eaten in the ensuing chaos, and Peter, and Caroline are attacked by the shark while roaming a boat in the marina, finally proving Cody right. As the hunt progresses, Cody realizes that his comic has caused the presence of the shark.After Steve, Jena, and comic book store owner Clark are all eaten by the shark during the hunt, Josh and Cody reunite with Peter and Caroline, who all decide to make an attempt to kill the shark using turkeys that Caroline has cooked. However, the plan does little to harm the shark, and Josh, and Peter are both eaten. After Caroline accidentally throws the magic pen onto the dock, she goes to retrieve it, although is eaten by the shark. Cody then rewrites the comic killing the shark. Cody then wakes up on Christmas morning to discover that everything is returned to normal. He then goes to Jena's house to ask her out before burying the comic to prevent these events from ever repeating
