A heartbroken ad copywriter living in Lima, Peru, is inspired to write a blog about life as a single woman and is surprised by her website's success.
Maria is shattered after her boyfriend of six years, Matias, abruptly breaks up with her over a Skype call. She felt as if 'she'd almost die from the pain'. When she started to come to terms with the reality, she made up her mind to be strong, and not think about it, and went about her normal routine, which included attending her job at an advertising agency, that she did not really quite seem to like. Things were never getting any better, and all Maria could see around and think of, were the memories of the moments spent with Matias, now her 'ex'. Being concerned for her, Natalia, Maria's best friend recommended her to get a room mate, for the huge apartment she was living in, just so she does not feel lonely. They finally meet Carolina, the perfect fit as her roommate, and the three become best-friends. Meanwhile, Maria, went out on a few dates on tinder, with most of them ending up in one-night stands. Natalia asks Maria to erase Matias from her life once and for all, and to follow her dream of becoming a writer. Feeling inspired, Maria starts a blog named 'Soltera Codiciada' where she began writing about the pain of going through a break-up, and coming out of it to experience growth and enjoyment. The blog seems to have struck a cord with a lot of people, so much so, that it already had 300 views in a few days. Maria had started to perform better at her job too, and also got interviewed by a magazine reporter.Maria and her friends attend a wedding party, where she runs into Matias. The two then talk and Matias apologizes for his behavior and asks for a fresh start. Later that night, the two ended up sleeping together. Natalia was not happy with Maria's decision of going back to Matias, and she told Maria, that she was 'doing this to make Matias happy' and not thinking about 'her happiness'. In the end, when Matias asks Maria to move with him to Spain, Maria says no, calling it off with him. She realizes that she can be happy on her own, 'without him'. She quits her job, and starts writing a book. The movie ends with her announcing that she has finished writing her book, and celebrates it with her friends.
