Four short films by four of India's biggest directors exploring love, sex and relationships in modern India.
Its an anthology film tracing the life of 4 Women centered around the theme Lust.1st film Directed by Anurag KashyapThe first story begins with Kalindi (Radhika Apte), a professor hooking up with her handsome student Tejas(Akash Thosar). Next morning Kalindi warns Tejas not to fall in love with her. Kalindi is married to Mihir and suffers a long distance and open relationship. When she learns a news article about a teacher gets screwed up after having a sexual relationship with her student, she meet Tejas and makes him record whatever happened between them was consensual. Kalindi's affair with Neeraj, a physics professor also gets failed after she gets to know he doesn't know the basics to "Perform" in a bedroom. Kalindi is unable to balance her flings with as much ease as her husband can. Her undertakings are ridden with guilt and delinquencies. Kalindi gets extremely upset with Tejas getting involved with another girl Natasha(Ridhi Khakhar). She creates a scene and tries all possible means to make Tejas forget Natasha. She also gets into his house and finds an undergarment there, and starts destroying things of his home. Later Kalindi gets emotional and tells him that Natasha is just using him. Tejas says he didn't knew she loved him so much,and can leave anything for her. Kalindi replies "Are you mad? I am married." The film ends with a confused Tejas standing there dumbstruck. Kalindi loved Tejas but can't leave Mihir who selflessly loved her.2nd Film Directed by Zoya AkhtarThe second story begins with a heavy make out happening between Sudha(Bhumi Pednekar),a maid and Ajit(Neil Bhoopalam)the employer. Sudha works honestly and felicitously. She does her work wholeheartedly. She learns that marriage of Ajit is going to be fixed. Sudha, serves tea and snacks to the girl's parents and finds uncomfortable to see Ajit with the girl. Sudha glares at Ajit and exits. The marriage is finalized and Sudha is given some sweets. After finishing the day's chores, when Sudha is waiting for lift, the maid(Rasika Dugal)of another house comes and tells how her owner gave her a salwaar Kameez. In turn Sudha gives the maid her sweets also. On being asked "Your day also went good!" Sudha replies with a nod. The film ends with Sudha getting into the lift eating the sweet. Indirectly it conveys how maids are treated and how Ajit used her for sexual satisfaction.3rd Film Directed by Dibakar BanerjeeThe third story is about Reena(Manisha Koirala) who is fed up of her money minded husband Salman(Sanjay Kapoor) and spends some sexual time with his friend Sudhir(Jaideep Ahlawat). Salman calls Sudhir and tells him his worries and insecurities. When Salman calls Reena he bashes at her saying her life is his allowance. Reena calls Salman home. A frantic Sudhir tells Reena not to tell Salman about their affair. The men chats over a time and Sudhir persuades Salman to accept back Reena. On the other hand Reena asks Sudhir to leave and talks with Salman, telling him about her affair with Sudhir. Salman doesn't react and calmly tells Sudhir his deal is promoted when he gets a message. Next morning Salman and Reena gets ready to leave. Sudhir is happy that Reena didn't told Salman anything. Later Reena tells him she has told Salman everything and he only asked two things. The affair must stop and Sudhir must not know that Salman knew about their affair. Sudhir is guilt ridden. On being asked whether she told Sudhir anything by Salman, she says no and happily calls somebody. It conveys that Reena is bored of being a mother and wife and wants to live her life. Reena doesn't have a problem but its the men who isn't able to accept the facts.4th Film Directed by Karan JoharThe final story is of Megha(Kiara Advani) a teacher who gets married to a well mannered and lovely guy Paras(Vicky Kaushal). Megha comes to know Paras is hopeless in bedroom. She finds Rekha(Neha Dhupia) the voluptuous librarian satisfying her urges using a Vibrator (sex toy). Secretly Megha steals it and when she is about to use it Paras creates a Ruckus in the living room. The grandmother of Paras gets hold of the remote of the vibrator and presses it while Megha performs in front of everyone. Paras's mother asks Megha's mother to end the marriage. One month later Paras asks Megha to get back together. While Megha says that Children and Babies are not the only need of a woman. Paras offers her ice cream. While its left to us viewers, whether she will accept it or not.
