A traditional shepherd is forced to innovate in a neo-liberal world that conflicts with his idealistic views. Will his struggle pay off or is he forced to go with the flock?
A traditional shepherd is forced to innovate in a neo-liberal world that conflicts with his idealistic views. Shepherd Stijn has chosen to live as a free man, supporting his family in an honest and sustainable way. Or so he thought. But modern neoliberal life has its demands and grinds him down bit by bit. What is left of his freedom, when he's constantly fighting to protect it? Is there a solution?
Shepherd Stijn has a romantic world view, but his idealism clashes with the harsh reality of having to be a modern entrepreneur. In this poignant and cinematic documentary we come close to Stijn and his family in their quest to keep the tradition of sheep herding alive. Will his struggle pay off or is he forced to go with the flock?
Ten years ago, director Ton van Zantvoort became friends with one of the last traditional shepherds in the Netherlands. He had a perfect life: a loving wife, a flock of sheep, and was living in nature as we all once did and often still long for. Throughout the years the filmmaker noticed how the relaxed, cheerful and passionate shepherd was becoming bitter and increasingly short-tempered. A traditional shepherd losing his hair overnight, because of extreme stress: what a paradox. Was herding sheep not supposed to be the most relaxed and romantic profession in the world? 'The silent heath is no longer quiet. There is a war going on in the heathlands' and so the story began.Stijn's environment is closing in on him. In an overregulated society his quest for freedom is a struggle almost too hard to bear. His resentment is palpable, but there is also his stubbornness and determination to see it through to the end. He wants to keep his herd and the heathlands healthy and faces many obstacles along the way. Who looks out for the cultural heritage that is sheep herding? And are we able to salvage beauty amongst all our freeways and advancing industrial zones and suburbs. Life will be irrevocably different if the herd goes, as with it the craft will also vanish. Is it too late to save Stijn's dream?With no voice-over and very little interviews, this 86-minute cinematic story is told in an observational cinema vérité style. Where Stijn goes, the camera follows and, as in direct cinema, we become unaware of the camera's presence.The feature-length documentary shows the hardships of herding sheep in today's neoliberal world and the harsh reality of a contemporary entrepreneur trying to keep his business going. Anything but a dream job. Will his struggle pay off or is he forced to go with the flock?
