A high school reunion turns deadly when the school's cursed mascot comes back to life.
In the small town of Wallingham, the year is 2018. A ten-year high school reunion is planned but Wallingham has become a ghost town and big city developers close in with new project ambitions. What few people remain in town are thrill-seekers following ghost stories surrounding the town's abandoned high school. However, even they don't stick around once an old mascot costume of the Wallingham Warthog is unearthed and worn, activating an old curse that brings the mascot back to terrifying life. After the reunion planner' Sabrina has her event reservation canceled at the town's hotel due to the place going out of business, her old classmates Margo and Ronnie convince her to relocate the event at the town's old high school. What started out as a reasonably sound idea turns disastrous as the monster warthog storms through the halls and classrooms killing former students and teachers wherever it finds them. Trapped in a ghost town, with no help of any kind and with most of the old class dead, Sabrina and a few remaining survivors must find a way to stop the monster's rampage.
Sabrina Swanson loved high school. She lived for it - she stills lives for it. But there was one thing she loved more: besting her arch rival Rosario Stewart at any cost. So much so, that when she's tasked with putting on her ten-year reunion, she doesn't just give it her all, she makes it her life's mission to show Rosario up once and for all by throwing the best ten-year union in the history of reunions. Her perfect plans get thwarted, however, when someone digs up and puts on the possessed school mascot costume, the Wallingham Warthog. When Sabrina first realizes the Warthog Monster is roaming the halls in a murderous pursuit, she attempts blissful ignorance in order to keep the party going and her reputation intact. But her silence only causes more bloody chaos, from the beheading of the former-party-girl-turned-religious-zealot to impaling everyone's favorite wheelchair-bound teacher. Sabrina and Rosario reluctantly accept a tenuous truce to work together to defeat the monster. If it falls apart, it's game over for them all.
In the small town of Wallingham, three teenagers, Tom, Freddy, and Michelle, break into the dilapidated high school to collect an artifact with the school's mascot, a warthog. In the field, Tom finds the mascot's costume, and puts it on, only to transform into the warthog, which then kills Freddy, and Michelle. Meanwhile, the ambitious Sabrina Swanson is planning her ten-year high school reunion in the school with her two friends, and former classmates Margo, and Ronnie. As the party begins, she clashes with her high school arch-rival Rosario Stewart. Outside, the warthog kills two guests, shorting out the electricity in the process.Sabrina goes to check the power box, but sees the warthog, and warns Ronnie, but continues with the party. Meanwhile, Margo explores the building with her high school boyfriend Jud, but they are attacked by the warthog; Ronnie saves Margo, but Jud is killed. They warn Sabrina of the danger, and Rosario soon finds out as well before the four witnesses the warthog killing one of the guests. As they attempt to evacuate the building, the warthog invades the party, and kills nearly everyone. Sabrina, Rosario, and party-goers Meg, and George find refuge in an equipment room while Margo, and Ronnie save elderly teacher Mrs. Blakeslee.Mrs. Blakeslee reveals to Margo, and Ronnie that the warthog has previously killed people before being killed herself. Margo, and Ronnie escape to the library, and begin researching the school's history before eventually discovering that the son of the school's founder went on a killing spree in costume when he was kicked off the football team; anybody who has put on the costume since has transformed into the warthog. Sabrina, Rosario, Meg, and George arm themselves with various weapons, but Meg, and George are killed in the escape as Sabrina, and Rosario go back into the building to rescue Margo, and Ronnie.Sabrina, and Rosario reunite with Margo, and Ronnie, who tell them what they've found. The warthog soon attacks them, and kills Margo, while Ronnie is killed fending it off so Sabrina, and Rosario can escape. The girls make it to the field, where they set up a trap for the warthog. Working together, they eventually manage to kill it. As Sabrina, and Rosario walk off the school grounds, Tom's decapitated body is seen lying on the ground.
