A romantic journey through Stockholm's swing dance world. A dramatic comedy about love, music and dance.
Adam is working too much and and while Lisa is enjoying herself in the swing dance clubs of Stockholm, he refuses to go with her, due to his fear of dancing. When she gets hit by a car and ends up in a coma. He learns she has been unfaithful with an unknown dancer, and Adam becomes obsessed with finding him. There's one problem, to get to him he has to learn how to dance.
When Adam sees Lisa sing and dance at a venue, he falls in love. They end up together and after a few good years they now have a child, a house and an increasingly ordinary life in the suburbs. Adam is increasingly caught up in work and has less and less time for the good things in life, Lisa on the other hand, has a rich social life in the Stockholm swing dance community and they are slowly drifting apart. One day, Lisa is in car accident and ends up in coma. To cope with the loss Adam faces his fear and despite being a very poor dancer, he starts starts dancing. Deep in sorrow and confusion, he also finds out Lisa has had an affair with a fellow unknown dancer. Adam decides to infiltrate the swing dance community's inner circles, to find out more about for his wives affair and to confront the unknown dancer. Only one problem, he first has to learn how to dance.In the dance clubs, Adam meets the charming Kjersti, who shows romantic interest in Adam. In his emotionally confused state' Adam allows their relationship to become increasingly physical. Conveniently enough for Adam, Kjersti is more than willing to guide Adam though the dance community and also helps him to improve his dancing. Adam is torn and needs to face both his inner demons as well as Lisas lover. When Lisa suddenly wakes up from the coma, the joy and relief is accompanied by a web of lies and deep betrayal. What guides them out of their troubles is the liberating power of dance. Though there are many threads to work out, they are able to forgive each other and move on together with a newly found rhythm in their lives.
