The Creepy Line reveals the stunning degree to which society is manipulated by Google and Facebook and blows the lid off the remarkably subtle - hence powerful - manner in which they do it. The Creepy Line is a title taken from the words of former Google CEO Eric Schmidt, when during a 2010 interview he explained Google's code of conduct: "The Google policy on a lot of things is to get right up to the creepy line and not cross it." However, as Dr. Robert Epstein explains in the film, "Google crosses the creepy line every day." Containing interviews with Jordan B. Peterson, Peter Schweizer, and others, The Creepy Line offers an explosive look at the meddling and intervening done by Google and Facebook on their supposedly "neutral platforms." The Creepy Line takes the conversation about data privacy and control further than ever before by examining what Google and Facebook do once they control a user's data. Offering first-hand accounts, scientific experiments and detailed analysis, The Creepy Line examines what is at risk when these two tech titans have free reign to utilize the public's most private and personal data.
An eye-opening documentary, The Creepy Line reveals the stunning degree to which society is manipulated by Google and Facebook and blows the lid off the remarkably subtle - hence powerful - manner in which they do it.The Creepy Line is a title culled from the words of former Google CEO Eric Schmidt, when during a 2010 interview he explained Google's code of conduct: "The Google policy on a lot of things is to get right up to the creepy line and not cross it."However, as Dr. Robert Epstein explains in the film, "Google crosses the creepy line every day". Containing ground-breaking interviews with Jordan B. Peterson, Peter Schweizer, and others, The Creepy Line offers an explosive look at the meddling and intervening done by Google and Facebook on their supposedly "neutral platforms".The Creepy Line takes the conversation about data privacy and control further than ever before by examining what Google and Facebook do once they control a user's data. Not only is this data sold to the highest bidder, but it is used it to mold, massage, and manipulate the public consciousness while influencing opinion on a vast scale - all with the goal of transforming society to fit their worldview.Offering first-hand accounts, scientific experiments and detailed analysis, The Creepy Line examines what is at risk when these two tech titans have free reign to utilize the public's most private and personal data to manipulate society.There is no question that the "creepy line" is getting ever-creepier, and that the tech giants have crossed it.
