All Abby Johnson ever wanted to do was help women. As one of the youngest Planned Parenthood clinic directors in the nation, she believed in a woman's right to choose. Until the day she saw something that changed everything.
As one of the youngest Planned Parenthood clinic directors in the nation, Abby Johnson was involved in upwards of 22,000 abortions and counseled countless women on their reproductive choices. Her passion surrounding a woman's right to choose led her to become a spokesperson for Planned Parenthood, fighting to enact legislation for the cause she so deeply believed in. Until the day she saw something that changed everything.
Abby Johnson's story begins with both her personal desire for abortion services and her conversations with a Planned Parenthood recruiter on her campus. Abby decides to volunteer from time-to-time. Believing Planned Parenthood's positions, such as "the fetus can't feel any pain", Abby slowly becomes a strong supporter of the mission, despite her Mom's strong anti-abortion position. After volunteering for awhile, Abby decides to take a paid position. Shortly after, the Clinic Director begins to see something extra in Abby. When the time comes to take on one of the hardest tasks in the clinic, Abby surprises the Clinic Director by staying steady when separating and accounting for all of the body parts of an aborted baby. After the Clinic Director receives a promotion, she promotes Abby, making her the youngest ever Planned Parenthood Clinic Director. Abby excels at her job, including pressuring pregnant women to agree quickly to abortion by telling them the cost of their abortion increases the longer they wait. Her passion for the work shows as she keeps the clinic open during an approaching hurricane. Planned Parenthood recognizes her talents with their employee of the year award. Her passion changes after two significant events. First, Planned Parenthood decides they need more profits and doubles the expectations for the number of abortions. Abby points out the conflict with the new emphasis on the quantity of abortions and Planned Parenthood's stated mission statement. Admonished for "lack of loyalty", she returns to her clinic. Second, an abortion doctor calls on Abby to assist with following the abortion on an ultrasound. This first-ever experience shakes her to her core when she sees the unborn child fighting to avoid the suction. Abby realizes the baby's will to live as it fights for his/her life. Now shattered, Abby decides to quit and volunteer to help the anti-abortion group that appears outside of her clinic at times. Not the end of the story. Planned Parenthood decides to attack her in court. Her attorney shows the suit as clearly groundless in the hearing. Ultimately, Planned Parenthood closes the clinic.
