RAISE HELL: The Life and Times of Molly Ivins tells the story of media firebrand Molly Ivins, six feet of Texas trouble who took on the Good Old Boy corruption wherever she found it. Her razor sharp wit left both sides of the aisle laughing, and craving ink in her columns. She knew the Bill of Rights was in peril, and said "Polarizing people is a good way to win an election and a good way to wreck a country." Molly's words have proved prescient. Now it's up to us to raise hell.
Intimidatingly brilliant and quintessentially Texan - six-foot tall, flame-maned journalist Molly Ivins was politically blue in a scarlet red state and unabashedly brash in her in/famously lauded political assessments. A workaholic, she traded conventional relationships and intimacy for beer, a solid typewriter, and boots made for muckraking - dedicating four decades of her signature, droll wit to tackling corruption, defending free speech, and making all the right frenemies.
RAISE HELL: The Life And Times of Molly Ivins tells the story of media firebrand Molly Ivins. Often compared to Mark Twain, Ivins was six feet of Texas trouble who, despite her Houston pedigree, took on Good Old Boy corruption wherever she found it. Best-selling author, Pulitzer Prize nominated journalist, popular TV pundit, Molly had a nation of "fans" and "frenemies." She courageously spoke truth to power and it cost her more than once. But Molly always served up her quality reportage with a heaping dollop of humor. The gal was funny! Her razor-sharp wit left both sides of the aisle laughing and craving ink in her columns.At the height of her popularity 400 newspapers carried her column. She railed against "Big Bidness" in government, and often said, "Texas is the national laboratory for bad gub'ment." Molly's words have proved prescient. She knew the Bill of Rights was in peril and said "Polarizing people is a good way to win an election and a good way to wreck a country."Molly spoke from the heart. She was not a cynic. She gave voice to people who didn't have one. She called her constituents her "beloveds" and she never stopped raisin' hell. When she died of breast cancer in 2007, the nation lost a true champion and a woman who seemed to be afraid of nothing. America is in crisis. Who today can fill Molly Ivins' size-12 shoes? Why all of us, of course! It's time to RAISE HELL. Molly Ivins certainly would."The thing about democracy, beloveds, is that it is not neat, orderly, or quiet. It requires a certain relish for confusion." - Molly Ivins
